from (david j. ray ) 
subject re info 
organization rockwell international 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 11 

sean murphy wrote 
has anyone seen you can buy a poster of them and it looks like a simple dot pattern 
when you first look at it but if you focus behind it you see a 3d picture. i'm looking for 
a program that generates these pictures. there 's a company in texas that makes them but i 
doubt if they 're giving the program away. any help would be appreciated. 

there is a program included with the book virtual reality which 
will let you generate these pictures. it 's not a very powerful program but 
it does an acceptable job for experimentation purposes. 



from (steven alford ) 
subject  . gif . to  . wpg . or  . tiff . converter 
keywords gif , convert 
organization nova university , fort lauderdale , fl 
lines 16 

i am looking for an available program that would convert gif 
files to other formats usable on dos based software such 
as wordperfect presentations (which will handle  . wpg . and  . tiff . , 
among others) .  . 

any suggestions would be appreciated. thank you very much for 
your time and help. 

steve 



steve alford , nova university 
college avenue , ft. lauderdale , fl. 
uucp ... gatech ! , cs ! ! alford 
internet 

from 
subject where did the hacker ethic go 
lines 46 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 


a great many computer programmers read dr. 's journal . in a recent 
issue , there was a paragraph in an article that pained me greatly to read. it 
said 

there 's nothing wrong if microsoft setting the standards for the computer 
industry. the industry needs an ibm for the 90 's .  . 

where has the hacker ethic gone not the cracker ethic , which is something 
entirely different and bad , but the hacker ethic , which tells us to value the 
free distribution of information and yield to the hands on imperative why is 
it that people and corporations like bill gates , ibm , and intel are able to 
have a virtual dead lock on the computer industry why is it that , if a person 
like myself posts messages to usenet on how to get into the little , 
, and idiosyncrasies of a computer system , they are not given any 
useful information by those who know , just a badmouthing  ( or are completely 
ignored ) why is it that people like steve jobs have to abandon their efforts to 
make truly innovative products i ask those of you who call yourselves 
hackers , why is this and further , how can you let it go on it is a fact 
that the computer industry has changed the world , and shall continue to do so 
for a long time to come. it has allowed the propagation of information in a 
volume unheard of even twenty years ago , and has made this world even smaller 
than it was before. i shudder to think what that world will be like if the 
corporations are allowed to have their way , perpetuating more drivel like the 
286 , windows , and the ibm product line on the computer using public. 

that is not to say i am against business per se people who profit off of 
innovative , intelligent , creative designs do not bother me. in fact , i applaud 
it that is the american way. but those who manage to sell kludgy , 
systems to the public , and profit off of them , are the ones who are the 
problem. and , unfortunately , because they have enough money to make up for 
blunt stupidity , they can keep doing it for a very long time. 

i put it to you thus where has the hacker ethic gone if it still exists , 
where and , if it does exist , why are those who call themselves hackers 
allowing this to perpetuate itself why are they not creating new , innovative , 
interesting ideas to stop the sos from maintaining its choke hold on the 
computer industry 

i await with interest what will probably be a resounding silence .  . 


revenge is a dish best served cold. 
death khan singh 
star trek ii the wrath of khan 


from darmstadt . de .  ( wolfram kresse ) 
subject xv for dos what 's the problem 
organization tu darmstadt 
lines 31 
distribution world 
nntp posting host informatik . th . darmstadt . de . 

i downloaded the file zip . from the site someone posted here. 
it contained the files 
exe . 
djpeg . exe . 
xv . exe . 

when i tried to run it , it just said 
could n't run go32 . exe . 
and  . 

what 's the matter with this 
are there some files missing in the  . zip . 
what is go32 . exe . 

any help appreciated. 

bye , 

wolfram 




wolfram e mail darmstadt . de . 

cu , le ! 
i yes , that 's right ,  . 

u 8 ) ) 



from  ( gilles deniaud ) 
subject wanted 24 bit viewer 
lines 15 

hello , 

thanks to the people who helped me with the problem of 
displaying 24 bit images. all the viewers like xli , 
xloadimage and display are converting the 24 bit images 
to 8 bit before display them on the screen. 

what i really want is a viewer with make use of the 24 bit 
frame screen buffer  ( in our case , the parallax one) .  . 

thanks in advance. 

gilles 

ps we are using a sun sparc running x11 .  . 

from (peter k. campbell ) 
subject re virtual reality for x on the cheap ! 
organization telecom research labs , melbourne , australia 
lines 28 

(brian s. ridout ) writes 

in article ,  ( steve sherwood  ( x5543 ) writes 
has anyone got multiverse to work 

i have built it on 486 svr4 , mips and sun sparcstation .  . 

there seems to be many bugs in it. the  dogfight  and  dactyl  simply do nothing 
 ( after fixing a bug where a variable is defined twice in two different modules one needed 
setting to static else the client core dumped ) 

steve 


extn 5543 , , ! uunet ! ! sts 

i 've tried compiling it on several with gcc 2 . 22 .  . after 
fixing up a few bugs (3 missing constant definitions plus a couple of 
other things) i got it to compile link , but after starting client 
server i just get a black window sometimes the client core dumps , 
sometimes the server , sometimes i get a broken pipe , sometimes it 
just sits there doing nothing although i occassionally get the 
cursor to become a cross hair in dog fight , but that 's it. i 've 
sent word to the author plus what i did to fix it last week , but 
no reply as yet. 

peter k. campbell 


organization queen 's university at kingston 
from 
subject please help point in concave polyhedra 
lines 43 

dear netters 


i am looking for c source code to test if a 3d point lies within a 

concave  . i have read a few articles about this and know 

that two solutions exist parity counting and angle  . both 


ideas are pretty simple but coding is not. so i wonder if there exists 

public domain source code for this. 

another  rough   ( do n't care special cases) is ray casting 

which is reported to be more or less independent of number of faces 

consisting the polyhedra if a special space indexing is used 
(m .  . , et. al. , 1984 .  . ray casting and block model conversion 
using a spatial index . computer aided designs. 4 , 1984 , 60  . 
but the is that all the facets of polyhedra have their 
normal pointing outside of polyhedra .  . how this could be done in practice 
i have a set of consisting the polyhedra .  . how could i ensure their 
normals pointing outside the polyhedra the paper mentioned above assumed 
this is already the case. 


i have also read some standard computer graphics textbook about hidden 
line removal .  . it says if we make the rule that the normal of a facet pointing 

toward viewer standing far away from the polyhedra .  .  .  . . again how to make 
sure 


any pointers are welcome 



queen 's university 
kingston , ont .  . 



from  ( wayne rigby ) 
subject re cross , sobel roberts filters 
organization university of nevada , reno department of computer science 
lines 20 

in article writes 

i saw an imaging program some time ago on an amiga that had 
cross , sobel and roberts filters for edge detection .  . 

can anybody direct me to these algorithms .  . 

ok , never heard of cross filters , but roberts , and sobel filters 
are standard spatial masks for edge detection .  . filtering does a 
good job of detecting edges , too. a good reference for all sorts of general 
digital image processing is the book digital image processing by 
rafael c. gonzalez and richard e. woods. addison wesley publishing co. 1992. 
isbn 0 201 6 

i 've used this source to do the above filters and many other things as a 
grad project. not too dificult to do. the worst part is loading in the 
images from tiff gif iff whatever ! ) 

wayne rigby 


from  ( diane schwartz ) 
subject re research showcase call 
organization institute for the learning sciences 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host schwartz . ils . nwu . edu . 

it was brought to my attention that there was an oversight in the 
research showcase call for participation and entry form. 

please note that the research showcase is part of 
siggraph '93 , august 1 6 , 1993 anaheim , california .  . 

thank you , 

diane schwartz 
committee member 
institute for the learning sciences 
1890 maple avenue , suite 150 
evanston , illinois 60201 



from ulm . de .  ( weiguo peng) 
subject sw convert plot to ascii file 
keywords plot ascii 
organization uni ulm physik 
lines 2 

i am looking for software that reads a plot in pcx or other format and 
converts it into x , y coordinate .  . 

from  ( zhenghao yeh ) 
subject definition of 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host caspian . usc . edu . 
keywords 


hi ! everyone , 

i do n't clearly understand   in computer graphics. 
would you please give me an explanation 

btw , what 's the difference between  surface  and opaque surface 

thanks in advance. 

yeh 
usc 



from (peter j menchetti ) 
subject arts letters graphics editor 
organization university of nevada , reno department of computer science 
lines 5 


does anyone on this group use this program it stacks up pretty well to 
corel draw , and since i do n't have a cdrom , it was the best buy .  .  .  . 

maybe someone would be interested in trading tips and tricks 

from 
subject ntsc data to rgb for video capture .  . 
organization west virginia network for educational 
lines 11 

does anyone know how to decode the color information of a ntsc signal 

i need to convert this data to rgb for a video capture utility i am 
writing for use with an ibm m motion video adapter card .  .  .  . 

i need to know the how the v and u signals work in the color process. 

thanks in advance for any information or algorythms etc. 

later 
net 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re wanted 24 bit viewer 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 22 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


in article ,  ( gilles deniaud ) writes 

thanks to the people who helped me with the problem of 
displaying 24 bit images. all the viewers like xli , 
xloadimage and display are converting the 24 bit images 
to 8 bit before display them on the screen. 

what i really want is a viewer with make use of the 24 bit 
frame screen buffer  ( in our case , the parallax one) .  . 


try imagemagick .  . i cannot test it but one told me it does 24bit .  . 
anyway , are you sure your xserver supports 24bit truecolor visuals 
check with xdpyinfo ! 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( jim powlesland ) 
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly 
organization the university of calgary , alberta 
lines 12 
nntp posting host acs . ucalgary . ca . 


i 've had pretty good success line art with adobe 
streamline 2 . 0 .  . the key to controlling excessive points , etc. is 
to take some time and do some test conversions using various 
tolerance settings. 



jim internet 
academic computing services voice  ( 403)220 ) 
university of calgary message  ( 403)220 ) 
calgary , alberta canada fax  ( 403)282 ) 

from 
subject kubota kenai 
organization center for instructional and research computing activities 
lines 11 
reply to 
nntp posting host maple . circa . ufl . edu . 


does anyone have any real experience with the kubota kenai 
series of graphics workstations they pretty much blow the pants 
off sgi machines and sun machines in the same price point , which 
is about 50 , 000 bucks. real nice stuff , but i 've only seen the 
stuff on paper. i'm wondering , is there anything not to like the 
specs are too massive to get into here , but if a summary is desired 
i could be into uploading the spec sheet. 

brian 


from  ( kevin martin) 
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42  ( silly ) 
nntp posting host bolero 
organization network 
lines 26 

in  ( charles j. divine ) writes 
in article mark a. cartwright writes 
of course the question has not yet been discovered .  .  .  . 
but the question was later revealed to be what is 9 x 6  ( in the 
base 13 system , of course . ) . 

if you read the last couple of books in the series closely  ( well , 3 and 4 
at least) , there are at least two points at which the real question is 
implied .  . conversations proceed much like 

zaphod what is the ultimate question , i wonder 
arthur (not paying much attention to zaphod , but needing a random seed for 
the infinite improbability drive) think of a number , any number. 

actually , it may be marvin who uses this phrase a few times as well , and 
everytime it 's arranged such that think of a number , any number could be 
an answer to someone 's question about the question. 

i kind of like it. very  . it 's not even pick a number or 
tell me a number , just think of one . 



kevin martin 

use the flipper ! 

from  ( stefan hartmann ) 
subject genoa 's true color board 
organization network 
lines 58 
nntp posting host bolero 


for immediate release 

editorial contact 
single source marketing (714) 545 1338 
genoa systems joseph (408) 432 
neil roehm (408) 432 technical 


genoa presents high performance 
video graphics accelerator 

san jose , calif usa genoa systems corporation announces 
24 , a true color 24 bit graphics accelerator card that 
delivers up to 16.8 million colors at speeds faster than the 
competition. plus it offers a full range of resolutions , high 
refresh rates as well as unique proprietary performance features. 
the card is available in both 16 bit isa bus and 32 bit vesa local 
bus versions  ( models 8500 and  . 
with 1mb dram on board , the 24 card offers 
maximum resolution up to 1 , 280 x 1 , 024 and supports a refresh rate 
of at 800 x 600 and resolution up to 1 , 024 x 768 
non interlaced .  . both models provide performance many times greater 
than standard svga boards , yet conform to all current video 
standards. 
24 features genoa 's  ( flickerfree(tm ) technology , 
which eliminates screen flash and flicker to make viewing much more 
comfortable. the cards also come with  ( safescan(tm ) , a utility 
developed by genoa to eliminate the black border around the screen 
and thereby provide 100 percent screen use for monitors .  . 
model takes full advantage of the speed 
offered by the new vesa local bus technology. most vl bus cards 
will only handle data transfers up to 33mhz , but the will 
transfer data at the full speed of the cpu , up to 50mhz .  . genoa is 
also offering this card in the combination packaged 
with their motherboard .  . 
built around the cirrus logic gd 5426 gui accelerator , 
24 offers the user an exceptional price performance 
value. genoa 's advanced proprietary drivers act to 
the chip , thereby providing an affordable accelerator card with 
power and performance that surpass many of the more highly priced 
chip cards. the genoa user will enjoy optimal speed and 
reliability for such programs as windows , autocad , , 3d 
studio , os 2 , orcad and more. driver updates and product bulletins 
are available on genoa 's bbs at (408) 943 1231 .  . 
genoa systems manufactures and markets an extensive line of 
graphics adapters , motherboards , audio and multimedia cards for 
ibm compatible personal computers. all products come with a two 
year limited warranty on parts and labor .  . genoa products are 
currently distributed worldwide through authorized distributors , 
resellers , vars and systems integrators .  . 
for more information contact joe , marketing 
manager , genoa systems at 75 e. road , san jose , calif. 
95131 tel (408) 432 or (800) 934 fax (408) 434  . 



stefan hartmann 

from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re help need 24 bits viewer 
keywords 24 bit 
lines 24 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article ,  ( gilles deniaud ) writes 

i'm looking for a program which is able to display 24 bits 
images. we are using a sun sparc equipped with parallax 
graphics board running x11 .  . 

utah raster toolkit using  . convert your sun raster files  ( presumably ) to 
ppm with the pbm toolkit then convert ppm to utah rle format with which 
is provided in the toolkit .  . 

i seem to remember that xloadimage can do 24 bit servers too. 

possibly xwud the x window un dump program can display 24 bit images certainly 
xwd can grab them. 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from tuebingen . de .  ( juergen fechter ) 
subject alpha kubota graphic vs. sgi 
organization at zdv uni tuebingen 
lines 16 
nntp posting host informatik . uni . tuebingen . de . 


who has experience with porting a gl program to an alpha apx 
workstation with kubota 's 3d graphic .  . 
is there any problems 
is the real graphic performance like a sgi r4000 indigo 



juergen tuebingen , wsi 
office 49 0  ( 7071 ) 29 auf der 10 , c9 
fax 49 0  ( 7071 ) 29 5466 w 7400 tuebingen , germany 

email tuebingen . de . 




subject source code help on ip  ( packages(please ) ! 
from  ( vance ashlin ) 
distribution world 
organization dept computing , , , australia 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
lines 44 

greetings this is a general call for information regarding image 
processing. i am looking for any material related to the field , and am 
also trying to get my hands on some easy to use packages related to the 
field. in particular source code for general use packages. 

i already have several texts on the subject , but would appreciate more 
input from people more knowledgable in the field than myself. i'm not 
mathematically literate (ie .  . i do n't have a degree in mathematics ) , so 
any material that is suggested i would prefer that it was not 
mathematically intensive .  . 

the best book i have found on the subject at the moment is 

practical digital image processing 
by lewis 
isbn 0 13 2 
published by ellis  . 

likewise i am trying to get a fair sample of programs that demonstrate 
image processing techniques. so far i have  xv  , and  khoros  for unix .  . 
 2 . 1' . for the ibm pc , and various related of c code 
to help describe topics like , contrasting , dithering , image enhancement 
via convolution etc. 

if anyone could kindly supply me with some public domain software 
pertinent to this area , or better still if they could tell me where i am 
most likely to find it on the aarnet  . if i can i would prefer 
source code in c or turbo pascal that includes some image processing 
code algorithms , that i can readily alter manipulate for the purposes of 
demonstration it would be most helpful. 

all the above information will contribute to my post graduate studies , 
and will be liberally used in my paper , and seminar on the subject. 


thanks in advance vance 
diploma advanced computing 


thinking is dangerous , subversive , and leads you astray 





from  ( sunil gupta ) 
subject message for 
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 2 

i cant get through to the author of rtrace .  . his site is inaccessible 
can he upload the new version somewhere else please 

from  ( inge harkestad ) 
subject tangent vectors of splines 
organization university of trondheim 
lines 33 

i'm working on a system which uses a given set of 3d key frame 
positions  ( x , y , z) to control an imaginary camera movement. i'm 
using splines  ( as described in the siggraph '84 
proceedings ) to create a variable number of between 
the key frames .  . i want the to be given in the form 
 ( x , y , z , dx , dy , dz ) where the last three are the x , y and 
z component of the viewing direction vector of the camera when 
positioned at  ( x , y , z) .  . 

the method presented by and only deals with the 
positions of the inbetween view points to be generated .  . i 've 
tried to set the viewing direction at a view point equal to the 
chord between the two adjacent view points (which in general are 
not key frames ) , but this causes a of the 
viewing direction vector at the key frame positions  ( although 
the spatial movement seems to work fine and i'm quite certain 
i think ) that i 've not simply made an implementation 
error .  .  . ) . 

now i wonder if anyone out there has used this spline form for 
similar purposes and how they decided the viewing vectors .  . 
i 'd appreciate replies to be emailed to me at 

anyone else interested in the answer will be sent a summary of 
the replies if they contact me. 




n g e a r k e s t a d comp. sc .  . 
nth  ( norwegian institute of technology) 

some people play hard to get , i play hard to want  ( ford fairlane ) 

from lan . cs . up . ac . za .  ( guest user ) 
subject cga help wanted 
organization students network , computer science department , university of pretoria 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 11 . cs . up . ac . za . 

hi there , 

i'm looking for help on hi rez cga modes (hey , i know it sounds crazy but at 
the moment it 's got to do) .  . my card 's manual says it does something like 
640 by 400 2 colour and 640 by 200 4 colour (the card has 64k memory) .  . could 
anyone give me some help on how to implement these modes  ( assembly language 
is fine) .  . any other usefull tips on the cga regs will also help. 

thanx in advance .  .  .  . 

 . 


my email is 



from  ( annette koontz ) 
subject graphics software needed 
organization battelle pacific northwest labs , richland , wa 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host gov . 
originator 


hello , 

we are looking for a graphics package  ( preferably complete 
with source code) that will run on our unix operating system 
(a sequent running 3 . 2) .  . this graphics package must 
support a wide variety of character based graphics devices 
 ( pc 's running a terminal emulator ,  . 
at this point , x11 graphics is not an option. 

this graphics program should , if possible , support these 
sorts of graphics operations  ( minimum requirements ) 

1) complicated axes  ( log , linear , etc . ) . with fairly 
precise axis labels  ( multi line labels , etc . ) . 
major and minor on axes , etc. 

2) it would be nice if some limited amount of color 
plotting were available , if the output device 
supported it. 

we have a copy of gnuplot and are currently using it , but 
gnuplot has some limitations .  . we are looking for something 
more robust than gnuplot .  . 

at this point , i'm looking for information about packages that 
might solve our problems. if you have any information , please 
contact me at the above email address. if the product you know 
about is a commercial software package , please send a phone number 
or email address so that i can contact them about pricing , etc. 

annette koontz 
battelle pacific northwest 
richland , wa 99352 usa 

from  ( nick c. fotis ) 
subject  ( 27 apr 93) computer graphics resource listing weekly part 2 3 
lines 1029 
reply to  ( nick  ( nikolaos ) fotis ) 
organization national technical univ. of athens 

archive name graphics resources list part2 
last modified 1993 04 27 


computer graphics resource listing weekly posting part 2 3 

last change 27 april 1993 


14. plotting packages 


gnuplot 3.2 

it is one of the best 2 and 3 d plotting packages , with 
online help . it . 's a command line driven interactive function plotting utility 
for unix , msdos , amiga , archimedes , and vms platforms (at least ! ) .  . 
freely distributed , it supports many terminals , plotters , and printers 
and is easily extensible to include new devices. 
it was posted to comp . sources . misc . in version 3.0 , plus 2 patches .  . 
you can practically find it everywhere  ( use archie to find a site near you ! ) .  . 
the comp . graphics . gnuplot . newsgroup is devoted to discussion of gnuplot .  . 

and xmgr  ( ace gr ) 

xmgr is an xy plotting tool for unix workstations using 
x or openwindows .  . there is an xview version called for 
suns .  . collectively , these 2 tools are known as ace gr. 
compiling xmgr requires the motif toolkit version 1.1 
and x11r4 xmgr will not compile under x11r3 motif 1 . 0x .  . 

check at ftp . ccalmr . ogi . edu . 129 . 95 . 72 . 34 . in 
ccalmr pub xmgr 2 . 09 . tar . z .  ( motif version) 
ccalmr pub 2 . 09 . tar . z .  ( xview version) 

comments , suggestions , bug reports to paul j turner 
 ( if mail fails , try 
due to time constraints , replies will be few and far between. 

robot 

release 0.45 2 d and limited 3 d. based on xview 3 , written 
in c fortran (so you need a fortran compiler or the f2c translator) .  . 
mainly tested on sun4 , less on decstations .  . check at 
ftp . astro . psu . edu . (128 . 118 . 147 . 28) . , pub astrod .  . 

vg plotting library 

this is a library of fortran callable routines at sunspot . ceee . nist . gov . 
129 . 6 . 64 . 151 . 

xgobi 

it 's being developed at bellcore , and its speciality are 
multidimensional data sets analysis and exploration .  . you can call it 
from the s language also , and it works as an x11 client using the athena 
widget set  ( or with an ascii terminal) .  . it 's distributed free of charge 
from at cmu .  . 
to get it via e mail , send email to and 
in the body area of the message , put the line 

send xgobi from general 

if you want to pick it via ftp , connect to lib . stat . cmu . edu .  . log in as 
and use your e mail address as your password. then type 

cd general 
mget xgobi .  . 

warning it 's about 2 mb sources large postscript manual. read the 
relevant readme to decide whether you need it or not. 



runs on vax vms and supposedly on unix .  . it 's a set of fortran routines freely 
available  ( though copyrighted and requiring a nominal fee of 50 or so) 
that includes contour plots and support for various devices , including ps. 
contact 

ggraph 

host shorty . cs . wisc . edu . 128 . 105 . 2 . 8 . pub ggraph . tar . z . 
unknown more details. 

epigraph 

for pcs. call  ( vladimir j. dmitriev ) for details. 
you can get the program demo or  ( and ) play version , if sent 10 to 

1251 budapest posta 60 
hungary 
ph fax budapest 
ph 



for amigas , shareware ( 30 usd , 20 uk or 40 aust . ) .  . advanced 2d package 
that has a big list of features. contact 

dr. alan baxter , 
cambridge university 
department of pathology , 
tennis court road , 
cambridge cb2 , uk 


athena plotter widget set 


this version v6 . 0 . is based on gregory bond 's version v5 beta. added 
some stuff for scientific graphs , i.e. log axes , free scalable axes , 
xy and some more , and re added plotter callbacks from v4 , e.g. 
to request the current pointer position , or to cut off a rectangle from the 
plotting area for zooming in. version v6 . 0 . has a log of bugs fixed and a 
log of improvements against v6 beta. additionally i did some other 
changes extensions , besides 

origin and frame lines for axes .  . 
subgrid lines on positions .  . 
line plots in different line types  ( lines , points , lines points , 
impulses , lines impulses , steps , bars ) , line styles  ( solid , dotted , 
dashed , dot dashed ) and marker types for data points. 
legend at the right or left hand side of the plot .  . 
optional drawing to a pixmap instead of a window. 
layout callback for aligning axis positions when using 
multiple plotters in one application. 

available at export . lcs . mit . edu . , directory contrib plotter 



is a scientific 2d plotting and manipulation program. 
for the next  ( requires nextstep 3 . 0) . , and it 's shareware .  . 

features 
ascii import and export eps export copy , cut , paste with data buffer 
free number of data points , data buffer , and document window 
selective open and save plotting in many styles automatic legend 
subviews linear and logarithmic axes two different axes text and graphic 
color support zoom normalizing and moving axis conversions 
free hand data manipulations  ( cut , edit , move , etc . ) . data editor sorting 
of data absolute , relative , and free defined error bars 
calculating with buffers ( , , , ) background subtractions 
 ( linear , shirley , , bezier ) integration and relative integration 
fitting of one or more free defined functions linear regression 
calculations ( , , , , sin , cos , log , etc . ) . function generator 
spline interpolation least square smooth and fft smooth differentiation 
fft esca calculations and database  .  .  . and something more 

you can find it on 
ftp . cs . tu . berlin.de 130 . 149 . 17 . 7 . pub next science sciplot3 . 1 . tar . z . 

author 
michael 
scillerstr .  . 73 , 1000 berlin 12 , germany 
berlin . mpg . de . 

plplot 

plplot is a scientific plotting package for many systems , small  ( micro ) 
and large  ( super ) alike. despite its small size and quickness , 
it has enough power to satisfy most users , including 
standard x y plots , plots , log log plots , contour plots , 3d plots , 
mesh plots , bar charts and pie charts .  . multiple graphs  ( of the same or 
different sizes ) may be placed on a single page with multiple lines in each 
graph .  . different line styles , widths and colors are supported .  . a virtually 
infinite number of distinct area fill patterns may be used. there are 
almost 1000 characters in the extended character set. this includes four 
different fonts , the greek alphabet and a host of mathematical , musical , and 
other symbols .  . the fonts can be scaled to any size for various effects. 
many different output device drivers are available  ( system dependent ) , 
including a portable metafile format and renderer .  . 

freely available  ( but copyrighted ) via anonymous ftp on 
hagar . ph . utexas . edu . , directory pub plplot 

at present (v .  . 4 . 13) . , plplot is known to work on the following systems 

unix sunos , a ix , hp ux , unicos , dg ux , ultrix 
other platforms vms , amiga exec , ms dos , os 2 , next 

authors many. the main supporters are 

maurice lebrun plplot kernel and the metafile , 
xterm , xwindow , tektronix , and amiga drivers. 
geoff furnish ms dos and os 2 drivers 
tony richardson plplot on the next 



2 d plotting package at cmu , filename tmp sm . 2 . 1 . 0 . tar . z . 
 ( probably under the ftp . cmu . edu . or andrew . cmu . edu . machines ) 

gle 

gle is a high quality graphics package for scientists .  . it runs on a 
variety of platforms  ( pcs , vaxes , and unix) with drivers for xwindows , 
regis , , pc graphics cards , , hp plotters , postscript 
printers , epson compatible printers and laserjet printers .  . it 
provides latex quality fonts , as well as full support for postscript 
fonts .  . the graphing module provides full control over all features of 
graphs .  . the graphics primitives include user defined subroutines for 
complex pictures and diagrams .  . 

accompanying utilities include surface  ( for hidden line surface 
plotting ) , contour  ( for contour plots ) , manip  ( for manipulation of 
columnar data files) , and  ( for fitting arbitrary equations to 
data) .  . 

available via anon. ftp at these places 

pc gle simtel , wuarchive . wustl . edu . , and other mirrors , msdos graphics gle . 
unix gle zephyr . grace . cri . nz . (131 . 203 . 1 . 5) . , pub gle unix 
vms gle zephyr . grace . cri . nz . (131 . 203 . 1 . 5) . , pub gle vms 

mailing list glelist .  . send a message to 

, with a message boyd containing 

sub glelist your name 

maintainer dean 



15. image analysis software image processing and display 


pc and mac based tools  ( multi platform software) 




written at jpl and other nasa sites. can do simple display , 
enhancing , smoothing and so on. works with the fits and vicar pds 
data formats of nasa .  . can read tiff images , if you know their dimensions 
pc and macs 

labview 2 

labview is used as a framework for image processing tools. it provides a 
graphical programming environment using block diagram sketch is the 
program with graphical elements representing the programming elements. 
hundreds of functions are already available and are connected using a 
wiring tool to create the block diagram (program) .  . functions that the 
block diagrams represent include digital signal processing and 
filtering , numerical analysis , statistics , etc. the tool allows any 
virtual instrument  ( vi , a software file that looks and acts like a real 
laboratory instrument ) to be used as a part of any other virtual 
instrument .  . 

national instruments markets plug in digital signal processing  ( dsp ) 
boards for and pc that allow real time 
acquisition and analysis at a personal computer. new software tools for 
dsp are allowing engineers to harness the power of this technology. the 
tools range from low level debugging software to high level block 
diagram development software. there are three levels of dsp programming 
associated with the nb dsp2300 board and labview 
use of the nb dsp2300 analysis library , power spectra , filters 
routines callable from think c and macintosh programers workshop  ( mpw ) c 
that execute on the nb dsp2300 board. there is an analysis virtual 
interface library of ready to use vis optimized for the nb dsp2300 .  . 

use of the national instruments developers toolkit that includes an 
optimizing c compiler , an assembler and a linker for low level 
programming of the dsp hardware. this approach offers the highest level 
of performance but is the must difficult in terms of ease of use. 

use of the national instruments interface kit software package which has 
utility functions for memory management data communications and 
downloading code to the nb dsp2300 board.  ( this is the easiest route for 
the development of custom code . ) . 

concept vi 

concept vi by france is a family of image processing virtual 
instruments  ( vis ) that give labview 2  ( described above) users high end 
tools for designing , integrating and monitoring imaging control systems. 
a vi is a software file that looks and acts like a real laboratory 
instrument .  . typical applications for concept vi include thermography , 
surveillance , machine vision , production testing , biomedical imaging , 
electronic microscopy and remote sensing .  . 

concept vi addresses applications which require further 
qualitative and quantitative analysis. it includes a complete set of 
functions for image enhancement , histogram equalization , spatial and 
frequency filtering , isolation of features , thresholding , mathematical 
morphology analysis , density measurement , object counting , sizing and 
characterization .  . 

the program loads images with a minimum resolution of 64 by 64 , a pixel 
depth of 8 , 16 , or 32 bits , and one image plane. standard input and 
output formats include pict , tiff , satie , and aipd .  . other formats can 
be imported .  . 

image enhancement features include lookup table transformations , spatial 
linear and non linear filters , frequency filtering , arithmetic and logic 
operations , and geometric transformations , among others. morphological 
transformations include erosion , dilation , opening , closing , hole 
removal , object separation , and extraction of skeletons , among others. 
quantitative analysis provides for objects  detection , measurement , and 
morphological distribution .  . measures include area , perimeter , center of 
gravity , moment of inertia , orientation , length of relevant chords , and 
shape factors and equivalence .  . measures are saved in ascii format. the 
program also provides for macro scripting and integration of custom 
modules .  . 

a 3 d view command plots a perspective data graph where image intensity 
is depicted as mountains or valleys in the plot .  . the histogram tool can 
be plotted with either a linear or logarithmic scale. the twenty eight 
arithmetic and logical operations provide for masking and averaging 
sections of images , noise removal , making comparisons , etc. there are 
13 spatial filters that alter pixel intensities based on local 
intensity .  . these include high pass filters for contrast and outlines .  . 
the frequency data resulting from fft analysis can be displayed as 
either the  ( real , imaginary ) components or the  ( phase , magnitude ) 
data. the morphological transformations are useful for data sharpening 
and defining objects or for removing artifacts .  . 

the transformations include thresholding , eroding , dilating and even 
hole filling .  . 

the program 's quantitative analysis measurements include area , 
perimeter , center of mass , object counts , and angle between points. 

, inc. 2455 bennett valley road 100c santa rosa , ca 
707 579 1733 

spectrum 

spectrum supports image processing and analysis but lacks the 
morphology and quantitative analysis features provided by 
concept vi. using scripting tools , the user 
tells the system the operations to be performed .  . the problem is that far 
too many basic operations require manual intervention .  . the tool 
supports , 16 arithmetic operations for pixel alteration , and a 
movie command for cycling through windows. 


macintosh based tools 


ncsa image , ncsa and more 

ncsa provides a whole suite of public domain visualization tools for the 
macintosh , primarily aimed at researchers wanting to visualize results 
from numerical modelling calculations .  . these applications , 
documentation , and source code are available for anonymous ftp from 
ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu .  . commercial versions of the ncsa programs have been 
developed by spyglass .  . 

spyglass , inc. 701 devonshire drive champaign , il 61820 (217) 355 6000 
fax 217 355 8925 

nih image 

available at alw . nih . gov . (128 . 231 . 128 . 7) . or  ( preferably ) 
zippy . nimh . nih . gov . 128 . 231 . 98 . 32 . , directory pub image. 
it has painting and image manipulation tools , a macro language , 
tools for measuring areas , distances and angles , and for counting 
things. using a frame grabber card , it can record sequences of 
images to be played back as a movie. it can invoke user defined 
convolution matrix filters , such as gaussian .  . it can import raw 
data in tab delimited ascii , or as 1 or 2 byte quantities .  . it also 
does histograms and even 3 d plots .  . it is limited to 8 bits pixel , 
though the 8 bits map into a color lookup table. it runs on any mac 
that has a 256 color screen and a fpu  ( or get the version 
from zippy . nimh . nih . gov) . 



data translation , inc. 100 locke dr. marlboro , ma 01752 508 481 3700 

photopress 

blue solutions 3039 marigold place thousand oaks , ca 91360 805 492 9973 

and tcl image 

complete family of  ( hardware accelerator and applications 
software) for scientific image processing and analysis. video rate 
capture , display , processing , and analysis of high resolution 
monochromatic and color images. includes c source code. 

tcl image 
software package for scientific , quantitative image processing and 
analysis. it provides a complete language for the capture , enhancement , 
and extraction of quantitative information from gray scale images. 
tcl image has over 200 functions for image processing , and contains the 
other elements needed in a full programming language for algorithm 
development variables and control structures .  . it is easily 
extensible through script  ( or indirect command) files. these script 
files are simply text files that contain tcl image commands .  . they are 
executed as normal commands and include the ability to pass parameters .  . 
the direct capture of video images is supported via popular frame 
grabber boards. tcl image comes with the i view utility that provides 
conversion between common image file types , such as and tiff .  . 

725 parkway knoxville , tn 615 966 9200 

satellite image workshop 

it comes with a number of satellite pictures  ( raw data) and does all 
sorts of image enhancing on it. you 'll need at least a mac ii with co 
processor a 256 color display and a large harddisk .  . the program does n't 
run under system 7 . x . ate1 . v1 

in the documentation the contact address is given as liz smith , jet 
propulsion laboratory , ms 300 323 , 4800 oak grove dr ,  . pasadena . , ca 91109 
(818) 354 6980 

visualization workbench 

an electronic imaging software system that performs interactive image 
analysis and scientific 2d and 3d plotting .  . 

paragon imagine 171 lincoln st. lowell , ma 01852 508 441 2112 

adobe photoshop 


the tool supports colors with 24 bit images or 256 levels of grey 
scale. once an image has been imported it can be rre with 
various editing tools typical of those used in macintosh based 
applications. these include an eraser , pencil , brush and air brush .  . 
advanced tools that control the interaction between a pasted 
selection and the receiving site have also been incorporated .  . for 
example , all red pixels in a selection can easily be preventing from 
being pasted .  . photoshop has transparencies ranging from 0 to 100 , 
allowing you to create ghost overlays .  . editings tools include 
control of the brightness and contrast , color balancing , hue saturation 
modification and spectrum equalization .  . images can be subjected to 
various signal processing algorithms to smooth or sharpen the image , 
blur edges , or locate edges. image scaling is also supported .  . 

for storage savings , the images can be compressed using standard 
algorithms , including externally supplied compression such as jpeg , 
availlable from storm technologies .  . the latest version of adobe 
photoshop supports the import of numerous image formats including , 
, tiff , pict resource , amiga iff , compuserve gif , , 
pixar , , ct , tga and thunderscan .  .  . 

adobe systems , inc. 1585 charlestown road po box 7900 mountain view , ca 
7900 415 961 4400 

colorstudio and 

colorstudio is an image editing and paint package from letraset that has 
more features than adobe photoshop but is decidedly more complex and 
therefore more difficult to use. several steps are often required to 
accomplish that which can be done in a single step using photoshop .  . the 
application requires a great deal of available disk space as one can 
easily end up with images in the 30 mb range. the program provides a 
variety of powerful selection tools including the auto selection tool 
which lets the user choose image areas on the basis of color , close 
hues , color range and mask .  . 

do n't know .  .  .  . 

letraset usa 40 eisenhower drive paramus , nj 201 845 6100 

dapple systems 

high resolution image analysis software provides processing tools to 
work with multiple images , enhance and edit , and measure a variety of 
global or feature parameters , and interpret the data. 

dapple systems , 355 w. olive ave , 100 sunnyvale , ca 94086 408 733 3283 

digital darkroom 

the latest release of digital darkroom has five new selection and 
editing tools for enhancing images. one such feature allows the user to 
select part of an image simply by painting it. a new polyline 
selection tool creates a selection tool for single pixel wide 
selections .  . a brush lets the operator paint with a selected portion 
of the image. note that this is not a true color image enhancement tool. 
this tool should be used when the user intends to operate in grey scale 
images only. it should be noted that digital darkroom is not as 
powerful as either adobe photoshop or colorstudio .  . 

silicon beach software 9770 carroll ctr .  . rd. , suite j san diego , ca 
92126 619 695 6956 

dimple 

it is compatible with system 6.05 and system 7.0 , requires mac lc or 
ii series with 256 colours , with a recommended min of 6mb of ram .  . it has 
the capability of reading erdas files. functions include image 
enhancement , 3d and contour plots , image statistics , supervised and 
unsupervised classification , pca and other image transformations .  . there 
is also a means  ( image operation language or iol ) by which you can write 
your own transformations .  . there is no image rectification , however 
dimple is compatable with mapii .  . the latest version is 1.4 and it is in 
the beta stage of testing. dimple was initially developed as a teaching 
tool and it is very good for this purpose. 

dimple runs on a colour macintosh .  . it is a product still in its 
development phase .  .  . i.e. it does n't have all the inbuilt features of 
other packages , but is coming along nicely. it has its own inbuilt 
language for writing programs for processing an image , defining 
convolution filters etc. dimple is a full mac application with pull down 
menus etc .  .  .  . it is unprotected software. 

process software solutions , po box 2110 , wollongong , new south wales , 
australia .  . 2500 .  . phone 61 42 fax 61 42 264190 .  . 

enhance 

enhance has a tool that supports measurements and additionally 
provides angle data. the tool has over 80 mathematical filter 
variations laplacian , medium noise filter , etc. files can be saved 
as either tiff , pict , or text  ( however files ca n't be imported) .  . 

7650 hickman road des moines , ia 50322 515 270 8109 

image analyst 

an image processing product for users who need to extract quantitative 
data from video images. image analyst lets users configure 
sophisticated image processing and measurement routines without the 
necessity of knowing a programming language. it is designed for such 
tasks at computing number and size of cells in images projected by video 
cameras attached to microscopes , or enhancing and measuring distances in 
radiographs .  . 

image analyst provides users with an array of field proven video 
analysis techniques that enable them to easily assemble a sequence of 
instructions to enhance feature appearance count objects determine 
density , shape , size , position , or movement perform object feature 
extraction and conduct textural analysis automatically .  . image analyst 
works with either a framegrabber board and any standard video camera , or 
a disk stored image. 

within minutes , without the need for programming , the image analyst user 
can set up a process to identify and analyze any element of a image. 
measurements and statistics can be automatically or semi automatically 
generated from tiff or pict files or from captured video tape images. 
image analyst recognizes items in images based on their size , shape and 
position. the tool provides direct support for the data translation and 
scion frame grabbers .  . a menu command allows for image capture from a vcr 
video camera or other ntsc or pal devices. 

there are 2 types of files , the image itself and the related sequence 
file that holds the processing , measurements and analysis that the user 
defines .  . automated sequences are set up in regions of interest  ( roi ) 
represented by movable , sizable boxes atop the image. inside a roi , the 
program can find the distance between two edges , the area of a shape , 
the thickness of a wall , etc. image analyst finds the center , edge and 
other positions automatically .  . the application also provides tools so 
that the user can work interactively to find the edge of object. it also 
supports histograms and a color look up table  ( clut ) tool. 

automatix , inc. 775 middlesex turnpike billerica , ma 01821 508 667 7900 



signal analytics corp. 374 maple ave. e vienna , va 22180 703 281 3277 
fax 703 281 2509 

menu driven image processing software that supports 24 bit color or 
pseudocolor grayscale image display and manipulation .  . 

map ii 

among the mac gis systems , map ii distributed by john wiley has 
integrated image analysis. 

image 

from stanford try anonymous ftp from sumex aim . stanford . edu . 
it has pd source for image v2 , and ready to run code for a mac under 
image v3 .  . 



windows dos pc based tools 


ccd 

richard berry 's ccd imaging book for bell contains  ( optional ) 
disks with image manipulating software. source code is included. 

erdas 

erdas will do all of the things you want rectification , 
classification , transformations  ( canned user defined ) , overlays , 
filters , contrast enhancement , etc. ... i was using it on my thesis 
then changed the topic a bit that work became secondary .  . 

erdas , inc. 2801 buford highway suite 300 atlanta , ga 30329 404 248 9000 
fax 404 248 9400 



i have been getting up to speed on a program called available from 
eidetic digital image ltd. in british columbia .  . its for ibm pc 's or 
clones , cheap  ( about 400) and does all the stuff erdas does but is not 
as fast or as powerful , though i have had only limited experience with 
erdas .  . i have used with 6 of 7 landsat bands and it is a good 
starter program except for the obtuse manual 

imagine 32 

it 's a 32 bit package i suppose for pcs called 
or the program does a modest amount of image processing add , 
subtract , multiply , divide , display , and plot an x or y cut across the image. 
it can also display a number of images simultaneously .  . 
the company is , in santa barbara , ca. 

pc vista 

it was announced in the 1989 august edition of pasp .  . it is known to 
be available from mike richmond , whose email addresses have been 




and his s mail address is 

michael richmond , astronomy department , campbell hall , berkeley , ca 94720 

the latest version of pc vista , version 1.7 , includes not only the source 
code and help files , but also a complete set of executable programs and 
a number of sample fits images. if you do wish to use the source code , 
you will need microsoft c , version 5.0 or later other compilers may work , 
but will require substantial modifications .  . 

to receive the documentation and nine double density  ( 360k ) floppies 
 ( or three quad density 3 1 2 inch floppies (1 . 44m) . with everything on them , 
just send a request for pc vista , together with your name and a us mail 
address , to 

office of technology licensing 
2150 shattuck ave. , suite 510 
berkeley , ca. 94704 

include a check  ( traveller 's checks are fine) or purchase order for 150.00 
in u.s. dollars , if your address is inside the continental u.s. , or 165.00 
otherwise , made out to regents of the university of california 
to cover duplication and mailing costs. 


software tools 

it 's a set of software tools put out by canyon state 
systems and software. they are not free , but rather cheap at about 30 i 
heard. it will handle most all of the formats used by frame grabber 
software. 

mirage 

it 's image processing software written by jim gunn at the 
astrophysics dept at princeton .  . it will run on a pc among other platforms .  . 
it is a forth based system i.e. a forth language with many image 
processing displaying functions built in. 

data translation source book 

the data translation company in massachusetts publishes a free book 
containing vendors of data analysis hardware and software which is 
compatible with data translation and other frame grabbers .  . 
surely you can find much more pc related stuff in it. 



a couple of canadians have written a program named which does 
maximum entropy image deconvolution .  . their company is named digital 
signal processing software , or something like that , and the software is 
mentioned in an article in astronomy magazine , either jan or feb 92 
 ( an article on ccd 's vs film) .  . 

scientific  ( java ) 

another software package  ( java ) is put out by scientific .  . 
scientific , 65 koch road , corte madera , ca 94925 , (415) 924 8640 , 
(800) 874 1888 .  . 



runs on an ms dos platform and uses a 32 bit graphics card 
 ( vista ) , or an about to be released version will support a number of 
super vga cards. its a full blown remote sensed data processing 
system .  .  . it is menu driven  ( character based screen) , but is does not use 
a windowed user interface. its is hardware protected with a dongle .  . 
micro barrier reef image anaysis system. it was developed by 
csiro  ( commonwealth scientific industrial organization ) and is 
marketed supported by 

mpa australia  ( 51 lusher road , croydon , victoria 
tel 61 3 724 4488 fax 61 3 724 4455 ) 

there are educational and commercial prices , but be prepared to set 
aside for the first educational licence .  . subsequent ones come 
cheaper  ( they need to ! ) it has installed sites worldwide .  . it is widely 
used at anu .  . 



the remote sensing lab here at dartmouth currently uses terra mar 's 
, on 486 pcs with some fancy display hardware. 

terra mar resource information services , inc. 

1937 landings drive mountain view , ca 94043 415 964 6900 fax 
415 964 5430 

unix based tools 


iraf  ( image reduction and analysis facility ) 

developed in the national optical astronomy observatory , kitt peak az 
it is free , you can ftp it from tucana . noao . edu . 140 . 252 . 1 . 1 . 
and complement it with from stsci . edu . 130 . 167 . 1 . 2 . . 
email to for more details. 
apparently this is one of the de facto standards in the astronomical 
image community. they issue a newsletter also. 
they seem to support very well their users. works with vms also last 
i heard , and practically has its own shell on top of the vms unix shells .  . 

it 's suggested that you get a copy of for display under x windows. 
very flexible extendable tons (literally 3 linear feet) of 
documentation for the general user , skilled user , and programmer .  . 

alv 

a sun specific image toolkit .  . version 2.0.6 posted to 
comp . sources . sun . on 11dec89 .  . also available via email to 
alv users 

aips 

astronomical image processing system. contact 
 ( also see the usenet newsgroups alt . sci . astro . aips . and sci . astro . fits) . 
built by nrao  ( national radio astronomy observatory , hq in charlottesville , 
va , sites in nm , az , wv) .  . software distributed by 9 track , exabyte , dat , 
or  ( non anonymous ) internet ftp .  . documentation  ( postscript mostly ) 
available via anonymous ftp to baboon . cv . nrao . edu . (192 . 33 . 115 . 103) . , 
directory pub aips and pub aips text publ. installation requires building 
the system and thus a fortran and c compiler .  . 
this package can read and write fits data  ( see sci . astro . fits) . , and is 
primarily for reduction , analysis , and image enhancement of radio astronomy 
data from radio telescopes , particularly the very large array  ( vla ) , a 
synthesis instrument .  . it consists of almost 300 programs that do everything 
from copying data to sophisticated deconvolution , e.g. via maximum entropy .  . 
there is an x11 based image tool  ( xas ) and a tek compatible xterm based 
graphics tool built into aips .  . the xas tool is modelled after the hardware 
functionality of the international imaging systems model 70 display unit and 
can do image arithmetic , etc. 
the code is mostly fortran 77 with some system c language modules , and is 
available for suns , ibm rs 6000 , dec ultrix , convex , cray  ( unicos ) , and 
alliant with support planned for hp 9000 7xx , solaris 2.1 , and maybe sgi .  . 
there is currently a project aips underway to rewrite the 
algorithmic functionality of aips in a modern setting , using c and an 
object oriented approach. whereas aips is proprietary code  ( licensed for 
free to non profit institutions ) owner by nrao and the nsf , aips will be 
in the public domain at some level , as it is an international effort with 
contributions from the us , canada , england , the netherlands , india , and 
australia to name a few. 



 ( version 4.0 is out for x11 ) it 's written in c , and currently 
runs on sun 3 xxx , sun 4 xxx (os3 . 5 . , 4.0 and 4 . 0 . 3) . under sunview .  . 
the expert system for image segmentation is written in allegro common lisp .  . 
it was used on the following domains computer science  ( image analysis) , 
medicine , biology , physics .  . it is distributed free of charge  ( source code) .  . 
available via anonymous ftp at ftp . ads . com . (128 . 229 . 30 . 16) . , in 
pub vision list archive shareware 

contact prof. thierry pun , computer vision group computing science center , 
u geneva 12 , rue du lac , ch 1207 geneva switzerland 
phone  ( 41(22 ) 787 65 82 fax  ( 41(22 ) 735 39 05 
e mail or 


figaro 

it was originally made for vms , and can be obtained from 
keith in australia 
and for unix from sam at caltech 
it 's about on a sun. 

khoros 

moved to the scientific visualization category below 

vista 

the real thing is available via anonymous ftp from lowell . edu .  . email to 
for more details. total size less than 20mbytes .  . 



 ( device independent software for image processing) is a powerful 
system providing both user friendliness and high functionality in 
interactive times. 

feature description 

incorporates a rich library of image processing utilities and 
spatial data options. all functions can be easily accessed via the 
executive .  . this menu is modular in design and groups image 
processes by their function. such a logical structure means that 
complicated processes are simply a progression through a series of 
modules .  . 

processes include image rectification , classification  ( unsupervised and 
supervised ) , intensity transformations , three dimensional display and 
principal component analysis. also supports the more simple and 
effective enhancement techniques of filtering , band subtraction and 
ratioing .  . 

host configuration requirements 

running on unix workstations , is capable of processing the more 
computational intensive techniques in interactive processing times. 
is available in both runtime and programmer 's environments .  . using 
the programmers environment , utilities can be developed for specific 
applications programs. 

graphics are governed by an icon based display panel which allows quick 
enhancments of a displayed image. manipulations of look up tables , 
colour stretches , changes to histograms , zooming and panning can be 
interactively driven through this control. 

a range of geographic projections enables to integrate data of 
image , graphic and textual types. images can be rectified by a number of 
coordinate systems , providing the true geographic knowledge essential 
for ground truthing .  . overlays of grids , text and vector data can be 
added to further enhance referenced imagery .  . 

the system is a flexible package allowing users of various skill levels 
to determine their own working environment , including the amount of help 
required. comes fully configured with no optional extras .  . the 
purchase price includes all functionality required for professional 
processing of remote sensed data. 

for further information , please contact 

the business manager , clough engineering group systems division , 627 
chapel street , south yarra , australia 3141 .  . telephone 61 3 825 5555 
fax 61 3 826 6463 

global imaging software 

we use global imaging software to process data , from the dish to 
the final display. select a chunk of five band data from a pass , 
automatic navigation , calibrate it to albedo and temp , convert that to 
byte , register it to predesigned window , all relatively automatically 
and carefree .  . 

it has no classification routines to speak of , but it is n't that 
difficult to write your own with their programmer 's module .  . 

very small operation one designs , one codes , one sells .  . been around for 
a number of years , sold to weather service and navy .  . runs on 
with hp ux .  . supports 24 bit display 

hips 

 ( human information processing laboratory 's image processing system) 

michael landy co wrote and sell a general purpose package for image 
processing which has been used for basically all the usual image 
processing applications  ( robotics , medical , satellite , engineering , oil 
exploration , etc . ) .  . it is called hips , and deals with sequences of 
multiband images in the same way it deals with single images. it has 
been growing since we first wrote it , both by additions from us as well 
as a huge user contributed library. 

feature description 

hips is a set of image processing modules which together provide 
a powerful suite of tools for those interested in research , 
system development and teaching .  . it handles sequences of images 
 ( movies ) in precisely the same manner as single frames .  . 

programs and subroutines have been developed for simple image 
transformations , filtering , convolution , fourier and other transform 
processing , edge detection and line drawing manipulation , digital 
image compression and transmission methods , noise generation , and image 
statistics computation .  . over 150 such image transformation programs 
have been developed .  . as a result , almost any image processing task 
can be performed quickly and conveniently .  . additionally , hips allows 
users to easily integrate their own custom routines .  . new users 
become effective using hips on their first day. 

hips features images that are self documenting .  . each image stored in 
the system contains a history of the transformations that have been 
applied to that image. hips includes a small set of subroutines 
which primarily deals with a standardized image sequence header , and 
a large library of image transformation tools in the form of unix 
``filters'' .  . it comes complete with source code , on line manual 
pages , and on line documentation .  . 

host configuration requirements 

originally developed at new york university , hips now represents 
one of the most extensive and flexible vision and image processing 
environments currently available. it runs under the unix operating 
system. it is modular and flexible , provides automatic documentation 
of its actions , and is almost entirely independent of special equipment. 
hips is now in use on a variety of computers including vax and 
, sun , apollo , , ncr tower , iris , ibm at , etc. 
for image display and input , drivers are supplied for the grinnell and 
adage  ( ikonas ) image processors , and the sun 2 , sun 3 , sun 4 , and 
sun 386i consoles .  . we also supply user contributed drivers for a 
number of other and windowing packages  ( sun gfx , sun 
console , matrox vip 1024 , iti ip 512 , , macintosh ii , x 
windowing system , and iris) .  . the package includes an 
interface for the crs 4000 .  . it is a simple matter to interface hips 
with other frame stores , and we can put interested users in touch with 
users who have interfaced hips with the and datacube max 
video. hips can be easily adapted for other image display devices 
because 98 of hips is machine independent .  . 

availability 

hips has proven itself a highly flexible system , both as an 
interactive research tool , and for more production oriented tasks .  . it 
is both easy to use , and quickly adapted and extended to new uses .  . hips 
is supplied on magnetic tape in unix tar format  ( either reel to reel or 
sun cartridge ) , and comes with source code , libraries , a library of 
tion masks , and on line documentation and manual pages. 

michael landy software p.o. box 373 , prince street station 
new york , ny 10012 0007 voice (212) 998 7857 fax (212) 995 4011 



mira 

please don't confuse that with the animation system from 
montreal .  . these are altogether different beasts ! 

mira stands for microcomputer image reduction and analysis. mira gives 
workstation level performance on 386 486 dos computers using svga cards in 
256 color modes up to 1024x768 .  . mira contains a very handsome functional 
gui which is mouse and keystroke operated .  . mira reads writes tiff and fits 
formats , native formats of a number of ccd cameras , and uncompressed binary 
images in byte , short integer , and 4 byte real pixel format in 1 or 2 
dimensions .  . the result of an image processing operation can be short integer 
or real pixels , or the same as that of the input image. mira does the 
operation using short or floating point arithmetic to maintain the precision 
and accuracy of the pixel format. over 100 functions are hand coded in 
assembly language for maximum speed on the intel hardware. the entire 
graphical interface is also written in assembly language to maximize 
the speed of windowing operations .  . windows for 2 d image and 1 d image data 
display and analysis have dedicated cursors which read position and value 
value in real time as you move the mouse. there are also smooth , real time 
contrast and brightness stretch and panning of a magnified portion of 
the displayed  ( image(s ) , all operated by the mouse. a wide selection of 
grayscale , pseudocolor , and random palettes is provided , and other 
palettes can be generated .  . 


supported functions include such niceties as the following 

o image image interpolation 
o image constant 
o unary operations abs value , polynomial of pixel value , chs , 1 x , log , 
, clip values at upper lower limits , short real or real short. 
o combine images by mean , median , mode , or sum of pixel values , with or 
without autoscaling to mean , median , or mode of an image section. 
o convolutions filters laplacian , sobel edge operator , directional gradient , 
line , gaussian , elliptical and rectangular equal weight filters , unsharp 
masking , median filters , user defined filter kernel .  . ellipse , rectangle , 
line , gradient , gaussian , and user defined filters can be rotated to 
any specified angle. 
o ccd data reduction flat fielding , dark subtraction , column over underscan 
bias removal , remove bad pixels and column defects , normalize to 
region target mean , median , or modal value. 
o create subimage , mosaic m x n 1 d or 2 d images to get larger image , 
collapse 2 d image into 1 d image. 
o plot 1 d section or collapsed section of 2 d image , plot histogram of 
region of an image. 
o review change image information header data , rename keywords , plot 
keyword values for a set of images. 
o luminance photometry elliptical or circular aperture photometry , 
brightness profile , photometry between set of upper lower 
luminances , area and luminance inside traced polygon .  . interactive 
background fitting and removal from part or all of image , fit elliptical 
aperture shape to image isophotes .  . 
o interactive with 2 d image contrast brightness , x y or diagonal plot 
of pixel values , distance between two points , compute region stats , ` 
centroid , pan to x , y location or image center , zoom 1 16 to 10 times , 
change cursor to rectangle crosshair , full image crosshair , or off , and 
adjust cursor size on image. select linear , log or gamma transfer function 
or histogram equalization .  . 
o interactive or specified image offset computation and re sampling for 
registration .  . 
o interactive with 1 d image zoom in x y or both in steps of 1 2 or 
2 times current , re center plot , or enlarge a framed area. 4 plot buffers 
can be cycled through. interactive data analysis polynomial fitting , 
point deletion , undelete , change value , point weighting , linear and 
quadratic loess and binomial smoothing , revert to unit point weights 
or original data buffer , substitute results into data buffer for pass 
back to calling function. dump data buffer ( overlays and error bars ) 
to file or printer .  . change to user specified coordinate system. 
o tricolor image combination and display , hardcopy halftone printout to 
hp pcl compatible printers  ( laserjet , deskjet , etc . ) . 
o documentation is over 300 pages in custom vinyl binder .  . 

cost 995 usd copy 

available from 

axiom research , inc. 
box 
tucson , az 
(602) 791 2864 phone fax. 

international marketing rep saguaro scientific corporation , tucson , arizona .  . 



end of part 2 of the resource listing 

nick  ( nikolaos ) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece 
home 16 st. , internet 
, gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! ! 
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578 

from  ( thomas rued j rgensen ) 
subject  . sci . files and  . sco . files 
organization computer science department , aarhus university , denmark 
lines 7 

hello there ! 

a week ago a guy asked what a  . sco . file was well i researched a bit and that it is just another rix file.  . sci . files are 320x200 files and  . sco . files are 1024x768 files ! alle the other formats  ( 800x600 , 640x480 .  .  . ) . are also called something like  .  . 

regards 
rued 


from  ( pei hsieh ) 
subject help needed dxf iff 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
organization columbia university 
lines 11 

hi sorry if this is a faq , but are there any conversion utilities 
available for autodesk  . dxf . to amiga  . iff . format i 
checked the comp . graphics . faq and a number of sites , but so far 
no banana .  . please e mail. 

thanks. 

pei hsieh 
( ) ( ) e mail 
there 's no such thing as a small job just small fees .  . 
anon. , on being an architect 

from (michael zyda ) 
subject acm siggraph registration problem 
organization naval postgraduate school , monterey 
lines 17 

a word of warning for those of you registering for siggraph '93 .  . 
i just received my registration form back in the mail with the 
envelope marked return to sender .  . moved left no address. 
closed po box . the address i used to register for siggraph '93 
is the one printed on the registration form 

acm siggraph '93 
po box , 
chicago , il 5316 

i printed the envelope in my best printing , honest but evidently 
siggraph '93 has skipped town or moved 

i ended up faxing my registration to 312 321  . i hope that 
number is real ! 

michael 

from  ( jayesh a. patel ) 
subject parametric design 
keywords parametric design 
organization arizona state university 
lines 16 



hi everyone , 

i am looking for papers books or any other 
source of information about parametric 
design in cad solid modeling .  . 

any references would be greatly appreaciated .  . 

thanks in advance. 



( ip no 129 . 219 . 30 . 6) . 


from 6 . ingr . com .  ( joe ryburn ) 
subject software development libs for old targa 16 boards 
organization intergraph 
lines 17 

i am some computer aided visual inspection systems which 
use the old at t targa 16 board set (2 cards) to display images from 
a color ccd camera to a color monitor , providing the option to overlay 
text or a crosshair .  . no image capture or manipulation is performed , 
just display. i would like to know if there is still a source for 
development libraries which would allow me to embed commands in my 
own software to enable the camera , draw , print text , etc. 
i 'll be glad to pay if they are commercially available. e mail if 
possible. 





joe manager intergraph corporation 
manufacturing integration huntsville , al 


from  ( rick boykin ) 
subject form 3 d model of loom 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va usa 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host larc . nasa . gov . 
keywords 3 d loom model 

hi folks , 

i'm doing an animated film on new in loom 
research  ( you know , the thing they make cloth with . ) . 
and need a model of a loom .  . the format should be 
in ascii geometry and fairly straight 
forward to figure out. any help or pointers would be 
greatly appreciated. 

thanks 

rick 


rick 
computer sciences corporation , hampton , va. 

so maybe i could be a fly 
and feed as i die tom marshall 







from scott 
subject looking for 
summary do i know you 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma .  . 
lines 10 
nntp posting host m72 . eng . stratus . com . 


i noticed you post in comp . graphics . and know a person with your name. i was 
wondering if you used to live in paxton mass. if so , i have a friend that 
would like to say hi. 


sorry for the if this is n't who i think it is. 


sr 

from  ( dave small) 
subject wanted references on parallel algorithms 
organization r us 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cis . ufl . edu . 
keywords parallel algorithms , , adaptive subdivision , meshing , finite 

element analysis , radiosity , distributed processing 

hi , 

i'm looking for references to parallel algorithms on 


adaptive subdivision 
adaptive meshing 
finite element meshing analysis 
radiosity 

any help will be greatly appreciated. e mail replies to 

dave small 


from v. 
subject analysis on text utils  ( ocr ) wanted  ( ibm pc) 
distribution world 
organization ran 
reply to 
lines 31 

from thu apr 23 21 32 35 1992 
to 
newsgroups comp . periphs . , comp . graphics . digest . , comp . graphics . , comp . binaries . ibm . pc . wanted . , alt . graphics . pixutils . , bit . listserv . 
message id 
organization ran 
from v. 
date thu , 23 apr 1992 21 32 35 0200 
subject analysis on text reading utils needed  ( ibm pc) 
distribution 

hi ! 
does anybody know any reliable utils to read english texts with scanner 
i want some analysis on quality of recognition , because i want to read 
texts which i get by fax ( you know quality on faxes is rather bad ) .  . 
the scanner i have is b w and 300dpi .  . but if there exist any good software 
that needs other specifications , that will be ok. 

please , send messages to my e mail or on conference server , i 'll summarize 
them and consider your  . 

thank you ! ! ! 

v. 

scientific council on complex problem cybernetics , 
russian academy of sciences 

e mail 
tel fax  ( 095 ) 129 



from  ( daniel dunlavy ) 
subject picture ascii conversion 
nntp posting host acns . nwu . edu . 
organization northwestern university , evanston il 
lines 10 

i was wondering if anyone has ever seen heard of a utility that converts 
any type of image format  ( gif , tiff , pcx , bmp , jpeg , etc . ) . to an ascii 
representation .  . i have seen some very art in ascii format , but 
never was i able to find the author or any program that may have converted 
the data from a picture format. 

any help or leads would be great. thanks in advance. 
danny 



from  ( victoria milliron ) 
subject intel 's pci standard 
organization university of california , davis 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 8 

i read a  . somewhere on genie about intel coming out with a 
graphics standard called pci , which would vesa standards. is 
this a rumor , or is there some substance to it. if any of y'all have 
heard of this standard please e mail me on how i might obtain more info 

thanks in advance 



from  ( zhenhai li ) 
subject what is the difference between raytracing and rendering 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 8 


hello , i 've raytraced and rendered and the only difference i 've found 
is that raytracing takes a hell of a lot longer. am i missing 
something 

later , 
z. 


x to comp graphics 
subject re tiff complexity 
organization i . e . c . c .  . 
x cc 
from (john r. levine ) 
lines 34 

in article gw . pa . dec . com . you write 
anyone who thinks that tiff is too complex has n't dealt with 
cgm , asn . 1 . , cda , dca , sgml , or any one of a number of other 
very successful file format. people seem perfectly capable 
dealing with these others. 

well , yeah , but unlike tiff they all do substantially more than encode 
rectangular bitmaps .  . and the others are hardly trouble free. i hear that 
it is quite common for cgm implementations not to interoperate .  . 

the annoying thing about tiff is that is that along with the 50 useful 
options , there are 100 stupid options. the most egregious example is that 
rather than picking a byte order and bit order and using it consistently 
in all tiff files , byte and bit order are options and all tiff readers on 
all machines , no matter what their natural byte order , have to be prepared 
to do byte swapping .  . there are four slightly different fax formats 
again , any one of them would have been adequate .  . rgb images can be stored 
by pixel or by component , complexity without function , etc , etc. i also 
note that the tiff doc says that aldus  experiments show that lzw reliably 
compresses as well or better than any of the fax formats , suggesting that 
none of the fax formats are really useful. 

what 's worse , a lot of the formats are n't even implemented very well , 
e.g. , lzw limits code words to 12 bits , while 14 or 16 bits would have 
provided substantially better compression .  . and the lzw method compresses 
bytes rather than pixels .  . 

but the absolute worst thing about tiff is that any vendor can register 
proprietary tiff codes and formats without even publicly documenting them. 
this means that there is no way to write a tiff reader that can reliably 
read all incoming tiff files. some standard. 

regards , 
john levine , , spdcc ima world ! ! 

from  ( tony lau ) 
subject 3 d widget wish list 
organization university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 31 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cascade . cs . ubc . ca . 
keywords 3 d widget , manipulation , feedback , user interface design system 

i am very interested in hearing from all of you who are using or implementing 
3 d interactive applications what types of 3 d widgets you would 
like to have in your applications. 

a 3 d widget is usually located in the same scene as other 3 d objects of the 
application. it may let you 

manipulate application data , the camera , 
3 d objects in the scene and so on , or 
view the status of the application or 3 d objects 
via the widget 's shape , color , position , orientation and so on , or 
do whatever i missed but you think is possible. 

for example , a manipulative widget can be virtual trackball  ( shown as a 
partially transparent sphere) super imposed on the object to be rotated .  . 
a feedback widget can be a ruler with ends anchored to 2 objects .  . the length 
of the ruler changes as the objects move and a numeric value is shown on the 
ruler indicating the distance. a widget can provide both manipulation and 
feedback. for example , the ruler can be used to change the distance between 
the objects along its own axis .  . 


please e mail me or post your opinions on 3 d interaction .  . the information 
i gathered will help me design a 3 d ui construction tool. 
your help is very much appreciated. 

tony lau 

m . sc .  . student 
dept. of computer science 


from  ( sanghoon sull ) 
subject final call for papers 
organization center for reliable and high performance computing , university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 62 
nntp posting host focus . csl . uiuc . edu . 
summary final cfp neural networks on shape analysis 
keywords paper , neural networks , shape analysis 






call for papers 



progress in neural networks 
special volume on shape analysis 


m. 
series editor volume editor 



significant progress has been made recently in shape analysis using 
neural networks and the energy minimization concept. publishing 
corporation is planning a special volume on shape analysis , scheduled 
for this year. 

this volume will be a part of progress in neural networks , an annual 
book series reviewing research in modelling , analysis , design and 
application of neural networks .  . the primary aim of this volume is to 
present , in a single volume , the most important achievements made on 
this important topic , which are otherwise scattered in diverse literature. 

authors are invited to submit original manuscripts detailing recent 
progress. suggested topics include , but are not limited to shape modelling , 
shape estimation , shape recovery , shape representation , shape matching , 
surface reconstruction and surface decomposition .  . research work utilizing 
neural networks directly or based on energy minimization techniques such as 
markov random field , mean field , simulated , graduated 
non algorithms and resistive networks are most welcome. 

the paper should be tutorial in nature , self contained and preferably , 
but not necessarily , about fifty double spaced pages in length. please send 
electronically  ( if you prefer , you can send a hardcopy to the address below) 
an abstract and an outline to 

by may 30 , 1993. the full paper must be submitted by july 31 , 1993 to 



europe usa 

professor professor m. 
department images computer science department 
ecole nationale superieure university of district of columbia 
des telecommunications 4200 connecticut ave. n.w. 
46 , rue washington d.c. 
paris cedex 13 phone  ( 202)282 ) 
france fax  ( 202)282 ) 
fax 33 1 45 81 37 94 email 
email 






from  ( daniel godden ) 
subject fast polygon routines needed. 
organization university of western sydney , nepean 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 16 

i am looking for some fast polygon routines  ( shaded or texture 
mapped ) in asm  ( compile with masm ) or in turbo pascal  ( compile with 
 . it has to be able to run on a 286 , but does not have to look 
super fast on a 286 , but must look good on a 386 .  . 

if anyone has any such code could you please mail it to me. or tell 
me where it can be got. 

thanks in advance. 




daniel genius is only one step away 
university of western sydney , nepean from insanity ! 
aarnet internet but me , i am already there ! 

from (david lau ) 
subject format of gif files 
organization motorola 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 161 . 169 . 
lines 11 

could anyone tell me the format of gif files. i would like to know how i 
could determine the size of the picture. also , are gif files in compressed 
format how many bits store pixel color information 

 ( this is a simple question , but i could n't find it in the faq . ) . 

email responses would be 


david lau 


from  ( lucas adamski ) 
subject re fast polygon routine needed 
keywords polygon , needed 
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 22 

in article  ( jesse lackey ) writes 
in article  ( alan christiansen ) writes 
i believe that the algorithms you can get that will only draw convex 
polygons can be much more efficient than those that can draw 
concave self intersecting polygons .  . 
this efficiency can largely be attributed to the fact that 
simple convex polygons only have a left and a right edge on each scan line. 
complex  ( figure 8 type polygons) can be a bit trickier .  . 

it is true the convex algorithm is faster than a general concave multi outline 
algorithm , but not tremendously faster. i spent awhile implementing and 
optimizing both flavors , and the convex turned out about 10 faster. this is 
all c  ( on hp pa risc the compiler got the inner loop shooting the span as 
fast as possible , as far as i could  . for any sort of game the database 
to render is known ahead of time , and can be made all convex .  . definitely the 
way to go. 


ok , thanks for help everyone ! i still have n't found quite what i'm looking for , 
but i 've got finals coming up soon so i have to put all this on hold .  . 
thanx , 
lucas .  . 

from  ( rick turner) 
subject re 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host danebury . hursley . ibm . com . 
organization ibm uk labs 
lines 5 

you can use pbm 's   to convert three raw (r , g , b) files to pgm format. then you can use to convert the pgm files to a composite ppm file , 
and feed this to for compression .  . slow , and circuitous , but it will 
work. 

rick 

from  ( benjamin olasov ) 
subject re is there an ftp achive for usgs terrain data 
organization none 
lines 22 

in article  ( dan jacobson ) writes 

a lot of interesting stuff about gopher deleted 

if you 've never heard of gopher do n't worry it 's free and on the net , 
write me a note if you 'd like information on how to get started. 


best of luck , 

dan jacobson 




i 've heard of it but lost the intro posting that came out a while back 
could you post it again i think it 's of general interest. 


ben 

ben 

from (james d. murray ) 
subject need specs for mpeg ( . file format 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 9 
nntp posting host sciences . sdsu . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

i am looking for the specs for the  . mpg . files that are floating around 
the alt . binaries . pictures .  . groups on the net. please lemme know where 
i can obtain the spec or email it to me. 

thanks much. 


james d. murray 


from  ( vance m. gloster ) 
subject re compositing pictures on pc 
organization inference corporation 
lines 28 
nntp posting host fourier . inference . com . 
in reply to 's message of sat , 15 may 93 00 16 31 gmt 

in article (patrick chu 3605 ) writes 

i was wondering if anyone knows of a graphics package for the pc that 
will do compositing of a series of pictures 

what i mean by compositing is , say i have a live video clip 
 ( digitized ) panning around a living room , and a computer generated 
bird flying around the screen. i want to combine these two series of 
pictures so that everywhere where the bird frames are black , i want 
the living room picture to show through. yes , i realize i can do this 
with a genlock , and i do own a genlock , but i want to be able to do 
manual compositing also. it 's ok if i have to composite one frame at 
a time i assumed i 'd have to do that anyway. but being able to 
composite a series of frames would be even better. 

i 've looked around and i have n't found a pc package that will perform 
this. help , please ! 

if you can get the live animation and the computer generated animation 
into autodesk animator  . fli . or  . flc . format , autodesk animator will do 
this for you. it can take one animation , make a certain color 
clear , and overlay it over another animation. i do not have a way 
right now to convert  . avi . or  . mpg . files to animator files. animator 
will also import a series of  . gif . files to create an animation , so if 
your video capture stuff can create this is might work. 

vance gloster 


from (david hawks ) 
subject re turning photographic images into thermal print and or negatives 
organization univ. of north carolina @ wilmington 
lines 44 

jennifer lynn writes 

also if anyone else is doing what i am planning i would be happy to hear 
from you with any advice you might provide as to the computer system you 
use and or any peripherals or software. it seemed the quadra 800 would be 
my best bet to modify photographic images. i am planning on buying a quadra 
800 with of ram , a hard drive , a 1200 dpi scanner , 17 sony 
monitor and a cartridge drive and perhaps a cd rom .  . i am new to 
computers and any advice would be great. 

well , i have lots of experience with scanning in images and altering 
them. as for changing them back into negatives , is that really possible 
scanning and altering is no big deal. i do n't know what types of 
features you have in your version of photoshop .  . but the one i use 
(which , incidentally is on a quadra ) has gallery effects and all types 
of other neato stuff. 
i'm just wondering why you would want to put your images back into 
negatives , because once you print the image out that 's your print. 
do you know what exactly your aim is in all of this like , are you 
doing this just for fun , for a business , to gain more computer 
knowledge , for a project you 're working on .  .  .  .  . 
otherwise , i guess i do n't know if i 'd be helping or not by posting info 
on scanning and stuff. 
ok cool. 


jennifer the oh so bitter woman of utter  ( blahness(but cheerful 
undertones ) 

it is for a business and the end product has to be a photograph .  . 
i take damaged black and whites , usually old , some very , and repair them 
by hand at present. i would like to do this by using a computer. 
i am just trying to find a vendor who can convert my computer stored 
images to negatives or thermal print. the customer will want his her 
copy as much as possible like a brand new original  . 


david 

ps. thanks to all of you who have sent me information it was very 
helpful in my learning about computers combined with photography. 
if anyone else has any information i would be grateful. 



from  ( daniel t. hotopp ) 
subject drivers for diamond viper card 
organization westinghouse electronic systems group , baltimore , md. 
lines 13 

i 've been away for a couple of weeks and have become out of touch with the 
latest information on the diamond viper card. does anyone know if diamond 
has come out with any vesa driver updates lately also , i was wondering 
what the latest windows driver version is up to now. 

thanks in advance , 
dan 


daniel t. internet 
antenna microwave integration  ( w ) vax tron 
westinghouse electric corp. voice  ( 410)765 ) 


from (s .  . raj chaudhury ) 
subject re needed plotting package that does .  .  .  . 
organization kansas state university 
lines 28 
nntp posting host piaget . phys . ksu . edu . 

in oh . com . oh . com .  ( chris murphy ) writes 

in article full , full  ( glen fullmer ) writes 
looking for a graphics cad or whatever package on a x unix box that will 
take a file with records like 

hi , 
see roger 's response to 

re help on network visualization 

in comp . graphics . visualization .  . 

could someone please post roger 's response or point me to where 
i could find it 

thanks a lot , 


s. raj 
dept. of physics 
kansas state university 
manhattan , ks 

s. raj 
dept. of physics 
kansas state university 
manhattan , ks 

from  ( roland carel ) 
subject surface contour plot 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 6 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mercury . mit . edu . 
keywords plotting program , contour , mesh 
i am trying to find a program which can run under the environment 

ultrix x11r4 to plot surfaces and contour plots from a set of x , y , z . 
i would really appreciate any hint on the name of such a plotting program 
and where to find it. 
thanks for your help. 



from  ( boss hogg ) 
subject pov animating 
organization the santa fe institute 
lines 20 
nntp posting host sanjuan . ede . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 


in an attempt to do animation with pov i have created two little 
programs. one is a c program that will perform a morph between 
any two points given the amount of frames for the morph .  . and then 
it will write the points , and the function  ( translate , rotate , etc . ) . out 
to a file. then i have a perl script that will read the list of functions 
and insert them into a  . pov . file at a given line. i had hoped this would 
let me do simple animation. however , i have discovered that simply 
performing incremental rotations on an object will not spin a stationary 
object but will actually rotate the object about the axis .  . now i know 
an easy way around this would be to first translate the object to the 
origin perform the rotation and then move it back but i know there 
must be another way around this. i had thought perhaps it was because 
i had created objects at the origin and then translated them to a new 
point and then done the rotation , which could cause this behavior. however 
this occurs on objects that are not translated at all. any help is 
appreciated. 




from (michael prevost ) 
subject re geosphere image 
organization nasa ames research center 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

 ( ryan malayter ) writes 

article 31 of alt . graphics . 
newsgroups alt . graphics . 
path news . nd . edu . ! ! 
from  ( ryan malayter ) 
subject geosphere images via ftp 
message id 
sender  ( usenet news system) 
organization university of notre dame , notre dame 
date mon , 26 apr 1993 21 36 48 gmt 

does anyone know if a digitized version of the geosphere image is 
available via ftp for those of you who do n't know , it is a composite 
photograph of the entire earth , with removed. i just think 
it 's really cool. it was created with government funds and sattelites 
as a research project , so i would assume it 's in the public domain .  . 

this image is copyrighted .  . early in another news group it was being 
used as a texture map in a planet orbiting simulation .  . that program 
was being freely distributed but the texture map picture for the 
earth had to be pulled because of copyright infringement issues. 

mp .  .  .  .  . 


michael prevost 
sterling software 
moffett field ca. 


from  ( betty harvey ) 
subject re arts letters graphics editor 
reply to  ( betty harvey ) 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 28 

in comp . graphics . , (peter j menchetti ) writes 
does anyone on this group use this program it stacks up pretty well to 
corel draw , and since i do n't have a cdrom , it was the best buy .  .  .  . 

maybe someone would be interested in trading tips and tricks 

yes , i have both arts letters and coreldraw .  . i personally like 
arts letters better but there are things i like about arts letters 
that coreldraw does n't do an vice versa .  . i have n't found the perfect 
graphics program that does everything yet. 

my favorite feature from coreldraw is that it imports alot of different 
formats .  . arts letters does not. i like the thousands of clipart 
available with arts letters. however , i do find looking them up 
in a book and referencing them by number to be annoying. 

one of my major problems is that there is n't any programs available on 
the market for the deprived ) .  . 


betty harvey david taylor model basin 
adp , networking and communication assessment division 
branch naval surface warfare 
code 1221 center 
bethesda , md. 20084 5000 , cd , nswc 

 ( 301)227 ) 3379 fax  ( 301)227 ) 3343 


from  ( garland stern ) 
subject looking for hot mac 3d anim software 
distribution usa 
organization university of delaware 
lines 6 
nntp posting host brahms . udel . edu . 

i am interested in finding 3d animation programs for the mac .  . 
i am especially interested in any programs that do n't exist 
in a pc port and are so good that they would make me go buy 
a mac .  . do any such exist 

thanks in advance 

from (joseph o'rourke ) 
subject re looking for polygon 
organization smith college , northampton , ma , us 
lines 10 

in article (michael dillon ) writes 
does anyone know where i can find a code which would take concave 
polygons and break them up into a set of convex polygons 

i also would like code or algorithms to do this. 

although i am not offering code , i would like to point out that 
any polygon triangulation code satisfies the task as stated .  . if you 
want code to partition a polygon into the minimum number of convex 
pieces , i doubt very much if it exists , although an algorithm is known. 

from jennifer lynn 
subject re turning photographic images into thermal print and or negatives 
organization freshman , art , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 26 
nntp posting host po4 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

also if anyone else is doing what i am planning i would be happy to hear 
from you with any advice you might provide as to the computer system you 
use and or any peripherals or software. it seemed the quadra 800 would be 
my best bet to modify photographic images. i am planning on buying a quadra 
800 with of ram , a hard drive , a 1200 dpi scanner , 17 sony 
monitor and a cartridge drive and perhaps a cd rom .  . i am new to 
computers and any advice would be great. 

well , i have lots of experience with scanning in images and altering 
them. as for changing them back into negatives , is that really possible 
scanning and altering is no big deal. i do n't know what types of 
features you have in your version of photoshop .  . but the one i use 
(which , incidentally is on a quadra ) has gallery effects and all types 
of other neato stuff. 
i'm just wondering why you would want to put your images back into 
negatives , because once you print the image out that 's your print. 
do you know what exactly your aim is in all of this like , are you 
doing this just for fun , for a business , to gain more computer 
knowledge , for a project you 're working on .  .  .  .  . 
otherwise , i guess i do n't know if i 'd be helping or not by posting info 
on scanning and stuff. 
ok cool. 


jennifer the oh so bitter woman of utter  ( blahness(but cheerful 
undertones ) 

from  ( zhenghao yeh ) 
subject re rgb to , and back 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host caspian . usc . edu . 



i have a little answer 

see foley , van dam , feiner , and hughes , computer graphics principles 
and practice , second edition . 

if people would read this book , 75 percent of the questions in this 
would disappear overnight .  .  .  . 

not really. i think it is less than 10 . 

yeh 
usc 


from muenchen . de .  ( florian bockamp ) 
subject matrox pg 1281 cv windows driver 
originator muenchen . de . 
organization technische muenchen , germany 
lines 22 



hi ! 

i need a windows 3.1 driver for the matrox pg 1281 cv 
svga card. 
at the moment windows runs only in the 640x480 mode. 
if you have a driver for this card , please send it 
with the oemsetup . inf . to 

muenchen . de . 

thanks ! 



florian bockamp     
muenchen . de . (o o) 
ooo ( ) ooo 

it 's not a bug , it 's an undocumented feature ! 


from (robert reed ) 
subject re acm siggraph  ( and acm in general) 
reply to robert reed 
organization home animation ltd. 
lines 50 

in article  ( steve cunningham ) writes 

and no , siggraph 93 has not skipped town we 're preparing the best 
siggraph conference yet ! 

speaking of siggraph , i just went through the ordeal of my annual registration 
for siggraph and re of membership in the acm last night , and was i ever 
out ! the new prices for membership are almost highway robbery ! 

for example 

siggraph basic fee went from 26 last year to 59 this year for the same 
thing , a 127 increase .  . those enough to arrange a trip to the 
annual conference could reduce this to 27 by selecting siggraph lite , 
which means siggraph is charging an additional 32  ( or so) for the 
proceedings and the art show catalog , essentially .  . 

went up 40 in cost , way the current inflation rate. 

basic fees the same , but whereas before 
membership included and human factors conferences proceedings , 
these are now an extra cost option. that back into the basic 
rate , equivalent services have gone up 100 in cost. 

membership cost has up 33 , but they 've also split out the 
computer supported cooperative work conference proceedings that used to 
be included with membership .  . adding that cost back in means this sig 
also has doubled its membership fee. 

what really me is that the acm sent out brochures a couple months ago 
their new approach to providing member services , and tried to make it 
sound like they were offering new services. but with the exception of a couple , 
like siggraph , all the plus services appear to be just splitting the costs 
into smaller piles so that they do n't look so big. but their recommended 
changes to my membership would have me paying 90 more than last year for a 31 
increase in services  ( measured by cost , not by value) , and , curiously , a 31 
inflation rate on the publications i got last year. 

is anyone out there as galled by this extortion as i am 

robert reed home animation ltd. 503 656 
first court , west linn , or 

shooting yourself in the foot in various languages and systems 

motif you spend days writing a uil description of your foot , the 
trajectory , the bullet , and the intricate on the handles 
of the gun. when you finally get around to pulling the trigger , the gun 
jams .  . 


from (the qwertmeister ) 
subject pov tga 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 10 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host hardy . u . washington . edu . 

i'm having a slight problem with the pov raytracer .  . i'm not sure if 
this is the correct group to post to or not. i create  . tga . files on 
a unix machine using pov .  . then when i download them to display on my pc , 
they 're listed as bad files. but when i create the file on my pc , it displays 
fine. are unix  . tga . 's incompatible with the pc an easy solution to this 
problem would be a unix targa gif converter .  . anyone know where i could 
find one any help on this subject is appreciated. 

kevin 


from  ( lyndon fletcher ) 
subject polaroid palette system 
nntp posting host ericsson . se . 
organization ericsson cellular division 
lines 15 


does anyone have any information on the polaroid palette system. it appears to 
be a gadget for transfering graphics images to film. does anyone have any detail 
about it like the maximum supported resolution or types of video input 

what did polaroid market them as 



fletch 

all irregularities will be handled by the forces controlling each dimension .  . 
trans heavy elements may not be used where there is life. medium atomic 
weights are available gold , lead , copper , jet , diamond , , , 
silver , and steel. and steel have been assigned .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( willy brandsdorfer ) 
subject digital cameras 
article i.d. krishna . 
distribution comp . multimedia . 
organization lehman brothers 
lines 16 


i'm interested in obtaining the highest possible image capture in a 
ms windows application. the resulting image must go to print and high resolution 
is the name of the game. i'm familiar with  ( and unhappy with) composite video 
capture technology. what kind of resolution can i get out of an svhs signal 
what about rgb  ( and who makes rgb cameras ) does anyone have any experience 
with digital cameras 

any help at all would be greatly appreciated. 


william uucp ! uunet ! lehman . com . ! 
lehman brothers inet 
388 greenwich st. voice (212) 464 
new york , n.y. 


from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization capriccioso 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 18 

kendall   sears wrote 

or the biggest killer (imo) 

6) one 's dreams are  ( sadly ) shattered on the hard rocks of society 's 
version of reality. without the dream the motivation dies , without 
the motivation the effort seems useless. 


actually there are more possibilities one is that with practice the 
hacker has become so good and powerful in manipulating data streams 
that s he goes simply underground .  .  .  . 

possessing true power perhaps there is no need to impress anyone with it. 


2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f 


from  ( reiner eschbach ) 
subject re turning photographic images into thermal print and or negatives 
organization xerox 
lines 24 

in article (david hawks ) writes 

it is for a business and the end product has to be a photograph .  . 
i take damaged black and whites , usually old , some very , and repair them 
by hand at present. i would like to do this by using a computer. 
i am just trying to find a vendor who can convert my computer stored 
images to negatives or thermal print. the customer will want his her 
copy as much as possible like a brand new original  . 

there are several crt to film writers around. has some , they also might 
be called matrix , and i am pretty sure other companies sell the same 
equipment. you might want to talk to any company in your area that does 
presentation slides or offers graphics services. they should have those 
machines and they might point you to a local vendor .  . from there on it 's all 
a question of money. they units are essentially high res crts plus a filter 
wheel plus a 35mm camera and a computer hook up. 

david 

reiner 

p.s. i am currently shooting my slides for my next talk on one of the 
machines. 


from  ( sunil gupta ) 
subject re message for 
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 7 


sunil gupta wrote 
i cant get through to the author of rtrace .  . his site is inaccessible 
can he upload the new version somewhere else please 

problem solved , its on wuarchive graphics graphics ray rtrace ... 
why does it fault so often 

subject front end for povray 
from  ( tomasz piatek ) 
organization dept. of comp. sci .  . , victoria uni .  . of wellington , new zealand .  . 
keywords povray 
nntp posting host regent . comp . vuw . ac . nz . 
lines 19 

g  day all ! 

does anyone know anything about front end for povray  ( x11 version) 
i mean are there things like user friendly modeller for povray , or any 
modellers which will let me design a scene and produce a file which povray 
can then read 
cheers , 



tm 
new zealand 




tm 
new zealand 


from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization capriccioso 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 10 

where did the hacker ethic go 

we hackers of the 70 's and 80  are now comfortably employed 
and supporting families. the next generation takes 
the radical lead now. do n't look for radicalism among us 
old ones we 're gone .  .  .  . 


2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f 


from  ( rene mueller ) 
subject  ( msdos ) pbm pgm ppm format 
organization swiss federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , zurich , ch 
distribution comp 
lines 7 

i have many icons in and format and i would like to 
convert them to pbm , pgm or ppm format. do you know the formats of 
or 

thank 's for your help. 
, 
rene 

from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re xv problems 
lines 46 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article ,  ( kouhia juhana ) writes 

recent discussion about xv 's problems were held in some newsgroup .  . 
here is some text users of xv might find interesting. 

(i have also minor ideas for 24bit xv , e mail me for them . ) . 

deleted for space basically complaints that xv is an 8 bit program and that 
making several modifications to the rgb sliders is slow because of screen updates. 

in reverse order 

1) try clicking in the auto apply box to switch it off. then make your mods .  . then 
click on apply. there is no problem as stated it has already been solved if you 
look carefully .  . 

2) yes xv is an 8 bit program. this is not a bug. you can edit individual pallette 
entries or do global colour changes crop , scale etc. clearly the program must 
save out the altered image else all your work would be thrown away. so yes it 
saves out 8 bit images of course ! 

xv can import 24 bit images and them down to 8 bits. this is a handy 
facility , not a bug. 

how would you suggest doing colour editing on a 24 bit file how would you group 
 related  colours to edit them together only global changes could be done 
unless the software were very different and much more complicated. 

if you want to do colour editing on a 24 bit image , you need much more powerfull 
software which is readily available commercially .  . 

and lastly , jpeg is a compression algorithm .  . it can be applied to any image of 
arbitrary bit depth .  . again , this is not a bug. it is a way of saving disk space 
) 

later , 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from  ( juan carlos cuesta ) 
subject autocad graphics converter 
reply to 
organization i d 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 8 


could anybody tell me if exists any program to convert autocad graphics to 
another format  ( gif , tiff , bmp , pcx  .  .  . ) . and where to get it 

thanks in advance 

j. c. 
madrid  ( spain ) 

from  ( aaron hightower ) 
subject re what is 3do 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 13 

in names . nerdc . ufl . edu . writes 

someone please fill me in on what 3do .  . 
thanks , 
bh 

there is a review of 3do in the latest wired magazine. you may just want 
to take a trip to the local bookstore and check it out  ( there 's some cool pics 
too) .  . 

(i have n't read it yet , or i 'd tell you more .  .  . ) 

aaron 

from 
subject pov ray for vax computer 
reply to 
organization rmit , campus , victoria , australia 
lines 13 

hi there , 
i'm using pov ray on my ibm compatible at home , but i would like to 
run some things at work on our vax computer. i believe there is a version 
of the source code for pov ray that is vax specific , but i'm not sure where 
to find it (i 've looked at the several sites where the ibmpc version of it 
can be found) .  . can anyone help me 

thanks in advance , 

ross 
rmit , melbourne , australia 
internet address , 
(no clever signoff yet , too busy playing with pov ray ) 

from  ( lemings , eric bradley ) 
subject gws 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization university of tennessee computing center 
lines 3 

anybody know where i can get graphics work shop 



from (david farley ) 
subject re adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 30 

in article diablo . uucp . !  ( charles boesel ) writes 

in article (sci . image . processing . , comp . graphics) . ,  ( wayne michael ) writes 
i have been searching for a quality image enhancement and 
manipulation package for unix x motif platforms that is comparable 
to adobe photo shop for the mac .  . stuff deleted 

i understand that adobe is working on making photoshop available for 
the sgi indigo , but that is just rumor and i would n't bet on it 
until i see it. but they are going to release illustrator for the sgi 
real soon now. 


charles boesel @ diablo creative if pro for and con against 
then what 's the opposite of progress 
1 . 510 . 687 . what else , congress .  . 

i was at an adobe seminar conference propaganda forum whatever you want to 
call it a couple months ago where they announced that display postscript was 
going to be included in the next release of sun 's os ,  ( presumably solaris . ) . 
sun was going to drop their development of , and , in return for this , 
adobe was going to port illustrator and photoshop to sun. other than the 
articles that appeared in the trade journals immediately after , i have n't 
heard a peep about it. i hope it 's still in the works. 


david farley the university of chicago library 
312 702 3426 1100 east 57th street , 210 
chicago , illinois 60637 


from (richard kirk ) 
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42  ( silly ) 
organization , , uk 
lines 9 

it 's the number of legs on a  . 
so , now you know. 





richard kirk image processing group electronics ltd. u.k. 
, , hp2 

from  ( dave bushong ) 
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42  ( silly ) 
organization wang labs , lowell ma , usa 
lines 10 

(richard kirk ) writes 

it 's the number of legs on a  . 
so , now you know. 

is that the number of left legs , or both left and right 

dave , wang laboratories , inc. amateur radio callsign 
project leader , recognition products ca . na . 
internet 

from  ( rickey thomas tom ) 
subject wanted , how to do a screen dump of a vga screen 
organization project 
lines 14 

how can one dump to the printer , the content of a vga screen. if it were 
a text screen , we can execute a shift  . but with graphics , we have 
to do a by pixel print. it would be greatly appreciated if someone can 
supply source code for this. alternately , are there commercial or shareware 
programs that are available to do this. i must be able to shell out of my 
program to execute this print screen. therefore , it would be to have source code. 

thank you in advance 



rickey tom internet style ! 
programmer analyst project ze uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 


from  ( rauno haapaniemi ) 
subject real 3d 
nntp posting host fi . 
reply to 
organization oulu institute of technology 
lines 12 

earlier today i read an ad for real 3d animation ray tracing software and 
it looked very convincing to me. however , i do n't own an amiga and so i began 
to wonder , if there 's a pc version of it. 

so , has anyone seen used real 3d for dos 


 rene  i every word of it are true , 
2d 409 i except for those that are lies .  .  .  . 
oulu i 
i douglas adams 


from  ( gerhard van vught ) 
subject re viewing jpeg files 
article i.d. cs . 
organization computer science department , university of cape town 
lines 36 

in writes 

can i view jpeg files without special hardware 

lucy wilson , access services librarian 
college of engineering , university of cincinnati 

yup .  . 

most jpeg viewers seem to require specific video drivers since they support 
only specific video cards. some have the standard ibm bios video support for 
the vga 320x200 256 colour mode , but they leave out the other cards such as 
the hercules monochrome card (which by the way can give very good picture 
quality if your dithering works  . 

i ca n't remember the name of a jpeg viewer since i usually convert jpeg 's to 
gif 's before viewing them. but some require vesa driver for the video cards. 
you do n't need any special hardware to view jpeg 's except perhaps for a vga 
card and maybe a 286 processor .  . most people these days program for 286 
computers and neglect the rest of the 86 processors  ( 8086 ,  . i have a 
8088 clone (a nec processor) and a hercules card , i have had to write 
some programs so that they will view gif 's and animations for the vga and other 
colour graphics boards on my monochrome hercules card. i use floyd steinberg 
and have found that if one does something neat with the colour palette 
the resulting dithered image gives much greater detail than it normally would 
when viewed on other monochrome systems. 8.50 has fs dithering but 
it does the standard thing with the image palette before dithering , my way 
gives a brighter more detailed image. 

anyway , enough of my rambling in the wrong direction. the final point is , as 
far as i know , you do n't need extra hardware to view jpeg 's other than the 
vga  ( and perhaps a 286 or better) 

have a day ! 

gerry .  . 

from (edward ball ) 
subject ibm writing to screen memory  ( graphics ) 
nntp posting host ursa 
organization calvin college 
lines 27 

can anyone give me information or lead me to electronic information (not 
books i'm too poor .  .  . ) . regarding programming the standard graphics modes 
and are easy enough , but i'm not so sure about the 
rest. something about planes or something , and writing to ports and the 
like , but i do n't know the numbers or anything for the 16 color modes , i 
think. if i'm wrong , let me know. also , is just one byte pixel 
that 's easy enough , but are there any other ways to write to the screen , 
perhaps bytes at a time , or something like that 

of course , i 'd appreciate any information about any mode .  .  .  .  . which reminds 
me of another question do the supervga modes work the same , generally , 
as the normal 16 and 256 color modes , or is not only the mode numbers 
for various cards different , but the methods for writing to the screen 
different as well 

thanks for any help you can give me .  .  .  . i'm developing a screen class for 
c and find myself searching for information. oh , i do have ralf brown 's 
interrupt list , which has given me tons of invaluable information already. 
it just does n't go into the screen programming details (except for the 
read write pixel bios calls .  .  .  . 

thanks again. 



edward ball ,  . knight 


from  ( lars michael ) 
subject jpeg specification 
reply to 
organization university of stellenbosch , south africa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 37 



i recently got a document describing the jpeg  ( jfif ) file 
format. i was looking thru it , but i did n't get the idea how 
to determine the size of a pic in pixel without decoding the 
whole image. 

how do you get the height and width of a jpeg in a jfif 

how do you determine wether it is a color or a greyscale 
picture 

i wrote a small tool  ( lsgif ) for gif that returns the 
, picture size and color resolution by 
the header chunks .  . the output looks like this 

bla . gif . 480 

i use this to create index files of my archive and since 
jpeg are getting more and more popular i would like to have a 
similar tool for jfif , with an output like this 

bla . jpg . 480 

please respond by email , because i do n't read this news 
group very often. i 'll post a summary if it is useful. 

thanx in advance , 
larry 


lars larry michael (mr .  . gif) if murphy 's law 
can go wrong , it will. 
erlangen . de . 
spec. stud .  . at univ. of stellenbosch south ham zr 
grad .  . stud .  . at univ. of erlangen nuremberg germany irc pit 


from 
subject wanted mpeg description or sources encoders decoders .  . 
reply to 
organization asa trading company  ( zenon gate ) 
lines 7 

please help with mpeg description or sources decoders 
encoders .  . great thanks in advance. 


maximus 2 . 01wb . 
origin mister bbs (22 23 0) 


from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject oh make up your mind ! !  ( was re xv problems) 
lines 220 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article ,  ( kouhia juhana ) writes 

in article 
writes 

in article ,  ( kouhia 
juhana ) writes 

i wrote something about making color modifications quickly 
with 8bit quantized images and only at the saving the image to file 
process we have to make the modifications to the 24bit image. 
this makes sense , because the main use of xv is only viewing images. 

doing many changes to image , we should keep all modifications 
in a buffer and then before making the operations to 24bit image , 
we should simplify the operation list for unnecessary operations .  . 

think about what you are saying here. the 24 bit image is down to 8 
bits so many  similar  colours are mapped onto a single palette colour. this 
colour gets modified in fairly arbitrary ways. you then want to apply these 
modifications back to the 24 bit file , so you have to find which 
colours mapped to this one palette colour. 

i suppose you do n't know what about we have discussed .  . 
we discussed about  ( error(s ) in xv 2.21 which shows images only as 8bit , 
and my suggestion above works perfectly with it. 

look be consistent .  . first you post something that seems to suggest that you see 
xv being an 8 bit program as some sort of error. 
so i post and it is not a bug , it is meant to be like that. 
so you post and say it is not a bug , you never said it was , i have misunderstood 
etc. 
now you are saying 

we discussed about  ( error(s ) in xv 2.21 which shows images only as 8bit , 

if you would make up your mind what you are claiming it would make the 
discussion a lot easier. 



so far i have seen a colormap editing window in xv that is , there 
must be a colormap anyway. the problems you present are exist anyway , 
and i did n't tried to solve them at all , because i would not make such 
problems to my programs in the first place. 

eh sorry , i do n't understand what you are saying here. i am aware that english is 
not your native language and have tried hard to fathom your meaning , but this 
paragraph defeats me. 

gamma and color corrections are easily done to 24bit image 
as i presented .  . there 's no need make tricks from 8bit quantized image 
back to 24 bit image. 

yes as i originally said , global changes are easily possible. 

but this statement contradicts what you said earlier 

i wrote something about making color modifications quickly 
with 8bit quantized images and only at the saving the image to file 
process we have to make the modifications to the 24bit image. 



how would you suggest doing colour editing on a 24 bit file how 
would you group  related  colours to edit them together only global 
changes could be done unless the software were very different and 
much more complicated. 

ok , you 're writing about situation that user want edit images as 24bit 
and user want edit individual colors your questions , by the way , 
jumps off the discussion a bit. 

no i do n't think so actually. 

you were talking about loading a 24 bit image into xv (by quantising ) , 
manipulating the colours in the colour editor , then applying these 
changes to the 24 bit file when you exit xv. xv lets you edit individual 
colours. where is this sudden jumping off the topic 

my solution does n't work , because there 's no colormap real 24bit 
image 

yes i am aware there is no in a 24 bit file ! ! 

you see , user see 24bit image going back to 8bit is silly. 

i do not understand what this statement is supposed to mean. 

about changing individual colors in 8bit quantized rasterized image 
changing individual colors in colormap is useless in most 
cases if the image is quantized and rasterized small change may 
make serious errors to anywhere in the image. 


what are you saying 


xv allows this feature , but i do n't recommend to use it with the 
mentioned type images. 

ah ! now we see thew problem ! first you want to extend xv to allow editing of 8 
bit of 24 bit images. then i point out problems with this. now you are 
saying there is no problem because you , personally , happen not to use those 
parts of the program that cause the problem ! ! 


moreover , xv is not a paint program you can only make those global 
changes. 

not sure what you are saying here. certainly one can make local changes. 

in full 24bit xv , changing individual colors sounds like 
paint program job. 
if person have 8bit screen , there 's need for tricks to get the 
original 24bit image modified .  . because user do n't see full 24bit 
image , there 's need to make approximations and it is not possible to 
modify individual colors but individual pixels or pixel groups  ( if 
image is  . to select color , there could be 
cursor window which shows true color image in cursor window area 
selecting individual color is possible from that. 

yes that is one possible approach. i would find a program that took such an 
approach clumsy , however. 

ok , i do n't have thought very much 24bit painting programs , never seen 
such in good view and are not planned to make such. not to mention 
24bit painting program in 8bit screen .  .  .  . 

well here we agree you have not thought it through very much. you do n't seem 
to have a consistent point to make and contradict yourself from one post to the 
next. ok , we all have off days perhaps you should step back and think this one 
through. 

yes again. what is  ( was ) wrong with xv 

it saved 8bit quantized rasterized images as 24bit jpegs jpeg is not 
designed for that. 

as i said in the last post , jpeg is a compression algorithm .  . it is a way of 
saving disk space by trading off quality against compression .  . i fail to see what 
the problem is. you have not proposed any workable alternatives .  . 

also , human expect that 24bit will be saved as 24bit image 

speak for yourself. you are the only person i have met or spoken to who , 
having a 24 bit image down to 8 bits , expects this process to somehow 
reverse when the file is saved keeping all that been made 
to the 8 bit image palette .  . 

perhaps that is why you the singular 

say , 
person would like to crop part of the image and save it , then it is 
expected that the image still is the same. 

look , next time you import a 24 bit image into xv look carefully at the main 
control panel it tells you how many colours have been allocated to the 8 bit 
image. xv makes it abundantly clear that you are not editing the original 24 bit 
file. you are the only person who claims this is confusing. 

so , xv were designed 
without thinking about human interface and how human expect the 
program work design error. 

is a design error the same as a bug ) 

read my lips. xv is a program for viewing and modifying 8 bit images. it lets 
you import other images. it shows , i would say , a good deal of thought about the 
human interface. and everyone else seems to use it happily for the purpose it 
was designed for. it makes no false claims .  . 

i have heard xv were designed first for 8bit images files , but 
it were not good idea to take full 24bit images without making 
major change to the original design. 

if you would come up with a solid , logical , well argued and lucid description of 
precisely how these proposed extensions would work , feel free to post them. so 
far , you have not done so. 

so , even all screen images are 8bit , the processed images and saved 
images could have been 24bit very easily , instead of 8bit .  . 

argh ! ! after all this , a comment like that.  . ok , go ahead and code it 
if it is so easy. 

or alternatively , look up the terms  and  non reversible  . 

before anybody will make a note yes , i may as well make a lift where 
 up  means that the lift goes down and  down  means that the lift goes 
up , and put a note on this design solution to the manuals however , 
even the manuals tells the correct situation , it does n't solve the problem. 
 ( americans the lift is just an example ) 

i think this is a bit of an  . 

what you are actually saying is , you got into a lift  ( elevator , if you are in 
the states ) ) and mistakenly pressed the down button to go up. everyone else 
had no problem. now you are trying to sue the manufacturer .  .  .  . 

well , my text may be a bit hard reading , 

you bet 

hopefully you to 
read it. 

mostly .  . leaving aside the language issue however , it some very 
thinking  ( as you yourself admit) which is the same in any language. go think 
some more. 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from  ( ken yee ) 
subject re tiff anything ! 
lines 11 

in article 
writes 
are there any tiff to anything programs out there for the ibm 
our scanner works into tiff , and i can view it on cshow 8.1 , but 
all of my other programs read errors. are there any basic tiff to 
jpeg , gif , pcx , bmp , etc .  .  .  . 
try winjpeg on oak . oakland . edu . pub msdos winjp210 . zip . 
it has more tiff support than graphics workshop .  . it also converts to 
all the above formats .  .  .  . 

ken 

subject re fractal terrain generator 
from (paul david bourke) 
organization university of auckland , new zealand .  . 
keywords fractal terrain mac 
lines 34 

 ( daniel e. bradley ) writes 

does anyone know of a fractal terrain generator for mac , something 
i could hopefully import into a 3d program like swivel or 
i know d has built in capabilities , but i do n't have access to 
d. i downloaded two programs from umich , in graphics fractals , 
but both were from 1990 91 and crashed under system 7. i think they 
were black and white anyway. please , email me if you know of anything , 
as i do n't check the newsgroups very often. 
thanks in advance. 
dan bradley 

yes i have written something that creates fractal terrain 
surfaces for exactly the purpose you require , importing into 3d 
modelling packages. be warned , the data content is high and brings 
many packages to their knees .  . we use it primarily for microstation 
but it exports dxf , as well as other formats , so you should be ok. 
you can get it from my ftp mirror site in the us. 
it is 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . 
my stuff is located in the 
mirrors architec 
directory. please ftp the readme file first. 


paul d bourke school of architecture , property , planning 
the university of auckland 
ph 64 9 373 private bag 92019 
fax 64 9 373 auckland , new zealand 

paul d bourke school of architecture , property , planning 
the university of auckland 
ph 64 9 373 private bag 92019 
fax 64 9 373 auckland , new zealand 

from  ( daniel m. alt ) 
subject interesting conversion problem 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 13 
reply to  ( daniel m. alt ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


i have a very large  ( 3x5 feet) file in macintosh canvas v2 . something . 
which i need to import into autocad 12 in the least disk space intensive 
way possible. (i . e .  . eps is a big problem , since it took 1.3 meg to encode 
one page of the document ) the file is entirely lines and words. i have 
access to networked macs pc 's , and ftp .  . can anyone suggest how this might 
be accomplished email replies , if you would , i do n't read this group much. 
thanks in advance. 

daniel alt case western reserve university cleveland , oh  ( help me ! ) 
i do n't have ulcers .  . i'm a carrier .  . i ca n't see you , so do n't pretend to be 
i do n't like spreading rumors , but what else can you do with them there 
i do n't practice what i preach because i'm not the kind of person i preach to. 

organization middle east technical university computer center 
from 
subject cfp 8th int l symp .  . on computer and information sciences 
lines 91 



call for papers 


the eighth international symposium on computer and information sciences 

viii 
november 3 5 , 1993 , , turkey 


organized by 


ecole des etudes en informatique , paris , france 


middle east technical university , ankara , turkey 


in cooperation with 
ieee computer society turkey chapter , 
ieee turkey section 
and the following universities 
, ege , , istanbul , yildiz .  . 

advisory board 
e . , e . , u . , e . , k . , 
y . , s . kuru . , n . , u. , s . 


conference chair program co chairs publicity chair 

, l. gun , ibm , usa , 
duke university , usa r. , ibm , usa 
p. quinton , irisa , france 


program committee 

v. , turkey , e. , turkey , e. , turkey , i. , turkey , 
s. , turkey , a. , turkey , a. , turkey , s. , france , 
j.m. , france , e. , usa , g. , turkey , u. , turkey , 
e. , turkey , k. , turkey , s. , germany , s. kuru , turkey , 
m. , france , v. , france , n . , france , j . f .  . , france , 
m. , france , a. , greece , g. , france , g. , turkey , 
n. , turkey 


publicity committee 

, , , emin , 


viii is the eighth of a series of meetings which have brought together 
computer scientists and engineers from about twenty countries. this year 's 
conference will be held in the beautiful mediterranean resort city of 
, in a region rich in natural as well as historical sites. 


research papers are sought in the following areas 

theory of computer science computer architecture systems 
artificial intelligence neural networks 
graphics and image processing computational mathematics 
operations research applications databases 
performance evaluation software engineering 
computer networks parallelism 

paper submission full papers are limited to 8 pages and short 
communications are limited to 4 pages. submit five camera ready copies 
 ( one original and four copies) of the paper and an accompanying letter by 
postal mail only , so as to arrive by june 30 , 1993 to 

viii , attn drs levent gun and , 
ibm b 673 , p.o. box , research triangle park , nc 27709 , usa 

selected papers from viii will be published in the journal information 
sciences  ( elsevier north  . 

poster submission submit five camera ready copies of 1 page extended 
abstract with an accompanying letter by july 30 , 1993 to the address given 
above. 

information for required writing format , further information and 
announcements , contact 

viii , , 
dept. of electrical and electronics eng. , , ankara , turkey 
tel  ( 90 4) 210 10 00 ext fax  ( 90 4) 210 12 61 
email or 

from (michael kline ) 
subject iges and formats 
organization population research center , ut austin 
lines 10 

i am trying to find out anything i can about available documentation 
for iges and  ( e00(arc info) formats .  . if you know anything about these 
formats  ( or just one) please send me a note. i do n't read this group , 
so please send responses to 



thank you 

mike kline 

from  ( kevin shin ) 
subject graph traversal algorithms 
organization boeing 
lines 14 

hi , everyone. 
i am currently planning to write a program that traverses the 
image of handwritten characters in ascii format and produces 
circle and line representation of handwritten characters. 
did anybody out there has any experiences on this problem 
if you have would you post or e mail to please 
kevin 

does anyone has program that traverse the digital image and produces 
circle and line 


kevin shin 


from (prof d. rogers  ( eas fac ) 
subject re help needed on hidden line removal 
keywords hidden line graphics 3d 
distribution comp 
organization u. s. naval academy 
lines 37 

in article  ( harold brian raynor ) writes 

i am looking for some information of hidden line removal using roberts 
algorithm .  . something with code , or pseudo code would be especially 
helpful. 

i am required to do this for a class , due monday  ( we have very little 
time to implement these changes , it is a very fast paced class) .  . the 
notes given in class leave a lot to be desired , so i would vastly 
appreciate any help. 

actually any algorithm would be nice  ( roberts or no) .  . the main problem 
is two objects intersecting in x and y dimensions , need to know which 
lines to clip off so that one object will appear in front of another. 

if you can give me an ftp address and filename , or even the name of a 
good book , i 'd really appreciate it. 

g  day brian , 

i 'll be blunt about this. the only reasonable explanation of roberts 
algorithm is in 

procedural elements for computer graphics 
rogers 
mcgraw hill book co. 1985 

go to the library and look at this. 

there is also a somewhat explanation in the first edition 
of newman and  . 

the algorithm described in runs in near linear time. 

luck , 

dave rogers 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re pov problems with tga outputs 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 10 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


remember that the unix versions of pov do n't create tga but qrt file 
format output by default. ft is needed to make tga .  . 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( thomas trusk ) 
subject re geosphere image 
organization medical college of wisconsin 
lines 37 
reply to 
nntp posting host pixel . mcw . edu . 


in article  ( ryan malayter ) writes 

does anyone know if a digitized version of the geosphere image is 
available via ftp for those of you who do n't know , it is a composite 
photograph of the entire earth , with removed. i just think 
it 's really cool. it was created with government funds and sattelites 
as a research project , so i would assume it 's in the public domain .  . 

thanks for any info , 
ryan 


i have a copy of 'the earth from space' on my wall that i purchased 
from space shots , inc.  ( la , ca (800) 272  . as printed on the 
poster , the image was created by tom van sant and the geosphere project. 
the image is copyrighted , so i doubt that you 'll find it legally in 
the public domain .  . part of the proceeds from the sale of the image go to the 
geosphere project  ( an environmental education thing) , and the cost is 
nominal , so crack a 20 and buy one ! also , i do n't think it 's always 
safe to assume that just because the government  funded  a project , any 
products will be provided for free. many government agencies  ( nasa , noaa ) 
and some private groups  ( national geographic ) provided assistance to the 
geosphere project. this collaboration seems to be mostly oriented to 
educating the public , rather than pure research. 


dr. thomas 
dept. of cellular biology anatomy email to 
medical college of wisconsin 
milwaukee , wi 
(414) 257 

disclaimer i have no affiliation with any of the above mentioned groups. 
this is just my opinion , not a flame or advertisement .  . where am i 
who turned off the lights what 's that funny noise i feel strange .  .  .  . 
 . 

from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re coreldraw bitmap to scodal (2) 
lines 38 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article , writes 

yes i am aware coreldraw exports in scodal .  . 
version 2 did it quite well , apart from a 
few hassles with radial fills .  . version 3 
is better but if you try to export in scodal 
with a bitmap image included in the drawing 
it will say something like cannot export 
scodal with bitmap at least it does on my 
version. 

oh. ok then , sorry for misunderstanding .  . 

if anyone out there knows a way around this 
i am all ears. 
temporal images make a product called 
which converts autocad plots to scodal , postscript 
to scodal and now gif to scodal but it costs 650 
and i was just wondering if there was anything out 
there that just did the bitmap to scodal part a tad 
cheaper. 

you should persuade your that for only 650 they can become much 
more competitive , taking input from autocad , postscript as well as 
 .  .  . 

seriously , this sounds like something the bureau should have. or find another 
bureau .  . you should not be the one this software. 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from  ( kardan kaveh ) 
subject re human head modeling software 
organization universite de montreal 
lines 19 

in article  ( zyda res acct ) writes 
hi , there ! 
i am interested in facial animation and want to implement some program about this area. 
but i do n't have any 3 d information for the face. 
i am looking for some 3d images of face. 

try getting the cyberware demo via ftp which contains 3d images of the 
face. 


what is the copyright status of this data are there restrictions regarding the 
uses they can be put to 

kaveh 



kaveh kardan 


from  ( jean liddle ) 
subject re help need 24 bits viewer 
organization illinois state university 
keywords 24 bit 
lines 23 

in article 
u  ( graeme gill ) writes 
in article ,  ( gilles deniaud ) writ 
es 
hi , 

i'm looking for a program which is able to display 24 bits 
images. we are using a sun sparc equipped with parallax 
graphics board running x11 .  . 

xli , xloadimage or imagemagick export . lcs . mit . edu . 18 . 24 . 0 . 12 . contrib 


xv 3.0  ( shareware ) supports 24 bit displays , and has lots of other 
improvements over earlier versions. definitely worth checking out 
 ( also at export) 

jean .  . 

jean 
computer science , illinois state university 
e mail 


from (g .  . coulter , office , extension , homephone ) 
subject re real 3d 
organization laboratory , uk 
lines 32 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host dlsg . dl . ac . uk . 

in article , matt  ( mattias dahlberg ) writes 
wrote 

earlier today i read an ad for real 3d animation ray tracing software 
and it looked very convincing to me. 

yes , it looks like very good indeed. 

however , i do n't own an amiga and so i began to wonder , if there 's a pc 
version of it. 

nope .  . 


did i not hear that there maybe some ports of 
in the pipeline somewhere , possibly unix .  . not too sure though 
please put me straight. 

gary work serc lab. 
internet 
uni university 
hardware a2000 000 20 a4000 040 120 



regards email 
mattias matt i love it. 






from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re pov ray for vax computer 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 15 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 



get the generic version  ( for unix and vms ) and build it. imho a 
vms .com file to build it is supplied. 
as the distribution comes as  . tar . z . you should either have uncompress 
and tar on vms or a unix machine handy. 
usually you wo n't find this on ibm pc specific archives , but on the better 
ones ) 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from (peter j menchetti ) 
subject adobe type manager what good is it 
organization university of nevada , reno department of computer science 
lines 9 

the subject says it all. i bought adobe type manager and find it completely 
useless. i some atm fonts and could n't install them. what 's the use 
are you supposed to be able to convert atm fonts to truetype 

if there 's anyone out there who has this program and actually finds it 
useful , enlighten me ! 

pete 


from  ( larry w. virden ) 
subject looking for patches to xv to better support tiff output 
reply to  ( larry w. virden ) 
organization software and shoe , uninc .  . 
lines 16 


recently we have found tiff manipulation packages which do not recognize 
tiff files output by xv. this is due to a missing and 
tag which apparently is required  ( or at least believed to be required) for 
valid tiff .  . i have checked both xv 2 . x . and xv 3 . x . and neither of these 
do indeed copy these  . 

has anyone out there hacked in the fixes for xv to support these 
i have been told that i could find some code in tiff tools c . , but 
that directory is one of many of the tiff group not distributed with xv. i 
hope to obtain the original tiff src and look at it , but would prefer 
to find code already known to work in xv. 

s 
s larry w. inet 
s personal 674 falls place , , oh 

from (david k shute ) 
subject re rumours about 3do 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 42 

(john munsch ) writes 

in article rutgers ! ! writes 
read issue 2 of wired magazine. it has a long article on the hype of 
3do .  . i 've noticed that every article talks with the designers and how 
great it is , but never show any pictures of the output  ( or at least 
pictures that one can understand) 

gamepro magazine published pictures a few months ago and computer chronicles 
(a program that is syndicated to public tv stations around the nation ) spent 
several minutes on it when it was shown at ces .  . it was very impressive what 
it can do in real time. 

john munsch 

the april 1993 edition of mix magazine carries a story on 3do which 
includes pictures of the unit , a schematic of what 's inside and some 
indication from the people at 3do as to where they intend to go and in 
what stages .  .  ( mix is a trade rag aimed at the professional sound 
engineering community . ) . 

the schematic shows a central dma engine connecting and mediating between 
two graphics animation processors  ( 32 bit bus) , a 32 bit risc processor 
with math co processor , video module , a control port , an expansion 
port (where 3do hangs its double fast cd player ) , 1mb dram , an optional 
video port  ( for editing video ) and on the outbound side 1mb vram to video 
processor to tv chain parallel with a dsp to sound chain. 

they promise red book cd quality audio , full 30 fps video and a future 
connection path to your pc via a pc expansion card. 

i am not informed enough to have an opinion about the various means and 
methods discussed here. the article , written by philip de , does 
cover the other machines mentioned in this thread. i come from the pc 
tcp ip world and see a tremendous potential for bringing connectedness to 
the educated consumer 3do seems to have the right business partners to 
make this happen. 

hope this helps. 

david 
email 

from 
subject cross , sobel roberts filters 
organization university of waikato , hamilton , new zealand 
lines 15 


i saw an imaging program some time ago on an amiga that had 
cross , sobel and roberts filters for edge detection .  . 

can anybody direct me to these algorithms .  . 

paul 


paul internet 
department of computer science 
university of waikato phone 64 7 889 
hamilton ext 
new zealand fax 64 7 135 


from  ( kyle xavier hourihan ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 41 
nntp posting host rac2 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( vinci ) writes 
 .  .  . blah blah  .  .  . talking about hackers .  .  . you know  .  .  . 


wow ! a new proof for an np complete problem , you guys in 
really got your stuff together ! 


base step deleted too bad 

inductive step 

but anyway , poor , bad or bad surgeons are not 
thieves , so your assertion that hacker thief is unsupported by 
your argument , imho .  . the narrower view that a hacker , when 
associated with the computing environment , is a dishonest 
expert is not so widespread ... 

inductive hypothesis 
therefore i conclude that if you call yourself a hacker , and somebody 
perceives you as a thief , then this person belongs to a very very 
small group that has some computer knowledge , but not enough to know 
the wider  ( and original ) meaning of the word. of course , one can 
always know this and disregard it nonetheless , then 
equate hacker to thief , giving substance to mr. humpty 's assertion , 
even though in a kind of reverse way. 

fodder step 
finally , a true hacker does not name himself herself one , for this is 
a title that is bestowed by the befuddled sysadmins and users at large .  . 
to me , a sign of a truly great hacker is to be introduced to someone who 
says nahh , i just know a thing or two , people always exagerate .  .  .  . ) 

filipe santos  ( english is not my first language , so be of my mistakes ! ) 
like my mother always said , if you ca n't say something nice .  .  .  . 
or was that ca n't say something right 




this is the signature file what do you think 

from  ( jasen m. mabus ) 
subject looking for brain in cad 
nntp posting host its . rpi . edu . 
reply to 
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny .  . 
lines 7 


rpi student 

i am looking for a brain in any cad ( . dxf . ,  . cad . ,  . iges . ,  . cgm . , etc . ) . or picture ( . gif . ,  . jpg . ,  . ras . , etc . ) . format for an animation demonstration .  . if any has or knows of a location please reply by e mail to 

thank you in advance , 


from  ( daniel drucker ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization dis 
lines 18 
nntp posting host hal . ai . mit . edu . 

in article  ( 1016 2ef221 ) writes 
where did the hacker ethic go 

we hackers of the 70 's and 80  are now comfortably employed 
and supporting families. the next generation takes 
the radical lead now. do n't look for radicalism among us 
old ones we 're gone .  .  .  . 

and guess who 's here in your place. 

please finger for information , or if you are 
a mail news only site , mail with the subject line 
send finger . 



daniel drucker 
forever , forever , my coda .  . 

from ( byron john kidd ) 
subject pov 286 where 
keywords pov 
organization university of tasmania at 
lines 21 

sorry if this is a faq but 

where can i get a 286 (16 bit) version of pov ray 

any help would be greatly appreciated. 

i need the 286 version since turbo pascal wo n't let me run a 32 bit 
program from within my program. any info on this would also be a 
great help. 

thanks , 

byron .  . 






byron e mail 
computing services 

from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re rgb to , and back 
lines 26 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article ,  ( zhenghao yeh ) 
writes 

see foley , van dam , feiner , and hughes , computer graphics principles 
and practice , second edition . 

if people would read this book , 75 percent of the questions in this 
would disappear overnight .  .  .  . 

not really. i think it is less than 10 . 

or alternatively , 75 of the questions cover 10 of the topics in this group 
making them frequently asked. 

so the other 25 cover 90 of the topics , making them rarely asked and thus in 
sore need of answering ... 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from  ( roland holzapfel ) 
subject re tom gaskins pexlib vs phigs programming manuals  ( o'reilly ) 
reply to 
organization zentrum fuer , 6100 darmstadt , germany 
lines 33 


in article ,  ( merlin ) writes 
could someone explain the difference between tom gaskins  two books 

o pexlib programming manual 
o phigs programming manual 

why would i want to buy one book vs the other book i have an 80386 

pexlib and phigs  ( as it comes from mit with pex and as is explained in the 
phigs programming manual ) are just different api 's for the pex protocol , 
which is an extension to the x protocol .  . 

so it depends on you , what you go to use. 

advantage of phigs is the to other platforms  ( ibm graphigs , 
sunphigs ) and the standardized structuring of the 3d objects .  . 

advantage of pexlib is the sometimes faster and easier programming for 
immediate mode graphics , because pex is not an exactly mapping of phigs 
to a  . 



(o o) 
ooo ( ) ooo 
roland computer email 
7 graphics 
6100 darmstadt center phone 
germany  ( zgdv ) 49 6151 

this space intentionally left blank 


from (ed pimentel ) 
subject 2nd rfd for open telematic group for realtime multimedia online apps 
organization willard 's house bbs , atlanta , ga 1 (404) 664 8814 
lines 74 



rfd 
request for discussion 
for the 
open telematic group 

otg 




i have proposed the forming of a consortium task force for the promotion 
of jpeg , to openly discuss ways , method , 
procedures , algorythms , 
applications , implementation , extensions of jpeg standards. 
these standards should facilitate the creation of real time online 
applications that make use of voice , video , telecommuting , hires 
graphics , 
conferencing , distant learning , online order entry , fax , in addition 
these would assist all to better understand how sgml , cals , 
, mime , , jpeg , mpeg , fractals , sql , cdrom , , kodak , tcl , 
v . fast . , eia , can best be incorporated and implemented to 
develop telematic multimedia applications .  .  .  .  . 

we want to be able to support dos , unix , mac , windows , nt , os 2 
platforms .  . 
it is our hope that individuals , developers , corporations , universities , 
r d labs would join in in supporting such an endeavor .  . 

this would be a not for profit group with bylaws and charter .  . already 
many 
corporation have decided to support otg  ( open telematic group ) so do not 
delay joining if you are a developer 

an rfd has been posted to form a usenet newsgroup and a faq will soon be 
be compose to start promulgating what is known on the subject. 
if you would like to be added to the send email or mail to 
the address below. 

this group would publish an electronic quarterly jpeg newsletter 
as well as a hardcopy version. 
we urge all who wants to see hires based applications 
the jpeg g r o w , decide to join and mutually benefit from 
this not for profit endeavor .  . 

note telematic has been defined by mr. james martin as the marriage 
of voice , video , hi res graphics , fax , ivr , music over telephone 
lines lan .  . 



if you would like to get involve write to me at 



img inter multimedia group internet 
p.o. box 95901 
atlanta , georgia , us cis 70611 , 
fidonet 1 133 407 
bbs 1 404 985 1198 zyxel 14 . 4k . 

to all that have responded we are trying to acknowledge as soon as 
possible. we have really been with org , corp , edu willing 
to get involve .  . 
it would be nice if upon responded you can state in what capacity 
you are willing to get involve .  . 



(ed pimentel ) 
gatech ! ! ! willard ! 
emory ! ! willard ! 
willard 's house bbs , atlanta , ga 1 (404) 664 8814 

from arpagw . llnl . gov .  ( stockman harlan w) 
subject screen capture 
keywords capture 
organization sandia national laboratories 
lines 4 

is there a dos screen capture utility pd or shareware that will 
work reliably with vesa 6a 800x600 screens 

thanks , h.w. stockman , 

from 
subject what is 3do 
organization center for instructional and research computing activities 
lines 6 
reply to 
nntp posting host maple . circa . ufl . edu . 


someone please fill me in on what 3do .  . 

thanks , 

bh 

from kim 
subject data wanted with texture to be mapped .  . 
organization indiana university computer science , bloomington 
lines 10 

i need data of some nice looking model with some 
texture mapping .  . it would be better if the parametric values 
of each  ( vertex for the surface before ) are 
avaliable along with the euclidean points so that we 
could use them for texture mapping .  . 

thanks , 




from  ( bones ) 
subject human body data sets needed urgently 
nntp posting host tcd . ie . 
organization trinity college , dublin 
lines 8 

hi all. i'm looking for datasets of a human body or head in any 
of the popular formats .  . i'm doing a presentation tomorrow which 
could be greatly enhanced by bringing in this  human  factor. i 've 
looked around the net with no sucess so far. anyone got any ideas 
i 'd also appreciate info on the location of datasets for the 
uss enterprise  ( any model) 
thanks in advance , 
ronan 

from  ( ken baer ) 
subject re wanted playmation info 
article i.d. qiclab . 1993apr26 . 
organization scn research laboratories of tigard , oregon .  . 
lines 19 

in article  ( mark marino ) writes 
hi folks , 

does anyone have a copy of playmation they 'd be willing to sell me. i 'd 
love to try it out , but not for the retail . 

playmation is available direct from associates for 299 .  . it 's hard 
to beat that price. also , you 'd be better off with a newer version than 
an older version that had bugs that have long since been clobbered .  . 


thanks in advance , 
mark marino uunet ! osf ! omar 



ken  . programmer animator , hash enterprises 
usenet office  ( 206)573 ) 
, we 're not hitchhiking anymore , we 're riding ! ren  . 

from blue  ( yury german ) 
subject re help needed dxf iff 
distribution world 
x grn beta 1 . 16g . (13 . 02 . 93) . by michael b. smith mike schwartz 
mime version 1.0 
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1 
content transfer encoding 8bit 
organization blue knight productions 
lines 20 

in article  ( pei hsieh ) writes 
hi sorry if this is a faq , but are there any conversion utilities 
available for autodesk  . dxf . to amiga  . iff . format i 
checked the comp . graphics . faq and a number of sites , but so far 
no banana .  . please e mail. 


 . dxf . can not be changed over to  . iff . format what it can be changed 
to is an object format used by one of the 3d programs on the amiga .  . the 
only tools around are comercial for that conversion .  . 





german blue 
blue knight productions genie blue knight 
 ( 718)321 ) 0998 graphic design and video productions 



from koblenz . de .  ( walter hower ) 
subject re parametric design 
organization university of koblenz , germany 
lines 149 
nntp posting host wolf . uni . koblenz . de . 
in reply to 's message of wed , 28 apr 1993 18 15 40 gmt 

here now some initial references best regards walter .  . 
@inproceedings et al 90 , 
author and and robert young , 
title integrating parametric geometry , features , and 
modeling for conceptual design , 
booktitle international conference on design theory and methodology , 
year 1990 , 
editor j. r. , 
pages 1 9 , 
organization american society of mechanical engineers  ( asme ) , 
, 
, 
, 
note proceedings 



@inproceedings kimura 90 , 
author and kimura , 
title a constraint modeling system for geometry , 
booktitle geometric modeling for product engineering , 
year 1990 , 
editor michael j. and j. u. turner and k. , 
pages 221 233 , 
organization , 
publisher elsevier science publishers b.v.  ( north holland ) , 
amsterdam , the netherlands , 
, 
, 
note selected and expanded papers form the wg 5.2 nsf 
working conference on geometric modeling , , ny , u.s.a. , 
18 22 september 1988 


@inproceedings chung et al 88 , 
author jack c. h. chung and joseph w. 
and robert l. cook and , 
title implementation issues in geometry and 
constraint management , 
booktitle third international conference on 
cad cam , robotics and factories of the future  ( cars and fof'88 ) , 
year 1988 , 
, 
, 
, 
, 
address detroit , michigan , usa , 
month august 14 17 , , 
note proceedings , probably springer verlag , 
berlin heidelberg , 1989 


@article kimura et al 86 , 
author kimura and suzuki and , 
title product design by constraint propagation 
and satisfaction in product modelling , 
journal annals of the , 
year 1986 , 
volume 35 , 
number 1 , 
pages 75 78 , 
, 
note  ( probably ) international institution for production engineering research 


@article kimura et al 87 , 
author f. kimura and h. suzuki and h. and t. sato and 
a. , 
title geometry based on logical constraints 
and its applications to product modelling , 
journal annals of the , 
year 1987 , 
volume 36 , 
number 1 , 
pages 65 68 , 

@inproceedings chung 89 , 
author jack c . h .  . chung and martin d. , 
title comparison of and parametric design , 
booktitle '89 , 
year 1989 , 
, 
pages 5 27 5 44 , 
, 
, 
address detroit , michigan , usa , 
month october 30 november 2 , , 
note conference proceedings 



@article et al 92 , 
author and robert young and , 
title integrating parametric geometry , features , and 
modeling for conceptual design , 
journal international journal of systems automation research 
and applications  ( sara ) , 
year 1992 , 
volume 2 , 
, 
pages 17 36 , 
, 



@article 90 , 
author , 
title parametric and interactive geometric 
modeller for mechanical design , 
journal cad , computer aided design , 
year 1990 , 
volume 22 , 
number 10 , 
pages 633 644 , 
month december , 
note heinemann ltd 



@inproceedings et al , 
author v z alik and nikola and , 
title parametric design using constraint description graph , 
booktitle cad '92 , neue zur 
cad systeme , 
year 1992 , 
editor frank and and helmut , 
pages 329 344 , 
, 
publisher informatik , springer verlag , berlin heidelberg , 
, 
month 14. 15. mai , 
note gi , berlin 



@inproceedings 90 , 
author niall and , 
title parametric engineering design using constraint based reasoning , 
booktitle aaai 90 , eighth national conference on artificial intelligence , 
year 1990 , 
, 
pages 505 510 , 
organization american association for artificial intelligence , 
publisher proceedings , volume one , aaai press , menlo park , ca , u.s.a. , 
address boston , ma , 
month july 29 august 3 , , 




from (keith knudsen ) 
subject wanted shareware graphics display program for dos .  . 
distribution usa 
organization university of notre dame , notre dame 
lines 16 


i need a graphics display program that can take as a parameter the name of 
the file to be displayed , then just display that image and then quit. 

all of the other graphics display programs come up with a menu first or some 
other silliness .  . 

this program is going to be run from within another program. i have lots of 
memory and vga color. any graphics format will do. has anyone heard of such 
a beast 

keith 


keith 
notre dame , in 

from (david k. drum ) 
subject what has happened to dkb 
organization university of missouri 
x posted from mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
nntp posting host sol . ctr . columbia . edu . 
lines 12 

hello , 

i 've been on the povray mailing list out of bitnet . 
for some time now , but when i tried to post the other day the 
listserv told me that the list does n't exist ! so i got a global 
list of groups from the listserv and nothing ! i every 
string i could think of. if frank , ville saari , andre beck , or anyone 
else who 's a regular on dkb l can tell me what is going on , please do ! 

regards , 

david k. drum 

from (peter jackson , , , ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
nntp posting host sandman . ece . clarkson . edu . 
organization clarkson university 
lines 31 

from article , by 


i put it to you thus where has the hacker ethic gone if it still exists , 
where and , if it does exist , why are those who call themselves hackers 
allowing this to perpetuate itself why are they not creating new , innovative , 
interesting ideas to stop the sos from maintaining its choke hold on the 
computer industry 

since this was posted on comp . ai . , i assume there is an ai angle to this. hacking is 
what ai students do when they 're really supposed to be doing something else , e.g. 
thesis research write up , getting their supervisors  pet programs to run properly , 
etc. no one gets much glory for hacking , and no one gets any money out of it. 
producing good free software requires an enormous investment of time resources that 
not many people can , or want to , afford particularly during a recession .  . 

in addition , over the last 10 years , i think there has been a de emphasis on producing 
running programs in ai research , and a greater emphasis on more formal approaches to 
problem solving .  . students have been proving theorems instead of writing programs. 
at a conference a year or two ago , de suggested that everyone should 
 get back to the keyboard  and write more programs that demonstrate their ideas 
and i have to say i'm inclined to agree. 

(i do n't claim to be a , but i do n't think that invalidates my remarks .  . 
and i'm sure this is n't the whole story . ) . 



peter jackson , dept of electrical computer eng , clarkson university 
opinions expressed are not those of my employer or any other organization 
second , fiddling  ( rome branch ) 

from  ( jean liddle ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization illinois state university 
lines 39 

in article (james d. murray ) 
writes 
what bill gates and steve jobs are now is the result of the 
natural evolution of a successful hacker .  . either you make money , go 
to jail  ( lee sp ) , or just fade away as oh , that 's uncle 
so and so who really likes computers .  .  .  . . 

what a computer hacker is and does will change as long as the definition 
of the word computer continues to change. 


or perhaps you write a freely available , unix for commonly 
available computer platforms  ( i386 i486 machines) and become a catalyst 
for a major project which produces a better unix like os than 
many commercial counterparts  ( see comp.os.linux for details) .  . or maybe 
you found a legue for programming freedom to fight restrictive litigation 
and software patenting practices , thereby protecting the creative freedom 
so vital to continuing progress in our field. or maybe you start up 
a gnu project , and produce by far and away the best c c compiler 
for unix there is , not to mention other valuable utilities .  . 

some hackers make significant contributions without selling out their 
ideals .  . as for bill gates , after of grossly inferior software 
onto the pc market for ten years , if he ever was a hacker , he deserves 
to have his name from the annals of computer  . 

as for me , i like running linux x countless other packages , without 
paying a dime .  . on the other hand , i have no problem purchasing motif 
or other good software , as long as microsoft has n't fouled it with their 
inept input. 

my 2 cents worth , flames will be patiently ignored .  . ) 

jean .  . 

jean 
computer science , illinois state university 
e mail 


from (david hawks ) 
subject turning photographic images into thermal print and or negatives 
summary help 
keywords adobe photoshop , thermal print , negatives , help 
organization univ. of north carolina @ wilmington 
lines 22 

i do not know if i am hitting the right news groups or not , any help in 
the right direction is more than welcome. i need help finding a company 
that will take photographic images scanned in and modified by adobe photoshop 
and turn them into thermal prints or negatives. i am looking for a place 
as close to north carolina as possible. the images will be created on 
a macintosh quadra 800 running adobe photoshop and will then be stored in 
whatever format the vendor requires , perhaps cartridges 

the images will be black and white photographs scanned in with a 1200 dpi 
scanner then modified corrected by adobe photoshop .  . if anyone could help me 
or even give me phone numbers to people who could i would be very grateful. 

also if anyone else is doing what i am planning i would be happy to hear 
from you with any advice you might provide as to the computer system you 
use and or any peripherals or software. it seemed the quadra 800 would be 
my best bet to modify photographic images. i am planning on buying a quadra 
800 with of ram , a hard drive , a 1200 dpi scanner , 17 sony 
monitor and a cartridge drive and perhaps a cd rom .  . i am new to 
computers and any advice would be great. 

david at or hawks 


from with inews gateway file (keith baccki ) 
subject re 48 bit graphics .  .  .  . 
organization computer science department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 29 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

wonko the sane wrote 

i was recently talking to a possible employer ( mine ! ) ) and he made a reference to a 
48 bit graphics computer image processing system. i seem to remember it being called image or 
something akin to that. anyway , he claimed it had 48 bit color a 12 bit alpha channel. that 's 
60 bits of info what could that possibly be for specifically the 48 bit color that 's 280 
trillion colors , many more than the human eye can resolve .  . is this an anti aliasing thing or 
is this just some magic number to make it work better with a certain processor .  . 


i'm pretty sure most industry strength image processing specific 
systems (i . e .  . photo processing gear) use as much as 96 bits of color info. 
why why not , oversampling is never a bad idea especially if the 
hardware 's only task is image manipulation , and 
demand professional results. 

also , to settle a bet with my roommate , what are sgi 's flagship products i know of 
iris , indigo , and crimson , but what are the other ones , and which is their top of the line 
 ( sadly , i have access to none of them. just a dec 5000 25. sigh . ) . 

strange question , but anyway , there 's the line , the newer 
indigo 2 , and the onyx systems are the new big boys on the block  ( you 
can get a 24 processor system with twice the graphics performance of 
a reality engine) .  . there 's more , but i do n't have my handy periodic 
table of sgi 's on me .  .  .  . 


keith 


from  ( richard ) 
subject re adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 6 

image is available for nextstep .  . it is a image processing program 
similar to adobe photoshop .  . it is reviewed in the april '93 issue of 
publish ! magazine. 




from  ( adrian secchia ) 
subject raytracing colours 
keywords raytracer colours realism vectors 
organization computer science department , university of cape town 
lines 25 

i have a question about recursive , backward raytracing .  . 

when an incident ray  ( i ) strikes an object at point p , first 
the normal  ( n ) is calculated .  . light rays are calculated  ( l1 to ln 
where n is the number of light sources) these being the light 
rays that do not intersect with anything. the reflected ray  ( r ) and 
the transmitted ray  ( t ) is calculated from the formulae .  . 

calling the routine recursively on r and t will return the colours 
along the rays (r and t) as and  . each object has its own 
colour and each light source has (1 i n) .  . 

the question is 
how do you combine , , and all the 's to get 
the correct resulting colour to return along the i ray 

all colours are defined as  ( records ) having r , g , b components 
between 0 and 1. 

if anyone has done this before could you give me a few hints 


adrian 



from  ( shai simonson ) 
subject dec or pc graphics tools 
organization university of illinois at chicago 
lines 28 

i am applying for an nsf grant to buy equipment for a laboratory .  .  .  . 

the lab will need to support c  ( or pascal ) with graphics tools .  .  .  . 


we can run the lab either on pc 's or dec equipment 



if you are familiar with appropriate products  ( software hardware) and precise 
prices. please contact 





we are interested in any available discounts .  .  .  .  . 


also , if anyone runs a lab using similar software hardware , i would be very 
interested in hearing your opinions of its success 

thanks 

shai simonson 
college 
n easton ma 
e 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re xv problems 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 11 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


oops , what the hell a crosspost is this ! 

have a look onto xv 3.00 before saying anything more about it 's power. 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( krishnan seetharaman ) 
subject looking for info on quadratic spline to bezier conversion ... 
organization umass lowell computer science 
lines 15 

hi 

i am looking for an algorithm or pointers to any papers on how to convert 
quadratic splines to cubic splines or  . if source is available 
in the public domain , please let me know. 

thanks very much 

ks 



e mail phone 508 934  ( w ) 
snail mail department of computer science , umass lowell , lowell , ma 01854 


from  ( tim clinkenpeel ) 
subject pc vga driver available via ftp 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 9 
reply to 
nntp posting host slack 

a user on my bbs accidentally deleted his vga driver for his card and 
has no backup .  . i was wondering if someone knew of an ftp site  ( and path , 
please ! ) where such a thing might be obtained .  . thanks. 


there is no religion when a man has good curry 
call the lizard 's den bbs (801) it's yoda usenet , nethack , , pc amiga 
tim aberrant analytical skeptical agnostic idealist .  . 
i exclusively represent myself 

from  ( randell jesup ) 
subject re products to handle hdtv moving  ( 180mb sec ) 
reply to  ( randell jesup ) 
organization commodore , west chester , pa 
lines 31 

writes 
i 'd like to know if there is any system  ( cpu hd array framebuffer ) 
which can play and record hdtv quality moving picture in realtime .  . 

hdtv has about 6mb frame , so recording playing moving picture will need 
about sec bandwidth .  . i'm thinking to treat the raw data .  .  . not 
compressed .  . 

actually , for digital hdtv systems that 's far higher bandwidth than 
you need , unless there 's some reason you must work in fully uncompressed 
hdtv .  . also , my calculations is that each frame should be well under 6mb , 
even using 24 bits pixel (which is more bits than you actually need 15 or 
18 should be enough for a moving  . is 3 . 5mb .  ( i'm 
guessing at hdtv resolution it may be a bit wider than 1600 , i'm fairly 
sure of the 1100 number for most of the digital  . 

i hope you have a very fast memory system as well s while 
displaying will require a heavily interleaved vram system. 

unless you have a very compelling reason , i 'd advise trying to use 
at least somewhat compressed data. you do n't have to go to full compression 
to get to a level where the data io requirements are much cheaper and easier 
to deal with. 


gnu emacs is a lisp operating system disguised as a word processor .  . 
doug mohney , in comp . arch . 

randell jesup , jack of quite a few trades , commodore engineering .  . 
or rutgers ! ! jesup bix 
disclaimer nothing i say is anything other than my personal opinion. 

from (mike mattone ) 
subject lcd vga display 
nntp posting host mik . uky . edu . 
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences 
lines 43 

please help. 

i have an ibm compatible notebook computer with an lcd vga screen. while i 
was working with it this morning , the screen started to flicker a little , 
which i thought was odd since i do use a surge protector for my computer and 
all peripherals .  . it only did this for a second and then stopped .  . 

i left the room for several minutes and , when i returned , the screen was 
completely dim , not blank , but very very dim. the contrast slider still 
worked so that i could adjust it to where i could faintly make out what 
was on the screen but the brightness slider had absolutely no effect. 

i was plugged in at the time (i . e .  . , not using the battery) but i still 
tried switching the battery , changing the power saver features , etc. , etc. , 
all to no avail. 

has anyone else experienced anything like this if this just means that i 
need to replace the screen then i guess i 'll have to but i thought that the 
death of my lcd screen would be a little less dramatic when it eventually 
happened. i did n't want to take it in to be repaired before i asked on the 
net about this because i already know what they 'll say yep , you gotta have 
this replaced and it 's gonna cost you . 

i 've only had the computer for about 21 months. is that a reasonable life 
cycle for a lcd display oh , i guess i ought to give specifics here the 
brand is  ( is this a reputable company ) , it 's a 386sx @ 20 mhz .  . 
i forget the model number exactly and i was too ticked off to write it down 
before coming in to work today. 

if anyone can help me , please give me any advice you might have. i'm not 
opposed to having it replaced , but i 'd rather not if it 's not absolutely 
necessary. if you would n't mind , please e mail me at 
but if you 'd rather post i 'll be checking back here in a couple of days. 

btw , if the answer to this question is already in a faq somewhere , feel 
free to flame away but i would ask that you also include the location and 
name of the faq if you do n't mind. 

thanks in advance for any help .  .  .  . 

mike mattone 



from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re ntsc data to rgb for video capture .  . 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 25 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 



usually , you apply 

r 1 0 1 . 402 . y 
g 1 0 . 0 . u 
b 1 1 . 772 . 0 v 


after u and v  ( subtracting 128 from them) .  . 

this matrix multiplication may give results out of rgb space , so you 
have to clamp the resulting bytes to 0 .  . 255 . . 
the conversion should be done with arbitrary big integers , not floats ) 

this applies to yuv data whereas ntsc may have where a 33 degree 
rotation to u v is buid in. 



o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from 
subject best ftp viewer please. 
organization the university of birmingham , united kingdom 
lines 5 
nntp posting host ibm3090 . bham . ac . uk . 


could someone please tell me the best ftp able viewer available for msdos 
i am running a 486 33mhz with svga monitor. 
i need to look at gifs mainly and it would be advantageous if it ran 
under windows .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . thanks . 

from  ( steve lamont ) 
subject re rgb to , and back 
organization university of calif. , san diego microscopy and imaging resource 
lines 18 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ivem . ucsd . edu . 

in article  ( zhenghao yeh ) writes 
see foley , van dam , feiner , and hughes , computer graphics principles 
and practice , second edition . 

if people would read this book , 75 percent of the questions in this 
would disappear overnight .  .  .  . 

not really. i think it is less than 10 . 

nah .  .  .  . i figure most people would be so busy reading that they would n't 
have time to post. ) ) ) 

spl 

steve lamont , (619) 534 7968 
san diego microscopy and imaging resource uc san diego la jolla , ca 92093 0608 
until i meet you , then , in upper hell 
, foaming immortal blood farewell j. berryman , a professor 's song 

from  ( chad cipiti ) 
subject 3d shark 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 15 
reply to  ( chad cipiti ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


hi. i'm looking for a 3d shark for use in a ray tracing i'm doing. 
i 'll be using vivid or pov , but it can be in any format. are there any 
ftp sites with 3d objects or does anyone have a good 3d shark 

thanks alot ! 

chad 



.... new in 1993 
. sea world of ohio chad cipiti 
shark . 
. encounter . make contact .  . 

from  ( bill devore ) 
subject trees 
organization uf ee department 
lines 7 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ufl . edu . 
keywords tree growth 

i'm working on my senior project here at uf  . the project requires trees. i'm interested in either psuedo or real code just about anything will help. 

perhaps some good books on the subject could help too. 

mail will reach at 

thanks bill 

from  ( access bus industry gp ) 
subject access . bus .  ( re access . bus . software creator 's contest) 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 92 

intro to access . bus .  ( re the access . bus . software creator 's 
contest announcement ) 

what is access . bus . 

access . bus . is a new open industry standard for computer 
peripheral connectivity .  . access . bus . is a serial protocol that 
uses simple , low cost i2c technology to link multiple devices to 
a single pc port. peripheral devices such as keyboards or 
keypads ,  ( mice , trackballs , joysticks ) , printers , vr 
gloves , digitizers , sensors , or data transmitters and 
others can be easily daisy chained to the host pc. applications 
such as cad cam , data acquisition , simulation , virtual reality , 
multiple player single pc games , education and many , many more 
can now take advantage of access . bus . , the technology that puts 
plug and play on every pc. 

the access . bus . offers advantages to end users and developers of 
systems and peripherals .  . multiple devices connect to the host 
computer with only one port. common communication methods for a 
number of device types lead to simplified hardware and software 
development. as an open standard , access . bus . enables cross 
platform use of the same device. 

access . bus . technological description 


access . bus . technology is an open specification , enabling anyone 
to implement it on host systems or in peripheral devices without 
fee or royalty .  . 
access . bus . has a bus topology architecture .  . that is , a single 
host can accommodate up to 125 peripheral devices. access . bus . 
data rate is 100 sec. 

access . bus . physical layer 

access . bus . is a serial bus architecture , based on i2c hardware 
protocol , with one data line and one clock line. 
standard low cost i2c microcontrollers handle bit level 
handshaking , including automatic arbitration and clock 
synchronization .  . 

access . bus . software protocols 

the access . bus . communication protocol is composed of three 
levels i2c protocol , base protocol , and application protocol .  . 

i2c protocol this simple and efficient protocol defines 
arbitration among contending masters without losing data. i2c 
provides for cooperative synchronization of bus partners with 
different clock rates. bus transactions include addressing , 
framing of bits into bytes , and byte acknowledgment by the 
receiver .  . 

base protocol establishes the between 
a host computer and multiple peripherals .  . the host becomes the 
access . bus . manager. the base protocol defines the format of an 
access . bus . message envelope , which is an i2c bus transaction with 
additional semantics , including checksum .  . 
unique features of the base protocol are auto addressing and hot 
plugging .  . auto addressing assigns devices with unique bus 
addresses , without the need for setting jumpers or switches .  . hot 
plugging is the ability to attach and devices while the 
system is running , without rebooting .  . 

application protocol this is the highest level of the access . bus . 
protocol which defines message semantics specific to particular 
types of devices. each type requires a different application 
protocol .  . three broad device types have been identified 
keyboards , , and text devices. 

access . bus . support on the pc 

all three levels of the access . bus . protocol are supported on the 
pc. an add on card implements the physical layer and uses the 
base protocol to communicate with physical access . bus . devices. 
an access . bus . manager tsr under dos and a dll under windows 3.1 
controls the operation of the physical layer and interacts with 
the access . bus . device drivers. drivers are available for 
multiple access . bus . keyboards , and printers for dos and 
windows 3 . 1 .  . also available are c language source code examples 
of the interface from applications to the device drivers. 


to contact abig (the access . bus . industry group ) 

postal address 
370 altair way , suite 215 , sunnyvale , ca 94086 
internet email 
fax (408) 991 
voice (408) 991 3517 


from (michael dillon ) 
subject re mgr gui bbs frontends 
organization a world of information at your fingertips 
lines 46 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

hi all , 
i am looking into methods i can use to turn my linux based bbs into a full color 
graphical bbs that supports pc , mac , linux , and amiga callers .  . 
originally i was inspired by the graphics standard (a summary of 
which hit this group about 2 weeks ago) .  . 

i posted that document  ( forgot part 1 6 etc) but it was more than a summary , 
it was a complete technical description of the protocol .  . it can be 
from simtel or from wuarchive . wustl . edu . in mirrors msdos 

following up on software availability of supporting software i find 
that most terminal programs are commercial the only resonable shareware one being 
pp3 which runs soley on msdos machines leaving mac and amiga users to buy full 
commercial software if they want to try out the bbs (i know i would n't) 

next most interesting possibility is to port mgr to pc , mac , amiga .  . i 

why not write a decoder for your choice of platform and release the 
code to the net then other willing souls can help port it to other platforms .  . 
was designed for this type of online interactive graphics much the 
same as x , but while x is intended for high bandwidth network connections , 
was optimized for low bandwidth modem connections .  . 

is there a color version of mgr for linux 

does anyone have any other suggestions for a linux based gui bbs 

i'm sure you will receive other suggestions but look at it this way. if you 
wanted to provide a full network connection to linux over a modem would you 
use slip ppp or would you invent some new way most people would say that 
slip ppp exist and are reasonably well designed protocols , so lets just 
implement them. i see it the same way with  . it is an existing , well 
thought out , extensible protocol for online graphics , so why not implement 
it. 

if you need any advice on implementation , just e mail me. i am currently 
getting a beta version of my coreldraw to converter working well 
enough to release it by may 15. if you or someone else does not get going 
on a freely available decoder , then i intend to do it after i get 
a my conversion program out of beta , and get a couple of other things done. 


michael dillon internet 
c 4 powerhouse fidonet 1 353 350 
rr 2 armstrong , bc voice 1 604 546 
canada bbs 1 604 546 

from  ( carlos dominguez ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
reply to 
organization private usenet system , brooklyn , ny , usa 
lines 38 
x newsreader 1.07  ( waffle 1 . 

in  ( charles rawls ) writes 

the hacker ethic is alive and well here. i know of what you speak , and my 
only answer is screw 'em . you have to do what make you feel right. 

amen .  .  . i too have learned by example , specifically yours. ) 

what can i say but keep the faith , there are others who do likewise .  . 

 .  .  . but leads the way .  .  . unlike other services that are commercial 
in nature , is a community based service. while others charge 
monthly fees for access , accepts donations from those who can 
afford to contribute .  . 

while other systems do n't respond to user input , on it. 
other systems sell hardware for a profit , hardware to 
community service groups , and to individuals who could n't afford to 
normally .  . 

lives due to the hacker ethic of charles , jack , skip , , 
ira , mark , david etc etc etc .  .  . nights and days working on 
equipment thats been assembled at the embassy , ( and modifying what 
ever else available to work the first time .  . ) . in order to keep the 
slip line up .  .  .  . 

heres to you bud .  .  .  . i'm one of the few that decided to 
stay , and am damn glad that i did .  .  .  .  .  . ) 







carlos dominguez sys admin , owner , 
(o o) 
ooo ( ) ooo or ! ! carlos ! carlos 
ask me about  . ( guaranteed address ) 

subject re povray tga rle 
from (craig andrew humphrey ) 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization victoria university of wellington .  . new zealand 
nntp posting host depot . comp . vuw . ac . nz . 
lines 33 


in article ,  ( jihun park ) writes 
hello , 
i have some problem in converting tga  ( file(generated by povray ) to 
rle file. when i convert , i do not get any warning message. but 
if i use xloadimage , something is wrong. 

edited 

i know that i need to install and , but i do not spend 
time to install them. even i do not want to generate  . rgb . from povray 
and then convert them to rle , if possible . ( . rgb . to rle works , but 
it will mess up my directory with so many files , and it needs 2 more 
steps to finally convert to rle file. say cat ) 
does any body out there have same experience problems 


well for starters , why use rle files you might have a specific program that 
needs them , ok , but i tend to convert straight to jpeg format , thus a 2 . 
24bit targa file becomes a 80k or less 24bit jpeg .  . 

the latest versions of xv (2 . 2 . 1 . ) and xloadimage (3 . both handle jpeg files. 
and the best way to convert to jpeg is with the c djpeg suit. even at 90 
quality  ( you ca n't see the difference) the jpeg is way smaller than anything 
else even an 8bit gif ! 

later ish 
craig 

i did n't do it , nobody saw me do it , 
you ca n't prove anything. 

ccc c ccc c 

from  ( eric vitiello ) 
subject 3ds where did all the te 
distribution world 
organization ky in pc user 's group louisville , ky 502 423 8654 
reply to  ( eric vitiello ) 
lines 20 

to (r hawkes ) 

rh i 've noticed that if you only save a model  ( with all your mapping planes 
rh positioned carefully ) to a  . 3ds . file that when you reload it after restarting 
rh 3ds , they are given a default position and orientation .  . but if you save 
rh to a  . prj . file their positions orientation are preserved .  . does anyone 
rh know why this information is not stored in the  . 3ds . file nothing is 

this is because the prj  ( project ) format saves all of your settings , 
right down to the last render file 's name. 

rh i 'd like to be able to read the texture rule information , does anyone have 
rh the format for the  . prj . file 

sorry .  .  .  . do n't have anything on that or the cel format. 

 .  .  .  . r . c . v . t . ell .  .  . r .  .  .  . 

. deluxe .  . 386 1.25 .  .  .  .  .  . stupid . ..... line ... . noise ! ! 


from  ( pankaj oberoi ) 
subject help 3d reconstruction 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 318 1 . mit . edu . 

hi i'm new to imaging , and my advisor and i would like to 
do some 3d reconstructions .  . 

we take slides  ( biological ) , and image them on a 486 .  . then 
the software allows us to trace the outline of the objects 
we want to save .  . the outlines are stored as a tiff file. 

we would like to convert a group of these outlines into a 
3d image. we are unsure as to where to begin. someone mentioned 
that if we could convert the tiff into a vector format then 
we could view them in autocad .  . 

any help would be greatly appreciated. 





from  ( cs173sbw ) 
subject re real 3d 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 11 
nntp posting host sdcc5 . ucsd . edu . 

i heard a friend who just return from nab from las vegas confirm 
that will be releasing a windows version of real 3d 2.0 
this summer. he was told that the rendering speed on the dx50 is n't 
as fast as a4000 .  . however , he was also told that they are switching 
from microsoft c to to gain more speed. for people who is 
looking for a powerful 3d animation software for pc. the wait 
should n't be too long. real 3d 2.0 is absolutely the most powerful and 
flexible 3d package out there that sells for less than 1000 .  . 

p.s. i heard a indigo version is also under development. 


from  ( bill neisius ) 
subject re rgb to , and back 
reply to 
lines 83 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 
i have a little question 

i need to convert rgb coded  ( red green blue) colors into coded 
 ( hue value saturnation ) colors. does anyone know which formulas to 
use 

lets see if i have this right .  .  .  . hsv ... and none of those 
are the same as  . hopefully , is just a transposition of hsv , and 
not yet another color model .  .  .  . 

the following code should do the hsv  ( hsl ) coding (i have n't tried it yet) 
 ( thanks to 

another possibility is mirrors msdos graphics zip . on 
wuarchive . wustl . edu .  . 

bill 




the following code is from the starbase (hp) manual 
 ( all coordinates at 0 1 interval ) 

to  ( rgb(hue , saturation , luminosity , red , green , blue) 
float hue , saturation , luminosity input in 
float red , green , blue output in rgb 

float , lx , ly , lz 

hue 6 hue 
hue  ( int ) hue 
lx luminosity (1 saturation ) 
ly luminosity (1 saturation frac ) 
lz luminosity (1 saturation (1 frac ) 

switch  ( int ) hue ) 
case 0 case 6 
red luminosity green lz blue lx break 
case 1 
red ly green luminosity blue lx break 
case 2 
red lx green luminosity blue lz break 
case 3 
red lx green ly blue luminosity break 
case 4 
red lz green lx blue luminosity break 
case 5 
red luminosity green lx blue ly break 



rgb to  ( hsl(red , green , blue , hue , saturation , luminosity ) 
define  ( max(a , b , c)  ( a b a b) c (a b a b) c) 
define  ( min(a , b , c)  ( a b a b) c (a b a b) c) 
float red , green , blue input in rgb 
float hue , saturation , luminosity output in 

float x , , , temporary values 

hue 0.0 
saturation 1.0 
luminosity  ( max(red , green , blue) 
x  ( min(red , green , blue) 
if ( luminosity ! 0 . 0) . calculate only if necessary 
saturation ( luminosity x) luminosity 
if ( saturation ! 0 . 0) . calculate only if necessary 
( luminosity red ) ( luminosity x) 
( luminosity green ) ( luminosity x) 
( luminosity blue ) ( luminosity x) 
if  ( red luminosity ) 
hue  ( green x 5 1 tempg ) 
else if  ( green luminosity ) 
hue  ( blue x 1 3 tempb ) 
else 
hue  ( red x 3 5 tempr ) 
hue 6 






from (david dumas ) 
subject where can i find someone who can digitize ives 
organization j. random misconfigured site 
x posted from isis . msstate . edu . 
nntp posting host sol . ctr . columbia . edu . 
lines 16 


does anyone know if any of and ives have been digitized for 
use in desktop publishing i am particularly interested in their riverboat 
scenes. does anyone know who can get me  ( for a fee) a good , digitized river 
boat image 

thank you , 

david dumas 

david dumas 



david dumas 


from  ( wes barris ) 
subject re wanted 24 bit viewer 
reply to 
organization ahpcrc , minnesota supercomputer center 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( gilles deniaud ) writes 
hello , 

thanks to the people who helped me with the problem of 
displaying 24 bit images. all the viewers like xli , 
xloadimage and display are converting the 24 bit images 
to 8 bit before display them on the screen. 

what i really want is a viewer with make use of the 24 bit 
frame screen buffer  ( in our case , the parallax one) .  . 

both xli and xloadimage will display in 24 bit color if a 24 bit visual 
is available. check the output of xdpyinfo to see if one is. 


wes barris ph (612) 626 
minnesota supercomputer center , inc. email 

from  ( lawrence d , waikato university) 
subject quicktime performance  ( was re rumours about 3do ) 
organization university of waikato , hamilton , new zealand 
lines 67 

ok , with all the discussion about observed playback speeds with quicktime , 
the effects of scaling and so on , i thought i 'd do some more tests. 

first of all , i felt that my original speed test was perhaps less than 
realistic .  . the movie i had been using only had 18 frames in it (it was a 
version of the very first movie i created with the compact video  . 
i decided something a little longer would give closer to real world results 
 ( for better or for  . 

i pulled out a copy of 2001 a space odyssey that i had recorded off tv 
a while back. about fifteen minutes into the movie , there 's a sequence where 
the earth shuttle is approaching the space station. specifically , i digitized 
a portion of about 30 seconds  duration , zooming in on the rotating space 
station. i figured this would give a reasonable amount of movement between 
frames .  . to increase the differences between frames , i digitized it at only 
5 frames per second , to give a total of 171 frames .  . 

i captured the raw footage at a resolution of 384 288 pixels with the spigot 
card in my centris 650  ( quarter size resolution from a pal source) .  . i then 
imported it into and put it through the compact video compressor , 
keeping the 5 fps frame rate. i created two versions of the movie one scaled 
to 320 240 resolution , the other at 160 120 resolution. i used the default 
2.00 quality setting in 2.0.1 , and specified a key frame every ten 
frames .  . 

i then ran the 320 240 movie through the same raw speed test program i used 
for the results i 'd been reporting earlier. 

result a playback rate of over 45 frames per second. 

that 's right , i was getting a much higher result than with that first short 
test movie. just for fun , i copied the 320 240 movie to my external hard 
disk (a quantum lp105s ) , and ran it from there. this time the playback rate 
was only about 35 frames per second. obviously the internal hard disk 
 ( also a quantum ) is a significant contributor to the speed of playback .  . 

i modified my speed test program to allow the specification of optional 
scaling factors , and tried playing back the 160 120 movie scaled to 320 240 
size. this time the playback speed was over 60 fps .  . clearly , the poster who 
observed poor performance on scaled playback was seeing quicktime 1.0 in 
action , not 1 . 5 .  . i 'd try my tests with quicktime 1.0 , but i do n't think it 's 
entirely compatible with my centris and system 7 . 1 .  .  .  . 

, the playback rate for the 160 120 movie was over 100 fps .  . 

the other thing i tried was saving versions of the 320 240 movie with 
preferred playback rates greater than 1.0 , and seeing how well they played 
from within (ie with quicktime 's normal synchronized  . 
a preferred rate of 9.0 ( 45 fps ) did n't work too well the playback was 
very jerky .  . compare this with the raw speed test , which achieved 45 fps with 
ease. i ca n't believe that quicktime 's synchronization code would add this 
much overhead i think the slowdown was coming from the mac system 's task 
switching .  . 

a preferred rate of 7.0 ( 35 fps ) seemed to work fine i could n't see 
any evidence of  . at 8.0 ( 40 fps ) i think i could see slight 
, but with four key frames every second , it was hard to tell. 

i guess i could try recreating the movies with a longer interval between the 
key frames , to make the more noticeable .  . of course , this will also 
improve the compression slightly , which should speed up the playback performance 
even more .  .  .  . 

lawrence d fone 64 7 856 2889 
computer services dept fax 64 7 838 4066 
university of waikato electric mail 
hamilton , new zealand 37 47  26 s , 175 19  7 e , gmt 12 00 

from (john a) 
subject wanted 3d rendering lib for pc 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization wilfrid laurier university 
lines 19 

does any one know of a decent quality library of routines for 
performing 3d graphics modelling on the pc 

ideally the routines would be in our application program. 

requirements  ( wish list) 
flat surface modelling  ( simple phong shading optional ) 
ability to plot hidden line drawings 
texture mapping both procedural and bit map 
modeling light sources  ( local , distant , and spot lights) 
ray tracing 
radiosity  ( optional ) 

any comments would be appreciated. 

john 
phone (519) 888 9666 

john 

from  ( kouhia juhana ) 
subject re xv problems 
organization tampere university of technology 
lines 47 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

in article 
writes 

2) yes xv is an 8 bit program. this is not a bug. 

never claimed it is a bug. 


xv can import 24 bit images and them down to 8 bits. this is a handy 
facility , not a bug. 

never claimed it is a bug. 


how would you suggest doing colour editing on a 24 bit file how 
would you group  related  colours to edit them together only global 
changes could be done unless the software were very different and 
much more complicated. 
if you want to do colour editing on a 24 bit image , you need much 
more powerfull software which is readily available commercially .  . 

i guess i edited my note on this away from the article i posted to 
many newsgroups .  . 

i wrote something about making color modifications quickly 
with 8bit quantized images and only at the saving the image to file 
process we have to make the modifications to the 24bit image. 
this makes sense , because the main use of xv is only viewing images. 

doing many changes to image , we should keep all modifications 
in a buffer and then before making the operations to 24bit image , 
we should simplify the operation list for unnecessary operations .  . 


and lastly , jpeg is a compression algorithm .  . it can be applied to any 
image of arbitrary bit depth .  . again , this is not a bug. 

never claimed it is a bug. 
i tried kept sure i do n't claim that jpeg is noting else than 
a compression algorithm , because i know what the jpeg is. 
 ( you misunderstood what i wrote as you have done in many 
places so far . ) . 

you also missed what is  ( were ) wrong with xv. however , i did wrote it. 


juhana kouhia 

from 
subject re sgi sales practices  ( was crimson  ( was kubota announcement )) 
organization center for instructional and research computing activities 
lines 26 
reply to 
nntp posting host maple . circa . ufl . edu . 

in article ,  ( roy smith) writes 
what 's really interesting is that from what i can tell , the mis 
folks in the basement with their es 9000 do n't seem to be pissed at ibm .  . 
why i have no idea. either ibm really does take care of their customers 
better , or they just have their customers brainwashed better than the 
smaller vendors do. 

no , mis folks have infinite budgets of death , and they also get parts 
of their budget allocated upgrades , maintenance , and new purchases , 
and a lot of ibm mainframe purchases are actually leases and so 
is the software. 

basically , the engineers who have tight budgets , i.e. the and 
designers of a company , bitch and moan when they drop 15 , 000 on a 
sparc 1 only to see a faster machine appear a year later. mis types 
upgrade once every 5 10 years , and their costs are and 
depreciated over a longer period , and the budget office justifies 
the expense because they actually use the machines for accounting , 
payroll , etc. 

now , if the budget office was dependant on the engineers for some 
reason like payroll and accounts , you 'd sure as hell see every 
engineer with a new cray on his desktop every year. ) 

brian 


from  ( tim ciceran ) 
subject re turning photographic images into thermal print and or negatives 
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 22 

jennifer lynn  ( ju23 wrote 

well , i have lots of experience with scanning in images and altering 
them. as for changing them back into negatives , is that really possible 

 ( stuff deleted) 

jennifer the oh so bitter woman of utter  ( blahness(but cheerful 
undertones ) 

i use aldus on the pc and i can turn a colour or black and white 
image into a negative or turn a negative into a colour or black and white 
image. i do n't know how it does it but it works well. to test it i scanned 
a negative and used aldus to create a positive. it looked better than the 
print that the film developers gave me. 




tmc 



from (david clunie ) 
subject re easy to translate jpeg code .  .  .  . 
organization her master 's voice 
lines 22 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host pax . tpa . com . au . 

in article ,  ( stuart denman ) writes 

does anyone out there have any jpeg decompression code in pretty much any 
language that i can read and understand i have trouble understanding the 
jpeg group 's code that i got from an ftp site. if any one can send me 
some good code , i will appreciate it a lot ! thanks ! 

the problem is that the process is inherently complicated ! the 's code is 
pretty good if you ask me , and i have watched it go through many many cycles of 
revision .  . 

try getting a good book on the subject , that will explain the algorithms .  . 

specifically jpeg still image compression standard by mitchell , 
1993 , isbn 0 442 1. 

btw. i presume your comment about good code was n't meant to sound as offensive 
as it does. 


david a. clunie 


from 
subject kubota vs. e s 
organization center for instructional and research computing activities 
lines 70 
reply to 
nntp posting host maple . circa . ufl . edu . 


more people have been asking for information on the kubota graphics 
workstations , so here is some more info on the kenai vs. the 
e s freedom .  . 


here is the text of a vs. e s freedom done by d.h. brown associates .  . 



bears a strong resemblance to evans and freedom graphics 
subsystem in several aspects of its high level design. both products use 
a parallel array of processors for geometric computations .  . both 
have a pixel router to connect this front end to a second array of 
pixel processors .  . as a result , and overlap significantly 
in performance and functionality .  . both design teams also appear to have 
similar philosophies with respect to modularity , , and market 
penetration .  . 

there remain , however , several important differences between the kpc and 
e s products. evans and sutherland designed freedom as a high end 
developer 's dream system with plenty of performance potential and 
flexibility .  . in its favor , freedom has configurations from two to 
sixteen floating point units , a border range that starts and ends at 
a higher price and performance levels than  . all freedom 
systems include a large , fixed number of pixel processors that 
support a broader variety of color blending functions. the freedom 
design treats its entire image memory as general purpose memory , allowing 
developers to allocate it on a flexible basis to a number of special purpose 
applications. finally , e s provided freedom with very flexible and 
video integration features for multimedia and simulation applications. note 
that kpc is working an auxiliary board for ntsc and pal output that will not 
require an external video encoder .  . e s programmable output features , 
however , will remain much more flexible .  . 

the kpc design team , in contrast , made more of an end user 's system. 
entry version have better performance range and flexibility than low end 
freedom configurations , and come in at more realistic mainstream price 
points. does not need as many modules as because 
it uses a deeper scan conversion pipeline to support each one , resulting 
in better cost performance characteristics .  . although both products provide 
strong support for 3d , imaging , and volume rendering , kpc recognized that 
not all users will want an even mix of these capabilities .  . 's 
configuration flexibility allows customers in effect to purchase 
geometric and pixel processing capabilities separately , and to upgrade 
them separately as needed. 

both companies have implemented hardware texture mapping at 
workstation price levels as a way to attack sgi 's more expensive 
and realityengine systems the only other products to provide 
this capability .  . kpc supports point sampling and bilinear interpolation 
of textures in hardware , but provides only software support for the higher 
tri linear interpolated method. on balance , however , 
overall capabilities than e s for most applications. 
aside from being much more affordable , kpc solutions deliver more parallelism 
for texture processing and more off screen memory for general graphics 
data storage. by implementing texture mapping on its transformation 
modules , e s customers to move very quickly to higher price levels 
to obtain better performance. kubota avoids this problem by linking 
to its frame buffer modules , providing a lower cost , more scalable 
solution. 

hope this helps , 

brian 

ps this was reprinted without permission. for the full text , please contact 
kubota 408 727 8100 .  . 



from  ( eric wagner ) 
subject re email address of  ( ithaca(hoops ) 
organization ithaca software 
lines 12 

ithaca technical support can be reached at 

tech 

or by phone at 

510 523 5900 


eric wagner pp ia 
ithaca software 
oakland flyers 

from kim 
subject where is faq 
organization indiana university computer science , bloomington 
distribution usa 
lines 4 

where can i find it 

thanks , 


from  ( don campbell ) 
subject avi to flc converter 
organization incorporated , ottawa canada 
lines 18 

i am looking for a small utility that will convert a microsoft video  ( avi ) 
file to an autodesk animator pro  ( flc ) file. since also contain sound , 
it would be nice if this utility also stored the sound track as a wav or voc 
file. currently i'm accomplishing this by saving the avi as multiple 
using video for windows , then converting each dib to a gif , then loading the 
gifs into animator .  . for the sound , i load the original avi into and 
save it as a seperate wav file. this requires too many steps to be productive .  . 

any help will be greatly appreciated. 

thanks 
don 


don campbell internet 
uucp ! 
inc. mail p.o. box , riverside drive , 
(613) 738 1440 ottawa ontario , canada .  . 

from  ( tony r. boutwell ) 
subject video speed 
organization mississippi state university 
lines 18 
nntp posting host ra . msstate . edu . 
keywords anim , ibm , 3d 

i am using an ibm dx 50 with eisa and local bus .  .  .  . and . i need to get a 
local bus video card .  .  .  .  . 

the only hitch is that i need one that will allow me to do the fastest 
anims  ( or flics ) from ram .  . i have 64 megs of ram in 16 meg simms 

i am using 3d studio from autodesk and imagine from impulse .  .  .  . 
they both write out in the  . flc . format .  .  .  .  . 

so does anyone know what would be the best card for showing fast anims 
from ram .  .  .  .  . ie. like the orchid , diamond stealth viper , ati .  .  .  . etc . 

any help would be appreciated .  .  .  .  . ( i am trying to circumvent the single 
frame route ) 

email me at 
or just post back up here .  .  . thanks . 


from  ( eliza strickler ) 
subject i a  . bin . file from a unix machine now what 
organization georgia state university 
lines 17 

i just a  . bin . file from a unix machine which is 
supposed to be converted to a mac format. does anyone know 
what i need to do to this file to get it into any dos , mac 
or unix readable format. someone mentioned fetch on the unix 
machine is this correct could someone explain the  . bin . 
format a little 

thanks , 

elizabeth 




0 0 elizabeth 
0 
( 

from (scott r violet ) 
subject looking for code to brake image into sub bands 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 


hi all , 
i am working on a project in which i need to brake an image 
into sub bands and then work with them. since i have never done 
anything like this , do n't even understand the concept of sub bands , i 
was wondering if there is some software out there that would allow me 
to do this. any hints 
thanks , 


scott violet 

from  ( chris fury ) 
subject re help needed dxf iff 
lines 17 
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va 
lines 17 

blue  ( yury german ) writes 

 . dxf . can not be changed over to  . iff . format what it can be changed 
to is an object format used by one of the 3d programs on the amiga .  . the 
only tools around are comercial for that conversion .  . 

actually , iff is a format standard . it is not a picture file format , sound 
file format , but there exist several formats that use the iff standard. the 
iff picture standard used by mostly everybody is a form  ( or just  . 
the only 3d iff specification i know of is tddd , which is used by imagine and 
it 's predecessor , turbo silver .  . it is possible that some of the other amiga 
packages use another iff spec , but i do n't know of any. lightwave will load 
tddd form 's i believe. 


christopher b. fury this space for rent .  . 
call 1 900 for more information. 

from  ( ken baer ) 
subject re wanted playmation info 
summary phone 
article i.d. qiclab . 1993apr27 . 
organization scn research laboratories of tigard , oregon .  . 
lines 18 

in article  ( ken baer ) writes 
in article  ( mark marino ) writes 
hi folks , 

does anyone have a copy of playmation they 'd be willing to sell me. i 'd 
love to try it out , but not for the retail . 

playmation is available direct from associates for 299 .  . 

oops , forgot the phone number. it 's 1 800 377 8287 .  . 





ken  . programmer animator , hash enterprises 
usenet office  ( 206)573 ) 
, we 're not hitchhiking anymore , we 're riding ! ren  . 

from  ( wes barris ) 
subject re help need 24 bits viewer 
keywords 24 bit 
reply to 
organization ahpcrc , minnesota supercomputer center 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( chris lilley ) writes 

in article ,  ( gilles deniaud ) writes 

i'm looking for a program which is able to display 24 bits 
images. we are using a sun sparc equipped with parallax 
graphics board running x11 .  . 

utah raster toolkit using  . convert your sun raster files  ( presumably ) to 
ppm with the pbm toolkit then convert ppm to utah rle format with which 
is provided in the toolkit .  . 

or just use the urt tool  . 


i seem to remember that xloadimage can do 24 bit servers too. 

yes , both it and the newer xli can. 


wes barris ph (612) 626 
minnesota supercomputer center , inc. email 

from (r hawkes ) 
subject re 3ds where did all the texture rules go 
lines 34 

 ( eric vitiello ) writes 

to (r hawkes ) 

rh i 've noticed that if you only save a model  ( with all your mapping planes 
rh positioned carefully ) to a  . 3ds . file that when you reload it after restarting 
rh 3ds , they are given a default position and orientation .  . but if you save 
rh to a  . prj . file their positions orientation are preserved .  . does anyone 
rh know why this information is not stored in the  . 3ds . file nothing is 

this is because the prj  ( project ) format saves all of your settings , 
right down to the last render file 's name. 

rh i 'd like to be able to read the texture rule information , does anyone have 
rh the format for the  . prj . file 

sorry .  .  .  . do n't have anything on that or the cel format. 

well , i dived in feet first and reverse engineered the  . prj . file as much 
as i needed to extracted the mapping icon information which is 
when it dawned on me that 3d studio is useless for my needs. i need 
a mapping icon per applied texture .  . i want to use a special purpose 
graphics computer for rendering the 3ds models and it requires a texture 
rule plane to be specified in , i.e. position orientation of the 
mapping rule. since only one mapping icon is used in 3ds to apply 
textures to all objects faces , it renders (no pun intended) 3ds totally 
unsuitable for my needs. 

anyone got a contact for alias upfront or any other good modeller for a 
pc i must be able to specify texture rules  ( one per texture ) and this 
must be saved in a file which i can read. i have n't found any info on alias 
in the copy of the faq that i have. 



from (d j nettleton ) 
subject help a rectangle and 
nntp posting host 
organization university of newcastle upon tyne , uk ne1 7ru 
lines 56 

i hope someone can help me with the following problem i'm sure there 
must be a known solution. 

given a rectangle defined by 

x x x and y y y where x and y are constant 

and a defined by 

c1 a x b y c1 and c2 c x d y c2 

where c1 , c2 , a , b , c , d are constants and b a ! d c (i . e .  . not 
parallel lines) 
not equal to 

what is the area of their intersection 

what i'm after is some general algorithm suitable for all rectangles 
and that can be described by the above equations .  . at the 
moment it looks like i'm going to have to look at all possible cases 
and examine each seperately e.g. 

1) rectangle encloses  . 

2) encloses rectangle .  . 

3) two corners of inside rectangle 





y y 


. . origin 


y y 
x x 




4) two corners of outside rectangle 

i hope someone can help. 

many thanks in advance , 

dave  . 

e mail 

ps can you please cc me any replies by e mail. 


from  ( jih shin ho ) 
subject 0 7 
organization national chiao tung university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 299 


i have posted zip . to alt . binaries . pictures . utilities .  . 
i will upload this package to simtel20 later. 

you may distribute this program freely for non commercial use 
if no fee is gained .  . 
there is no warranty. the author is not responsible for any 
damage caused by this program. 

important changes since version 1.35 
added support for iris .  . 
support mix  . two images. 
added support for  batch  . 
added support for  load save palette  . 
added support for  edge  . 
added support for  crop one  . 
added support for  negate  . 
new color quantization option. 
fix some minor bugs. 

(1) introduction 
this program can let you read , write and display images with different 
formats .  . it also let you do some special  ( effects(rotation , dithering  .  .  .  . ) . 
on image. its main purpose is to let you convert image among different 
formts .  . 
include simple file management system. 
support  slide show' .  . 
support  batch  . 
there is no limit on image size. 
currently this program supports 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits display. 
if you want to use hicolor or truecolor , you must have vesa driver. 
if you want to modify video driver , please read section (8) .  . 


(2) hardware requirement 
pc 386 or better. msdos 3.3 or higher. 
min amount of ram is 4m  ( bytes(maybe less memory will also work) .  . 
(i recommend min 8m bytes for better performance) .  . 
hard disk for  ( swapping(virtual memory) .  . 

the following description is borrowed from djgpp .  . 

supported wares 

up to 128m of extended memory  ( expanded under vcpi ) 
up to 128m of disk space used for swapping 
supervga 256 color mode up to 1024x768 
80387 
xms vdisk memory allocation strategies 
vcpi programs , such as qemm , , and 

unsupported 

dpmi 
microsoft windows 

features 80387 emulator , 32 bit unix ish environment , flat memory 
model , svga graphics. 


(3) installation 
video drivers , and go32 . exe . are borrowed from djgpp .  . 
 ( if you use western digital vga chips , read readme . wd) . 
 ( this go32 . exe . is a modified version for vesa and is completely compatible 
with original version) 
but some people report that this go32 . exe . is not compatible with 
other djgpp programs in their system. if you encounter this problem , 
don't put go32 . exe . within search path. 

please read runme . bat . for how to run this program. 

if you choose xxxxx . grn . as video driver , add  nc 256  to environment 
go32 .  . 

for example , go32 driver x xxxxx xxxxx . grn . nc 256 

if you do n't have , add  emu x xxxxx  to environment go32 .  . 

for example , go32 driver x xxxxx xxxxx . grd . emu x xxxxx 

notes 1. i only test tr8900 . grn . , et4000 . grn . and vesa . grn .  . 
other drivers are not tested .  . 
2. i have modified et4000 . grn . to support 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits 
display. you do n't need to use vesa driver. 
if et4000 . grn . does n't work , please try vesa . grn .  . 
3. for those who want to use hicolor or truecolor display , 
please use vesa . grn(except . et4000 users) .  . 
you can find vesa bios driver from 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . mirrors msdos graphics 
godzilla . cgl . rmit . oz . au . kjb mgl 


(4) command line switch 

usage display d display initial display type 
s sort sort method 
h 

display type  ( 8(svga , default ) , 15 ,  ( 16(hicolor ) ,  ( 24(truecolor ) 
sort method  name  ,  ext  


(5) function key 

f2 change disk drive. 

ctrl a ctrl z change disk drive. 

f3 change filename mask .  .  ( see match . doc) . 

f4 change parameters .  . 

f5 some effects on picture , eg. flip , rotate .... 

f7 make directory. 

t tag file. 

tag group files.  ( see match . doc) . 

t tag all files. 

u untag file. 

untag group files.  ( see match . doc) . 

u untag all files. 

ins change display type (8 , 15 , 16 , 24) in  read   screen  menu. 

f6 , m , m move  . 

alt m move single  ( file(ignore  . 

f8 , d , d delete  . 

alt d delete single  ( file(ignore  . 

r , r rename file. 

c , c copy  . 

alt c copy single  ( file(ignore  . 

z , z display first 10 bytes in ascii , hex and dec modes .  . 

f , f display disk free space. 

page up down move one page. 

tab change processing target. 

arrow keys , home , end , page up , page down scroll image. 
home left most. 
end right most. 
page up top most. 
page down bottom most. 
in  screen   effect  menu 
left , right arrow change display  ( type(8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits) .  . 

ctrl arrow keys crop image by one  ( line(in graphics mode) .  . 

s , s slide  ( show(show tagged files) .  . escape to terminate .  . 

b , b batch  ( conversion(convert tagged files to single format) .  . 

w , w wait pause in slide show. 

alt x quit program without prompting .  . 

alt a reread directory. 

escape abort function and return. 


(6) support format 

read gif( . gif) . , japan mag( . mag) . , japan pic( . pic) . , sun raster( . ras) . , 
jpeg( . jpg) . , xbm( . xbm) . , utah rle( . rle) . , pbm( . pbm) . , pgm( . pgm) . , 
ppm( . ppm) . , pm( . pm) . , pcx( . pcx) . , japan mki( . mki) . , tiff( . tif) . , 
targa( . tga) . , xpm( . xpm) . , mac paint( . mac) . , gem img( . img) . , 
iff ilbm( . lbm) . , window bmp( . bmp) . , qrt ray tracing( . qrt) . , 
mac pict( . pct) . , vis( . vis) . , pds( . pds) . , viking( . vik) . , vicar( . vic) . , 
fits( . fit) . , face( . fac) . ,  . 

the extensions in () are standard extensions .  . 

write gif , sun raster , jpeg , xbm , pbm , pgm , ppm , pm , tiff , targa , 
xpm , mac paint , ascii , laser jet , iff , window bmp , 
mac pict , vis , fits , face , pcx , gem img , iris .  . 

all read write support full  ( color(8 bits) , grey scale , b w dither , 
and 24 bits image , if allowed for that format. 


(7) detail 

initialization 
set default display type to highest display type. 
find allowable screen  ( resolution(for  . grn . video driver only) .  . 

1. when you run this program , you will enter  read  menu. this 
menu you can press any function key. if you move or copy 
files , you will enter  write  menu. the  write  menu is much like 
 read  menu , but only allow you to change directory. 
the header line in  read  menu includes (d xx , f xx , t xx) . 
d display type. f number of files. t number of tagged files. 
pressing space in  read  menu will let you select which format to use 
for reading current file. 
pressing return in  read  menu will let you reading current file. this 
program will automatically determine which format this file is. 
the procedure is first , check magic number. if fail , check 
standard extension .  . still fail , report error. 
pressing s or s in  read  menu will do  slide show' .  . 
if delay time is 0 , program will wait until you hit a key 
(except escape) .  . 
if any error occurs , program will make a beep .  . 
 w  or  w  to pause , any key to continue. 
escape to terminate .  . 
pressing ins in  read  menu will change display type. 
pressing alt x in  read  menu will quit program without prompting .  . 
pressing f5 will turn on  effect  menu. 

2. once image file is successfully read , you will enter  screen  menu. 
you can do special effect on image. 
pressing return show image. 
in graphic mode , press return , space or escape to return to text 
mode. 
pressing tab change processing target. this program allows you to do 
special effects on 8 bit or 24 bit image. 
pressing left , right arrow change display type. 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits. 
pressing space save current image to file. 
b w dither save as black white  ( image(1 bit) .  . 
grey scale save as grey  ( image(8 bits) .  . 
full color save as color  ( image(8 bits) .  . 
true color save as 24 bit image. 

this program will ask you some questions if you want to write image 
to file. some questions are format dependent .  . finally this program 
will prompt you a filename .  . if you want to save file under another 
directory other than current directory , please press space. after 
pressing space , you will enter   menu. you can change 
directory to what you want. then , 

pressing space this program will prompt you  original  filename .  . 
pressing return this program will prompt you  selected  filename 
 ( filename under bar) .  . 


3. this program supports 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits display. 

4. this program is memory greedy .  . if you do n't have enough memory , 
the performance is poor. 

5. if you want to save 8 bits image 
try gif then  ( tiff(lzw ) then targa then sun raster then bmp then ... 

if you want to save 24 bits image  ( lossless ) 
try  ( tiff(lzw ) or targa or or sun raster 
(no one is better for true 24bits image) 

6. i recommend jpeg for storing 24 bits images , even 8 bits images. 

7. not all subroutines are fully tested 

8. this document is not well written. if you have any problem , suggestion , 
comment about this program , 
please send to (140 . 113 . 11 . 13) .  . 
i need your suggestion to improve this program. 
 ( there is no anonymous ftp on this site) 


(8) tech. information 
program  ( user interface and some subroutines ) written by jih shin ho .  . 
some subroutines are borrowed from xv(2 . 21) . and  ( pbmplus(dec 91) .  . 
tiff(v3 . 2) . and  ( jpeg(v4 ) reading writing are through public domain 
libraries .  . 
compiled with djgpp .  . 
you can get whole djgpp package from simtel20 or mirror sites. 
for example , wuarchive . wustl . edu . mirrors msdos djgpp 


(9) for thoese who want to modify video driver 
1. get grx source code from simtel20 or mirror sites. 
2. for hicolor and truecolor 
15 bits of colors is set to 32768 .  . 
16 bits of colors is set to 0xc010 .  . 
24 bits of colors is set to 0xc018 .  . 


acknowledgment 
i would like to thank the authors of xv and pbmplus for their permission 
to let me use their subroutines .  . 
also i will thank the authors who write tiff and jpeg libraries .  . 
thank dj .  . without djgpp i ca n't do any thing on pc. 


jih shin ho 


from  ( finn chr .  . lundbo ) 
subject re help needed dxf iff 
organization bergen scientific centre , bergen , norway 
lines 30 

in article  ( pei hsieh ) writes 
hi sorry if this is a faq , but are there any conversion utilities 
available for autodesk  . dxf . to amiga  . iff . format i 
checked the comp . graphics . faq and a number of sites , but so far 
no banana .  . please e mail. 

thanks. 

pei hsieh 
( ) ( ) e mail 
there 's no such thing as a small job just small fees .  . 
anon. , on being an architect 

hei pei .  . 

i can not help you directly width you problem , but there may be 
intermediate roads to take to get to the iff .  . i am using a converter 
that can take iges , , dxf iges , i iges , ii iges , 
, i , ii and dxf .  . 

is ibm iges format. there may be converters out there that can handle 
iges to iff .  . hope this was to any help. by the way the converter is part 
of the iges processor 6000 package from ibm and it runs on rs 6000 aix .  . 

best regard 
finn chr .  . 
ibm bergen environmental sciences 
solutions centre .  . 
e mail 


from  ( kim tan ) 
subject autodesk bbs 
organization philips laboratories , briarcliff , new york 
lines 7 

does autodesk has a bbs 







from  ( brandon vanevery ) 
subject 3d graphics software company info 
nntp posting host lambada . oit . unc . edu . 
organization university of north carolina extended bulletin board service 
lines 19 

within a few months , i 'll be looking for a job in 3d computer graphics 
software. i'm in need of info on companies that do it. there 's nothing 
in any of the faq 's for this group , and nothing at siggraph . org . (at least 
i could n't find anything . ) . the last computer graphics career handbook was 
dated 1991 , had info on 40 companies , but nothing specific on any of them. 

can people please direct me towards more current and detailed sources of 
information i 'll post a summary of sources if there 's interest. 

also , could you please e mail me , our news server is on the fritz .  . ( 

thanks , 
brandon 


the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of 
north carolina at chapel hill , the campus office for information 
technology , or the experimental bulletin board service. 
internet launchpad . unc . edu . or 152 . 2 . 22 . 80 . 

from (brian huddleston ) 
subject 3d images 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 9 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

can anyone around here point me to information regarding stereoscopic images 
i believe i saw some at a show room in texas  ( lone star illusions) and 
they were amazing. i 've now heard that they were created with a simple 
graphic program. does anyone have any of these images digitized 
i really want to find a out as much as i can .  .  . 

thanks .  .  . 

(please reply to this address) 

from  ( cummins charles ) 
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly 
article i.d. henson . 1993apr26 . 2273 . 
organization western washington university 
lines 20 

(richard j. mcdougald ) writes 

in article diablo . uucp . !  ( charles boesel ) writes 

of these application softwares we 're using but even so , how come one 
has n't been written  ( to my knowledge) .  . i mean , even hijaak , one of the 
commercial industry standards of file conversion , has n't attempted it yet 

adobe streamline has been out four a couple of years. it does a much better 
job than the functions which are built into illustration 
programs. of course , a higher resolution bitmap will produce a more 
accurate trace .  . the problem that i 've run into though , is that when it 
creates a detailed trace , it produces way more points than are necessary. 
if i trace something manually , i use many less es points. the problem 
with this is it produces big files which slow everything down , especially 
printing .  . 

chuck 

y 

from  ( steve hollasch ) 
subject re what is the difference between raytracing and rendering 
summary raytracing is a form of rendering 
organization kubota pacific computer , inc. 
lines 31 

 ( zhenhai li ) writes 
hello , i 've raytraced and rendered and the only difference i 've found 
is that raytracing takes a hell of a lot longer. am i missing something 

yes. there are many methods of rendering , raytracing is one of them. 
you did n't say what you mean by rendering , so i wo n't guess. methods of 
rendering include 

o pencil and graph paper , doing the math by hand 

o wireframe rendering of the 2d projection 

o hidden line rendering 

o scanline rendering using 
painter 's algorithm .  . 
trees. 
z buffer 
other 

o raytracing 

o radiosity 

o projection to film 

o combination of any of the above 


steve hollasch kubota pacific computer , inc. 
santa clara , california 

from  ( earl boebert ) 
subject any autodesk 3d concepts users out there 
organization 
lines 6 

if you are a user of autodesk 3d concepts , and are willing to answer 
a small number of short questions , then please send me email. 

earl 



from (robert j.c. kyanko ) 
subject help with world to screen 4x4 matrix 
organization neptune software inc orlando , fl 
lines 12 

i need help in creating my 4x4 perspective matrix .  . i 'd like to use this for 
transforming x , y , z , w in some texture mapping code i got from graphics gems 
i. i have many books which talk about this , but none of them in simple plain 
english. if you have graphics gems i , i'm talking about page 678 .  . 

i 'd like to have a perspective matrix that handles different field of views 
and aspect of course. thank 's for your help. 


yes , of course everything i say is my personal opinion ! 

robert j.c. kyanko or 

from  ( magic fingers ) 
subject re pov ray related group needed 
organization university of california santa cruz 
lines 32 
nntp posting host am . ucsc . edu . 


 ( magic fingers ) writes 
in article (stephen r. phillips) writes 
if it takes making it an alt group , then why not i 've been following 
this thread for , what has it been , two months now 
the alt. is created for 2 purposes 
1. for groups which do not fit under the comp. or other  official  
hierarchies 
2. for the fast creation of hot new newsgroups like alt . gulf . war . 
because there is no voting process or any other control facilities , 
sites are free to decide not to carry (some of) the alt groups. 
therefore , it is (i think) desirable to try to create comp . graphics .  . 
raytrace , rendering or whatever and not an alt group 

wouter 

very good point. is there someone out there that is working on this 
i 'd offer my time to help manage do it all myself but yaw 'll are not 
going to hear from me over the summer. i'm not trying to be , 
and there is being progress made  ( re pov mailing list) .  . 

hed 


advertisement advertisement 
don't miss this one time only sale sale sale sale ! 
h . e . d . tech . is now selling thier now model series 
geek ! this is a limited time offer , at a 300 reduction 
from our usual price of 8000 dollars .  .  .  . 
buy one now ! don't wait , sale ends sunday ! 
advertisement 


from (gerald edgar ) 
subject re viewing jpeg files 
keywords windows viewers 
distribution na 
organization boeing computer services  ( esp ) , seattle , wa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host crystal 

there are jpeg viewers that are windows based and therefore need no hardware 
specific drivers beyond those provided in windows. i got mine from the library 
of congress in connection with their online exhibit of books from the vatican 
library. see a previous message in this newgroup about that. 

gerald edgar 

the opinions expressed in this not may not represent those of his employer 


from  ( wilmshurst , peter ) 
subject re morphing 
organization triumf tri university meson facility 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host reg . triumf . ca . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , (seth wandersman ) writes .  .  .  . 

keywords 

i am looking for some morphing programs for dec 's or pc 's .  . i looked for a program 
called using archie but could not find it. i found a call 
morpho but it only did grayscale images. does anyone know where i should look 

try searching for dmorf , i think it 's located on wuarchive . wustl . edu . in a 
mirror directory .  .  .  . i 've used it before , it was pretty good ! 

pete 
email 


from stuttgart . de .  ( oliver kretzschmar ) 
subject need c algorithm , which decide whether a 3d point is inside a space , defined by 6 planes 
organization ike 
lines 31 
distribution world 
nntp posting host energietechnik . uni . stuttgart . de . 




hey , 

i am looking for c algorithm , which decide , whether a 3d point is 
inside a space which was defined by 8 x 3d points. 
with a space defined by 8 x 3d points , i mean a space defined by 
6 closed 3d meshes defined by 8 points. like this 









but in this simple example , the sides are parallel , but my problem , 
the sides can be non parallel and the opposite sides must not have 
the same size etc. please mail me your informations ! 

thanks for your great efforts 

oliver 


name o . kretzschmar . inst . ike . university stuttgart 
phone 49 711 685 2130 31 
fax 49 711 685 2010 7000 stuttgart 80 
email stuttgart . de . 

from ( pascal guillaumet ) 
subject re oak vga 1mb .  . please , i needd vesa tsr ! ! ! 8 ) 
nntp posting host com . 
organization guest of france ,  ( 3617 email) 
lines 13 

simple ! ! look for vesa drivers in vpic 6 . package ! ! 
many svga card supported .  . look for it on your favorite bbs .  . 



not tonight honey , i just received my 



pascal 
3614 
les 
france 

from  ( kouhia juhana ) 
subject re oh make up your mind ! !  ( was re xv problems) 
organization tampere university of technology 
lines 40 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

in article 
writes 

xv allows this feature , but i do n't recommend to use it with the 
mentioned type images. 

ah ! now we see thew problem ! first you want to extend xv to allow 
editing of 8 bit of 24 bit images. then i point out problems 
with this. now you are saying there is no problem because you , 
personally , happen not to use those parts of the program that cause 
the problem ! ! 
 .  . see . previous article on this debate for the rests .  .  . 

i can see xv 3.00 agree with my view in cases you do n't even i say 
my personal opinion  ( as above) , it does n't mean that it is not most 
obvious thing. 
please , if you use my previous writings as contradicting argument , 
please do read them you have not saw them at all you just 
refered to text from which i wrote  something  and you make 
hard decisions from that , without reading what exactly i have written. 

it is really hard read when one writes a reply line by line method 
and do n't understand include previously written material with the new 
sentences to give them meaning. you seem to be one such. 

you also start replying to my articles , even you do n't understand what 
is going on you ask me repeatedly to my views what were 
wrong with xv 2.21 even i posted them within the article you did reply 
to. believe me , it is not nice to get flamed specially when i know 
that you have not read my article carefully in the first place. 

xv 3.00 and jpeg faq and users i have written to agree me with the 
places you did n't i'm sure you just did n't what about i 
wrote. we can blame my writing skills  ( in english ) for that , or 

better stop the discussion and check what new ideas xv 3.00 gives 
i allready mailed one to bradley .  .  .  . 


juhana kouhia 

from  ( kingsley turner) 
subject universal vesa driver 
organization public unix system , newcastle , oz 
summary want to know about universal vesa driver 
keywords vesa 
lines 12 

some time ago  ( about 1 month) there was a bit of discussion 
about a universal vesa driver for 8bit cards. it was in 
the file uvesa32 . zip .  . well i ca n't find it , does anyone know 
where it is something . something . au) . , and what sort 
of cards it works for 

also would it be pushing my luck to ask for someone to post 
it to some appropriate group. 

kingsley turner 
nsw australia 


from  ( kate kingman ) 
subject re lcd vga display 
nntp posting host shuffle 
organization department of computer science , warwick university , england 
lines 24 

in article (ed moore ) writes 
i 've only had the computer for about 21 months. is that a reasonable life 
cycle for a lcd display 

my toshiba lcd  ( cga , 1986) died in 11 months. replaced under the 12 
month warranty , fortunately .  . when it died , it died instantly and completely. 

i worked in support for a while at a company and we had problems with several 
toshiba 1600 's in a short space of time. they were all around 2 years old. 
some screens went completely  ( as above) , others were just . 

this happened to about 5 or 6 out of , maybe 100. they were fairly reliable up 
to then and i do n't think it was a special problem with tosh 's (no link to the 
company) .  . so i would think that 21 months may not be unreasonable just 
unlucky ! 

regards , 

kate .  . ) 


kate kingman i leave the typos to 
the tall blonde occupy all the bored 
) ) people out there. ) 

from (michael dillon ) 
subject re looking for polygon 
organization a world of information at your fingertips 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

does anyone know where i can find a code which would take concave 
polygons and break them up into a set of convex polygons 
o 

i also would like code or algorithms to do this. 

in fact , i am interested in sources for code and or algorithms that 
convert 2d graphical objects into other 2d graphical objects that 
will render into the same image. i.e. bezier curves to b splines , 
or splines to circular arc segments , or b splines to , etc .  .  .  . 



michael dillon internet 
c 4 powerhouse fidonet 1 353 350 
rr 2 armstrong , bc voice 1 604 546 
canada bbs 1 604 546 

from  ( geir storhaug ) 
subject re help with world to screen 4x4 matrix 
organization norwegian defence research establishment , , norway .  . 
lines 26 
nntp posting host globus . no . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 11 may 1993 19 32 54 gmt 

in article (robert j.c. kyanko ) writes 

i need help in creating my 4x4 perspective matrix .  . i 'd like to use this for 
transforming x , y , z , w in some texture mapping code i got from graphics gems 
i. i have many books which talk about this , but none of them in simple plain 
english. if you have graphics gems i , i'm talking about page 678 .  . 

i 'd like to have a perspective matrix that handles different field of views 
and aspect of course. thank 's for your help. 

 ( cos(alpha 2) horizontal 
 ( sin(alpha 2) 
cb2  ( cos(beta 2) vertical 
 ( sin(beta 7 2) 
far clipping value 
zn near clipping value 

matrix 
0 0 0 
0 cb2 0 0 
0 0  ( zf zn ) 1 
0 0 zn  ( zf zn ) 0 


( 
) phone 47 63  ( office ) 47 63  ( home ) 

from  ( gord wait s mos systems vancouver design center) 
subject re rumours about 3do 
organization s mos systems , inc.  ( vancouver design center) 
lines 14 

in article sean mcmains writes 
wow ! a 68070 ! i 'd be very interested to get my hands on one of these , 
especially considering the fact that motorola has not yet released the 
68060 , which is supposedly the next in the 680x0 lineup .  . 8 d 

the 68070 is made by someone other than motorola  ( signetics perhaps) , 
and was  ( if memory serves me correctly) a 68000 compatible single chip 
micro type chip .  . ie built in extra toys like serial ports , ram 
interfaces etc. so , laugh all you want , but there is such a critter ! 

gord wait systems vancouver design centre 
uunet ! jericho ! gord 
gord 
or even some days 

from (stephen t bacon ) 
subject re 48 bit graphics .  .  .  . 
organization illinois institute of technology academic computing center 
lines 18 


a good reason (which is why many companies use it) for 48 bits pixel 
is so you can use double buffering  ( for animating scenes ) i.e. you have 
2 24 bit planes .  . you write to the one in the background , and then flip ! 
the entire screen updates to the second image plane. the screen updates 
in one refresh and you do n't see different objects appearing in the order 
that they 're drawn  ( as in the cad effect) .  . now your ready to update 
the image that used to be in the foreground .  . 

steve .  . iris . iit . edu) . 

about the sg product line who can even keep track nowadays every co. seems 
to  ( as their ads press releases claim) redefine computing  . etc . ) . as 
we know it with each new product. progress and competition are great , but who 
wants to invest in a system that 's obsolete by the time it reaches your desk 
) 



from ad  ( robotic posting menace ! ) 
subject your one stop graphics shop ! 
reply to 
lines 102 



t h e g r a p h i c s b b s 









 . rent . com . 

it 's better than a sharp stick in the eye ! andy meyer 


we are pleased to announce that we have just upgraded our system to a 
new hayes ultra 144 v . 32bis . v . 42bis . modem that will allow connections 
from 300bps up to 38 , 400bps ! 


featuring 

o a graphics specific system for those of you interested in 
such things as 3d graphics , image processing , animation , 
clip art and the latest in public domain graphics programs ! 

o graphics specific mailing lists such as imagine 3d , 
and lightwave 3d mailing lists aliased to easy to read 
forums which you can join and read. many more to come ! 

o free usenet access and free netmail to sites all over the 
world ! the ability to contact software hardware developers 
right at their mainframes just by sending them netmail from 
the graphics bbs ! not to mention your kids at college or your 
parents from college. 

with our quick connections and reliable links , you can have 
your mail sent around the world in a matter of minutes ! 

o a unique conference  ( bulletin ) section. the to join 
and keep track of only the conferences that you enjoy. 

the ability to read in files from your own personal file area 
for use in messages. also , with proper access , you can create 
your own conference and moderate it. 

o from usenet that include topics such as graphics , 
mac , amiga , ibm , science , erotica , ham radio , star trek , 
scuba diving , programmers forums , game designers forums , and 
cyberspace forums. 

o the most sophisticated , but easy to learn and use mail system 
ever created for a pc ! you can easily read your mail , delete 
it or move it to your personal directory for storage and reply 
to it. you can attach files to your mail and send it to 
another member. a smart sendmail feature ensures accurate 
addressing of netmail .  . 

o ability to send mail and messages to arpanet , usenet , internet , 
bitnet and any of the networks that interface with them around the 
world such as fidonet , and the uucp network of university 
and research facility systems. 

o a file library containing downloads for most popular computers 
featuring an easy to learn and use system. the library features 
master directory listing , and search capabilities as 
well as complete archived file listings .  . 

the file library supports most popular transfer protocols 
such as x , y , z modem as well as advance protocols such as 
hs link and bi modem .  . 

the file library also doubles as a file server for users from 
other sites all around the world ! 

o complete control over your environment. you select whether 
you want hot key control , menus , more prompting etc. you 
can define your cancel key and choose your terminal emulation .  . 

you can also edit your personal login script to do what you 
want it to do. 

o online games  ( global war , jet combat simulator , etc . ) .  . new 
games to be added. 

o online manual and extensive help facilities. complete tracking 
of online usage time. 

o 170 megabytes of storage. 


the graphics bbs currently runs on an ibm at at 8mhz with 4 meg of 
ram , 
meg ide 
drive. 

call the graphics bbs at 908 469 0049 
300 baud , 24 hours a day , everyday ! 

system bob lindabury 

from  ( leong wai ming ) 
subject help animation for pcx , gif files 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 15 

hi , i 've a series of images in sun raster formats .  . i 've converted them 
to pcx formats (i can do the conversion to others like gif as well) .  . i 
would like to know of any software that is able to do animation for 
these formats , and to record the animation onto a video tape. 

thank you. 




leong , wai ming internet 
national university of singapore bitnet 




from  ( pat (a jedi in training ) 
subject re 3 d widget wish list 
keywords 3 d widget , manipulation , feedback , user interface design system 
nntp posting host nick . csh . rit . edu . 
organization computer science house @ rit 
lines 16 


what i 'd like to see is the more generic n dimensional widget set. 
i realize , that there would n't be a whole of people 
who 'd want more than 3 , but why stop 

all i need is a widget with up to n showing me different 
3 d or 2 d slices of my stuff. 

alter , 
pat 




all objects are , invisible , non physical , or otherwise 
non  . fuck the cat ! me 

from  ( steve lamont ) 
subject re cgm files 
organization university of calif. , san diego microscopy and imaging resource 
lines 32 
nntp posting host pitstop . ucsd . edu . 

in article  ( harald meyer ) writes 
the only book i 've found on the cgm format , is cgm and cgi by d . b . arnold . 
p . r . from springer verlag , isbn 3 540 5. it 's not the best 
book i 've read though .  .  .  .  . 

well , there is the standards document .  . from the faq 

12) how to order standards documents .  . 

the american national standards institute sells ansi standards , and also 
iso  ( international ) standards. their sales office is at 1 212 642 4900 , 
mailing address is 1430 broadway , ny ny 10018 .  . it helps if you have the 
complete name and number. 

some useful numbers to know 

cgm  ( computer graphics metafile ) is iso 4  . gks  ( graphical 
kernel system) is ansi x3 . 124 . 1985 .  . ... 

if you want a viewer , try downloading ralcgm from unix . hensa . ac . uk . , 
misc unix ralcgm ralcgm . tar . z . 

you might also want to look at from the folks at the pittsburgh 
supercomputer center. fish around at psc . edu .  . it is pretty 
nifty .  . 

spl 

steve lamont , (619) 534 7968 
san diego microscopy and imaging resource uc san diego la jolla , ca 92093 0608 
a naked lunch is natural to us , we eat reality  . 
but are so much lettuce .  . do n't hide the madness .  . allen ginsberg 

from 
subject archiving gif 
organization university of northern iowa 
lines 9 

what 's the best way to archive gif 's i zip them and they only shrink 1 . i 
have most compression programs except stacker which i heard was good for gif 's .  . 


thanx 
brando 

ps please e mail me , i do n't get down this far on the news usually 


from  ( roderick polder ) 
subject re dxf to pcx , gif , tif or tga 
organization utrecht university , dept. of computer science 
lines 15 

in (ed murashie ) writes 

does anyone know of a program for the pc that 
will take autocad dxf format files and convert 
them to a raster format , like pcx , gif , etc 
thanks in advance .  .  .  .  . 
ed 

i'm also interested in such a program. but most of all i 'd like to know 
wich program is able to convert gif or pcx to dxf ! ! ! when i have this 
program , i can scan pictures and  ( or something like that ! ) them. 
this will be beyond the limit ! ! ! 

roderick 


from (patrick chu 3605 ) 
subject compositing pictures on pc 
organization ncr  ( torrey pines development center) 
disclaimer this posting does not necessarily reflect the opinions of ncr .  . 
lines 16 


i was wondering if anyone knows of a graphics package for the pc that 
will do compositing of a series of pictures 

what i mean by compositing is , say i have a live video clip 
 ( digitized ) panning around a living room , and a computer generated 
bird flying around the screen. i want to combine these two series of 
pictures so that everywhere where the bird frames are black , i want 
the living room picture to show through. yes , i realize i can do this 
with a genlock , and i do own a genlock , but i want to be able to do 
manual compositing also. it 's ok if i have to composite one frame at 
a time i assumed i 'd have to do that anyway. but being able to 
composite a series of frames would be even better. 

i 've looked around and i have n't found a pc package that will perform 
this. help , please ! 

from  ( raoul sam daruwala ) 
subject , where is it kept 
keywords 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems 
lines 8 

i'm told that is available on the internet. i wanted to know where it is. 

thanks in advance. 






from  ( william b dwinnell ) 
subject re intel 's pci standard 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 7 


yes , intel 's pci is  ( another ) local bus standard , which 
can be used for graphics , although i believe local buses can be used 
for other things , too. as far as i know , though , pci local bus 
would compete with vesa local bus , not the vesa graphics standard , but 
others more enlightened might be able to shed more light on this 
matter. 

from (richard j. mcdougald ) 
subject re help needed dxf iff 
organization university of tennessee 
lines 30 

in article blue blue  ( yury german ) writes 

in article  ( pei hsieh ) writes 
hi sorry if this is a faq , but are there any conversion utilities 
available for autodesk  . dxf . to amiga  . iff . format i 
checked the comp . graphics . faq and a number of sites , but so far 
no banana .  . please e mail. 


 . dxf . can not be changed over to  . iff . format what it can be changed 
to is an object format used by one of the 3d programs on the amiga .  . the 
only tools around are comercial for that conversion .  . 

hijaak claims to convert  . dxf . to  . iff . , although hijaak claims some stuff 
that i have never gotten to work  ( for example , not long ago i tried to 
convert some  . iff . files from an amiga video toaster  ( using , so my 
pc could read the disks) int targa files. hijaak made some gorgeous 1.5 
megabyte targa files from the  . all totally black ! 



mac mcdougald any opinions expressed herein 
the photography center are not necessarily  ( actually , 
univ. of tenn. knoxville 37996 are almost certainly not) those 
of the university of tennessee .  . 

 ( 615 974 3449 ) things are more like they are now 
 ( 615 974 6435 ) fax than they 've ever been before. 



from  ( anthony a. datri ) 
subject re oh make up your mind ! !  ( was re xv problems) 
nntp posting host lovecraft . siemens . com . 
organization siemens 
lines 11 

a) xv can load a 24 bit image , and display it in all it 's 
24 bit glory on 24 bit x displays .  . 
b) all other operations  ( crop , dither , smooth , etc . ) . are not 
supported on 24 bit images. 

how hard would this be 

not very you just type xloadimage or instead of xv . 


8 

from 
subject re gif to 3dstudio 
reply to 
organization indescribable creations 
lines 11 

as far as simply mapping your logo or whatever onto a cube or sphere , 
it 's quite easy. just either copy the gif you want mapped into the map 
directory or add a map path to the directory where it currently is. then 
go into the materials editor and make a new material with that as the bit 
map , voila .  .  . 



h e y b e r e n 

the public access waffle usenet system 415 472 5527 

from  ( zyda res acct ) 
subject re 3d head model ... (not again , groan ) 
organization naval postgraduate school , monterey 
lines 40 

o.k. , sorry to post a question which seems to crop up 
quite regularly in this group however i have yet 
to get a specific and usefull  ( in my context) answer 
to where i can get hold of 3d data for a head. 

what i am looking for 

simple polyon description of head face which can be easily 
converted for , or used with , pov  . 
(i . e .  . 1500 polygons) 

well , i am placing a file at my ftp today that contains several 
polygonal descriptions of a head , face , skull , vase , etc. the format 
of the files is a list of vertices , normals , and triangles .  . there are 
various resolutions and the name of the data file includes the number 
of polygons , eg. phred . 1 . 3k . contains 1300 polygons .  . 


in order to get the data via ftp do the following 

1) ftp taurus . cs . nps . navy . mil . 
2) login as anonymous , guest as the password 
3) cd pub 
4) binary 
5) get cyber . tar . z . 

once you get the data onto your workstation 

1) uncompress data . tar . z . 
2) tar data . tar . 

if you have any questions , please let me know. 

george 


george 
cyberware labs 



subject gif to targa 
from (david mason ) 
distribution world 
organization channel 1 communications 
lines 6 

was asking about gif to tga conversion so that he 
could use dta 1.5 to convert the tga files to fli animation files. 

, update your copy of dta to a more recent release (the current 
is 1 .  . later versions of dta can read gif files. 


from (craig gotsman ) 
subject computer graphics studies at the technion 
reply to (craig gotsman ) 
organization technion , israel inst. of technology 
lines 23 

technion israel institute of technology 
department of computer science 

graduate studies in computer graphics 

applications are invited for graduate students wishing 
to specialize in computer graphics and related fields .  . 
active research is being conducted in the fields of 
image rendering , geometric modelling and computer animation. 
state of the art graphics workstations  ( sun , silicon graphics) 
and video equipment are available. 
the technion offers full scholarship support  ( tuition and 
assistantships ) for suitable candidates .  . 

for more information contact 

dr. craig 
computer science 
technion israel institute of technology 
haifa , israel 




from  ( niclas mattsson ) 
subject wanted grayscale dithering routine 
nntp posting host dali . math . chalmers . se . 
organization chalmers university of technology 
lines 15 

i have some color gifs which i would like to archive in a much smaller 
size using a grayscale palette of 16 shades .  . the quantization to 16 grays 
introduces some ugly bands in the pictures , which can be nicely eliminated 
by dithering .  . up to now i have used xv to process the images , but now i 
would like to automate the procedure .  . 

the problem is that xv ca n't (i think) convert images automatically , and the 
obvious alternative  ( ppmquant and pnmdither ) do n't even get close to 
xv 's quality. apparently in rgb , even though the images 
are in grayscale .  . the dithering routine in xv seems to use the natural image 
colors for the dither .  . is this or any similar routine available in the 
public domain if so , where 




from  ( warren liu) 
subject help 3d studio ipas .  . 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 6 



hi. can anyone please give me some ftp sites to get ipas processes for 
3d studio 2.0 
thanks. 
warren 8 ) 

from  ( jesse lackey ) 
subject re fast polygon routine needed 
keywords polygon , needed 
organization 3d eye , inc. ithaca , ny 
lines 20 

in article  ( alan christiansen ) writes 
i believe that the algorithms you can get that will only draw convex 
polygons can be much more efficient than those that can draw 
concave self intersecting polygons .  . 
this efficiency can largely be attributed to the fact that 
simple convex polygons only have a left and a right edge on each scan line. 
complex  ( figure 8 type polygons) can be a bit trickier .  . 

it is true the convex algorithm is faster than a general concave multi outline 
algorithm , but not tremendously faster. i spent awhile implementing and 
optimizing both flavors , and the convex turned out about 10 faster. this is 
all c  ( on hp pa risc the compiler got the inner loop shooting the span as 
fast as possible , as far as i could  . for any sort of game the database 
to render is known ahead of time , and can be made all convex .  . definitely the 
way to go. 

p.s. sorry but my code cannot be made public domain .  .  .  .  . 
jesse 

jesse 3d eye , inc. , ithaca ny  ( 607 ) 257 1381 

from  ( gregory winer ) 
subject an very broad question 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 20 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


i am considering creating a demo for the ibm pc for my band. 
i would like to combine interesting graphics and a sample of 
my music in the program. i have seen things like this 
done for other platforms , and even a few for the pc , but since 
i'm completly new to this , i have no idea wher to start. 
i'm pretty sure that i am not skilled enough to put this 
together , but i was hoping that you  ( collectivly ) could 
a. let me know what issues i need to worry about , things i 
should take into consideration when developing the 
concept. 
b. perhaps someone knows of a programmer artist who would be interested 
in this type of a project. 

i know these are rather broad questions , but any information 
would be most helpful. thanks ! ! 


gregory 


from (ed campbell ) 
subject libraries for text math graphics display 
keywords text math fonts display c code 
lines 8 
nntp posting host metz . une . edu . au . 

does anyone know of any c or c libraries for preparing 
and displaying quickly pages of mixed text , mathematical equations , 
and graphics  ( circles , ellipses , etc) on the the maths 
need to be up to tex quality , but it would be useful to be  . 
the main thing would be to be able to generate the display quickly 
from a minimum set of formatting code. 
thanks , 
ed campbell 

subject re virtual reality for x on the cheap ! 
from  ( tim potter ) 
distribution inet 
organization university college of northern victoria  ( bendigo ) 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 27 

(peter k. campbell ) writes 
(brian s. ridout ) writes 

in article ,  ( steve sherwood  ( x5543 ) writes 
has anyone got multiverse to work 
extn 5543 , , ! uunet ! ! sts 

i 've tried compiling it on several with gcc 2 . 22 .  . after 
fixing up a few bugs (3 missing constant definitions plus a couple of 
other things) i got it to compile link , but after starting client 
server i just get a black window sometimes the client core dumps , 
sometimes the server , sometimes i get a broken pipe , sometimes it 
just sits there doing nothing although i occassionally get the 
cursor to become a cross hair in dog fight , but that 's it. i 've 
sent word to the author plus what i did to fix it last week , but 
no reply as yet. 

peter k. campbell 


i 've discovered a bug in the libraries parser parser . c . function where it was generating a segmentation fault. it appears the is corrupted somehow. i had it return random colours instead and everything worked great (except for a few colour problems) so i know its the only thing wrong. 

the colour table somehow gets a couple of placed in it so when the name of the colours are compared it crashes .  . i have n't found the problem yet maybe someone else can. 

adrian turner 
university college of northern victoria 


from z 
subject re tiff anything ! 
organization stephen f. austin state university 
lines 14 

there is a program called graphic workshop you can ftp from 
wuarchive .  . the file is in the msdos graphics directory and 
is called grfwk61t . zip .  . this program should od everthing 
you need. 

tmc 



could you be more specific i need that file too but could n't find it 
amongst all the directories at wuarchive .  . 

page 
z 

from  ( zyda res acct ) 
subject re human head modeling software 
organization naval postgraduate school , monterey 
lines 36 

in article  ( zyda res acct ) writes 
hi , there ! 
i am interested in facial animation and want to implement some program about this area. 
but i do n't have any 3 d information for the face. 
i am looking for some 3d images of face. 

try getting the cyberware demo via ftp which contains 3d images of the 
face. 


what is the copyright status of this data are there restrictions regarding the 
uses they can be put to 

kaveh 



kaveh kardan 


kaveh , 

all of the data included with in the cyberware demo is 
non proprietary , use it as you like. i just ask that you give us 
credit if you use it in a research paper project and send us the 
results. 

thanks , 

geo 
cyberware 

george 
cyberware labs 



from (g . w . 
subject rgb hsv conversion routines wanted 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 19 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

hi , 

i'm looking for rgb  ( cube )  ( double hexcone ) hsv  ( cylinder ) 
conversion routines .  . i have rgb hsv , but miss the rgb hsv .  . 

please e mail me directly , as i do not get this newsgroup at my site 


any and all help wil be greatly appreciated. 
gert .  . 



o gert bultman phone ( .  . 31) . 70 o 
snail , ,  . 
o o o mail , 2500 ex the hague , the netherlands o o o 

o ( please mark all personal mail ) o 


from (james d. murray ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 11 
nntp posting host sciences . sdsu . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

what bill gates and steve jobs are now is the result of the 
natural evolution of a successful hacker .  . either you make money , go 
to jail  ( lee sp ) , or just fade away as oh , that 's uncle 
so and so who really likes computers .  .  .  . . 

what a computer hacker is and does will change as long as the definition 
of the word computer continues to change. 


james d. murray 


from  ( brendan duddridge ) 
subject re looking for hot mac 3d anim software 
nntp posting host ccu . umanitoba . ca . 
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada 
distribution usa 
lines 49 

in  ( garland stern ) writes 

i am interested in finding 3d animation programs for the mac .  . 
i am especially interested in any programs that do n't exist 
in a pc port and are so good that they would make me go buy 
a mac .  . do any such exist 

thanks in advance 

howdy .  .  .  . i think you would be interested in d 2.5 for the mac .  . there 
is no dos or windows version. it 's quite an amazing program. 

some of the features 

text 
timeline based animation sequencer 
realtime bounding box preview 
object linking 
phong shading 
ray tracing 
bounding box shading 
wireframe shading 
shading 
flat shading 
anti aliasing  ( none , low , medium , high) 
environment maps 
quicktime support  ( wrap a qt movie around an object) 
procedural surfaces 
composed surfaces  ( for surfaces ) 
alpha channel support 
import eps , dxf , and swivel 3d files 
export dxf and swivel 3d files 
spline based animation 
animation assistant  ( for creating smooth movements and other stuff) 
object morphing  ( surfaces and morph too) 

... and lots more that i ca n't remember right now .  .  .  . 

anyway , it 's not as expensive as some of the other animation rendering 
packages. i think you can get it for around 699 from  . 
they also have educational discounts .  .  .  . 

well , hope that helps a bit. 

see ya .  .  .  . 

brendan 
internet 
america online 

from  ( steve cunningham ) 
subject re siggraph online experimental publication available 
summary it 's all there .  .  .  . 
keywords siggraph , electronic online issue 
organization csu stanislaus 
lines 49 

rich writes 

in article , 
 ( steve cunningham ) writes 
computer graphics experimental special online issue 
may 1993 

the may 1993 experimental special issue of computer graphics is online 
as a set of files on the siggraph . org . system in the directory 
ftp publications may 93 online 
this is made available to the computer graphics community by acm 
siggraph .  . the general theme of this issue is electronic documents , and 
the table of contents in the files will tell you more 
about this publication and its contents .  . 

i ftp 'd here , but found nothing. has this been removed 

nope , it 's still there 

ftp siggraph . org . 
connected to siggraph . org .  . 
220 siggraph . org . ftp server  ( version 6 . 12 . tue apr 13 09 53 56 cdt 1993) ready. 
name org . rsc ) anonymous 
331 guest login ok , send e mail address as password. 
password 
230 
230 welcome to siggraph . org . , a machine maintained for acm 
230 siggraph by volunteers as a service to the active 
230 computer graphics community. 
230 ... 
ftp cd publications may 93 online 
250 cwd command successful. 
ftp ls 
200 port command successful. 
150 opening ascii mode data connection for file list. 

maurer . 
skip . russell . 
gonzalez 

green . 
announcements 
calendar 
contacts 
index 
read me 
226 transfer complete. 
141 bytes received in 0.04 seconds (3 . 4 . kbytes s) 
ftp 

from  ( mark einkauf ) 
subject re need help z buffering lines areas together 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
keywords z buffer , roundoff , lines , areas 
lines 105 


david writes 

i'm asking for help on a sticky problem involving unreasonably low 
apparent precision in z buffering , that i 've encountered in 2 different 
pex implementations .  . i ca n't find any discussion of this problem in any 
resources i can lay hands on (e . g .  . the comp . windows . x . pex . faq , gaskins 's 
pexlib programming manual , vendors   . 

.... 

the problem to be solved is to eliminate or minimize 
artifacts resulting from the use of z buffering with polylines that are 
coplanar with filled areas. the interpolated z values along a line will 
differ slightly , due to roundoff error , from the interpolated z values 
across an area , even when the endpoints of the line are coincident with 
vertices of the area. because of this , it 's a whether the 
z buffer will allow the line pixels or the area pixels to be displayed .  . 
visually , the result tends to be a dashed line effect even though the 
line is supposed to be solid. 

using the pexlib api , my approach to a solution is to use two slightly 
different pex view mapping transforms , in two view table entries , one 
for the areas and one for the lines. the pex structures or immediate 
mode output must be organized so that one view table index is always in 
effect for areas , and the other is always in effect for lines. the 
result is a slight shift in npc z coordinates for the lines , so as to 
attempt to bias the situations in favor of the lines. 

this shift is effected by moving the front and back clipping planes used 
in the pexlib view table entry for lines just a hair backwards (i . e .  . 
smaller z coordinates ) , compared to their positions in the view 
table entry used for areas. this means that when a point is transformed 
to npc , its z value will be slightly bigger if it comes from a line than 
if it comes from an area , thus accomplishing the desired bias .  . 

i would expect the z roundoff errors which cause the problem to amount 
to a few units at most , out of the entire dynamic range of the z buffer , 
typically from 0 to 65535 if not (i . e .  . 16 or 24 bit z  . 
therefore , it seems that a tiny fraction of the range of z in 
between the front and back clip planes ought to suffice to reliably fix 
the  . 

but in fact , experience shows that the shift has to be as much as 0 . 003 . 
to 0 . 006 . of the range.  ( empirically , it 's worst when the npc z 
component of the slope of the surface is high , i.e. when it appears more 
or less edge on to the viewer . ) . it 's as if only 8 or 9 bits of the 
z buffer have any dependable meaning ! this amount is so great that one 
problem is replaced by another sometimes the polylines show through 
areas which they are supposed to lie behind. 

i 've observed the problem on both hewlett packard and digital 
workstation pex servers , to approximately the same degree. the test 
program demonstrates the problem on an mit pexlib 5 . x . implementation 
this version is known to compile and run on an hp ux system with pex 
5 . 1 .  . 

open questions 
(1) why does this happen 
am i configuring the pex view table wrongly 
is there a systematic difference in z interpolation for lines 
as opposed to areas (e . g .  . pixel centers versus corners ) which 
could be corrected for 
are pex z precision in their 

something else 
(2) what to do about it 
can i fix my use of the view table to allow better precision 
in z buffered 
is there another approach i can take to remove the 
artifacts 
am i just out of luck 


we here at ibm have the same problem with our workstations .  . i was also 
shocked when i first realized that you have to offset lines from fills by 
about 16 bits  ( assuming 24 bit z  . this seems huge , but is only 
1 256 of the dynamic range. in those terms it does n't seem so bad. what 
is happening is that the interpolation in z is not totally linear , due 
mainly to roundoff , i believe. so the polygon is not planar in z , but is 
more like a potato chip .  . ditto with lines. when you start end at 
different x y values , the ridges are out of phase , resulting in the 
stitch effect. you have the same problem if you try to draw 1 polygon 
right on top of another , but with different vertices .  . you will likely see 
a smeared effect where they overlap .  . 
example 
try polygon 1 (100 , 100 , 100) (100 , 200 , 100)  ( 200 , 200 , 100)  ( 200 , 100 , 100) 
polygon 2  ( 125 , 125 , 100)  ( 125 , 175 , 100)  ( 175 , 175 , 100)  ( 175 , 125 , 100) 

your implementation is correct. in fact , we do a similar trick when 
rendering primitives that have lines and polygons such as nurbs surfaces 
with lines. without the trick , the lines appear stitched , as 
you say. when the application draws lines polygons independently , the 
system does not have the smarts to automatically do the z shifting , so the 
application must do it. this is what you have discovered and are doing. 
bravo ! 

 ( note to ibm'ers the information given here has been previously disclosed 
through proper channels so i'm not giving away any new unpublished info . ) . 


mark 
ibm advanced workstations and systems graphics systems 
austin tx 
views and opinions expressed herein are not necessarily those of ibm corp. 

from  ( steve cunningham ) 
subject re acm siggraph registration problem 
summary it 's fixed .  .  .  . 
organization csu stanislaus 
lines 29 

(michael zyda ) notes 

a word of warning for those of you registering for siggraph '93 .  . 
i just received my registration form back in the mail with the 
envelope marked return to sender .  . moved left no address. 
closed po box . the address i used to register for siggraph '93 
is the one printed on the registration form 

acm siggraph '93 
po box , 
chicago , il 5316 

i printed the envelope in my best printing , honest but evidently 
siggraph '93 has skipped town or moved 

i ended up faxing my registration to 312 321  . i hope that 
number is real ! 

michael 

i had the same problem and called the people who handle the box the 
problem happened some time ago and was caught almost instantly .  . all 
registrations going to that address are now fixed. see what trouble 
you get into when you do n't , mike 

and no , siggraph 93 has not skipped town we 're preparing the best 
siggraph conference yet ! 

steve cunningham 

from 
subject for papers for   vol. 17 no. 2 
originator 
organization jozef stefan institute , ljubljana , slovenia 
lines 69 

this is an invitation to send articles to the informatica magazine. 
the first fully international issue has been published and echoes 
are quite favourable .  . for any information , contact 

dear colleague , april 25 , 1993 

number 1 of volume 17 of informatica is now out of print and some of you 
will receive it in a week or so. as you will see , the journal is structured 
in the following way the editorial  ( first page ) profiles  ( second page 
biography of an editor , in this issue , terry winograd ) the edited 
part of papers (pp .  . 3 80) mission and research reports (a plan for 
knowledge archives project in japan and in stanford , pp. 81 100) 
and news and announcements (pp .  . 101 108) .  . this structure is mentioned to 
give you a suggestion how could you help to make the contents of the 
journal significant , diverse , and interesting , bringing your own views 
into the discourse .  . 
a great emphasis is given to the so called editorial page. this page 
expresses an opinion  ( belief ) of the writing editor to some problems 
within the scope of computing and informatics , extending into other 
concerning disciplines , e.g. cybernetics , advanced ai , cognitive sciences , 
mind , concerned neural sciences , advanced technology 
(e . g .  . photonics ) , etc. i asked professor terry to write this 
page for number 2. i certainly would appreciate very much to get 
suggestions or possible offers from other editors , who like to express 
their strong  ( directed ) beliefs concerning a future development of the 
area in question. 
on the second page of each number an editor 's profile is published .  . 
the aim of the profile is twofold to show his her professional 
achievements , interests , scientific , and philosophical orientation on 
one side to his her life story in the environments in which 
editors has lived and live on the other side. this kind of story should 
be instructive , adequately faced , contributing to the 
understanding of circumstances in which editors have to act and live. 
the edited part  ( edited papers ) is still critical .  . i would like to have 
a stock of accepted papers in advance , so the issuing dates of a particular 
number can be fixed (e . g .  . january , april , july , and  . in situation 
right now , i ask you to help me with contributions of yours or your 
colleagues , collaborators , students , etc. some critical views to the 
contemporary development of computing and informatics are appreciated. 
a special emphasis should be given also to by which fresh 
ideas are coming into the circulation of different professional communities .  . 
reports of different occasions  ( symposia , conferences , meetings , etc . ) . 
and particularly on new books , papers , and interesting events are welcome. 
you can send these news immediately  ( also by your secretary) by e mail. 
on the other hand , you can send books and other publications  ( annual 
reports , journals , calls for papers , etc . ) . for reviewing and publishing 
in informatica .  . we in the editorial staff will manage the rest. 
e mail is functioning satisfactorily , so please use it in every respect. 
you can submit editorial notes , profiles , reports , news and even complete 
papers written in standard latex format  ( especially  . we received 
several final  ( corrected ) texts in number 1 from different sites  ( us , 
russia , etc . ) .  . in this way , you can compose reports from already typed 
texts , using your own choice and editing , and submit them to the contact 
person , who is always being on your disposal .  . so , 
you will receive a prompt confirmation and any information concerning 
our common interest and job. 

at the end , please do not forget we need your cooperation and help in 
every mentioned respect. the aim of informatica is to open various 
possibilities of communication concerning strong scientific and 
philosophical orientations as well as those coming up , still , 
and on the way to become significant .  . please , do not apprehend to give 
proposals , suggestions , and , certainly , contributions via the e mail 
and by other means. 

sincerely yours , 

anton p. 
editor in chief 

from (andrew hudson) 
subject source to create fli or flc 
summary looking for source to create fli or flc 
organization genesis public access unix 1 508 664 
lines 12 


does anyone know if the source is available to create fli 
or flc animations i would ideally like dll 's for windows 
but would settle for c source. i 've heard they might be 
available on amiga forums somewhere. the libraries 
currently distributed by autodesk , , aaplay , do not 
have fli creation capability , only playback .  . 

any pointers would be appreciated , thanks ! 

andrew hudson 


from (robert j woolridge ) 
subject anonymous ftp sites for graphics 
distribution usa 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 9 

can someone please give me a couple names of anonymous 
ftp sites that to graphics. i am looking for info 
sources images for building a ray tracer .  . 


thanks , 

robert 


from  ( steve hollasch ) 
subject re kubota kenai specs 
summary some clarifications 
organization kubota pacific computer , inc. 
lines 35 


okay , i got enough replies about the kubota kenai systems that i 
will post a summary of their capabilities .  . ... 

graphics 

transform modules 1 6 1 6 
frame buffer modules 5 , 10 , 20 5 , 10 , 20 
frame buffer 
double buffered double buffered 
z buffer 24 bit 24 bit 
alpha 8 bit 8 bit 

(paul martz ) 
does this mean they can either do alpha or , but not both 
simultaneously 


stereo support yes yes 
other both machines will double buffer or do 
stereo output per window. both have an 
auxiliary video output that is rs , 
ntsc , and pal 

(paul martz ) 
same question again , does this mean they can either do double 
buffering or stereo , but not both simultaneously 

for both these questions , it 's an inclusive or. alpha plus is 
supported  ( they 're separate ) , as is double buffered stereo. 


steve hollasch kubota pacific computer , inc. 
santa clara , california 
had it right math is hard. 

from (d w austin ) 
subject re anti aliasing raytracing question 
nntp posting host rouge . spectrum . cs . unsw . oz . au . 
reply to (d w austin ) 
organization none 
lines 20 

in article writes 
hi everyone 

i was woundering if someone could answer a simple 
query for me on raytracing and anti aliasing .... 

stuff deleted 

i have a similiar question relating to anti that my friend has asked 
to have posted to the more knowledgable in this group. i'm sorry if this is 
an faq .  . 

what anti methods do persistance of vision polyray use 

thank you in advance. you can either email me or reply  ( or flame me if it is 
an faq ) ) 





from  ( technically sweet ) 
subject re universal vesa driver 
keywords vesa 
organization international foundation for internal freedom 
lines 84 

 ( kingsley turner) writes 

some time ago  ( about 1 month) there was a bit of discussion 
about a universal vesa driver for 8bit cards. it was in 
the file uvesa32 . zip .  . well i ca n't find it , does anyone know 
where it is something . something . au) . , and what sort 
of cards it works for 

also would it be pushing my luck to ask for someone to post 
it to some appropriate group. 

kingsley turner 
nsw australia 


host ac . at . 

location pc dos graphics 
file rw r r mar 7 18 00 zip . 

host plaza . aarnet . edu . au . 

location micros pc garbo pc screen 
file r r r apr 4 00 00 zip . 
location micros pc oak graphics 
file r r r mar 7 19 00 zip . 

host godzilla . cgl . rmit . oz . au . 

location kjb mgl 
file rw r r mar 29 15 03 uvesa32 . zip . 

host nic . switch . ch . 

location mirror msdos graphics 
file rw rw r mar 7 20 00 zip . 
location software pc simtel20 graphics 
file rw rw r mar 7 20 00 zip . 

host rvs . uni . hannover . de . 

location pub msdos koeln graphics 
file rw r r apr 4 17 08 zip . 

host uni . heidelberg . de . 

location pub msdos simtel graphics 
file rw rw r mar 7 19 00 zip . 

host athene . uni . paderborn . de . 

location msdos graphics 
file rw r r mar 7 18 00 zip . 

host compute1 . cc . ncsu . edu . 

location mirrors wustl mirrors msdos graphics 
file rw r r mar 7 19 00 zip . 

host rigel . acs . oakland . edu . 

location pub msdos graphics 
file rw r r mar 7 19 00 zip . 

host pc . usl . edu . 

location pub msdos video . and . graphics . 
file rw r r mar 11 10 41 zip . 

host kuis . kyoto . u . ac . jp . 

location mirrors simtel20 . msdos . graphics 
file rw rw r mar 13 16 41 zip . 
file rw rw r mar 8 12 00 zip . 

host ftp . uu . net . 

location systems ibmpc msdos simtel20 graphics 
file rw rw r mar 7 14 00 zip . 


lance 

data is not information is not knowledge is not wisdom .  . 

from  ( sean murphy ) 
subject info 
summary info 
keywords , 3d 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 5 

has anyone seen you can buy a poster of them and it looks like a simple dot pattern 
when you first look at it but if you focus behind it you see a 3d picture. i'm looking for 
a program that generates these pictures. there 's a company in texas that makes them but i 
doubt if they 're giving the program away. any help would be appreciated. 


from  ( shayla l. fahey ) 
subject raw byte grayscale gif 
organization jet propulsion laboratory , section 331 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host shannon . jpl . nasa . gov . 

i currently have some grayscale image files that are not in any 
standard format. they simply contain the 8 bit pixel values .  . i would 
like to display these images on a pc. the conversion to a gif format 
would be helpful. this conversion can take place either on a pc 
or on a unix system and i could then download it to the pc. 
can anyone suggest where i can find software to do this alternatively , i 
may have to write my own conversion program. in this case , could someone 
tell me where i can find the gif format specification 

please e mail me directly at 

thanks. 




from 
subject re hpgl viewer and utilities 
in reply to gaetan lord , ecole polytechnique de montreal 's message of wed , 28 apr 1993 03 11 06 gmt 
reply to  ( bill woodward ) 
organization the institute of knowledge on jinx 
lines 20 


in article gaetan lord , ecole polytechnique de montreal writes 

hi 

i would like to know if there is any software , pd or not , who 
could produce x11 output of hpgl file on rs 6000 .  . and same kind of 
software who could produce hardcopy on postscript and  . 

try export . lcs . mit . edu .  . i think that there is a viewer there called 
xviewgl .  . check the readme in contrib .  . 





bill woodward try this first 
aix software support 
graphics group 512 838 2834 
i am the terror that flaps in the night. 

from (ed pimentel ) 
subject rfd comp . multimedia . open . telematic 
organization willard 's house bbs , atlanta , ga 1 (404) 664 8814 
lines 53 
nntp posting host rodan . uu . net . 

rfd 
request for discussion 
for the 
open telematic group 

otg 

i have proposed the forming of a consortium task force for the 
promotion of jpeg , to openly discuss ways , method , 
procedures , algorythms , applications , implementation , extensions of 
jpeg standards. these standards should facilitate the creation 
of real time online applications that make use of voice , video , 
telecommuting , hires graphics , conferencing , distant learning , online 
order entry , fax , in addition these would assist all to 
better understand how sgml , cals , , mime , , jpeg , mpeg , 
fractals , sql , cdrom , , kodak , tcl , v . fast . , and 
eia , can best be incorporated and implemented to develop 
telematic multimedia applications. 

we want to be able to support dos , unix , mac , windows , nt , os 2 
platforms .  . it is our hope that individuals , developers , corporations , 
universities , r d labs would join in in supporting such an endeavor .  . 

this would be a not for profit group with bylaws and charter .  . already 
many corporations have decided to support otg  ( open telematic group ) so 
do not delay joining if you are a developer 

an rfd has been posted to form a usenet newsgroup and a faq will soon 
be be composed to start promulgating what is known on the subject. if 
you would like to be added to the send email or mail to the 
address below. 

this group would publish an electronic quarterly jpeg 
newsletter as well as a hardcopy version. we urge all who wants to 
see hires based applications the jpeg g r o w , decide to 
join and mutually benefit from this not for profit endeavor .  . 

note telematic has been defined by mr. james martin as the marriage 
of voice , video , hi res graphics , fax , ivr , music over telephone 
lines lan .  . 

if you would like to get involve write to me at 

img inter multimedia group internet 
p.o. box 95901 
atlanta , georgia , us cis 70611 , 
fidonet 1 133 407 
bbs 1 404 985 1198 zyxel 14 . 4k . 

(ed pimentel ) 
gatech ! ! ! willard ! 
emory ! ! willard ! 
willard 's house bbs , atlanta , ga 1 (404) 664 8814 

from  ( chin hsu) 
subject how to print out 0 . 's cgm file 
nntp posting host as . ntu . edu . tw . 
organization meteorology data bank , dept. of atmospheric sciences , 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 17 



i have a lots of  . cgm . files produced by graph utility v3 . 00 .  . 

they are all color graphs , and i want to print them out. 

the printers i own are postscript , and hp  . anyone who have 

experiences in this please tell me , e mail me will be very nice. 

or if someone knows how to convert those  . cgm . files into  . gif . 

pcx ,  . bmp . .... , it will helps a lot. 





from (craig morioka ) 
subject 2 d spline fit 
organization ucla cognitive science program 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ucla . edu . 


does anyone out there know of a site that might have 
a 2 d spline fit routine useful for interpolation 

thanks for any help , 
craig 




from matt  ( mattias dahlberg ) 
subject re real 3d 
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , stockholm university 
lines 17 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

wrote 

earlier today i read an ad for real 3d animation ray tracing software 
and it looked very convincing to me. 

yes , it looks like very good indeed. 

however , i do n't own an amiga and so i began to wonder , if there 's a pc 
version of it. 

nope .  . 



regards email 
mattias matt i love it. 


from  ( necros ) 
subject cgm something  ( preferably pcx) 
organization university of new brunswick , fredericton , nb , canada 
lines 13 


does anybody know about a converter from cgm to pcx or anything else more 
common. i 've spent some time searching the archives with no luck. 
could you email me your responses. 



thx in advance , 
mike g. 





from  ( chuck mckinley ) 
subject ray bezier intersection problem 
keywords bezier 
organization intergraph corp. , reston , va 
lines 62 


if some kind person has access to a mathematical package such as mathematica , 
maple , ... i would like to ask you for the solution to the following problem. 
i sometimes have algebra problems like this where i would like a simplified 
symbolic solution. is there a ftp able package out there that can handle such 
beasts 

i would like to solve the following ray bezier patch intersection 
for the scalar constant t in 

p t v  ( q(u , w) 
 ( origin point in 3d )  ( dir vector 3d ) 

in terms of only 

p v p and various scalars 
 ( origin ) ,  ( dir 3d ) , (i , j ) 0 i , j 3 

where 

t 
 ( q(u , w) u n b m w 



n n 1 n 2 n 3 
u u u u u .... u 1 ( 0.0 u 1.0 ) 
3 2 
u u u 1 ( in my particular case ) 


n n 1 n 2 n 3 t 
w w w w w .... w 1 ( 0.0 w 1.0 ) 

3 2 t 
w w w 1 ( in my particular case ) 


t 
n m 1 3 3 1 ( for my particular case ) 
3 6 3 0 
3 3 0 0 
1 0 0 0 


b p p p p  ( control points in 3d space) 
(0 , 0) (0 , 1) (0 , 2) (0 , 3) 

p p p p 
(1 , 0) (1 , 1) (1 , 2) (1 , 3) 

p p p p 
(2 , 0) (2 , 1) (2 , 2) (2 , 3) 

p p p p 
(3 , 0) (3 , 1) (3 , 2) (3 , 3) 



thanx , 



from  ( paal beyer ) 
subject re information on bmp files 
organization norwegian institute of technology 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( charles biofisika ) writes 

is there anybody who can help me with information on the bmp file format 
please mail directly to 



help will be appreciated 


charles 


i have also been looking for this , but i have come up with nothing. 
i have looked in ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu . which is supposed to have a lot 
of image specs. 

email is preferred .  . if there is enough interest , i will post a 
summary .  . 









from  ( brandon vanevery ) 
subject company info for graphics software 
keywords software , company 
nntp posting host lambada . oit . unc . edu . 
organization university of north carolina extended bulletin board service 
lines 19 

within the next several months i 'll be looking for a job in computer 
graphics software. i'm in need of info on graphics software companies. 
i 've checked the faq , the resource list , and siggraph . org . , have n't found 
anything. the last computer graphics career handbook that i'm aware of , 
was published in 1991. it has a list of 40 companies in it , but no 
tremendously specific information on any of them. 

can people please steer me towards more current and in depth informational 
resources thanks. i 'll post a summary if there 's interest. 

brandon 




the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of 
north carolina at chapel hill , the campus office for information 
technology , or the experimental bulletin board service. 
internet launchpad . unc . edu . or 152 . 2 . 22 . 80 . 

from koeln . de . (dr .  . reinhard moeller ) 
subject real time visualization 
organization regional computing center , university of cologne 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rs1 . rrz . uni . koeln . de . 
keywords graphics , simulation 
cc 

hello , 

i am interested to hear from people working in the field of visual 
simulation , ie driving simulation , flight simulation etc. 
would be very pleased to see , what is going on in the field of research 
and industrial development. 

for those of you interested as well there is a workshop  ( preferedly 
held in german ) , situated in , november 18 19 1993 , specially 
related to the above topic. 
the title 

in der 

complete details are available. please contact me. 

r. moeller 
de . 


from  ( arthur stein ) 
subject scientific visualization of chemical systems 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host watson . ibm . com . 
organization visualization systems , ibm 
keywords computer graphics , ray tracing , volume rendering 
scientific visualization of chemical systems 

cornell theory center summer school 

offered through the cornell school of 
continuing education and summer sessions 

course description 

within the past ten years , the simulation and modeling of 
lines 197 

molecules has evolved from an esoteric academic subject into 
a international industry. computer graphics has played a 
decisive role in this transformation by allowing chemists to 
build , visualize and interact with complex geometrical objects .  . 

while computer scientists are in the language of their 
own discipline , they are often unfamiliar with the terminology , 
simulation techniques and practical needs of research chemists .  . 
similarly , chemists are often unfamiliar with the latest paradigms 
and technological advances in graphical computing .  . 

this interdisciplinary course is intended to bridge the gap 
between computer science and chemistry and to equip chemistry 
researchers who wish to be more than just casual users of 
graphics software. although this is not intended to 
be a course in computational chemistry or drug design , data sets 
from chemical research problems will be used in lab and students 
will be encouraged to bring data sets of their own. lab exercises 
and projects will be carried out using data flow programming 
 ( ibm visualization data explorer software) and students will have 
access to cornell theory center computing resources , including video 
recording equipment. 

audience researchers and students in the chemical and biological 
sciences interested in integrating state of the art 
computer graphics into their research computer scientists 
wishing to gain familiarity with a major application of 
scientific visualization .  . 

the class size will be limited to 25 participants on a 
first come first served basis. 

level graduate advanced undergraduate , 1 or 2 credits .  . may be taken 
without credit as a workshop .  . calculus , linear algebra 
and introductory chemistry required. familiarity with unix , 
x windows and c is useful but not required. 

date june 14 25 , 1993 (2 credits ) 
june 14 18 , 1993 (1 or 0 credits ) 

time mon fri 9 00 am to 12 00 pm and 1 00 pm to 4 00 pm 

cost 0 or 1 credit 410 
2 credits 820 

format 

the course will be held in the theory center training facility 
where computer workstations will be available. daily lectures will be 
with laboratory exercises and ample time will be provided 
for project and with the new computing 
environment. students enrolled for one credit will be graded on the basis 
of their laboratory exercises and short final project. those enrolled 
for a second credit will receive more advanced lectures , be given 
more time for project development and meet daily to share experience 
and discuss problems encountered .  . 

content  ( may vary) 

elements of computer graphics 
polygonal rendering , lighting models , ray tracing , volumetric 
rendering , stereo graphics , animation , introduction to data flow 
programming  ( dx ) ,  . 

representing the atom 
size , time and energy scales 
basic classical and quantum mechanics 

important categories of molecules 
small molecules , , surfaces and , 
miscellaneous current applications 

data formats and conversions 

advanced molecular graphics techniques 

types of simulation and experiment 
electronic structure , molecular dynamics mechanics 
, x ray crystallography , nmr , quantum 
dynamics and spectroscopy .  . 

instructors 

the course will be taught by two instructors .  . topics related to computer 
graphics will be handled by dr. bruce land , project leader of visualization , 
cornell national supercomputing facility .  . chemistry specific aspects 
of the course will be handled by dr. richard e. , visualization 
specialist and research scientist , cornell national supercomputing facility 

to register mail completed form to 

cornell university 
school of continuing education 
and summer sessions 
day hall 
ithaca , ny 14853 2801 

questions richard  ( 607 ) 254 8757 


important acceptance will be first come , first served and based 
on a target class size of 15 full credit and 10 single 
or non credit participants .  . 

deadline may 20 , 1993 


application form 

scientific visualization of chemical systems 

chemistry 782 computer science 718 

u.s. social security number  ( if available) 

cornell id number  ( if available) 

name 
last first middle suffix  ( jr , etc) 

address 






home address (where grades will be mailed ) 







local phone home phone 


academic discipline 


course number  ( check one) chemistry computer science 

credits . 

status undergraduate student smart node consultant 
graduate student smart node advisor 
post doctoral 
faculty other  ( explain ) 

corporate commercial 

research staff other  ( explain ) 

name of firm 

indicate which of the following best describes you  ( optional ) 

african american alaskan native asian american 
caucasian hispanic american native american 

list special needs (e . g .  . mobility impaired) 



accommodations 

blocks of rooms are available at the sheraton .  . reservations 
must be made no later than may 17. be sure to tell them you 
are here for the cornell theory center visualization workshop . 

sheraton inn 
one sheraton drive , ithaca 
 ( 607 ) 257 2000 
fax 607 257 398 
rates starting at 64 . 00 . 

other local  ( make your reservation early ! our 
workshop with other cornell events ) 

econo lodge 
mall n. rd. ithaca 
 ( 607 ) 257 1400 
(800) 466 6900 
fax  ( 607 ) 257 
rates from 35 . 10 .  ( ask for the cornell rate) 


dorm rooms have also been reserved participants 
 ( both credit and non credit) .  . participants who 
are interested in dorm rooms should call (below) 
for registration information 

jeanne miller  ( 607 ) 254 or donna smith  ( 607 ) 254 
email or 



from  ( rosalie nerheim ) 
subject re siggraph online experimental publication available 
nntp posting host hawk . depaul . edu . 
organization depaul university , chicago 
lines 14 

try cd ing to 

publications may 93 online 

on siggraph . org . 

it 's there ! 








from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms 
keywords image enhancement 
lines 18 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article ,  ( wayne michael ) writes 

i have been searching for a quality image enhancement and 
manipulation package for unix x motif platforms that is comparable 
to adobe photo shop for the mac .  . 

corel draw 4 will be able to do this as it will include the stuff that 
the pc version got with version 3. do n't hold your breath though. 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


organization arizona state university 
from eric davis 
subject re help 3ds 
lines 11 

in article , says 

in 3d studio , is there any way to create , etc 

i want to simulate such things as glass lenses , bottles etc. 

there might be an ipas routine that does that , but i can r be sure. another 
way to do it is to render the scene without the glass object and save the 
image. then assign that image to your glass object as a reflection .  . it will 
take a lot of adjusting for position and size of the reflection , but that 's 
the only thing i can think of. 

from 
subject viewing jpeg files 
distribution world 
organization univ of cincinnati academic it services 
lines 5 

can i view jpeg files without special hardware 

lucy wilson , access services librarian 
college of engineering , university of cincinnati 


from 
subject creating fli flc animation files 
organization genesis public access unix 1 508 664 
lines 15 


i am looking for a means to add fli and flc animation creation 
to a windows application. i was hoping for something along the lines 
of or aaplay by autodesk but for the creation of these delta 
compressed animations .  . i have but this seems to be coded for 
the large memory model of dos with turbo c. ideally i would 
like a dll or medium model object library , but would settle 
for anything , really. i 've seen other windows apps with 
fli flc creation , did they hack the code into submission 

any pointers would be appreciated , please send mail directly 
to me and i will summarize the results if there is interest. 

andrew hudson 


from (martin) 
subject ftp  ( site(s ) with gifs 
nntp posting host cc 
organization fire walk with me .  .  .  .  . 
lines 11 

i have been looking around some ftp sites and cannot find one with any good 
gif files. could someone please tell me of some ftp sites which do posses 
goods gifs and a wide range. 

please email me at the address above. 

thanks 

martin 



from (david max ) 
subject needed non interactive gif for pc 
summary i need a program to crop out pieces from gifs where the crop 
coordinates can be specified on the command line. 
keywords gif crop 
organization new york university 
lines 10 


i have a group of gif images that each contain 6 small images in 
the same place on all the images. i need a program to crop out the 
small images to a new gif file. all the programs i can find make me 
use the mouse or keyboard to define the cropping coordinates .  . is there 
a program out there for a pc that can take the crop coordinates on 
the command line 

reply to (david max ) 


from (t . c .  . zhao ) 
subject full color image editor for sgi workstations 
organization university of houston 
lines 159 
distribution world 
nntp posting host menudo . uh . edu . 


i am happy to announce the first public release of the bit program , 
an interactive , full color image viewer and editor based on sgi gl .  . 
besides typical touchup tasks , such as crop , rotate , smooth , etc , 
bit offers some unique features not available in similar programs , 
such as text and vector support and the separation of text and image. 

the following is the relevant sections from the man page. 


pre release of may , 1993  ( bit(1l ) 

name 
bit bitmap image touchup for sgi workstations 

description 
bit is an interactive full color image viewer and editor based on 
silicon graphics gl .  . as a full color program , bit handles images of both 
24bits and color index in a natural and efficient manner. 

as an image viewer , bit allows list of images to be displayed in their 
original type  ( 24bits or color index ) in any order and in any of the 
many built in styles of display. you can walk up and down the list using 
mouse and keyboard , or you can let bit do the walk for you (the 
 . with the pan and zoom features , large images can be viewed 
in full without being limited by the window or screen size. 

as an image editor , bit performs a large number of image editing and 
processing tasks accurately and efficiently .  . it keeps information loss 
at any stage of the editing process at an absolute minimum by performing 
sampling automatically while the input image type 
whenever possible to avoid unnecessary promotion and or quantization of 
input images. you can also cut a piece of an image and paste it into 
another. in addition , arbitrarily colored and sized text and simple 
geometric figures can be rendered on top of an image for annotation with 
the option to make them part of the bitmap or output separately to take 
advantage of the higher printer resolutions (e . g .  .  . 

bit can also be used as a graphical user interface to many existing 
image processing programs by defining external bindings which in essence 
turn command line oriented programs into bit and can be 
accessed by a press of a button , and best of all , the processed image 
will be read back and displayed immediately. convolution using 
defined matrices of arbitrary order can be performed dynamically 
giving great flexibility in processing an image. 

features 

bit performs all of its image manipulations interactively with a 
continuous progress report , and once the processing is complete , 
the processed image will be displayed .  . 

current features include 

o rotates an image by an arbitrary angle with the option of anti aliasing 
and filling the rotated out region with an arbitrary color. 

o scales an image by arbitrary factors in x and or y directions with 
the option of sampling .  . 

o renders text of arbitrary color , size or orientation on top of an 
image with the option of rendering directly into the raster or saving 
the text and raster separately , such as into a postscript file , to 
take advantage of a higher printer resolution. besides normal text 
strings , many predefined special symbols can be input conveniently as 
in  ( tex(1 ) , e.g. , alpha small beta produces greek alphabet alpha 
followed by a slightly smaller greek alphabet beta. 

o presents graphically the histogram of an image. 

o performs arbitrary 1 to 1 pixel transformation .  . the transformation 
function can be specified interactively and can be of arbitrary 
forms. further , the transformation can be applied to rgb channels 
separately or simultaneously and to the entire image or a portion of 
it. many difficult tasks , such as thresholding , can be accomplished 
rather easily by 1 to 1 transformation in combination with the 
of graphical histograms of the image. 

o places simple geometric figures  ( sgfs ) , e.g. , arrows , circles , 
etc. , of arbitrary color , size and orientation into an image at 
arbitrary locations addressed either in absolute pixels or in some 
user definable coordinate system units , with the option of rendering 
directly into the raster or save the and raster separately (e . g . , 
postscript file) .  . all can be scaled in x and y directions 
independently or simultaneously  ( this is how to get an ellipse from a 
 . 

o performs edge detection .  . in combination with image histograms and 1 
to 1 transformation , very accurate result can be obtained .  . 

o performs histogram equalization .  . 

o performs convolution with externally defined  ( square ) matrices of 
arbitrary order. 

o crops a rectangular portion of an image. 

o cuts and across images. 

o any portion of an image by any amount .  . 

o displays a list of images in sequence with a user pause 
interval between images.  ( slideshow ) 

o measures rgb intensities of a pixel at any location or all pixels 
along an arbitrary line with the result presented as rgb intensities 
or as an intensity vs. distance plot .  . 

o performs image type conversions .  . 

o converts image formats .  . 

o an image  ( special  . 

o filters an image by external programs and read the filtered image 
back and display it. 

o modify an individual pixel 's rgb values .  . 

o performs fft on the entire image or a portion of it and display the 
resulting power spectra .  . 

o spray and brush paint in full color  ( unavailable in this pre release) .  . 

supported formats 
o iris rgb , native to sgi iris 
o  ( jpeg(jfif ) format 
o gif 
o  ( pnm(portable any map) , including ppm , pgm and pbm .  . 
o xbm  ( x window bitmap ) 
o tiff 
o  ( postscript(write only) 

hardware requirements 

any sgi workstation that supports  ( rgbmode( ) , including  . 

where to get it 

anonymous ftp to monte . uh . edu . pub bit tar . z . 
where xxx is the version number. current version is 0.73 

read src for installation instructions after unpacking 

acknowledgement 

jpeg support is based on the independent jpeg groups 's library version 4. 
forms library , developed by mark , is used for gui .  . 
both jpeg and forms library are included in this release. 


bit is the program you will ever need to view and annotate 
images the built in editing features will satisfy most of 
your editing needs. in addition , the external filter and dynamical 
kernel will utilize any program you already have. so try it 
 ( and you will like it) .  . 

as always , any comments bug reports are welcome. 


from arbor . applicon . slb . com . (david gorgen ) 
subject need help z buffering lines areas together 
organization applicon , inc. ann arbor , mi (usa) 
keywords z buffer , roundoff , lines , areas 
lines 84 

i'm asking for help on a sticky problem involving unreasonably low 
apparent precision in z buffering , that i 've encountered in 2 different 
pex implementations .  . i ca n't find any discussion of this problem in any 
resources i can lay hands on (e . g .  . the comp . windows . x . pex . faq , gaskins 's 
pexlib programming manual , vendors   . 

i'm posting this article by itself on comp . graphics . , and virtually the 
same article with a test program demonstrating the problem on 
comp . windows . x . pex .  . the problem is hard to describe without pictures , 
hence this article is  . if you can run pexlib 5 . x . programs and 
are interested , i encourage you to build and run the test program in 
comp . windows . x . pex . to see the effect yourself and play with my approach 
to dealing with it. (it depends on the utility code from the above 
gaskins book instructions for fetching it via anonymous ftp are given . ) . 

the problem to be solved is to eliminate or minimize 
artifacts resulting from the use of z buffering with polylines that are 
coplanar with filled areas. the interpolated z values along a line will 
differ slightly , due to roundoff error , from the interpolated z values 
across an area , even when the endpoints of the line are coincident with 
vertices of the area. because of this , it 's a whether the 
z buffer will allow the line pixels or the area pixels to be displayed .  . 
visually , the result tends to be a dashed line effect even though the 
line is supposed to be solid. 

using the pexlib api , my approach to a solution is to use two slightly 
different pex view mapping transforms , in two view table entries , one 
for the areas and one for the lines. the pex structures or immediate 
mode output must be organized so that one view table index is always in 
effect for areas , and the other is always in effect for lines. the 
result is a slight shift in npc z coordinates for the lines , so as to 
attempt to bias the situations in favor of the lines. 

this shift is effected by moving the front and back clipping planes used 
in the pexlib view table entry for lines just a hair backwards (i . e .  . 
smaller z coordinates ) , compared to their positions in the view 
table entry used for areas. this means that when a point is transformed 
to npc , its z value will be slightly bigger if it comes from a line than 
if it comes from an area , thus accomplishing the desired bias .  . 

i would expect the z roundoff errors which cause the problem to amount 
to a few units at most , out of the entire dynamic range of the z buffer , 
typically from 0 to 65535 if not (i . e .  . 16 or 24 bit z  . 
therefore , it seems that a tiny fraction of the range of z in 
between the front and back clip planes ought to suffice to reliably fix 
the  . 

but in fact , experience shows that the shift has to be as much as 0 . 003 . 
to 0 . 006 . of the range.  ( empirically , it 's worst when the npc z 
component of the slope of the surface is high , i.e. when it appears more 
or less edge on to the viewer . ) . it 's as if only 8 or 9 bits of the 
z buffer have any dependable meaning ! this amount is so great that one 
problem is replaced by another sometimes the polylines show through 
areas which they are supposed to lie behind. 

i 've observed the problem on both hewlett packard and digital 
workstation pex servers , to approximately the same degree. the test 
program demonstrates the problem on an mit pexlib 5 . x . implementation 
this version is known to compile and run on an hp ux system with pex 
5 . 1 .  . 

open questions 
(1) why does this happen 
am i configuring the pex view table wrongly 
is there a systematic difference in z interpolation for lines 
as opposed to areas (e . g .  . pixel centers versus corners ) which 
could be corrected for 
are pex z precision in their 

something else 
(2) what to do about it 
can i fix my use of the view table to allow better precision 
in z buffered 
is there another approach i can take to remove the 
artifacts 
am i just out of luck 

any help would be immensely appreciated ! 



dave internet arbor . applicon . slb . com . 
applicon inc. 
ann arbor , michigan (usa) uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 

from (the lisp subguru ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
article i.d. du . 
organization willamette university , salem or 
lines 21 

in article writes 

i put it to you thus where has the hacker ethic gone if it still exists , 
where and , if it does exist , why are those who call themselves hackers 
allowing this to perpetuate itself why are they not creating new , innovative , 
interesting ideas to stop the sos from maintaining its choke hold on the 
computer industry 

how about the gnu people , handing out very good , free software i 've also 
distributed two decent sized programs myself , the go player (at 
ftp . u . washington . edu) . and the genetic neural network programmer 
 ( somewhere out there) .  . 

i 've only had time to write these programs because of scholarships and 
grants .  . the intended benefit to society , or a loophole in the system 


! peter , 11 , lisp , order of the golden parentheses finger ! 
! reformed church of james eric the half a bee , dipped in curry me ! 
! a shadowy flight into the dangerous world of a man who does not exist. ! 
! please mail me plastic 900 state st. c 210 , salem , or ! 

from 
subject pc paint program  ( neopaint v1 . 1 . ) help 
organization western michigan university 
lines 14 

i am looking for a shareware graphics package called v1 . 1 .  . i 
saw it in a shareware catalog and was hoping that i could ftp it from 
the net but have been unable to locate it. i have tried archie and i 
have gone through the entire comp . graphics . newsgroup looking for some 
reference to it and have found none. i have also looked through the 
faq and also no reference. the program is called v1 . 1 . and if 
anyone has heard of it or knows where i can get it i would appreciate 
it. 

suggestions for other pc based shareware paint programs would also be 
appreciated. email me your responses. 

much thanks , 
sean 

from  ( krzysztof muchorowski ) 
subject gif to targa 
nntp posting host 
organization warsaw university physics dept. 
lines 7 

hello , 
subject says it all. i need a gif to targa converter , so that my 
could make a  . fli . of them. 





from  ( mark klamerus ) 
subject re tiff complexity 
x received by usenet . pa . dec . com . id tue , 27 apr 93 10 55 53 0700 
x received by enet gw . pa . dec . com . id tue , 27 apr 93 10 55 51 0700 
x received from enet . by enet . tue , 27 apr 93 10 55 52 pdt 
x to comp . graphics . usenet . 
x apparently to comp . graphics . usenet . 
lines 38 


anyone who thinks that tiff is too complex has n't dealt with 
cgm , asn . 1 . , cda , dca , sgml , or any one of a number of other 
very successful file format. people seem perfectly capable 
dealing with these others. dealing with the format of tiff 
is frankly less difficult than dealing with the dct , lzw , and 
fax encoding of the image data. the majority of the libraries 
which deal with tiff are dedicated to these other issues rather 
than with simply decoding the and parameters .  . 

perhaps people are overwhelmed in comparison with some rather 
formats such as gif , pcx , and bmp , but to suggest 
that tiff is so complex as to be doomed to failure is ludicrous .  . 

that does n't mean that gif is n't fine , but do n't even thing about 
using it in many instances .  . gif is very nice for use in low end 
photos applications and for screen grabs and such , but it would 
never do for high volume or high resolution systems. fax is nice , 
but it does n't do color  ( and gif does n't do b w all that well) .  . 
jpeg is nice for high resolution color , but is slow for low end. 

the advantage tiff brings to the table is its ability to handle 
all these situations  ( and then some) .  . naturally it 's more complex .  . 
but i ld rather propose tiff imaging solutions over imaging 
systems based on having to deal with 3 4 file formats anyday .  . 

you may find that tiff is too complicated for your personal tastes 
but please do n't against it 's complexity .  . the complexity 
it contains is required to provide the functionality it does and 
does n't come close to the complexity found in most commercially 
viable file formats .  . 


if we 're in philosophical arguments against complexity , let 's all 
go program in scheme and forth and do imaging with run length 
encoding .  . 



from  ( amit shaked ) 
subject digital terrain data for visualization needed 
organization school of math cs tel aviv university , tel aviv , israel .  . 
lines 29 


we need terrain data for a visualization research currently taking place 
in tel aviv university .  . we have two databases that we are currently working 
on , but we would like to work on more databases , possibly more complicated 
and ones that will give prettier images. 

before i describe what kind of data we need , let me mention that we are 
going to present a paper titled photo realistic imaging of digital terrains 
which describes the research and the results , in the 93 
conference in barcelona , this september .  . we are going to show a video tape 
with some of our results , so any good data that we will receive will be 
presented in the tape , with a mention of the  . 

we are working on databases consisting of aerial or photographs , 
and terrain elevation maps  . 
each database consists of a 2d array of height values  ( any data format can 
be used for each value) , and a corresponding 2d array of color values  ( can 
be gray level , 256 color value or full 24 bit r g b values .  . other format can 
also be used) .  . we work on 512x512 and 1024x1024 resolution databases .  . 

if anybody has access to this kind of data , or knows where we can get such 
data files , please respond in this news group , or better email us 
directly 

 ( amit shaked ) , or 
 ( daniel cohen ) 

of course , the names of the people who will help us get the data will be 
cited in our paper , and in further publications .  . 

from 
subject patches for 1 . 
lines 17 
organization university of newcastle , australia 




due to a number of bugs in 1 . under sunos 4.1.3 , i installed 
patches 15 and 01. patch 15 appears to 
work fine and has fixed a number of problems. patch 01 , 
however , which is required to fix a number of other annoying 
bugs , breaks with our applications. 

is there a more recent revision of patch 

any other ideas 

scott sloan email 
university of newcastle fax 61 49 
nsw 
australia 

from 
subject  . gifs . on a 
organization university 
lines 14 
nntp posting host hal . edu . 


i was through a few gophers and bumped into one at nih 
with a database that included images in  . gif . format. while i have 
not yet worked out the kinks of getting the gopher client to call 
an x viewer , i figure that the majority of the users here are not 
in an x11 environment instead using dos and ms kermit .  . 

with kermit supporting emulation for graphics display , 
does anyone know of a package that would allow a tek to display a 
 . gif . image it would be of more use to the local population to 
plug something of this sort in as the  picture  command instead of 
xview or xloadimage ... 

andrew .  . 

from (peter j menchetti ) 
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly 
organization university of nevada , reno department of computer science 
lines 8 


i use arts letters on a pc and if you make use of the tracing preferences 
it traces beautifully .  . but there 's a trick to tracing .  . i 've traced entire 
cartoon images into custom clip art , but you ca n't expect to just point to 
the image and get it just like that , it takes a little work  ( in some cases 
a lot of work) .  . you need to trace a drawing piece by piece , and then put it 
together .  .  .  . it 's kinda hard to explain in type , but if you 're ever in reno 
i can give you a little demonstration ! 

from (paul a. benson ) 
subject what is smithsonian institution ftp address 
organization california state university , chico 
lines 9 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cscihp . ecst . csuchico . edu . 

does antone know the ftp address for the smithsonian institution 
where one can get digitized photographs , etc 
please reply by email to 


thanks 

paul benson 


from  ( ivan pulleyn ) 
subject pc question 256 modes 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester  ( rochester , ny ) 
lines 17 


hi , 
i need to know if there is a 256 color graphics mode that allows multiple 
pages. i want something like mode 0x10  ( 640x350x16 2 pages) .  . i have been 
experimenting with graphics by calling the bios with borland turbo c. i 
feel like i am flying blind in this area , and could use all the help that 
you can give .  . 

thanks , 
ivan .  .  .  .  .  .  . 




ivan university of rochester 
e mail 


from (david lau ) 
subject gif viewer source code for pc 
organization motorola 
lines 10 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 161 . 169 . 

does anyone know where i could get some source code for a gif viewer on a pc. 
it does n't have to be fancy , it would be best if it were written in c to 
display gif pictures on a vga screen. i was hoping to get it for free 
from an ftp site , but i have n't been able to find it yet. 




david lau 


from oldenburg . de .  ( frank neumann ) 
subject re what has happened to dkb 
organization university of oldenburg , germany 
lines 16 

hi , 
david k. drum writes 

listserv told me that the list does n't exist ! so i got a global 
list of groups from the listserv and nothing ! i every 
string i could think of. if frank , ville saari , andre beck , or anyone 
else who 's a regular on dkb l can tell me what is going on , please do ! 

i just sent a mail to (sp ) , the maintainer of the list , 
and asked him what 's going on. if the list is  ( for whatever reason ) really 
dead , we might have to put up a list ourselves. but for now , i want to wait 
for his answer. 

frank 

ps  .  .  . and . i just thought this would be just another period of silence .  .  .  . 

from  ( zalman stern ) 
subject re adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms 
organization adobe systems incorporated 
lines 24 

charles boesel writes 

in article 
(sci . image . processing . , comp . graphics) . ,  ( wayne michael ) 
writes 
i have been searching for a quality image enhancement and 
manipulation package for unix x motif platforms that is comparable 
to adobe photo shop for the mac .  . stuff deleted 

i understand that adobe is working on making photoshop available for 
the sgi indigo , but that is just rumor and i would n't bet on it 
until i see it. but they are going to release illustrator for the sgi 
real soon now. 


illustrator for sgi is a shipping product. adobe and sgi have announced that 
photoshop is being ported to sgi machines. a announcement has been 
made by adobe and sun for sun platforms .  . no dates have been announced to the 
best of my knowledge. 

zalman stern (415) 962 
adobe systems , 1585 charleston rd. , pob 7900 , mountain view , ca 7900 
we 're just a couple of joyful little goats .  . akbar  ( jeff ) 


from 
subject tel. for 3d scanners needed ! 
organization university of vienna 
lines 13 
nntp posting host helios . ac . at . 

hello all , 
i need to make some torso 3d scans and would like the phone numbers of 
companies in the midwest that make scans , and the numbers of companies that 
make the (ie  . does anyone have an idea of how much a 
single scan costs and the best format to save it in i am not sure on what 
software platform i will be using it in , probably either softimage or 
wavefront .  . so i think a spline based format would be best. please forward the 
numbers to me personally as i am having problems accessing usenet lately. 
thanks in advance ! 

patrick 

st. paul mn 

from 
subject wanna scan 24 bit picture 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 2 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

my 24 bit color 600 dpi scanner can do the job for you. gif , tiff , 
pcx , bmp .  . interested please write to me 

from  ( jim powlesland ) 
subject comp . graphics . faq 
nntp posting host acs . ucalgary . ca . 
organization the university of calgary , alberta 
lines 8 


is there a comp . graphics . faq and if so , where 


jim internet 
academic computing services voice  ( 403)220 ) 
university of calgary message  ( 403)220 ) 
calgary , alberta canada fax  ( 403)282 ) 

subject dna helix 
from  ( tim lynch ) 
organization santa rosa junior college , santa rosa , ca 
nntp posting host nermal . santarosa . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 3 

looking for a tiff eps of a dna helix .  . e mail any , please. 



subject dxf to pcx , gif , tif or tga 
from (ed murashie ) 
organization dsg development eng beckman instruments inc. 
nntp posting host 134 . 217 . 245 . 87 . 
lines 11 

does anyone know of a program for the pc that 
will take autocad dxf format files and convert 
them to a raster format , like pcx , gif , etc 
thanks in advance .  .  .  .  . 
ed 


ed murashie us mail beckman instruments inc. 
phone (714) 993 8895 diagnostic system group 
fax (714) 961 3759 200 s. kraemer blvd w 361 
internet brea , ca 

from (prof d. rogers  ( eas fac ) 
subject re newsgroup split 
organization u. s. naval academy 
lines 23 

in article  ( phil martin u) writes 
! chris herringshaw wrote 
! concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of 
! doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading 
! this group , from code to hardware to algorithms .  . i just think making 5 
! different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts 
! a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum 
! for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way 
! just curious. 
! 
! yes. i also like knowing where to go to ask a question without getting 
! hell for putting it in the wrong newsgroup .  . 

i am also against splitting the group. the traffic will decrease 
on any given subject but the required net bandwidth will increase 
because of multiply cross postings .  . 

i just went through this with another group i continuously read. 
it is now almost at the point where it is no longer worth reading. 

strongly suggest not doing this. 

dave rogers 

from  ( dan senderowicz ) 
subject program to gremlin 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 5 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
keywords 

i was wondering if somebody knows of a pd program for converting 
any graphic formats such as fig , pic , , tek , etc. to 
gremlin .  . thanks , 

dan .  . 

from (robert gruen ) 
subject bit planes 
lines 12 

could anyone please explain what bit planes are we have an sgi here at work 
that says it has 64 bit planes what does this mean how does this relate to 
pc graphics what do they usually have please reply via email as most of 
this group is over my head. 

thanks in advance ! ! ! 

bob gruen 

structural dynamics research corp. 
cincinnati , ohio 
513 576 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re pov ray problem please help .  .  .  . 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 13 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


what about 

file . dis . file . tga . 




o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( wayne rigby ) 
subject re need gif iff file format 
organization university of nevada , reno department of computer science 
lines 22 

in article  ( ramin taraz ) writes 
could somebody please email me some info on either what gif or iff 
file formats are , or where i can get such info 

well , gif stands for graphics interchange format and was put forth by 
compuserve back in  ( 1987 ) or so. it was to create a format that could be 
read and displayed by any system. gif is limited to 8 bit color but has 
a built in compression scheme  ( lzw ) .  . 

iff is not really a graphics format , but rather a standard way to package 
images , sounds , animations , text , or whatever into one file. iff was 
created by electronic arts , i do believe (i could be wrong) , for the amiga .  . 
it was quickly adopted as pretty much the standard file format for the amiga .  . 
the most common image format for the iff package is an  ( interleaved 
bitmap ) but many others exist. this format supports 24 bit color images. 

information on both of these and many more are available via anonymous ftp at 
zamenhof . cs . rice . edu . in the directory pub graphics . formats . 
 ( taken from the faq for this news group . ) . ) 

wayne rigby 


from (robert d. lafollette ) 
subject image format conversion tool 
organization naval surface warfare center 
lines 17 

hello , 

does anyone know of an image format conversion tool that will convert a 
raw (8 bit grey scale ) image to gif or tif format. it would be great if the tool 
ran on a pc , was a windows application , and supported other formats , but i 'll be 
happy with anything that works. 


attn code robert 
dahlgren division , naval surface warfare center 
dahlgren , va 22448 5000 

 ( 703)663 ) 249 
fax  ( 703)663 ) 
email 



from  ( zhenghao yeh ) 
subject re rgb hsv conversion routines wanted 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host caspian . usc . edu . 


in article , (g . w . writes 
hi , 

i'm looking for rgb  ( cube )  ( double hexcone ) hsv  ( cylinder ) 
conversion routines .  . i have rgb hsv , but miss the rgb hsv .  . 

have you checked foley 's book the solutions are in chapter 13. 

yeh 
usc 


from  ( ryan malayter ) 
subject geosphere image 
organization university of notre dame , notre dame 
lines 29 

article 31 of alt . graphics . 
newsgroups alt . graphics . 
path news . nd . edu . ! ! 
from  ( ryan malayter ) 
subject geosphere images via ftp 
message id 
sender  ( usenet news system) 
organization university of notre dame , notre dame 
date mon , 26 apr 1993 21 36 48 gmt 

does anyone know if a digitized version of the geosphere image is 
available via ftp for those of you who do n't know , it is a composite 
photograph of the entire earth , with removed. i just think 
it 's really cool. it was created with government funds and sattelites 
as a research project , so i would assume it 's in the public domain .  . 

thanks for any info , 
ryan 



college men get smashed and break something , 
college women get smashed and get broken. 
robin wilson 
president , ryan p. 
chico state university 332 stanford hall 
notre dame , in 46556 
n.d. dept. of physics comp. sci .  . 


subject pbm when  s the new  version 
from 
organization mankato state university 
lines 5 

does anyone know if the fabled new version of pbm will be out soon. as 
far as i know the current version is  . 
jeff p. are you out there 

jeffrey e. 

from  ( kouhia juhana ) 
subject re xv problems 
organization tampere university of technology 
lines 100 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

in article 
writes 

in article ,  ( kouhia 
juhana ) writes 

i wrote something about making color modifications quickly 
with 8bit quantized images and only at the saving the image to file 
process we have to make the modifications to the 24bit image. 
this makes sense , because the main use of xv is only viewing images. 

doing many changes to image , we should keep all modifications 
in a buffer and then before making the operations to 24bit image , 
we should simplify the operation list for unnecessary operations .  . 

think about what you are saying here. the 24 bit image is down to 8 
bits so many  similar  colours are mapped onto a single palette colour. this 
colour gets modified in fairly arbitrary ways. you then want to apply these 
modifications back to the 24 bit file , so you have to find which 
colours mapped to this one palette colour. 

i suppose you do n't know what about we have discussed .  . 
we discussed about  ( error(s ) in xv 2.21 which shows images only as 8bit , 
and my suggestion above works perfectly with it. 

so far i have seen a colormap editing window in xv that is , there 
must be a colormap anyway. the problems you present are exist anyway , 
and i did n't tried to solve them at all , because i would not make such 
problems to my programs in the first place. 

gamma and color corrections are easily done to 24bit image 
as i presented .  . there 's no need make tricks from 8bit quantized image 
back to 24 bit image. 


how would you suggest doing colour editing on a 24 bit file how 
would you group  related  colours to edit them together only global 
changes could be done unless the software were very different and 
much more complicated. 

ok , you 're writing about situation that user want edit images as 24bit 
and user want edit individual colors your questions , by the way , 
jumps off the discussion a bit. 

my solution does n't work , because there 's no colormap real 24bit 
image you see , user see 24bit image going back to 8bit is silly. 


about changing individual colors in 8bit quantized rasterized image 
changing individual colors in colormap is useless in most 
cases if the image is quantized and rasterized small change may 
make serious errors to anywhere in the image. 
xv allows this feature , but i do n't recommend to use it with the 
mentioned type images. 

moreover , xv is not a paint program you can only make those global 
changes. in full 24bit xv , changing individual colors sounds like 
paint program job. 
if person have 8bit screen , there 's need for tricks to get the 
original 24bit image modified .  . because user do n't see full 24bit 
image , there 's need to make approximations and it is not possible to 
modify individual colors but individual pixels or pixel groups  ( if 
image is  . to select color , there could be 
cursor window which shows true color image in cursor window area 
selecting individual color is possible from that. 

ok , i do n't have thought very much 24bit painting programs , never seen 
such in good view and are not planned to make such. not to mention 
24bit painting program in 8bit screen .  .  .  . 


yes again. what is  ( was ) wrong with xv 

it saved 8bit quantized rasterized images as 24bit jpegs jpeg is not 
designed for that. 
also , human expect that 24bit will be saved as 24bit image say , 
person would like to crop part of the image and save it , then it is 
expected that the image still is the same. so , xv were designed 
without thinking about human interface and how human expect the 
program work design error. 

i have heard xv were designed first for 8bit images files , but 
it were not good idea to take full 24bit images without making 
major change to the original design. 

so , even all screen images are 8bit , the processed images and saved 
images could have been 24bit very easily , instead of 8bit .  . 

before anybody will make a note yes , i may as well make a lift where 
 up  means that the lift goes down and  down  means that the lift goes 
up , and put a note on this design solution to the manuals however , 
even the manuals tells the correct situation , it does n't solve the problem. 
 ( americans the lift is just an example ) 


well , my text may be a bit hard reading , hopefully you to 
read it. 


juhana kouhia 

from  ( val kartchner ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization university of utah computer center 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 133 

vinci wrote 
in article ,  ( bob pendleton ) writes .  .  .  . 
from article , by (mike  ( wading through the muck and ) meyer ) 
in article  ( bob pendleton ) writes 
this is getting pretty silly. first off , hacker is an obsolete term. 
does n't matter what it used to mean , today it means thief .  . 

it only means thief if you want it to mean that. to me , it means 

lots of context omitted by myself ) 

anyway , if i say joe is a hacker to most english speaking people who 
know the word they 'll probably think he is either a poor or a 
bad carpenter .  . but there are very very few people who will think he is 
a good and clever programmer .  . ) 

if you chose to call yourself by a term that means thief do n't be 
surprised when people think you are a thief .  . even if you do n't agree 
with that definition of the word. 

.... the narrower view that a hacker , when 
associated with the computing environment , is a dishonest 
expert is not so widespread , i'm my opinion , at least with the 
people involved with the field. imho the wider meaning is not 
obsolete at all , no matter how much the lay press would like it to 
be ! .... 

therefore i conclude that if you call yourself a hacker , and somebody 
perceives you as a thief , then this person belongs to a very very 
small group that has some computer knowledge , but not enough to know 
the wider  ( and original ) meaning of the word. .... 

unfortunately , the general public has a very narrow view of the deep , dark 
recesses of the art of computing .  . what little they do see is from the view 
given to them by the media. from what i have seen from the media ,  hacker  
is not a proper way by which to refer to a respected person. 

i , on the other hand , know what  hacker  means from those who consider 
themselves such. following is the definition from jargon file 2 . 9 . 10 . . 
 ( this is also known as the hackers dictionary  . ) . the definitions are 
arranged in order of decreasing frequency of usage 

hacker originally , someone who makes furniture with an axe n. 
1. a person who enjoys exploring the details of programmable 
systems and how to stretch their capabilities , as opposed to most 
users , who prefer to learn only the minimum necessary. 2. one who 
programs enthusiastically  ( even obsessively ) or who enjoys 
programming rather than just theorizing about programming .  . 3. a 
person capable of appreciating hack value . 4. a person who is 
good at programming quickly. 5. an expert at a particular program , 
or one who frequently does work using it or on it as in  a unix 
 .  ( definitions 1 through 5 are correlated , and people who 
fit them ) . 6. an expert or enthusiast of any kind. one 
might be an astronomy hacker , for example. 7. one who enjoys the 
intellectual challenge of creatively overcoming or 
limitations .  . 8. deprecated a malicious who tries to 
discover sensitive information by poking around. hence  password 
hacker  ,  network  . see cracker . 

the term  hacker  also tends to membership in the global 
community defined by the net  ( see network , the and 
internet address ) .  . it also implies that the person described 
is seen to subscribe to some version of the hacker  ( see 
hacker ethic , the ) .  . 

it is better to be described as a hacker by others than to describe 
oneself that way. hackers consider themselves something of an 
elite (a based on ability) , though one to which new 
members are gladly welcome. there is thus a certain ego 
satisfaction to be had in identifying yourself as a hacker  ( but if 
you claim to be one and are not , you 'll quickly be labeled 
bogus ) .  . see also wannabee . 

hacker ethic , the n. 1. the belief that information sharing 
is a powerful positive good , and that it is an ethical duty of 
hackers to share their expertise by writing free software and 
access to information and to computing resources 
wherever possible. 2. the belief that system cracking for fun 
and exploration is ethically ok as long as the cracker commits 
no theft , vandalism , or breach of confidentiality .  . 

both of these normative ethical principles are widely , but by no 
means universally ) accepted among hackers .  . most hackers subscribe 
to the hacker ethic in sense 1 , and many act on it by writing and 
giving away free software. a few go further and assert that 
all information should be free and any proprietary 
control of it is bad this is the philosophy behind the gnu 
project. 

sense 2 is more controversial some people consider the act of 
cracking itself to be unethical , like breaking and entering .  . 
but this principle at least moderates the behavior of people who 
see themselves as  crackers  ( see also samurai ) .  . on 
this view , it is one of the highest forms of courtesy 
to (a) break into a system , and then (b) explain to the sysop , 
preferably by email from a superuser account , exactly how it 
was done and how the hole can be plugged acting as an 
unpaid  ( an unsolicited ) tiger team . 

the most reliable manifestation of either version of the hacker 
ethic is that almost all hackers are actively willing to share 
technical tricks , software , and (where possible) computing 
resources with other hackers .  . huge cooperative networks such as 
usenet , fidonet and internet  ( see internet address ) 
can function without central control because of this trait they 
both rely on and reinforce a sense of community that may be 
's most valuable asset .  . 

finally , a true hacker does not name himself herself one , for this is 
a title that is bestowed by the befuddled sysadmins and users at large .  . 
to me , a sign of a truly great hacker is to be introduced to someone who 
says nahh , i just know a thing or two , people always exagerate .  .  .  . ) 

note that the above definition does not preclude a hacker from describing 
 ( meaning himself herself ) one , but simply says that it is better 
not to do so. there are many who do not know the meaning of  . so , 
in order to defend the true meaning of the word , it is sometimes necessary 
to borrow on the reputation of a known  ( respected ) hacker around the 
workplace .  .  ( this means that  hacker  is defined in terms of some well known 
and respected person . ) . sometimes , there may only be one such person. 

no matter what mr. dumpty says , language does n't work that way. 
actually it does , you just have to get adequate press coverage .  .  .  . ) 

language works anyway that we want it to work. the purpose of language is 
to communicate .  . to oversimplify as long as communication is taking place , 
then language is working. 


include h . 
amiga the computer for the creative mind (tm) commodore weber state 
macintosh the computer for the rest of us (tm) apple university 
i think , therefore i amiga ogden ut usa 

from  ( tim ciceran ) 
subject re best ftp viewer please. 
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 19 

wrote 

could someone please tell me the best ftp able viewer available for msdos 
i am running a 486 33mhz with svga monitor. 
i need to look at gifs mainly and it would be advantageous if it ran 
under windows .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . thanks . 

ftp to wuarchive . wustl . edu . , 
change into mirrors msdos graphics 
get grfwk61t . zip . 
this is the dos version of graphic workshop .  . there is a windows version which 
you could probably find in the mirrors msdos directory but i do n't 
know what the file name is. 



tmc 



from wang 
subject need help to find out the address of several companies doing graphics. 
organization computer science , indiana university 
lines 9 


1) lucas film 
2) pixar 
3) 3d eye inc. 
4) light magic 

thanks , 



from  ( ryan malayter ) 
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly 
organization university of notre dame , notre dame 
lines 22 

in article diablo . uucp . !  ( charles boesel ) writes 
i 've been trying to figure out a way to get adobe illustrator 
to auto trace exactly what i see on my screen. but it misses 
the edges of templates by as many as 6 pixels or more resulting in images 
that are useless i need exact tracing , not approximate .  . 

i 've tried adjusting the freehand tolerances as well as autotrace 
tolerances but it does n't help. any suggestions 


buy adobe streamline .  . problem solved. 



college men get smashed and break something , 
college women get smashed and get broken. 
robin wilson 
president , ryan p. 
chico state university 332 stanford hall 
notre dame , in 46556 
n.d. dept. of physics comp. sci .  . 


subject phigs user group conference 
from  ( griff hamlin ) 
reply to  ( griff hamlin ) 
distribution world 
organization eds , cypress ca 
nntp posting host 134 . 244 . 15 . 158 . 
lines 173 



first annual phigs user group conference 

the first annual phigs user group conference was held march 21 24 
in orlando , florida .  . the conference was organized by the 
design research center in co operation with ieee and sig 
graph .  . attendees came from five countries spanning three con 
 . a good cross section of the phigs community was 
represented at this conference with participants including phigs 
users , workstation vendors , third party phigs , stan 
committee members , and researchers from industry and 
academia .  . the opening speaker , dr. richard , challenged phigs 
users to take charge of your phigs by participating in phigs 
standardization activities and communicating their needs to phigs 
 . the closing speaker , dr. van dam , 
described his vision of the future of graphics standards beyond 
phigs . 

technical paper sessions in the conference covered the following 
topics phigs and x , application toolkits , application issues , 
texture mapping , nurbs , phigs extensions , and object oriented 
libraries and frameworks .  . panel sessions on phigs and pex , phigs 
non retained data , real world cad applications using phigs , and 
portability issues generated enthusiastic discussions and formed 
a good forum for exchange of ideas , needs , and experiences. the 
conference also included a day full of tutorials on topics rang 
ing from mathematics for 3d graphics to object oriented tools 
based on phigs .  . 

next year 's conference is planned for march , 1994. 

phigs everywhere 

at the conference , phigs vendors described and demonstrated 
phigs products that run on all types of computers , from pcs to 
mainframes .  . 

corporation demonstrated their phigs extensions including 
conditional traversal , composite logical input devices , 
and  . 

template graphics software launched figaro pro , the photo 
realistic option for phigs . figaro pro is designed to add 
advanced rendering to the existing phigs api , with features like 
ray tracing , materials , anti aliasing and texture mapping .  . 
radiosity support is also planned. 

figaro is an example of how tgs continues to add newly emerging 
graphics features to their products. figaro supports immediate 
mode extensions to phigs and also supports sun , hp starbase 
and sgi gl opengl .  . figaro for nt will be released this summer. 

tgs also demonstrated the latest versions of , a powerful 
2 call system based on phigs , and , an object 
oriented utility library for phigs pex developers .  . 

and gallium software demonstrated a new version of on 
silicon graphics workstations .  . scheduled for summer , 1993 , ver 
sion 3.0 of , the company 's phigs library for 
tions , will include an advanced phigs debugger that allows phigs 
developers to display and browse phigs structures and other phigs 
internal state. also described their non duplicated data 
store that stores pointers to application data in the css 
for more efficient use of memory. in addition , described 
their application gse that allows application callback functions 
during traversal .  . and , 's data visual 
and application development toolkit , are currently available 
on all major workstations that support gl , x windows , pex , or 
starbase .  . 

wise software presented a slide show of z phigs for ms windows 
and arena , a phigs based modeller render .  . z phigs implements most 
of the phigs primitives .  . in addition z phigs has built in many 
advanced rendering features like texture mapping , shadow genera 
tion , area quick updates and ray tracing .  . a demo disk of z phigs 
or arena is available on request. 

atc exhibited phigs , their full featured phigs 
tation based on dec phigs .  . phigs is available on most 
workstation platforms with c , fortran and ada bindings and 
pex support. 

within the booth sponsored by advanced technology center , digital 
equipment corporation demonstrated dec phigs v2 . 4 . running on the 
dec 3000 400 axp  .  phigs is a port of dec phigs .  . 
dec phigs v2 . 4 . contains most phigs and phigs plus features with 
support for pex v5 . 1 . protocol .  . dec phigs also contains most 
gm eds phigs extensions including post to view as well as 
proprietary extensions to support immediate mode rendering and 
the use of phigs in an x11 environment. 

axp , dec , and dec phigs are trademarks of digital equipment cor 
 . phigs and atc are trademarks of advanced tech 
center. pex and x11 are trademarks of massachusetts 
of technology. 

the ibm exhibit featured a gto accelerator attached to an ibm 340 
workstation running graphigs and pex .  . 

hewlett packard and demonstrated at the conference. a 
hewlett packard machine was coupled to display on a 
pex terminal .  . hp showcased their latest phigs product enhance 
ments .  . 


phigs user group 

the phigs users group was formed to aid the development of phigs 
applications and provide user feedback to phigs and 
phigs standards bodies .  . for more information about the phigs 
users group , send e mail to 



or write to 

sankar 
virginia polytechnic institute 
114 randolph hall 
blacksburg , va. 
fax 703 231 9100 


vendor contacts 

corporation 
tel (619) 455 5590 
fax (619) 453 7603 

template graphics software 
tel (800) 544 4847 
fax (619) 452 

wise software gmbh 
tel 49 451 413 
fax 49 451 499 

north american sales 
tel (800) 267 2626 
fax (613) 592 1278 

advanced technology center 
tel (800) 999 
fax (714) 583 

digital equipment corporation 
tel (603) 884 5111 

international business machines corporation 
tel (800) 426 3333 

hewlett packard company 
tel (303) 229 3800 

copies of the conference proceedings 

copies of the conference proceedings may be obtained by contact 
ing mary johnson at 

johnson , mary 
design and manufacturing institute 
rensselaer polytechnic institute 
110 eighth street 
building , room 
troy , ny 12180 
tel  ( 518)276 ) 
fax  ( 518)276 ) 
email 


the cost is 75.00 per binder .  . 


from (ed stastny ) 
subject re ftp  ( site(s ) with gifs 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 18 

(martin) writes 

i have been looking around some ftp sites and cannot find one with any good 
gif files. could someone please tell me of some ftp sites which do posses 
goods gifs and a wide range. 

whatever you do , do n't ftp to the sites listed in my sig .  .  .  . 

you wo n't like what you find .  .  . really .  . i beg you not to go there ! 
please ! 

 .  .  . e . 


ed stastny otis project , end process , sound news and arts 
po bx ftp sunsite . unc . edu . ( pub multimedia pictures otis ) 
omaha , ne 68124 1113 141 . 214 . 4 . 135 .  ( projects otis ) 
email , 

from mannheim . de .  ( klimek ) 
subject tga viewer for ati ultra 
organization uni mannheim 
lines 12 
nntp posting host uni . mannheim . de . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

hello , 

the subject line says it all i'm looking for a tga file viewer for the ati 
ultra card. it should support the true color modes , of course. 

if someone knows where to find one via ftp , please let me know. 

thanx 

oliver 



from  ( dan jacobson ) 
subject re is there an ftp achive for usgs terrain data 
organization johns hopkins univ. welch medical library 
lines 370 

in article  ( benjamin olasov ) writes 
in article  ( dan jacobson ) writes 

a lot of interesting stuff about gopher deleted 

if you 've never heard of gopher do n't worry it 's free and on the net , 
write me a note if you 'd like information on how to get started. 


best of luck , 

dan jacobson 




i 've heard of it but lost the intro posting that came out a while back 
could you post it again i think it 's of general interest. 


ben 

ben 



this is a heavily edited modified version of the gopher faq intended to 
give people just starting with gopher enough information to get a 
client and jump into gopher space a complete version can be obtained 
as described below. once you have a gopher client point it at 
merlot . welch . jhu . edu . and welcome to gopher space ! 


dan jacobson 





common questions and answers about the internet gopher , a 
client server protocol for making a world wide information service , 
with many implementations .  . posted to comp . gopher . , 
comp.answers , and news.answers every two weeks. 

the most recent version of this faq can be gotten through gopher , or 
via anonymous ftp 

rtfm.mit.edu pub usenet news.answers gopher faq 

those without ftp access should send e mail to mail 
with send usenet news.answers finding sources in the body to find out 
how to do ftp by e mail. 


list of questions in the gopher faq 

q0 what is gopher 
q1 where can i get gopher software 
q2 what do i need to access gopher 
q3 where are there publicly available logins for gopher 
q4 who develops gopher software 
q5 what is the relationship between gopher and  ( wais , www , ftp ) 
q6 are papers or articles describing gopher available 
what is veronica 
what is available for biology 

q0 what is gopher 

a0 the internet gopher client server provides a distributed 
information delivery system around which a world campus wide 
information system  ( cwis ) can readily be constructed .  . while 
providing a delivery vehicle for local information , gopher 
facilitates access to other gopher and information servers 
throughout the world. 


q1 where can i get gopher software 

a1 via anonymous ftp to micro . umn . edu .  . look in the directory 
pub gopher 


q2 what do i need to access gopher 

a2 you will need a gopher client program that runs on your local pc 
or workstation 

there are clients for the following systems. the directory 
following the name is the location of the client on the anonymous 
ftp site micro . umn . edu . (134 . 84 . 132 . 2) . in the directory 
pub gopher .  . 

unix curses emacs pub gopher unix 12 . tar . z . 
xwindows  ( athena ) pub gopher unix 2 . tar . z . 
xwindows  ( motif ) pub gopher unix moog 
xwindows  ( xview ) pub gopher unix 
macintosh hypercard pub gopher macintosh old versions 
macintosh application pub gopher macintosh 
dos w clarkson driver pub gopher pc client 
nextstep pub gopher next 
vm cms pub gopher rice cms or pub gopher 
vms pub gopher vms 
os 2 2.0 pub gopher os2 
mvs xa pub gopher mvs 

many other clients and servers have been developed by others , the 
following is an attempt at a comprehensive list. 

a microsoft windows winsock client the gopher book 
sunsite . unc . edu . pub micro pc stuff ms windows winsock zip . 

a macintosh application , . 
ftp . cc . utah . edu . pub gopher macintosh 

another macintosh application , . 
ftp . bio . indiana . edu . util gopher 

a port of the unix curses client for dos with pc tcp 
oac . hsc . uth . tmc . edu . public dos misc exe . 

a port of the unix curses client for pc nfs 
bcm . tmc . edu . nfs gopher . exe . 

a beta version of the pc gopher client for novell 's lan workplace 
for dos 
lennon . itn . med . umich . edu . dos gopher 

a vms decwindows client for use with wollongong or 
job . acs . ohio . state . edu . client . share . 


note these macintosh clients require  . 

most of the above clients can also be fetched via a gopher client 
itself. put the following on a gopher server 

type 1 
host micro . umn . edu . 
port 70 
path 
name gopher software distribution .  . 


or point your gopher client at micro . umn . edu . , port 70 and 
look in the gopher directory. 


there are also a number of public telnet login sites available. 
the university of minnesota operates one on the machine 
consultant . micro . umn . edu . (134 . 84 . 132 . 4) . see q3 for more 
information about this. it is recommended that you run the client 
software instead of logging into the public telnet login sites. a 
client uses the custom features of the local machine  ( mouse , 
scroll bars , etc . ) . a local client is also faster. 


q3 where are there publicly available logins (ie places to telnet to 
in order to get a taste of gopher ) for gopher 

a3 here is a short list , use the site closest to you to minimize 
network lag .  . 

telnet public logins 

hostname ip login area 

consultant . micro . umn . edu . 134 . 84 . 132 . 4 . gopher north america 
gopher . uiuc . edu . 128 . 174 . 33 . 160 . gopher north america 
panda . uiowa . edu . 128 . 255 . 40 . 201 . panda north america 
gopher . se . 192 . 36 . 125 . 2 . gopher europe 
info . anu . edu . au . 150 . 203 . 84 . 20 . info australia 
gopher . chalmers . se . 129 . 16 . 221 . 40 . gopher sweden 
puc . cl . 146 . 155 . 1 . 16 . gopher south america 
ec . 157 . 100 . 45 . 2 . gopher ecuador 
gan . go . jp . 160 . 190 . 10 . 1 . gopher japan 


it is recommended that you run the client software instead of 
logging into the public login sites. a client uses the 
custom features of the local machine  ( mouse , scroll bars , etc . ) . 
and gives faster response. furthermore many of the basic features 
of clients saving a file to your hard drive , printing a file 
to a local printer , viewing images , retrieving files from ftp 
sites etc .  .  .  .  . are not available by the telnet logins .  . 




q4 who develops gopher software 

a4 gopher was originally developed in april 1991 by the university 
of minnesota microcomputer , workstation , networks center to help 
our campus find answers to their computer questions. 

it has since grown into a full fledged world wide information 
system used by a large number of sites in the world. 

many people have contributed to the project , too numerous to 
count. 

the people behind the much of the gopher software can be reached 
via e mail at , or via paper mail 

internet gopher developers 
100 union st. se 190 
minneapolis , mn 55455 usa 

or via fax at 

1 (612) 625 


q5 what is the relationship between gopher and  ( wais , www , ftp ) 

a5 gopher is intimately intertwined with these two other systems. 
as shipped the unix gopher server has the capability to 

search local wais indices .  . 
query remote wais servers and funnel the results to gopher 
clients. 
query remote ftp sites and funnel the results to gopher 
clients. 
be queried by www  ( world wide web ) clients  ( either using 
built in gopher or using native http  . 


q6 are papers or articles describing gopher available 

a6 gopher has a whole chapter devoted to it in 

the whole internet , ed , o'reilly , 1992  ( editors note 
 .  . great . book , go out and buy a bunch ! ) 

the internet passport 's guide to our world online 
by jonathan and  . published by , 
bellevue , wa .  . 1993. 516 pp. isbn 0 0 6. 
contact info , or (206) 562 3000 

a students guide to unix by harley hahn .  .  ( publisher mcgraw hill , 
inc. 1993 isbn 0 07 3) 


other references include 

the internet gopher , , july 1992 ,  . 

exploring internet the internet society news , 1992 , 

 ( you can subscribe to the internet society news by sending e mail to 


the internet gopher protocol , proceedings of the twenty third 
ietf , cnri , section 5.3 

internet gopher , proceedings of canadian networking '92 

the internet gopher , internet getting started , sri 
international , section 10 . 5 . 5 . 

tools help internet users discover on line treasures , computerworld , 
july 20 , 1992 

tcp ip network administration , o'reilly .  . 

, b.  ( oct 1992) 
making databases accessible through the 
gopher protocol . fall '92 workshop , chapel hill , north 
carolina .  . 

, c. information technology standards for libraries , 
journal of the american society for information science , 
 ( 43(8 ) 566 570 , sept 1992. 



what is veronica 

a7 veronica very easy rodent oriented net wide index to 
computerized archives .  . 

veronica offers a keyword search of most gopher server menu titles 
in the entire gopher web. as archie is to ftp archives , veronica 
is to  . a veronica search produces a menu of gopher 
items , each of which is a direct pointer to a gopher data source. 
because veronica is accessed through a gopher client , it is easy 
to use , and gives access to all types of data supported by the 
gopher protocol .  . 

to try veronica , select it from the other gophers menu on 
minnesota 's gopher server , or point your gopher at 

name veronica  ( search menu items in most of gopherspace ) 
type 1 
port 70 
path 1 veronica 
host scs . edu . 



what is available for biology 

there is an incredible amount of software , data and information 
availble to biologists now by gopher .  . 

here is a brief list of the biological databases that you can search 
via gopher 

2. tropical data base searches 
3. buyers guide online catalogues for biology tel 
4. search protein data bank headers 
5. genetics center 
6. crystallization database 
7. databases probes and primers 
8. museum of paleontology type specimen index 
9. database 
10. search  ( drosophila )  ( indiana ) 
11. search  ( genbank swiss prot pdb ) 
12. search an database 
13. search a database 
14. search a metabolic compound database 
15. search databases at  ( vectors , , nrl 3d , est , omi .  .  . 
16. search embl 
17. search genbank 
18. search genbank 2 
19. search genbank updates 
20. search limb 
21. search 
22. search  ( keyword , species .  .  . ) . 
23. search 
24. search restriction enzyme database 
25. search swiss prot 
26. search 
27. search the c. strain list 
28. search the dna database of japan 
29. search the ec enzyme database 
30. search the database 
31. search the database 
32. vectors , phage , etc. 
33 .  . epd eukaryotic database 
34 .  . est expressed sequence tag database human 
35. west expressed sequence tag database c. 
36 .  . database of proteins of immunological interest 
37 .  . nrl 3d protein sequence structure database 
38 .  . online inheritance in man 
39 .  . sequence analysis bibliographic reference data ban .  .  . 
40. search restriction enzyme database 
41 .  . search the ec enzyme database 
42 .  . search the rodent section of genbank 
43 .  . database  ( genbank , swiss prot  .  .  . ) . 
44 .  . retrieve full pdb entries by accession number 
45. search for all researchers funded by nih 
46 .  . search for genome researchers funded by doe 
47 .  . search for researchers funded by nsf 
48 .  . search for researchers funded by the usda 
49 .  . e mail addresses of 
50. e mail addresses of yeast 
51 .  . around the world 
52 .  . search and retrieve software for all computers 
53 .  . search and retrieve macintosh software 
54 .  . search and retrieve dos software 
55 .  . search and retrieve gnu software 
56 .  . search and retrieve software for biology 
57 .  . search for agricultural software 
58 .  . search and retrieve graphics software and data 
59 .  . search and retrieve all online perl scripts 
60. ftp sites for biology (56 archives for software and data) 


and the list goes on this is just the beginning 


from  ( daniel ortmann ) 
subject re vga graphics library 
keywords c , library , graphics 
article i.d. ns1 . 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
lines 11 
nntp posting host plains . nodak . edu . 

in article  ( bill sheppard ) writes 
many ) high end graphics cards come with c source code for doing basic graphics 
sorts ) of things  ( change colors , draw points lines polygons fills , etc . ) .  . does 
such ) a library exist for generic vga graphics cards chips , hopefully in the 
public ) domain this would be for the purpose of compiling under a non dos 
operating ) system running on a standard pc. 

check the server code for x11r5 .  .  ( or xfree86 ) 

daniel un x  ( talmidim ) electrical engineering 
shalom , north dakota 

from  ( tim ciceran ) 
subject re corel draw or harvard draw 
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
distribution usa 
lines 32 

larry wrote 
my wife wants to publish a newsletter .  . she 's no artist , so she intends to 
use comercial clipart and it a bit by drawing a circle or a box 
around it etc. 

we have for manipulating text , but it is not suitable for doing 
much with graphics , so she needs a more specialised tool. right now she 's 
looking at corel draw and harvard draw .  . there seem to be more books in the 
stores on corel than on harvard , so she 's inclined to go with corel on the 
basis of popularity .  . can anyone give us an informed opinion on which 
package would be more suitable or if there is an even better alternative 
available if this is a faq , please withhold the flames and just send the 
location of the faq document .  . thanks. 


go with coreldraw .  . pcmag just did a review a couple of issues ago and adobe 
illustrator and coreldraw were picked as the best. 

three ps 's 

1) is it ok to use clip art from harvard draw or whatever for commercial 
purposes 

 ( other two deleted .  .  . ) . 
as far as i know it 's okay. you 'd have to read the licence agreement that 
comes with the package to be sure. 



tmc 



from (scott crow ) 
subject mode 13h 
organization university of california santa cruz 
lines 7 
nntp posting host am . ucsc . edu . 


does anyone know how to access and or display multiple pages in mode 13h 
while still maintaining the 1 byte per pixel memory organization 
examples in c or assembly would be appreciated .  .  .  . 
thanks 
scott 


from  ( jim powlesland ) 
subject re pict , , etc map of italy 
nntp posting host acs . ucalgary . ca . 
organization the university of calgary , alberta 
lines 16 

in article writes 
does anybody know where i can get a graphic (mac pict , , tiff , gif , 
whatever) of italy i'm looking for a picture of a map of italy  ( even just the 

a map of italy showing the states  ( provinces ) is in the freehand 
3.1 for windows clip art collection. corel draw 3.0 clip art has 
an outline map of italy .  . 





jim internet 
academic computing services voice  ( 403)220 ) 
university of calgary message  ( 403)220 ) 
calgary , alberta canada fax  ( 403)282 ) 

from (stephen peter ) 
subject windows bmp something wanted 
keywords bmp 
nntp posting host arch . unsw . edu . au . 
reply to 
organization faculty of architecture , university of new south wales 
lines 20 

g day all , 

i'm looking for a program to convert bmp images to gif , tga or even ppm .  . 

i 'd prefer a unix program , but dos is fine also. 

i 've seen alchemy  ( for dos) and some windows image viewers which can save 
an image in other formats , but what i'm after is a converter not a viewer .  .  .  . 

any help would be ! 

cheers 
stephen .  . 


stephen peter or 
. . 
v school of architecture , university of new south wales , australia 
phone 61 2 fax 61 2 messages 61 2 


from  ( aron bonar ) 
subject re gif to targa 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 9 
nntp posting host taos . ced . berkeley . edu . 

in article ,  ( krzysztof muchorowski ) writes 
hello , 
subject says it all. i need a gif to targa converter , so that my 
could make a  . fli . of them. 



dta will make a  . fli . from gifs as well as targas .  . you do n't need a converter .  . 
also .  . get . the latest version of dta from wuarchive . wustl . edu . in pub msdos uploads .  . 

from  ( jarkko heinonen ) 
subject ftp site for  . pov . files 
organization university of helsinki 
lines 9 

i know this has been asked a million time , but .  .  . 

what was the ftp site carrying 30 40  . of full pov source files , 
including jack . zip . and kettle . zip . i 've once been there but 
unfortunately lost the address. 
i'm in a little hurry with it , so please e mail me at 
thanks .  .  . 

jarkko 

from  ( aegee tilburg , jorna ) 
subject cgm viewer wanted 
organization tilburg university , tilburg , the netherlands 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
news software vax vms 1.41 
lines 7 

i'm currently looking for a viewer for computer graphics metafile  ( cgm ) 
pictures. please inform me about a shareware or freeware version. 

thnx , 




from (peter lee ) 
subject re quicktime performance  ( was re rumours about 3do ) 


reply to 
organization software development lab , umass , amherst 
lines 108 
in reply to 's message of 26 apr 93 05 09 15 gmt 

in article  ( lawrence d , waikato university) writes 

path dime ! cs . umass . edu . ! nic . umass . edu . ! noc . near . net . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! usc ! elroy . jpl . nasa . gov . ! ! waikato . ac . nz . ! 
from  ( lawrence d , waikato university) 
newsgroups comp . multimedia . , comp . graphics . 
date 26 apr 93 05 09 15 gmt 
references 
organization university of waikato , hamilton , new zealand 
lines 67 
xref dime comp . multimedia . comp . graphics . 

ok , with all the discussion about observed playback speeds with quicktime , 
the effects of scaling and so on , i thought i 'd do some more tests. 

first of all , i felt that my original speed test was perhaps less than 
realistic .  . the movie i had been using only had 18 frames in it (it was a 
version of the very first movie i created with the compact video  . 
i decided something a little longer would give closer to real world results 
 ( for better or for  . 

i pulled out a copy of 2001 a space odyssey that i had recorded off tv 
a while back. about fifteen minutes into the movie , there 's a sequence where 
the earth shuttle is approaching the space station. specifically , i digitized 
a portion of about 30 seconds  duration , zooming in on the rotating space 
station. i figured this would give a reasonable amount of movement between 
frames .  . to increase the differences between frames , i digitized it at only 
5 frames per second , to give a total of 171 frames .  . 

i captured the raw footage at a resolution of 384 288 pixels with the spigot 
card in my centris 650  ( quarter size resolution from a pal source) .  . i then 
imported it into and put it through the compact video compressor , 
keeping the 5 fps frame rate. i created two versions of the movie one scaled 
to 320 240 resolution , the other at 160 120 resolution. i used the default 
2.00 quality setting in 2.0.1 , and specified a key frame every ten 
frames .  . 

i then ran the 320 240 movie through the same raw speed test program i used 
for the results i 'd been reporting earlier. 

result a playback rate of over 45 frames per second. 

that 's right , i was getting a much higher result than with that first short 
test movie. just for fun , i copied the 320 240 movie to my external hard 
disk (a quantum lp105s ) , and ran it from there. this time the playback rate 
was only about 35 frames per second. obviously the internal hard disk 
 ( also a quantum ) is a significant contributor to the speed of playback .  . 

i modified my speed test program to allow the specification of optional 
scaling factors , and tried playing back the 160 120 movie scaled to 320 240 
size. this time the playback speed was over 60 fps .  . clearly , the poster who 
observed poor performance on scaled playback was seeing quicktime 1.0 in 
action , not 1 . 5 .  . i 'd try my tests with quicktime 1.0 , but i do n't think it 's 
entirely compatible with my centris and system 7 . 1 .  .  .  . 

, the playback rate for the 160 120 movie was over 100 fps .  . 

the other thing i tried was saving versions of the 320 240 movie with 
preferred playback rates greater than 1.0 , and seeing how well they played 
from within (ie with quicktime 's normal synchronized  . 
a preferred rate of 9.0 ( 45 fps ) did n't work too well the playback was 
very jerky .  . compare this with the raw speed test , which achieved 45 fps with 
ease. i ca n't believe that quicktime 's synchronization code would add this 
much overhead i think the slowdown was coming from the mac system 's task 
switching .  . 

a preferred rate of 7.0 ( 35 fps ) seemed to work fine i could n't see 
any evidence of  . at 8.0 ( 40 fps ) i think i could see slight 
, but with four key frames every second , it was hard to tell. 

i guess i could try recreating the movies with a longer interval between the 
key frames , to make the more noticeable .  . of course , this will also 
improve the compression slightly , which should speed up the playback performance 
even more .  .  .  . 

lawrence d fone 64 7 856 2889 
computer services dept fax 64 7 838 4066 
university of waikato electric mail 
hamilton , new zealand 37 47  26 s , 175 19  7 e , gmt 12 00 


i'm afraid i missed the start of this thread , but there are three factors that 
can significantly affect quicktime 's playback speed that you may want to take 
into account 

(1) playback bit depth  ( things are fastest when you play a 
movie back at the bit depth it was compressed for , this is usually 8 or 16 
bit , but other depths are  ( of course) possible) .  . 

(2) type of scaling  ( qt is optimized for double size scaling , other scaling 
factors hit much  . 

(3) playback window position  ( movieplayer limits your window placement choices 
to pixel boundaries by default , i'm not sure about  . 

any combination of those can radically alter playback performance. image size 
is , of course , another biggie .  . giving the movie player lots of ram can also 
make a real difference. 

forgive me if these were mentioned earlier in the thread .  .  .  . 

peter lee 



peter e. lee , software conductor 
specular international , inc. 
or (413) 256  ( h ) or (413) 549 7600  ( w ) 
beauty is 24 bits deep , plus eight bits of alpha channel 

from  ( sezgey pachkovsky ) 
subject re svga hicolor 
organization university of zurich , switzerland 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 16 

johan conroy  ( 572391 ) wrote 
i have a question about svga cards. i have a tseng 4000 svga with 1mb 
memory and 3x 6 bit as far as i know. to display a , 
now can i display 640x480 , pixel bit maps on this card 

you can. at the least , your hardware is capable of supporting this mode. 
i do know nothing about your video bios , though .  .  .  . 

if so , how 

silly  ( but fool proof ) way install windows with colors 
driver and display your pictures under windows .  .  .  . 

cheese , 

serge . p . 

from  ( daniel e. bradley ) 
subject fractal terrain generator 
keywords fractal terrain mac 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 10 

does anyone know of a fractal terrain generator for mac , something 
i could hopefully import into a 3d program like swivel or 
i know d has built in capabilities , but i do n't have access to 
d. i downloaded two programs from umich , in graphics fractals , 
but both were from 1990 91 and crashed under system 7. i think they 
were black and white anyway. please , email me if you know of anything , 
as i do n't check the newsgroups very often. 
thanks in advance. 
dan bradley 


from  ( alan christiansen ) 
subject re fast polygon routine needed 
organization swinburne university of technology 
lines 49 
nntp posting host saturn . cs . swin . oz . au . 
keywords polygon , needed 

 ( lucas adamski ) writes 

in article  ( ian d romanick ) writes 
what kind of polygons shaded hm more comes into play with 
fast routines than just polygons . it would be nice to know exaclty what 
system  ( vga is a start , but what processor ) and a few of the specifics of the 
implementation .  . you need to give more info if you want to get any answers ! p 

i do n't want texture mapped , cause if i did i 'd asked for them. ) just 
a simple and fast routine to do filled polygons .  . as for the processor , it 'd 
be for a minimum of a 286 .  .  .  . maybe 386 if i ca n't find a good one for 286s .  . 
ideally , i want a function that can clip to a user defined viewport , 
and write to an arbitrary location in memory. of course the chances of 

ok it is for a game that is 3d and you have listed the characteristics 
that you are looking for. i think you may have left out a few 
important parameters .  . 
the polygons are all convex .  . 
they have less than n sides.  ( you are drawing meshes walls doors etc . ) . 

i believe that the algorithms you can get that will only draw convex 
polygons can be much more efficient than those that can draw 
concave self intersecting polygons .  . 
this efficiency can largely be attributed to the fact that 
simple convex polygons only have a left and a right edge on each scan line. 
complex  ( figure 8 type polygons) can be a bit trickier .  . 

the less than n sides specification especially if it is a very small 
number like 3 or 4 allow othe to be made. 

thus for a high speed game application i think you are looking for 
code that exploits and is hence limited to drawing simple convex 
polygons .  . 

finding something like that are pretty remote , so i guess i 'd need the source 
with it. oh , and i guess it would need to be in asm otherwise it 'd be too 
slow. i 've seen some polygon routines in c , and they 've all been waaay too 
slow. its for a 3d vector graphics program. i 've been hunting high and low 

it may have been that they were very general purpose algorithms .  . 
if you limit yourself to 3 or four sided simple convex polygons 
i think you might be suprised how fast a c algorithm with a 
asm block move to fill each scan line might actually be. 


for a function in asm , and i ca n't find one anywhere that i can use. 
i 've found one or two functions , but my asm is pretty bad , so i wo n't 
even try to rewrite them. ) 
lucas .  . 

from diablo . uucp . !  ( charles boesel ) 
subject re adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms 
organization diablo creative 
reply to diablo . uucp . !  ( charles boesel ) 
x mailer lite macintosh release 1 . 6v2 . 
lines 14 


in article (sci . image . processing . , comp . graphics) . ,  ( wayne michael ) writes 
i have been searching for a quality image enhancement and 
manipulation package for unix x motif platforms that is comparable 
to adobe photo shop for the mac .  . stuff deleted 

i understand that adobe is working on making photoshop available for 
the sgi indigo , but that is just rumor and i would n't bet on it 
until i see it. but they are going to release illustrator for the sgi 
real soon now. 


charles boesel @ diablo creative if pro for and con against 
then what 's the opposite of progress 
1 . 510 . 687 . what else , congress .  . 

from tgl  ( tom lane ) 
subject jpeg image compression frequently asked questions 
summary useful info about jpeg  ( jpg ) image files and programs 
keywords jpeg , image compression , faq 
supersedes jpeg faq 
nntp posting host g . gp . cs . cmu . edu . 
reply to jpeg 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
expires mon , 14 jun 1993 03 21 00 gmt 
lines 1041 

archive name jpeg faq 
last modified 16 may 1993 

this faq article discusses jpeg image compression .  . suggestions for 
additions and clarifications are welcome. 

new since version of 2 may 1993 
added info on for next. 


this article includes the following sections 

1 what is jpeg 
2 why use jpeg 
3 when should i use jpeg , and when should i stick with gif 
4 how well does jpeg compress images 
5 what are good quality settings for jpeg 
6 where can i get jpeg software 
6a canned software , viewers , etc. 
6b source code 
7 what 's all this hoopla about color quantization 
8 how does jpeg work 
9 what about lossless jpeg 
10 why all the argument about file formats 
11 how do i recognize which file format i have , and what do i do about it 
12 what about arithmetic coding 
13 does loss accumulate with repeated compression decompression 
14 what are some rules of thumb for converting gif images to jpeg 

sections 1 6 are basic info that every jpeg user needs to know 
sections 7 14 are advanced info for the curious. 

this article is posted every 2 weeks. you can always find the latest version 
in the news.answers archive at rtfm.mit.edu (18 . 70 . 0 .  . by ftp , fetch 
pub usenet news.answers jpeg faq or if you do n't have ftp , send e mail to 
mail with body send usenet news.answers jpeg faq . 
many other faq articles are also stored in this archive .  . for more 
instructions on use of the archive , send e mail to the same address with the 
words help and index (no quotes ) on separate lines. if you do n't get a 
reply , the server may be misreading your return address add a line such as 
path to specify your correct e mail address to reply to. 





1 what is jpeg 

jpeg  ( pronounced jay peg ) is a standardized image compression mechanism .  . 
jpeg stands for joint photographic experts group , the original name of the 
committee that wrote the standard. jpeg is designed for compressing either 
full color or gray scale digital images of natural , real world scenes. 
it does not work so well on non realistic images , such as cartoons or line 
drawings. 

jpeg does not handle black and white (1 bit per pixel ) images , nor does it 
handle motion picture compression .  . standards for compressing those types 
of images are being worked on by other committees , named and mpeg 
respectively .  . 

jpeg is lossy , meaning that the image you get out of decompression is n't 
quite identical to what you originally put in. the algorithm achieves much 
of its compression by exploiting known limitations of the human eye , notably 
the fact that small color details are n't perceived as well as small details 
of light and dark. thus , jpeg is intended for compressing images that will 
be looked at by humans. if you plan to machine analyze your images , the 
small errors introduced by jpeg may be a problem for you , even if they are 
invisible to the eye. 

a useful property of jpeg is that the degree of can be varied by 
adjusting compression parameters .  . this means that the image maker can trade 
off file size against output image quality. you can make extremely small 
files if you do n't mind poor quality this is useful for indexing image 
archives , making thumbnail views or icons , etc. etc. conversely , if you 
are n't happy with the output quality at the default compression setting , you 
can jack up the quality until you are satisfied , and accept lesser compression .  . 


2 why use jpeg 

there are two good reasons to make your image files smaller , and to store 
24 bit per pixel color data instead of 8 bit per pixel data. 

making image files smaller is a big win for transmitting files across 
networks and for archiving libraries of images. being able to compress a 
2 mbyte full color file down to 100 kbytes or so makes a big difference in 
disk space and transmission time !  ( if you are comparing gif and jpeg , the 
size ratio is more like four to one. more details below . ) . 

if your viewing software does n't support jpeg directly , you 'll have to 
convert jpeg to some other format for viewing or manipulating images. even 
with a jpeg capable viewer , it takes longer to decode and view a jpeg image 
than to view an image of a simpler format  ( gif , for instance) .  . thus , using 
jpeg is essentially a time space tradeoff you give up some time in order to 
store or transmit an image more cheaply .  . 

it 's worth noting that when network or phone transmission is involved , the 
time savings from transferring a shorter file can be much greater than the 
extra time to decompress the file. i 'll let you do the arithmetic yourself. 

the other reason why jpeg will gradually replace gif as a standard usenet 
posting format is that jpeg can store full color information 24 bits pixel 
(16 million colors) instead of 8 or less  ( 256 or fewer colors) .  . if you have 
only 8 bit display hardware then this may not seem like much of an advantage 
to you. within a couple of years , though , 8 bit gif will look as obsolete as 
black and white format does today. furthermore , for reasons detailed 
in section 7 , jpeg is far more useful than gif for exchanging images among 
people with widely varying color display hardware. hence jpeg is considerably 
more appropriate than gif for use as a usenet posting standard. 


3 when should i use jpeg , and when should i stick with gif 

jpeg is not going to displace gif entirely for some types of images , 
gif is superior in image quality , file size , or both. one of the first 
things to learn about jpeg is which kinds of images to apply it to. 

as a rule of thumb , jpeg is superior to gif for storing full color or 
gray scale images of realistic scenes that means scanned photographs and 
similar material. jpeg is superior even if you do n't have 24 bit display 
hardware , and it is a lot superior if you do.  ( see section 7 for details . ) . 

gif does significantly better on images with only a few distinct colors , 
such as cartoons and line drawings. in particular , large areas of pixels 
that are all exactly the same color are compressed very efficiently indeed 
by gif .  . jpeg ca n't squeeze these files as much as gif does without 
introducing visible defects .  . this sort of image is best kept in gif form. 
 ( in particular , single color borders are quite cheap in gif files , but they 
should be avoided in jpeg files . ) . 

jpeg also has a hard time with very sharp edges a row of pure black pixels 
adjacent to a row of pure white pixels , for example. sharp edges tend to 
come out blurred unless you use a very high quality setting. again , this 
sort of thing is not found in scanned photographs , but it shows up fairly 
often in gif files borders , overlaid text , etc. the blurriness is 
particularly objectionable with text that 's only a few pixels high. 
if you have a gif with a lot of small size overlaid text , do n't jpeg it. 

computer drawn images (ray traced scenes , for instance) usually fall between 
scanned images and cartoons in terms of complexity .  . the more complex and 
subtly rendered the image , the more likely that jpeg will do well on it. 
the same goes for semi realistic artwork  ( fantasy drawings and such) .  . 

plain black and white  ( two level) images should never be converted to jpeg .  . 
you need at least about 16 gray levels before jpeg is useful for gray scale 
images. it should also be noted that gif is lossless for gray scale images 
of up to 256 levels , while jpeg is not. 

if you have an existing library of gif images , you may wonder whether you 
should convert them to jpeg .  . you will lose a little image quality if you do. 
 ( section 7 , which argues that jpeg image quality is superior to gif , only 
applies if both formats start from a full color original. if you start from 
a gif , you 've already irretrievably lost a great deal of information jpeg 
can only make things worse . ) . however , the disk space savings may justify 
converting anyway. this is a decision you 'll have to make for yourself. 
if you do convert a gif library to jpeg , see section 14 for hints .  . be 
prepared to leave some images in gif format , since some gifs will not 
convert well. 


4 how well does jpeg compress images 

pretty darn well. here are some sample file sizes for an image i have 
handy , a full color image of a ship in a harbor .  . the first three 
files are for comparison purposes the rest were created with the free jpeg 
software described in section 6b .  . 

file size in bytes comments 

ship . ppm . original file in ppm format (no compression 24 bits 
or 3 bytes per pixel , plus a few bytes overhead ) 
ship . ppm . z . ppm file passed through unix compress 
compress does n't accomplish a lot , you 'll note. 
other text oriented compressors give similar results. 
ship . gif . converted to gif with ppmquant fs 256 
most of the savings is the result of losing color 
info gif saves 8 bits pixel , not 24.  ( see sec. 7 . ) . 

ship . jpg95 . q 95  ( highest useful quality setting) 
this is indistinguishable from the 24 bit original , 
at least to my nonprofessional eyeballs .  . 
ship . jpg75 . q 75  ( default setting) 
you have to look mighty darn close to distinguish this 
from the original , even with both on screen at once. 
ship . jpg50 . q 50 
this has slight defects if you know what to look 
for , you could tell it 's been without seeing 
the original. still as good image quality as many 
recent postings in usenet pictures groups. 
ship . jpg25 . 25192 q 25 
jpeg 's characteristic blockiness becomes apparent 
at this setting  ( djpeg helps some) .  . 
still , i 've seen plenty of usenet postings that were 
of poorer image quality than this. 
ship . jpg5o . 6587 q 5 optimize ( optimize cuts table overhead ) 
blocky , but perfectly satisfactory for preview or 
indexing purposes. note that this file is tiny 
the compression ratio from the original is 173 1 ! 

in this case jpeg can make a file that 's a factor of four or five smaller 
than a gif of comparable quality (the q 75 file is every bit as good as the 
gif , better if you have a full color display) .  . this seems to be a typical 
ratio for real world scenes. 


5 what are good quality settings for jpeg 

most jpeg compressors let you pick a file size vs. image quality tradeoff by 
selecting a quality setting. there seems to be widespread confusion about 
the meaning of these settings. quality 95 does not mean keep 95 of the 
information , as some have claimed .  . the quality scale is purely arbitrary 
it 's not a percentage of anything. 

the name of the game in using jpeg is to pick the lowest quality setting 
 ( smallest file size) that decompresses into an image indistinguishable from 
the original. this setting will vary from one image to another and from one 
observer to another , but here are some rules of thumb .  . 

the default quality setting ( q 75) is very often the best choice. this 
setting is about the lowest you can go without expecting to see defects in a 
typical image. try q 75 first if you see defects , then go up. except for 
experimental purposes , never go above q 95 saying q 100 will produce a 
file two or three times as large as q 95 , but of hardly any better quality. 

if the image was less than perfect quality to begin with , you might be able to 
go down to q 50 without objectionable degradation .  . on the other hand , you 
might need to go to a higher quality setting to avoid further degradation .  . 
the second case seems to apply much of the time when converting gifs to jpeg .  . 
the default q 75 is about right for compressing 24 bit images , but q 85 to 
95 is usually better for converting gifs  ( see section 14 for more info) .  . 

if you want a very small file  ( say for preview or indexing purposes ) and are 
prepared to tolerate large defects , a q setting in the range of 5 to 10 is 
about right. q 2 or so may be amusing as op art . 

 ( note the quality settings discussed in this article apply to the free jpeg 
software described in section 6b , and to many programs based on it. other 
jpeg implementations , such as image alchemy , may use a completely different 
quality scale. some programs do n't even provide a numeric scale , just 
high medium low style choices . ) . 


6 where can i get jpeg software 

most of the programs described in this section are available by ftp .  . 
if you do n't know how to use ftp , see the faq article how to find sources . 
 ( if you do n't have direct access to ftp , read about ftpmail servers in the 
same article . ) . that article appears regularly in news.answers , or you can 
get it by sending e mail to mail with 
send usenet news.answers finding sources in the body. the anonymous ftp 
list faq may also be helpful it 's usenet news.answers ftp list faq in 
the news.answers archive .  . 

note this list changes constantly .  . if you have a copy more than a couple 
months old , get the latest jpeg faq from the news.answers archive .  . 


6a if you are looking for canned software , viewers , etc 

the first part of this list is system specific programs that only run on one 
kind of system. if you do n't see what you want for your machine , check out 
the portable jpeg software described at the end of the list. note that this 
list concentrates on free and shareware programs that you can obtain over 
internet but some commercial programs are listed too. 

x windows 

xv  ( shareware , 25) is an excellent viewer for jpeg , gif , and many other 
image formats .  . it can also do format conversion and some simple image 
manipulations .  . it 's available for ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . (18 . 24 . 0 . 12) . , 
file contrib xv 3 . 00 . tar . z .  . version 3.00 is a major upgrade with support 
for 24 bit displays and many other improvements however , it is brand new 
and still has some bugs lurking .  . if you prefer not to be on the bleeding 
edge , stick with version 2.21 , also available from export .  . note that 
version 2.21 is not a good choice if you have a 24 bit display  ( you 'll get 
only 8 bit color) , nor for converting 24 bit images to jpeg .  . but 2.21 works 
fine for converting gif and other 8 bit images to jpeg .  . caution there is a 
glitch in version 2.21 be sure to check the save at normal size checkbox 
when saving a jpeg file , or the file will be blurry .  . 

another good choice for x windows is john cristy 's free imagemagick package , 
also available from export . lcs . mit . edu . , file contrib imagemagick . tar . z .  . 
this package handles many image processing and conversion tasks .  . the 
imagemagick viewer handles 24 bit displays correctly for 
displays , it does better  ( though slower) color quantization than xv or the 
basic free jpeg software. 

both of the above are large , complex packages. if you just want a simple 
image viewer , try xloadimage or xli .  . xloadimage supports jpeg in its latest 
release , 3 . 03 .  . xloadimage is free and available from export . lcs . mit . edu . , 
file contrib xloadimage 3 . 03 . tar . z .  . xli is a variant version of xloadimage , 
said by its fans to be somewhat faster and more robust than the original. 
(the current xli is indeed faster and more robust than the current 
xloadimage , at least with respect to jpeg files , because it has the v4 
decoder while xloadimage 3.03 is using a hacked over v1 .  . the next 
xloadimage release will fix this . ) . xli is also free and available from 
export . lcs . mit . edu . , file contrib xli . 1 . 14 . tar . z .  . both programs are said 
to do the right thing with 24 bit displays .  . 


ms dos 

this covers plain dos for windows or os 2 programs , see the next headings .  . 

one good choice is eric praetzel 's free , which views jpeg and gif files. 
the current version , 2.5 , is available by ftp from sunee . uwaterloo . ca . 
(129 . 97 . 50 . 50) . , file pub jpeg viewers zip .  . this is a good basic 
viewer that works on either 286 or 386 486 machines. the user interface is 
not flashy , but it 's functional .  . 

another freeware jpeg gif tga viewer is mohammad 's hiview .  . the 
current version , 1.2 , is available from simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note 
below) , file msdos graphics hv12 . zip .  . hiview requires a 386 or better cpu 
and a vcpi compatible memory manager  ( qemm386 and work windows and 
os 2 do not) .  . hiview is currently the fastest viewer for images that are no 
bigger than your screen. for larger images , it scales the image down to fit 
on the screen  ( rather than using panning scrolling as most viewers do) .  . 
you may or may not prefer this approach , but there 's no denying that it 
slows down loading of large images considerably .  . note installation is a 
bit tricky read the directions carefully ! 

a shareware alternative is for dos ( 30) .  . this is easier to 
install than either of the two freeware alternatives .  . its user interface is 
also much spiffier looking , although personally i find it harder to use 
more keystrokes , inconsistent behavior. it is faster than but a 
little slower than hiview , at least on my hardware.  ( for images larger than 
screen size , and seem to be about the same speed , and both 
are faster than hiview . ) . the current version is 2.1 , available from 
simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics dcview21 . zip .  . 
requires a vesa graphics driver if you do n't have one , look in vesadrv2 . zip . 
or vesa tsr . zip . from the same directory.  ( many recent pcs have a built in 
vesa driver , so do n't try to load a vesa driver unless complains 
that the driver is missing . ) . 

a second shareware alternative is fullview , which has been kicking around 
the net for a while , but i do n't know any stable archive location for it. 
the current  ( rather old) version is inferior to the above viewers anyway. 
the author tells me that a new version of fullview will be out shortly 
and it will be submitted to the simtel20 archives at that time. 

the well known gif viewer  ( cshow ) supports jpeg in its latest 
revision , 8 . 60a .  . however , cshow 's jpeg implementation is n't very good 
it 's slow  ( about half the speed of the above viewers ) and image quality is 
poor except on hi color displays .  . too bad ... it 'd have been nice to see a 
good jpeg capability in cshow .  . shareware , 25. available from simtel20 and 
mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos gif cshw860a . zip .  . 

due to the remarkable variety of pc graphics hardware , any one of these 
viewers might not work on your particular machine. if you ca n't get any 
of them to work , you 'll need to use one of the following conversion programs 
to convert jpeg to gif , then view with your favorite gif viewer .  .  ( if you 
have hi color hardware , do n't use gif as the intermediate format try to 
find a targa capable viewer instead. vpic5 . 0 . is reputed to do the right 
thing with hi color displays . ) . 

the independent jpeg group 's free jpeg converters are from simtel20 
and mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics jpeg4 . zip .  ( or 
jpeg4386 . zip . if you have a 386 and extended memory) .  . these files are dos 
compilations of the free source code described in section 6b they will 
convert jpeg to and from gif , targa , and ppm formats .  . 

handmade software offers free jpeg gif conversion tools , gif2jpg jpg2gif .  . 
these are slow and are limited to conversion to and from gif format in 
particular , you ca n't get 24 bit color output from a jpeg .  . the major 
advantage of these tools is that they will read and write hsi 's proprietary 
jpeg format as well as the usenet standard jfif format. since hsi format 
files are rather widespread on , this is a useful capability .  . version 
2.0 of these tools is free  ( prior versions were shareware) .  . get it from 
simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics gif2jpg2 . zip .  . 
note do not use hsi format for files to be posted on internet , since it is 
not readable on non pc platforms .  . 

handmade software also has a shareware image conversion and manipulation 
package , image alchemy .  . this will translate jpeg files  ( both jfif and hsi 
formats) to and from many other image formats .  . it can also display images. 
a demo version of image alchemy version 1 . 6 . 2 . is available from simtel20 and 
mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics zip .  . 

note about simtel20 the internet 's key archive site for pc related programs 
is simtel20 , full name simtel20 . army . mil . (192 . 88 . 110 . 20) .  . simtel20 
runs a non unix system with weird directory names where this document 
refers to directory  ( eg ) msdos graphics at simtel20 , that really means 
msdos . graphics . . if you are not physically on milnet , you should 
expect rather slow ftp transfer rates from simtel20 .  . there are several 
internet sites that maintain copies  ( mirrors ) of the simtel20 archives 
most ftp users should go to one of the mirror sites instead. a popular usa 
mirror site is oak . oakland . edu . (141 . 210 . 10 . 117) . , which keeps simtel20 files 
in  ( eg ) pub msdos graphics . if you have no ftp capability , you can 
retrieve files from simtel20 by e mail see informational postings in 
comp . archives . msdos . announce . to find out how. if you are outside the usa , 
consult the same newsgroup to learn where your nearest simtel20 mirror is. 

microsoft windows 

there are several windows programs capable of displaying jpeg images. 
 ( windows viewers are generally slower than dos viewers on the same hardware , 
due to windows  system overhead .  . note that you can run the dos conversion 
programs described above inside a windows dos window . ) . 

the newest entry is , which is free and extremely fast. version 1.0 
is available from ftp . rahul . net . , file pub pc jpeg wecj . zip .  . 
requires windows 3.1 and 256 or more colors mode. this is a no frills 
viewer with the bad habit of hogging the machine completely while it 
decodes and the image quality is noticeably worse than other viewers .  . 
but it 's so fast you 'll use it anyway , at least for previewing .  .  .  . 

is freeware , fairly fast , has good on line help , and can write out the 
decompressed image in windows bmp format but it ca n't create new jpeg 
files , and it does n't view gifs .  . also lacks some other useful 
features of the shareware viewers  ( such as brightness adjustment) , but it 's 
an excellent basic viewer .  . the current version , 0.9 , is available from 
ftp . cica . indiana . edu . (129 . 79 . 20 . 84) . , file pub pc win3 desktop jview090 . zip .  . 
 ( mirrors of this archive can be found at some other internet sites , 
including wuarchive . wustl . edu . ) . 

winjpeg  ( shareware , 20) displays jpeg , gif , targa , tiff , and bmp image files 
it can write all of these formats too , so it can be used as a converter .  . 
it has some other nifty features including color balance adjustment and 
slideshow .  . the current version is 2.1 , available from simtel20 and mirror 
sites  ( see note above) , file msdos winjp210 . zip .  .  ( this is a slow 
286 compatible version if you register , you 'll get the 386 only version , 
which is roughly 25 faster . ) . 

is another shareware entry ( 30) .  . this was an early and promising 
contender , but it has not been updated in some time , and at this point it 
has no real advantages over winjpeg .  . if you want to try it anyway , the 
current version is 0.97 , available from ftp . cica . indiana . edu . , file 
pub pc win3 desktop cview097 . zip .  . (i understand that a new version will 
be appearing once the authors are finished with for dos . ) . 

 ( see dos heading ) also works under windows , but only in full screen 
mode , not in a window. 

os 2 

the following files are available from hobbes . nmsu . edu . (128 . 123 . 35 . 151) .  . 
note check pub uploads for more recent versions the hobbes moderator 
is not very fast about moving uploads into their permanent directories. 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics jpegv4 . zip . 
32 bit version of free conversion programs , version 4. 
pub os2 all graphics jpeg4 16 . zip . 
16 bit version of same , for os 2 1 . x .  . 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics zip . 
image archiver 1.02 image conversion viewing with pm graphical interface. 
strong on conversion functions , viewing is a bit weaker .  . shareware , 15. 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics pmjpeg11 . zip . 
1.1 os 2 2 . x . port of winjpeg , a popular viewer for windows 
 ( see description in windows section) .  . shareware , 20. 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics zip . 
0.85 jpeg gif bmp targa pcx viewer .  . gif viewing very fast , 
jpeg viewing roughly the same speed as the above two programs. has 
image manipulation slideshow functions. shareware , 20. 

macintosh 

most mac jpeg programs rely on apple 's jpeg implementation , which is part of 
the quicktime system extension so you need to have quicktime installed. 
to use quicktime , you need a 68020 or better cpu and you need to be running 
system 6.0.7 or later.  ( if you 're running system 6 , you must also install 
the 32 bit quickdraw extension this is built in on system 7 . ) . you can get 
quicktime by ftp from ftp . apple . com . , file dts mac quicktime quicktime . hqx .  . 
 ( as of 11 92 , this file contains quicktime 1.5 , which is better than qt 1.0 
in several ways. with respect to jpeg , it is marginally faster and 
considerably less prone to crash when fed a corrupt jpeg file. however , 
some applications seem to have compatibility problems with qt 1 . 5 . ) . 

mac users should keep in mind that quicktime 's jpeg format , pict jpeg , is 
not the same as the usenet standard jfif jpeg format.  ( see section 10 for 
details . ) . if you post images on usenet , make sure they are in jfif format. 
most of the programs mentioned below can generate either format. 

the first choice is probably , a free program for viewing images 
that are in jfif format , pict jpeg format , or gif format. it also can 
convert between the two jpeg formats .  . the current version , 2.0 , is a big 
improvement over prior versions. get it from sumex aim . stanford . edu . 
(36 . 44 . 0 . 6) . , file info mac app jpeg view 20 . hqx .  . requires system 7 and 
quicktime .  . on 8 bit displays , usually produces the best color 
image quality of all the currently available mac jpeg viewers .  . can 
view large images in much less memory than other mac viewers in fact , it 's 
the only one that can deal with jpeg images much over 640x480 pixels on a 
typical 4mb mac .  . given a large image , automatically scales it down 
to fit on the screen , rather than presenting scroll bars like most other 
viewers .  .  ( you can zoom in on any desired portion , though . ) . some people 
like this behavior , some do n't .  . overall , 's user interface is very 
well thought out. 

, a shareware ( 40 ) image viewer converter , supports jfif and 
pict jpeg , as well as gif and several other image formats .  . the latest 
version is 2 . 3 . 2 .  . get it from sumex aim . stanford . edu . , file 
info mac art gif gif converter 232 . hqx .  . requires system 6.0.5 or later. 
is not better than as a plain jpeg gif viewer , but 
it has much more extensive image manipulation and format conversion 
capabilities , so you may find it worth its shareware fee if you do a lot of 
playing around with images. also , the newest version of can 
load and save jfif images without quicktime , so it is your best bet if 
your machine is too old to run quicktime .  .  ( but it 's faster with quicktime . ) . 
note if runs out of memory trying to load a large jpeg , try 
converting the file to gif with jpeg convert , then viewing the gif version. 

jpeg convert , a mac version of the free jpeg conversion utilities , is 
available from sumex aim . stanford . edu . , file info mac app jpeg convert 10 . hqx .  . 
this will run on any mac , but it only does file conversion , not viewing .  . 
you can use it in conjunction with any gif viewer .  . 

previous versions of this faq recommended imagery jpeg v0 . 6 . , a jpeg gif 
converter based on an old version of the code. if you are using this 
program , you definitely should replace it with jpeg convert .  . 

apple 's free program pictpixie can view images in jfif , quicktime jpeg , and 
gif format , and can convert between these formats .  . you can get pictpixie 
from ftp . apple . com . , file dts mac quicktime qt . 1 . 0 . stuff . pictpixie . hqx .  . 
requires quicktime .  . pictpixie was intended as a developer 's tool , and it 's 
really not the best choice unless you like to fool around with quicktime .  . 
some of its drawbacks are that it requires lots of memory , it produces 
relatively poor color image quality on anything less than a 24 bit display , 
and it has a relatively unfriendly user interface. worse , pictpixie is an 
unsupported program , meaning it has some minor bugs that apple does not 
intend to fix.  ( there is an old version of pictpixie , called 
, floating around the net. if you have this you should trash 
it , as it 's even buggier .  . also , the quicktime starter kit includes a much 
cleaned up descendant of pictpixie called picture compressor .  . note that 
picture compressor is not free and may not be distributed on the net . ) . 

storm technology 's picture decompress is a free jpeg viewer converter .  . 
this rather old program is inferior to the above programs in many ways , but 
it will run without system 7 or quicktime , so you may be forced to use it on 
older systems. (it does need 32 bit quickdraw , so really old machines ca n't 
use it . ) . you can get it from sumex aim . stanford . edu . , file 
info mac app picture decompress 201 . hqx .  . you must set the file type of a 
downloaded image file to  jpeg  to allow picture decompress to open it. 

if your machine is too old to run 32 bit quickdraw (a mac plus for instance) , 
is your only choice for single program jpeg viewing .  . if you 
do n't want to pay for , use jpeg convert and a free gif viewer .  . 

more and more commercial mac applications are supporting jpeg , although not 
all can deal with the usenet standard jfif format. adobe photoshop , version 
2.0.1 or later , can read and write jfif format jpeg files  ( use the jpeg 
plug in from the acquire menu) .  . you must set the file type of a downloaded 
jpeg file to  jpeg  to allow photoshop to recognize it. 

amiga 

 ( most programs listed in this section are stored in the aminet archive at 
amiga . physik . unizh . ch . (130 . 60 . 80 . 80) .  . there are many mirror sites of this 
archive and you should try to use the closest one. in the usa , a good 
choice is wuarchive . wustl . edu . look under mirrors amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  .  .  . ) . 

plus is an excellent jpeg viewer converter , as well as being a 
general image manipulation tool. it 's cheap  ( shareware , 20) and can read 
several formats besides jpeg .  . the current version is 2 . 0 . 8 .  . a demo version 
is available from amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror sites) , file 
amiga gfx edit hamlab208d . lha .  . the demo version will crop images larger 
than 512x512 , but it is otherwise fully functional .  . 

 ( shareware , 30) is an image renderer that can display jpeg , , 
and gif images. the program can be used to create animations , even 
capturing frames on the fly from rendering packages like lightwave .  . the 
current version is 1.05 , available from amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror 
sites) , file amiga gfx rend105 . lha .  .  ( note although this directory is 
supposedly for amigados 3.0 programs , the program will also run under 
amigados 1.3 , 2.04 or 2 . 1 . ) . 

viewtek is a free jpeg gif anim viewer .  . the current version is 1.04 , 
available from amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror sites) , file 
amiga gfx show viewtek104 . lha .  . 

if you 're willing to spend real money , there are several commercial packages 
that support jpeg .  . two are written by thomas krehbiel , the author of 
and viewtek .  . these are cinemorph , a standalone image morphing package , and 
, an impressive 24 bit image capture , conversion , editing , painting , 
effects and prepress package that also includes cinemorph .  . both are 
distributed by great valley products. art department professional  ( adpro ) , 
from inc , is the most widely used commercial image manipulation 
software for amigas .  . , from black belt systems , is another 
well regarded commercial graphics package with jpeg support. 

the free jpeg software is available compiled for amigas from 
amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror sites) in directory amiga gfx conv , file 
amigajpegv4 . lha .  . these programs convert jpeg to from ppm , gif , targa formats .  . 

the amiga world is heavily infested with quick and dirty jpeg programs , many 
based on an ancient beta test version of the free jpeg software  ( thanks 
to a certain magazine that published same on its disk of the month , without 
so much as notifying the authors) .  . among these are , , 
, and probably others i have not even heard of. in my opinion , 
anything older than version 3  ( march 1992) is not worth the disk space 
it 's stored on if you have such a program , trash it and get something newer .  . 

atari st 

the free jpeg software is available compiled for atari st , tt , etc , 
from atari . archive . umich . edu . , file atari graphics jpeg4bin . zoo .  . 
these programs convert jpeg to from ppm , gif , targa formats .  . 

for monochrome st monitors , try , which manages to achieve four level 
grayscale effect by flickering .  . version 4.1 reads jpeg files. available 
from atari . archive . umich . edu . , file atari graphics zoo .  . 

i have not heard of any other free or shareware jpeg capable viewers for 
ataris , but surely there must be some by now pointers appreciated. 

acorn archimedes 

! , supplied with risc os 3 version 3.10 , can convert from and view 
jpeg jfif format. provision is also made to convert images to jpeg , 
although this must be done from the cli rather than by double clicking .  . 

recent versions  ( since 7 . 11) . of the shareware program translator can handle 
jpeg , along with about 30 other image formats .  . while older versions can be 
found on some archimedes , the current version is only available by 
registering with the author , john , 31 , 7544 wj , enschede , 
the netherlands .  . price 35 dutch guilders  ( about 22 or 10 pounds) .  . 

there 's also a commercial product called ! jpeg which provides jpeg read write 
functionality and direct jpeg viewing , as well as a host of other image 
format conversion and processing options. this is more expensive but not 
necessarily better than the above programs. contact dt software , freepost , 
cambridge , uk .  . tel 0223 841099 .  . 

next 

is a pd utility that displays images and can do some format 
conversions .  . the current version reads jpeg but does not write it. 
is available from the standard next archives at 
sonata . cc . purdue . edu . and cs . orst . edu . , somewhere in pub next  ( both are 
currently being re organized , so it 's hard to point to specific 
sub  . note that there is an older version floating around that 
does not support jpeg .  . 


portable software for almost any system 

if none of the above fits your situation , you can obtain and compile the free 
jpeg conversion software described in 6b .  . you 'll also need a viewer program. 
if your display is 8 bits or less , any gif viewer will do fine if you have a 
display with more color capability , try to find a viewer that can read targa 
or ppm 24 bit image files. 

there are numerous commercial jpeg offerings , with more popping up every 
day. i recommend that you not spend money on one of these unless you find 
the available free or shareware software vastly too slow. in that case , 
purchase a hardware assisted product. ask pointed questions about whether 
the product complies with the final jpeg standard and about whether it can 
handle the jfif file format many of the earliest commercial releases are 
not and never will be compatible with anyone else 's files. 


6b if you are looking for source code to work with 

free , portable c code for jpeg compression is available from the independent 
jpeg group , which i lead. a package containing our source code , 
documentation , and some small test files is available from several places. 
the official archive site for this source code is ftp . uu . net . (137 . 39 . 1 . 9 . 
or 192 . 48 . 96 . 9) .  . look under directory graphics jpeg the current release 
is jpegsrc . v4 . tar . z .  .  ( this is a compressed tar file do n't forget to 
retrieve in binary mode . ) . you can retrieve this file by ftp or uucp .  . 
if you are on a pc and do n't know how to cope with  . tar . z . format , you may 
prefer zip format , which you can find at simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note 
above) , file msdos graphics jpegsrc4 . zip .  . this file will also be available on 
compuserve , in the forum  ( go pics ) , library 15 , as jpsrc4 . zip .  . 
if you have no ftp access , you can retrieve the source from your nearest 
comp . sources . misc . archive version 4 appeared as issues 55 72 of volume 34 .  . 
 ( if you do n't know how to retrieve comp . sources . misc . postings , see the faq 
article how to find sources , referred to at the top of section 6 . ) . 

the free jpeg code provides conversion between jpeg jfif format and image 
files in gif , pbmplus ppm pgm , utah rle , and targa file formats .  . 
the core compression and decompression modules can easily be reused in other 
programs , such as image viewers .  . the package is highly portable we have 
tested it on many machines ranging from pcs to crays .  . 

we have released this software for both noncommercial and commercial use. 
companies are welcome to use it as the basis for jpeg related products. 
we do not ask a royalty , although we do ask for an acknowledgement in 
product literature  ( see the readme file in the distribution for details) .  . 
we hope to make this software industrial quality although , as with 
anything that 's free , we offer no warranty and accept no liability .  . 

the independent jpeg group is a volunteer organization if you 'd like to 
contribute to improving our software , you are welcome to join. 


7 what 's all this hoopla about color quantization 

most people do n't have full color (24 bit per pixel ) display hardware. 
typical display hardware stores 8 or fewer bits per pixel , so it can display 
256 or fewer distinct colors at a time. to display a full color image , the 
computer must map the image into an appropriate set of representative 
colors. this process is called color quantization .  ( this is something 
of a misnomer , color selection would be a better term. we 're stuck with 
the standard usage though . ) . 

clearly , color quantization is a lossy process. it turns out that for most 
images , the details of the color quantization algorithm have much more impact 
on the final image quality than do any errors introduced by jpeg (except at 
the very lowest jpeg quality settings) .  . 

since jpeg is a full color format , converting a color jpeg image for display 
on 8 bit or less hardware requires color quantization .  . this is true for 
all color jpegs even if you feed a 256 or less color gif into jpeg , what 
comes out of the decompressor is not 256 colors , but thousands of colors. 
this happens because jpeg 's affects each pixel a little 
differently , so two pixels that started with identical colors will probably 
come out with slightly different colors. each original color gets smeared 
into a group of nearby colors. therefore quantization is always required to 
display a color jpeg on a display , regardless of the image 
source. the only way to avoid quantization is to ask for gray scale output .  . 

 ( incidentally , because of this effect it 's nearly meaningless to talk about 
the number of colors used by a jpeg image. even if you attempted to count 
the number of distinct pixel values , different jpeg decoders would give you 
different results because of roundoff error differences .  . i occasionally see 
posted images described as 256 color jpeg . this tells me that the poster 
(a) has n't read this faq and (b) probably converted the jpeg from a gif .  . 
jpegs can be classified as color or gray scale  ( just like photographs ) , but 
number of colors just is n't a useful concept for jpeg . ) . 

on the other hand , a gif image by definition has already been quantized to 
256 or fewer colors. (a gif does have a definite number of colors in its 
palette , and the format does n't allow more than 256 palette entries . ) . 
for purposes of usenet picture distribution , gif has the advantage that the 
sender the color quantization , so recipients do n't have to. 
this is also the disadvantage of gif you 're stuck with the sender 's 
quantization .  . if the sender quantized to a different number of colors than 
what you can display , you have to re quantize , resulting in much poorer 
image quality than if you had quantized once from a full color image. 
furthermore , if the sender did n't use a high quality color quantization 
algorithm , you 're out of luck. 

for this reason , jpeg offers the promise of significantly better image quality 
for all users whose machines do n't match the sender 's display hardware. 
jpeg 's full color image can be quantized to precisely match the user 's display 
hardware. furthermore , you will be able to take advantage of future 
improvements in quantization algorithms  ( there is a lot of active research in 
this area) , or purchase better display hardware , to get a better view of jpeg 
images you already have. with a gif , you 're stuck forevermore with what was 
sent. 

it 's also worth mentioning that many gif viewing programs include rather 
shoddy quantization routines .  . if you view a 256 color gif on a 16 color ega 
display , for example , you are probably getting a much worse image than you 
need to. this is partly an inevitable consequence of doing two color 
 ( one to create the gif , one to display it) , but often it 's 
also due to sloppiness .  . jpeg conversion programs will be forced to use 
high quality quantizers in order to get acceptable results at all , and in 
normal use they will quantize directly to the number of colors to be 
displayed .  . thus , jpeg is likely to provide better results than the average 
gif program for low color resolution displays as well as high resolution ones ! 

finally , an ever growing number of people have better than 8 bit display 
hardware already 15 bit hi color pc displays , true 24 bit displays on 
workstations and , etc. for these people , gif is already 
obsolete , as it cannot represent an image to the full capabilities of their 
display. jpeg images can drive these displays much more effectively .  . 
thus , jpeg is an all around better choice than gif for representing images 
in a machine independent fashion. 


8 how does jpeg work 

the buzz words to know are chrominance subsampling , discrete cosine 
transforms , coefficient quantization , and huffman or arithmetic entropy 
coding .  . this article 's long enough already , so i'm not going to say more 
than that here. for technical information , see the comp . compression . faq .  . 
this is available from the news.answers archive at rtfm.mit.edu , in files 
pub usenet news.answers compression faq part 1 3 . if you need help in 
using the news.answers archive , see the top of this article. 


9 what about lossless jpeg 

there 's a great deal of confusion on this subject. the jpeg committee did 
define a truly lossless compression algorithm , i.e. , one that guarantees the 
final output is bit for bit identical to the original input. however , this 
lossless mode has almost nothing in common with the regular , lossy jpeg 
algorithm , and it offers much less compression .  . at present , very few 
implementations of lossless jpeg exist , and all of them are commercial. 

saying q 100 to the free jpeg software does not get you a lossless image. 
what it does get rid of is deliberate information loss in the coefficient 
quantization step. there is still a good deal of information loss in the 
color subsampling step.  ( with the v4 free jpeg code , you can also say 
sample 1x1 to turn off subsampling .  . keep in mind that many commercial 
jpeg implementations cannot cope with the resulting file . ) . 

even with both quantization and subsampling turned off , the regular jpeg 
algorithm is not lossless , because it is subject to roundoff errors in 
various calculations .  . the maximum error is a few counts in any one pixel 
value it 's highly unlikely that this could be perceived by the human eye , 
but it might be a concern if you are doing machine processing of an image. 

at this minimum loss setting , regular jpeg produces files that are perhaps 
half the size of an uncompressed 24 bit per pixel image. true lossless jpeg 
provides roughly the same amount of compression , but it guarantees 
bit for bit accuracy .  . 

if you have an application requiring lossless storage of images with less 
than 6 bits per pixel  ( per color component ) , you may want to look into the 
bilevel image compression standard. this performs better than jpeg 
lossless on such images. jpeg lossless is superior to on images with 
6 or more bits per pixel furthermore , jpeg is public domain (at least with a 
huffman back end) , while the techniques are heavily covered by patents .  . 


10 why all the argument about file formats 

strictly speaking , jpeg refers only to a family of compression algorithms 
it does not refer to a specific image file format. the jpeg committee was 
prevented from defining a file format by turf wars within the international 
standards organizations .  . 

since we ca n't actually exchange images with anyone else unless we agree on 
a common file format , this leaves us with a problem. in the absence of 
official standards , a number of jpeg program writers have just gone off to 
do their own thing , and as a result their programs are n't compatible with 
anybody else 's .  . 

the closest thing we have to a de facto standard jpeg format is some work 
that 's been coordinated by people at c cube microsystems .  . they have defined 
two jpeg based file formats 
jfif  ( jpeg file interchange format) , a low end format that transports 
pixels and not much else. 
tiff jpeg , aka tiff 6.0 , an extension of the aldus tiff format. tiff is 
a high end format that will let you record just about everything you 
ever wanted to know about an image , and a lot more besides ) .  . tiff is 
a lot more complex than jfif , and may well prove less transportable , 
because different vendors have historically implemented slightly different 
and incompatible subsets of tiff .  . it 's not likely that adding jpeg to the 
mix will do anything to improve this situation. 
both of these formats were developed with input from all the major vendors 
of jpeg related products it 's reasonably likely that future commercial 
products will adhere to one or both standards. 

i believe that usenet should adopt jfif as the replacement for gif in 
picture postings .  . jfif is simpler than tiff and is available now the 
tiff 6.0 spec has only recently been officially adopted , and it is still 
unusably vague on some crucial details. even when tiff jpeg is well 
defined , the jfif format is likely to be a widely supported lowest common 
denominator tiff jpeg files may never be as transportable .  . 

a particular case that people may be interested in is apple 's quicktime 
software for the macintosh .  . quicktime uses a jfif compatible format wrapped 
inside the mac specific pict structure. conversion between jfif and 
quicktime jpeg is pretty straightforward , and several mac programs are 
available to do it  ( see mac portion of section 6a) .  . if you have an editor 
that handles binary files , you can strip a quicktime jpeg pict down to jfif 
by hand see section 11 for details. 

another particular case is handmade software 's programs  ( gif2jpg jpg2gif and 
image alchemy) .  . these programs are capable of reading and writing jfif 
format. by default , though , they write a proprietary format developed by 
hsi .  . this format is not readable by any non hsi programs and should not be 
used for usenet postings .  . use the j switch to get jfif output .  .  ( this 
applies to old versions of these programs the current releases emit jfif 
format by default. you still should be careful not to post hsi format 
files , unless you want to get flamed by people on non pc platforms . ) . 


11 how do i recognize which file format i have , and what do i do about it 

if you have an alleged jpeg file that your software wo n't read , it 's likely 
to be hsi format or some other proprietary jpeg based format. you can tell 
what you have by inspecting the first few bytes of the file 

1. a jfif standard file will start with the characters  ( hex ) ff d8 ff e0 , 
followed by two variable bytes  ( often hex 00 10) , followed by 'jfif' .  . 

2. if you see ff d8 at the start , but not the rest of it , you may have a 
raw jpeg file. this is probably decodable as is by jfif software 
it 's worth a try , anyway. 

3. hsi files start with 'hsi1' .  . you 're out of luck unless you have hsi 
software. portions of the file may look like plain jpeg data , but they 
wo n't decompress properly with non hsi programs. 

4. a macintosh pict file , if jpeg compressed , will have a couple hundred 
bytes of header followed by a jfif header  ( scan for 'jfif') .  . strip off 
everything before the ff d8 and you should be able to read it. 

5. anything else it 's a proprietary format , or not jpeg at all. if you are 
lucky , the file may consist of a header and a raw jpeg data stream .  . 
if you can identify the start of the jpeg data stream  ( look for ff d8 ) , 
try stripping off everything before that. 

in uuencoded usenet postings , the characteristic jfif pattern is 

begin line 
m c x ... 

whereas uuencoded hsi files will start with 

begin line 
m ' i ... 

if you learn to check for the former , you can save yourself the trouble of 
downloading non jfif files. 


12 what about arithmetic coding 

the jpeg spec defines two different back end modules for the final output 
of compressed data either huffman coding or arithmetic coding is allowed. 
the choice has no impact on image quality , but arithmetic coding usually 
produces a smaller compressed file. on typical images , arithmetic coding 
produces a file 5 or 10 percent smaller than huffman coding .  .  ( all the 
file size numbers previously cited are for huffman coding . ) . 

unfortunately , the particular variant of arithmetic coding specified by the 
jpeg standard is subject to patents owned by ibm , at t , and mitsubishi .  . 
thus you cannot legally use arithmetic coding unless you obtain licenses 
from these companies. (the fair use doctrine allows people to implement 
and test the algorithm , but actually storing any images with it is dubious 
at best . ) . 

at least in the short run , i recommend that people not worry about 
arithmetic coding the space savings is n't great enough to justify the 
potential legal hassles .  . in particular , arithmetic coding should not 
be used for any images to be exchanged on usenet .  . 

there is some small chance that the legal situation may change in the 
future. stay tuned for further details. 


13 does loss accumulate with repeated compression decompression 

it would be nice if , having compressed an image with jpeg , you could 
decompress it , manipulate it  ( crop off a border , say) , and recompress it 
without any further image degradation beyond what you lost initially .  . 
unfortunately this is not the case. in general , recompressing an altered 
image loses more information , though usually not as much as was lost the 
first time around. 

the next best thing would be that if you decompress an image and recompress 
it without changing it then there is no further loss , i.e. , you get an 
identical jpeg file. even this is not true at least , not with the current 
free jpeg software. it 's essentially a problem of accumulation of roundoff 
error. if you repeatedly compress and decompress , the image will eventually 
degrade to where you can see visible changes from the first generation 
output .  . (it usually takes many such cycles to get visible change . ) . 
one of the things on our to do list is to see if accumulation of error can 
be avoided or limited , but i am not optimistic about it. 

in any case , the most that could possibly be guaranteed would be that 
compressing the unmodified full color output of djpeg , at the original 
quality setting , would introduce no further loss. even such simple changes 
as cropping off a border could cause further roundoff error degradation .  . 
 ( if you 're wondering why , it 's because the pixel block boundaries move. 
if you cropped off only multiples of 16 pixels , you might be safe , but 
that 's a mighty limited capability ! ) 

the bottom line is that jpeg is a useful format for archival storage and 
transmission of images , but you do n't want to use it as an intermediate 
format for sequences of image manipulation steps. use a lossless format 
 ( ppm , rle , tiff , etc) while working on the image , then jpeg it when you are 
ready to file it away. aside from avoiding degradation , you will save a lot 
of compression decompression time this way ) .  . 


14 what are some rules of thumb for converting gif images to jpeg 

as stated earlier , you will lose some amount of image information if you 
convert an existing gif image to jpeg .  . if you can obtain the original 
full color data the gif was made from , it 's far better to make a jpeg from 
that. but if you need to save space and have only the gif to work from , 
here are some suggestions for getting maximum space savings with minimum 
loss of quality. 

the first rule when converting a gif library is to look at each jpeg , to 
make sure you are happy with it , before throwing away the corresponding gif 
that will give you a chance to re do the conversion with a higher quality 
setting if necessary. some gifs may be better left as gifs , as explained in 
section 3 in particular , cartoon type gifs with sixteen or fewer colors 
do n't convert well. you may find that a jpeg file of reasonable quality 
will be larger than the gif .  . (so check the sizes too . ) . 

experience to date suggests that large , high visual quality gifs are the best 
candidates for conversion to jpeg .  . they chew up the most storage so offer 
the most potential savings , and they convert to jpeg with least degradation .  . 
do n't waste your time converting any gif much under 100 kbytes .  . also , do n't 
expect jpeg files converted from gifs to be as small as those created 
directly from full color originals .  . to maintain image quality you may have 
to let the converted files be as much as twice as big as straight through 
jpeg files would be (i . e .  . , shoot for 1 2 or 1 3rd the size of the gif file , 
not 1 4th as suggested in earlier comparisons) .  . 

many people have developed an odd habit of putting a large constant color 
border around a gif image. while useless , this was nearly free in terms of 
storage cost in gif files. it is not free in jpeg files , and the sharp 
border boundary can create visible artifacts ( ghost edges) .  . do yourself 
a favor and crop off any border before jpeging .  .  ( if you are on an x windows 
system , xv 's manual and automatic cropping functions are a very painless 
way to do this . ) . 

's default q setting of 75 is appropriate for full color input , but 
for gif inputs , q settings of 85 to 95 often seem to be necessary to avoid 
image degradation .  .  ( if you apply smoothing as suggested below , the higher 
q setting may not be necessary . ) . 

color gifs of photographs or complex artwork are usually dithered to fool 
your eye into seeing more than the 256 colors that gif can actually store. 
if you enlarge the image , you will see that adjacent pixels are often of 
significantly different colors at normal size the eye averages these pixels 
together to produce the illusion of an intermediate color value. the 
trouble with dithering is that , to jpeg , it looks like high spatial frequency 
color noise and jpeg ca n't compress noise very well. the resulting jpeg 
file is both larger and of lower image quality than what you would have 
gotten from jpeging the original full color image  ( if you had it) .  . 
to get around this , you want to smooth the gif image before compression .  . 
smoothing averages together nearby pixels , thus approximating the color that 
you thought you saw anyway , and in the process getting rid of the rapid 
color changes that give jpeg trouble. appropriate use of smoothing will 
often let you avoid using a high q factor , thus further reducing the size of 
the compressed file , while still obtaining a better looking output image 
than you 'd get without smoothing .  . 

with the v4 free jpeg software  ( or products based on it) , a simple smoothing 
capability is built in. try smooth 10 or so when converting gifs .  . 
values of 10 to 25 seem to work well for high quality gifs .  . heavy handed 
dithering may require larger smoothing factors .  .  ( if you can see regular 
fine scale patterns on the gif image even without enlargement , then strong 
smoothing is definitely called for . ) . too large a smoothing factor will blur 
the output image , which you do n't want. if you are an image processing 
wizard , you can also do smoothing with a separate filtering program , such as 
pnmconvol from the pbmplus package. however , 's built in smoother is 
a lot faster than pnmconvol .  .  .  . 

the upshot of all this is that quality 85 smooth 10 is probably a 
good starting point for converting gifs .  . but if you really care about the 
image , you 'll want to check the results and maybe try a few other settings. 




for more information about jpeg in general or the free jpeg software in 
particular , contact the independent jpeg group at jpeg 


tom lane 
organizer , independent jpeg group 
internet bitnet tgl 

from admin . stolaf . edu . (brian l walsh ) 
subject vesa driver for xga 2 
organization st. olaf college northfield , mn 
lines 6 

i heard that there is a vesa driver for the xga 2 card available on 
compuserve .  . i just got this card , and i am wondering if this driver is 
available on a ftp site anywhere. my news service has erratic lately so 
please e mail me at 

thanks in advance. 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject direct to video memory 
lines 12 

hi. i'm looking for information on how to directly manipulate 
video memory. i have an application that i would like to use this for , 
because it is much faster than going through the bios .  . i know that 
video memory of the system area above the first 640k , so i guess 
i am looking to find out exactly what section of memory it is , and how it 
is layed out. thanks. 

regards , gordon rogers 


void  ( signature(void ) 


from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re colour transform for red green colour blindness 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 
lines 96 


in article , 
 ( geoffrey warren hicks ) writes 

posted on behalf of craig who does not have access to 
a net account 


can anyone provide me with a colour space transform that would 
emulate the effects of red green colour blindness i have had 
a quick look in the computer graphics literature with no results. 
perhaps someone who has access to medical information could help 

certainly .  . reference follows .  . 

bear in mind that there are at least two conditions which may be called 
red green colour blind .  . one , , is caused by a lack or major 
dysfunction of the l cones , those that respond best to long 
wavelengths .  . this gives much reduced red green and red violet discrimination and 
also means that reds look dimmer than than they do to people with normal vision .  . 

the other , , is due to missing or dysfunctional m cones although it 
can also be caused by a lack of the l m cone difference signals in the retina .  . 
it also gives reduced red green discrimination but red violet is unaffected .  . 
unlike , reds are not dimmer than normal. 

on a uniform diagram the horseshoe shaped one you see in computer 
graphics books there is a single confusion point for each type of colour 
deficiency .  . colours which are confused lie on straight lines radiating from this 
point. for the point is at u  0.61 , v  0.51 , very close to the far red 
corner. for , the point is at u  4.75 , v  1 . 31 . 

note that different experimental investigations in the literature give slightly 
different values for these depending on the precise details of the experimental 
setup , random errors , and so on. the values quoted are typical .  . 

so if all colours on a line are seen as the same , which colour is actually seen 

this problem has now been solved. tests on people with one normal eye and one 
affected eye have shown that there is an axis for each type of disorder onto 
which all the colours collapse .  . for this joins up and on 
the spectral locus (the edge of the horseshoe ) for the line is 
very similar , joining and  . 

so to convert colours from normal vision to a simulated or 


1) plot the colour on a uniform diagram 
2) construct a line from this point to the appropriate confusion point 
3) find the intersection of this line with the appropriate axis line 
4) this is the new  . 

the best reference for this is meyer , g.w. greenberg , d . p .  . (1988)  colour 
defective vision and computer graphics displays  , ieee computer graphics and 
applications  ( 8(5 ) 28 40. 

you will also need a decent reference on basic colour science if you are not 
familiar with the cie xyz colour model and the uniform scale diagram .  . 

i would like to write a program  ( probably a ppm filter ) to allow 
previewing of images to check for sufficient contract for colour 
blind users. not being colour blind myself , this is a bit difficult ! 

yes this is certainly possible. you will need the of the red 
green and blue of the monitor you intend to display the images on , and 
the of the white point. this information can be measured , or 
obtained from the manufacturer .  . i posted a list of some monitor a 
couple of weeks ago. 

the procedure , for each pixel ( ! ) is as follows .  . (some lookup tables might be a 
help here . ) . 

a) convert rgb to cie xyz .  . this is a simple 3 3 matrix multiplication once you 
have the monitor data. 
b) retaining the y component for later , convert xyz to coordinates u v  
using u  4x  ( x 3z ) , v  9y  ( x 3z ) 
c) find the equation of the line as in step 2 above 
d ) find the intersection as in step 3 
e) convert back from u v  to xyz , using the y value from step a 
f ) ensure that this new colour can be displayed on your monitor if not , move it 
along a line in xyz space towards neutral grey (ie half way between black and 
white ) until it is  . 

please email replies i will summarise and repost if there is 
sufficient interest 

done also posted for the rest of us. 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from  ( gilles deniaud ) 
subject help need 24 bits viewer 
keywords 24 bit 
lines 7 

hi , 

i'm looking for a program which is able to display 24 bits 
images. we are using a sun sparc equipped with parallax 
graphics board running x11 .  . 

thanks in advance. 

from 
subject tex texture map format 
organization center for instructional and research computing activities 
lines 9 
reply to 
nntp posting host maple . circa . ufl . edu . 


i was at avalon today and found texture maps in some tex and 
format , something i 've never encountered before. these are obviously 
not tex or latex files. 

if you have a clue how i can convert these to something 
reasonable , please let me know. 

brian 

from  ( tomas moeller ) 
subject wanted scott @ microsoft 
organization lund institute of technology , sweden 
lines 13 

hello there ! 
a few days ago i got a mail concerning bitmap stretching 
from scott @ microsoft redmond wa , usa .  . 
i really would like to answer back to him , but i have 
lost his email address. 
so if scott or anybody that knows his email address 
reads this , please mail me his address so i can 
answer his mail. 

please mail to 

thanks 
tomas 

from (paul a. benson ) 
subject giant software 
organization california state university , chico 
lines 140 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cscihp . ecst . csuchico . edu . 

software retail sale price 

graphics 

corel draw 2.0 300 25 

aldus photo 1.1 800 100 

image in color (2 ) 800 100 

photo finish (3 of these) 295 75 

image in scan paint 150 20 

image in full pack 300 45 

picture publisher 800 100 

image prep 200 50 

snap pro 70 20 

images inc. 200 50 

publisher s paintbrush 495 50 

deluxe paint 2 129 25 

( font workshop ) 300 25 

vista pro 100 20 

workshop 149 35 

gfa cad 100 25 

utilities 

x tree gold for win 99 25 

tnt  ( anti virus ) 100 15 

salvation 100 15 


amish utilities 79 15 




multimedia 

smart text 200 10 

music clips 149 25 

audio tracks 79 15 

plus (mac) 495 35 

plus  ( pc ) 495 35 

ask me 2000 500 35 

multi media make your point 79 20 

madison ave 75 25 

interface (mac) 300 10 


mr. sound effects 50 10 

music bytes 50 10 

show 495 50 

plus 400 50 

programming 

m s windows 3.1 dev. kit  ( full ) 500 75 


windows maker pro 995 50 

ms c 5.1 500 10 

top speed modula 300 10 

business 

the art of negotiating 150 10 

150 10 


full  ( impact(mac ) 500 10 

approach database 400 50 

ascend 300 35 

games 


nfl pro league football 49 15 

eco 40 10 

hardware 

modem 2400 baud 200 50 

assorted joysticks 35 9 

vga tv 300 50 

amiga ball 75 20 


misc. 

the wedding planner 49 10 

software yard sale fri 4 30 , sat. 5 1 , sun 5 2 8 30 to 4 00 

e mail 

location 

436 rd. , paradise 
ca 

phone 916 872 

terms cash , check , charge  ( visa or mc accepted ) 




from (ed moore ) 
subject re lcd vga display 
organization hewlett packard vcd 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 9 . 
lines 5 

i 've only had the computer for about 21 months. is that a reasonable life 
cycle for a lcd display 

my toshiba lcd  ( cga , 1986) died in 11 months. replaced under the 12 
month warranty , fortunately .  . when it died , it died instantly and completely. 

from  ( chandra @ salomon brothers inc. , ny ) 
subject graphics library  ( gl ) for hp and sun 
keywords gl 
lines 10 
nntp posting host sbi . com . 

we are looking for gl source code , which was developed by silicon graphics (sgi) .  . 
we would like to compile it on sun and hp 9000  . if there is anyone already 
supporting gl on hp and sun , please respond. 
also please respond if anyone knows where the source code is available. 


thank you 




from  ( larry landwehr ) 
subject corel draw or harvard draw 
distribution usa 
organization ge corp r d center , schenectady ny 
lines 23 
nntp posting host med . ge . com . 

my wife wants to publish a newsletter .  . she 's no artist , so she intends to 
use comercial clipart and it a bit by drawing a circle or a box 
around it etc. 

we have for manipulating text , but it is not suitable for doing 
much with graphics , so she needs a more specialised tool. right now she 's 
looking at corel draw and harvard draw .  . there seem to be more books in the 
stores on corel than on harvard , so she 's inclined to go with corel on the 
basis of popularity .  . can anyone give us an informed opinion on which 
package would be more suitable or if there is an even better alternative 
available if this is a faq , please withhold the flames and just send the 
location of the faq document .  . thanks. 

three ps 's 

1) is it ok to use clip art from harvard draw or whatever for commercial 
purposes 

2) we have a 600 dpi laser jet 4 printer .  . what would be a good scanner for 
reading in paper clipart 

3) how about someone starting up a newsgroup on desktop publishing if one 
does n't exist 

from  ( mark adler ) 
subject gamma correction 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 5 
nntp posting host sandman . caltech . edu . 


can someone who knows what they 're talking about add a faq entry 
on gamma correction thanks. 

mark 

from gaetan lord , ecole polytechnique de montreal 
subject hpgl viewer and utilities 
lines 20 
organization ecole polytechnique de montreal 

hi 

i would like to know if there is any software , pd or not , who 
could produce x11 output of hpgl file on rs 6000 .  . and same kind of 
software who could produce hardcopy on postscript and  . 

thank you 



gaetan lord voice (514) 340 4352 
! fax (514) 340 4189 
ecole polytechnique de montreal 
p.o. box 6079 station a 
montreal , quebec 
canada there s no future in time travel. 





from exploit  ( danny lunt ) 
subject re is there an ftp achive for usgs terrain dat 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 2 
distribution world 
reply to exploit 
nntp posting host sim . es . com . 

try spectrum . xerox . com . 192 . 70 . 225 . 78 . in pub map dem .  . 


from  ( tor berger ) 
subject 8th 
lines 306 
organization university of 

invitation to the 8th 

the 8th scandinavian conference on image analysis will be 
arranged by the norwegian society for image processing and 
pattern recognition  ( nobim ) and sponsored by the international 
association for pattern recognition  . the conference 
will be held in from 25th 28th may 1993. , 
located at latitude 69 degrees n , is northern norway 's centre 
for administration and education. 

about the programme 
the scientific programme runs over four days and includes 
6 invited speakers , 29 sessions in three parallel tracks 
with 127 contributed papers and 4 poster sessions with 44 
contributions .  . the conference covers the following topics 
image processing and analysis 
pattern recognition 
computer vision 
parallel algorithms and architectures 
neural nets 
matching methods 
image compression 
remote sensing 
medical and biological applications 
industrial applications 

conference language 
the official language of the conference is english. 

invited talks and speakers 

segmentation of range images via data 
fusion and morphological watersheds .  . 
professor ralph gonzalez 
university of tennessee , knoxville 

object recognition using range images. 
professor k. jain 
michigan state university 

experiments in mobile robot navigation and range imaging .  . 
dr. judd jones 
oak ridge national laboratory 

image compression .  . 
professor tor 
university of trondheim 

combining evidence in dictionary 
based probabilistic relaxation .  . 
professor j. 
university of surrey 

matching methods. 
professor a. 
polytechnic university of 

workshop 
in connection with the conference , a workshop on contextual 
methods in pattern recognition will be arranged on monday 
24th by  . for further information concerning the 
workshop contact 
, chairman , 
univ. of bergen , 
n 5000 bergen , 
norway .  . 
phone 47 5 20 63 34 
fax 47 5 20 63 60 
e mail 

registration information 
the registration fee is 4000  . the fee covers proceedings , entrance 
to all oral and poster sessions , exhibition , lunches and coffee 
breaks , get together party , reception and banquet .  . fees for 
accompanying persons are presented in the registration form. 
all payments must be made payable in norwegian  ( nok ) 
by swift to or bank service at bank account 
05 , sas conference , bank og 
 ( private cheques will not be accepted . ) . or by the 
following credit cards visa , mastercard , eurocard , , 
access , american express .  . 
please note for payment with swift and bank service made 
from abroad , please add banking fee of 60 , . 
please remember to state and your name on all money 
transfers ! 

registration and information 
the conference will be available all four days of 
the conference for registration and information 
may 24th , 1600 2000 , in the sas hotel. 
may 25th 28th , at the university .  . 

exhibition 
an exhibition of relevant literature will be arranged .  . 
publishers are invited to exhibit their products. a visit 
to local companies and institutions involved in the field 
 ( mostly remote sensing ) will be arranged .  . 

accommodation 
reservation for hotel accommodation can be made on the 
registration form. the conference at 
sas , att .  . , will provide 
hotel accommodation for the participants .  . 

social events 
monday , may 24th 
get together party.  ( included in the conference fee for 
delegates , 150 , for accompanying persons ) 

tuesday , may 25th 
fishing trip. the tour will last for 5 6 hours and hopefully 
the midnight sun will visit us. on board the boat there will 
be music , food and drink by choice. we bring fishing rods and 
it will be possible to have our own fish prepared on board. 
 ( nok 400 , ) 
spouse programme visit by cable car to 420 meters 
above sea level , visit to the arctic cathedral , and visit to 
museum .  .  ( nok 205 , ) 

wednesday , may 26th 
due to the cancellation of the flight we will arrange 
a visit to the .  ( nok 350 , including beer and food . ) . 
spouse programme visit to a in the surroundings of 
 .  ( nok 170 , ) 

thursday , may 27th 
banquet .  .  ( included in the conference fee for delegates , 
accompanying persons 500 , ) 
spouse programme visit to the northern lights planetarium and 
the polar museum .  .  ( nok 180 , ) 
the spouse programs need a minimum of 15 participants to be 
arranged .  . 

post conference tours with visit to or and 
cape will also be arranged .  . for more information about 
the social program and the post conference tours see the 
registration form and information included with the 
registration form. 

weather and dress 
the weather in in late may can be everything from 
24 hour with a maximum temperature of 20 degrees celsius 
to with temperatures below freezing .  . it is 
therefore recommended to bring some warmer clothes. 

local information 
the population is approximately 50 000 .  . in you can take 
part in many activities from in the midnight 
sun to late night fun in international restaurants and bars. 
an afternoon local beer in the of the world 's 
brewery is also recommended. 

the 8th scandinavian conference on image analysis  ( 8scia ) will 
be held at the university campus at the world 's 
university .  . there will be conference buses going to the campus 
from within walking distances of all the hotels .  . more detailed 
information about the locations and transport will be available 
at the conference hotels .  . 

travel information 
airport at is only 7 8 minutes drive from the 
centre of  . the travelling distance from oslo is 1 hr 
40 minutes. sas conference support offers 
services for the conference. in addition to all standard terms 
full and reduced fare tickets from europe and overseas , 
 ( reduced require that you stay in scandinavia the night 
between saturday and sunday ) , we can offer additional conference 
for sas flights from sas destinations within scandinavia , 
and reduced on norwegian domestic flights .  . if you want to 
make use of this service please contact at the 
conference  . 

conference 
sas 
att .  . 
p. o box 437 
n 9001 
norway 
phone 47 83 10 700 
fax 47 83 10 701 

note that reduced can not be obtained on flights to 
scandinavia if you do n't stay the night between saturday and sunday 
 ( in front of or after the conference) .  . on the other hand you do n't have 
to stay that night in to obtain reduced within scandinavia 
 ( sas  . 

cut here 

registration form 
the 8 th scandinavian conference on image analysis 
, norway , may 25th 28th 1993 

please use block letters or type , and fill in one form for each 
 . completed registration form for accompanying person is to be 
attached to the registration form of the delegate .  . 
mr 
mrs 

first name and surname  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

company institution  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

title  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

mailing address  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

postal code country  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

telephone  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . telefax .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

delegate accompanying person (please tick for right category ) 

workshop on contextual methods in pattern recognition , 
monday , may 24th 

conference fee , delegates 4000 , 

social events (please tick for participating ! ) 
get together party , monday 24th 
 ( included in the conference fee for delegates ) 
accompanying person 150 , 
spouse programme , tuesday , may 25th 205 , 
spouse programme , wednesday , may 26th 170 , 
spouse programme , thursday , may 27th 180 , 
boat trip , tuesday , may 25th 400 , 
banquet , thursday , may 27th 
 ( included in the conference fee for delegates ) 
accompanying person 500 , 
visit to the , wednesday , may 26th 350 , 
post conference tour , 895 , 
post conference tour , north cape , 
( we need a minimum number of participants to 
accomplish these tours ) 


total amount for my participation 

payment 
payment can be made by swift to or 
bank service at bank account 05 , sas conference , 
bank og ,  . 80 , n 9000 , norway .  . 
 ( private cheques will not be accepted . ) . or by credit card 
visa mastercard eurocard access american express 

account number expiration date 

signature 

please note for payment with swift and bank service made from abroad , 
please add banking fee of 60 , . 
please remember to state and your name on all money transfers ! 

accomodation 
 ( payment to be made upon arrival ) 
 ( weekend friday  . 
deadline for cancellation of the hotel room 24 hours before arrival .  . 

if you would like us to book your accomodation in , please fill in 

date of arrival date of departure 
sas royal hotel single a 1190 , double a 1390 , 
 ( weekend 750 , )  ( weekend 900 , ) 
grand nordic hotel single a 1015 , double a 1175 , 
 ( weekend 760 , )  ( weekend 880 , ) 
with home hotel single a 975 , double a 1085 , 
saga hotel single a 870 , double a 1045 , 
polar hotel single a 680 , double a 800 , 
 ( weekend 450 , )  ( weekend 550 , ) 
hotel single a 680 , double a 800 , 
 ( weekend 450 , )  ( weekend 550 , ) 
pension single a 330 , double a 410 , 
triple a 480 , 
hotel nord single a 300 , double a 400 , 
triple a 500 , 
private accomodation single a 150 , double a 200 , 

i will arrange accomodation on my own 
if my first choice is not available , i wish to stay at 

sas conference support offers services for the 
conference. in addition to all standard terms full and reduced fare tickets 
from europe and overseas ,  ( reduced require that you stay in scandinavia 
the night between saturday and sunday ) , we can offer additional conference 
for sas flights from sas destinations within scandinavia , and reduced 
on norwegian domestic flights .  . if you want to make use of this service 
please fill in the following 

point of departure and return 

date of departure date of return 
i will arrange on my own (please tick ! ) 

for further information , please contact 
kjell , local chair , 
information technology ltd , n , norway .  . 
telephone 47 83  . telefax 47 83 
e mail 

please forward this registration form to 
sas , att 
p.o. box 437 , n 9001 , norway , 
telephone 47 83  . telefax 47 83 


date and signature 


from  ( bram ) 
subject re 48 bit graphics .  .  .  . 
keywords 48 bit alpha channel image 
nntp posting host gene . fwi . uva . nl . 
organization fwi , university of amsterdam 
lines 32 

howdy all , 

 ( wonko the sane ) writes 

i was recently talking to a possible employer ( mine ! ) ) and he made a reference to a 
48 bit graphics computer image processing system. i seem to remember it being called image or 
something akin to that. anyway , he claimed it had 48 bit color a 12 bit alpha channel. that 's 
60 bits of info what could that possibly be for specifically the 48 bit color that 's 280 
trillion colors , many more than the human eye can resolve .  . is this an anti aliasing thing or 
is this just some magic number to make it work better with a certain processor .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . 48 bit aye 
well , it beats a 32 bit design for thee sake of  . 
48 bit means 16 bits per primary colour. 
the 2 48 nr of colours is a bit misleading .  . it makes more sense to see it 
as 65536 possible shades of pure red. 
this might actually make some sense , since 256 shades of red (24 bit colours ) 
may produce visible  jumps  in intensity .  . 
then again , a byte per primary colour for each pixel is the most elegant way 
of doing colour graphics , because it leaves ya such a  ( and fast) program 
code. 

take care , 

bram 


flying is a  .  .  . the trick is bram 
to throw yourself at the ground , dept. of maths .  . computer science 
and miss .  .  .  . douglas adams university of amsterdam 

no , i dont use ms windoze , i prefer linux ! 

from  ( remco hartog ) 
subject rgb to , and back 
organization van amsterdam , the netherlands , e.e. c.s. dept. 
lines 9 

i have a little question 

i need to convert rgb coded  ( red green blue) colors into coded 
 ( hue value saturnation ) colors. does anyone know which formulas to 
use 

thanks ! 

r . w . 

from tgl  ( tom lane ) 
subject jpeg image compression frequently asked questions 
summary useful info about jpeg  ( jpg ) image files and programs 
keywords jpeg , image compression , faq 
supersedes jpeg faq 
nntp posting host g . gp . cs . cmu . edu . 
reply to jpeg 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
expires mon , 31 may 1993 03 14 50 gmt 
lines 1034 

archive name jpeg faq 
last modified 2 may 1993 

this faq article discusses jpeg image compression .  . suggestions for 
additions and clarifications are welcome. 

new since version of 18 april 1993 
new version of xv supports 24 bit viewing for x windows. 
new versions of image alchemy for dos .  . 
new versions of image archiver for os 2. 
new listing for monochrome display ataris .  . 


this article includes the following sections 

1 what is jpeg 
2 why use jpeg 
3 when should i use jpeg , and when should i stick with gif 
4 how well does jpeg compress images 
5 what are good quality settings for jpeg 
6 where can i get jpeg software 
6a canned software , viewers , etc. 
6b source code 
7 what 's all this hoopla about color quantization 
8 how does jpeg work 
9 what about lossless jpeg 
10 why all the argument about file formats 
11 how do i recognize which file format i have , and what do i do about it 
12 what about arithmetic coding 
13 does loss accumulate with repeated compression decompression 
14 what are some rules of thumb for converting gif images to jpeg 

sections 1 6 are basic info that every jpeg user needs to know 
sections 7 14 are advanced info for the curious. 

this article is posted every 2 weeks. you can always find the latest version 
in the news.answers archive at rtfm.mit.edu (18 . 70 . 0 .  . by ftp , fetch 
pub usenet news.answers jpeg faq or if you do n't have ftp , send e mail to 
mail with body send usenet news.answers jpeg faq . 
many other faq articles are also stored in this archive .  . for more 
instructions on use of the archive , send e mail to the same address with the 
words help and index (no quotes ) on separate lines. if you do n't get a 
reply , the server may be misreading your return address add a line such as 
path to specify your correct e mail address to reply to. 





1 what is jpeg 

jpeg  ( pronounced jay peg ) is a standardized image compression mechanism .  . 
jpeg stands for joint photographic experts group , the original name of the 
committee that wrote the standard. jpeg is designed for compressing either 
full color or gray scale digital images of natural , real world scenes. 
it does not work so well on non realistic images , such as cartoons or line 
drawings. 

jpeg does not handle black and white (1 bit per pixel ) images , nor does it 
handle motion picture compression .  . standards for compressing those types 
of images are being worked on by other committees , named and mpeg 
respectively .  . 

jpeg is lossy , meaning that the image you get out of decompression is n't 
quite identical to what you originally put in. the algorithm achieves much 
of its compression by exploiting known limitations of the human eye , notably 
the fact that small color details are n't perceived as well as small details 
of light and dark. thus , jpeg is intended for compressing images that will 
be looked at by humans. if you plan to machine analyze your images , the 
small errors introduced by jpeg may be a problem for you , even if they are 
invisible to the eye. 

a useful property of jpeg is that the degree of can be varied by 
adjusting compression parameters .  . this means that the image maker can trade 
off file size against output image quality. you can make extremely small 
files if you do n't mind poor quality this is useful for indexing image 
archives , making thumbnail views or icons , etc. etc. conversely , if you 
are n't happy with the output quality at the default compression setting , you 
can jack up the quality until you are satisfied , and accept lesser compression .  . 


2 why use jpeg 

there are two good reasons to make your image files smaller , and to store 
24 bit per pixel color data instead of 8 bit per pixel data. 

making image files smaller is a big win for transmitting files across 
networks and for archiving libraries of images. being able to compress a 
2 mbyte full color file down to 100 kbytes or so makes a big difference in 
disk space and transmission time !  ( if you are comparing gif and jpeg , the 
size ratio is more like four to one. more details below . ) . 

if your viewing software does n't support jpeg directly , you 'll have to 
convert jpeg to some other format for viewing or manipulating images. even 
with a jpeg capable viewer , it takes longer to decode and view a jpeg image 
than to view an image of a simpler format  ( gif , for instance) .  . thus , using 
jpeg is essentially a time space tradeoff you give up some time in order to 
store or transmit an image more cheaply .  . 

it 's worth noting that when network or phone transmission is involved , the 
time savings from transferring a shorter file can be much greater than the 
extra time to decompress the file. i 'll let you do the arithmetic yourself. 

the other reason why jpeg will gradually replace gif as a standard usenet 
posting format is that jpeg can store full color information 24 bits pixel 
(16 million colors) instead of 8 or less  ( 256 or fewer colors) .  . if you have 
only 8 bit display hardware then this may not seem like much of an advantage 
to you. within a couple of years , though , 8 bit gif will look as obsolete as 
black and white format does today. furthermore , for reasons detailed 
in section 7 , jpeg is far more useful than gif for exchanging images among 
people with widely varying color display hardware. hence jpeg is considerably 
more appropriate than gif for use as a usenet posting standard. 


3 when should i use jpeg , and when should i stick with gif 

jpeg is not going to displace gif entirely for some types of images , 
gif is superior in image quality , file size , or both. one of the first 
things to learn about jpeg is which kinds of images to apply it to. 

as a rule of thumb , jpeg is superior to gif for storing full color or 
gray scale images of realistic scenes that means scanned photographs and 
similar material. jpeg is superior even if you do n't have 24 bit display 
hardware , and it is a lot superior if you do.  ( see section 7 for details . ) . 

gif does significantly better on images with only a few distinct colors , 
such as cartoons and line drawings. in particular , large areas of pixels 
that are all exactly the same color are compressed very efficiently indeed 
by gif .  . jpeg ca n't squeeze these files as much as gif does without 
introducing visible defects .  . this sort of image is best kept in gif form. 
 ( in particular , single color borders are quite cheap in gif files , but they 
should be avoided in jpeg files . ) . 

jpeg also has a hard time with very sharp edges a row of pure black pixels 
adjacent to a row of pure white pixels , for example. sharp edges tend to 
come out blurred unless you use a very high quality setting. again , this 
sort of thing is not found in scanned photographs , but it shows up fairly 
often in gif files borders , overlaid text , etc. the blurriness is 
particularly objectionable with text that 's only a few pixels high. 
if you have a gif with a lot of small size overlaid text , do n't jpeg it. 

computer drawn images (ray traced scenes , for instance) usually fall between 
scanned images and cartoons in terms of complexity .  . the more complex and 
subtly rendered the image , the more likely that jpeg will do well on it. 
the same goes for semi realistic artwork  ( fantasy drawings and such) .  . 

plain black and white  ( two level) images should never be converted to jpeg .  . 
you need at least about 16 gray levels before jpeg is useful for gray scale 
images. it should also be noted that gif is lossless for gray scale images 
of up to 256 levels , while jpeg is not. 

if you have an existing library of gif images , you may wonder whether you 
should convert them to jpeg .  . you will lose a little image quality if you do. 
 ( section 7 , which argues that jpeg image quality is superior to gif , only 
applies if both formats start from a full color original. if you start from 
a gif , you 've already irretrievably lost a great deal of information jpeg 
can only make things worse . ) . however , the disk space savings may justify 
converting anyway. this is a decision you 'll have to make for yourself. 
if you do convert a gif library to jpeg , see section 14 for hints .  . be 
prepared to leave some images in gif format , since some gifs will not 
convert well. 


4 how well does jpeg compress images 

pretty darn well. here are some sample file sizes for an image i have 
handy , a full color image of a ship in a harbor .  . the first three 
files are for comparison purposes the rest were created with the free jpeg 
software described in section 6b .  . 

file size in bytes comments 

ship . ppm . original file in ppm format (no compression 24 bits 
or 3 bytes per pixel , plus a few bytes overhead ) 
ship . ppm . z . ppm file passed through unix compress 
compress does n't accomplish a lot , you 'll note. 
other text oriented compressors give similar results. 
ship . gif . converted to gif with ppmquant fs 256 
most of the savings is the result of losing color 
info gif saves 8 bits pixel , not 24.  ( see sec. 7 . ) . 

ship . jpg95 . q 95  ( highest useful quality setting) 
this is indistinguishable from the 24 bit original , 
at least to my nonprofessional eyeballs .  . 
ship . jpg75 . q 75  ( default setting) 
you have to look mighty darn close to distinguish this 
from the original , even with both on screen at once. 
ship . jpg50 . q 50 
this has slight defects if you know what to look 
for , you could tell it 's been without seeing 
the original. still as good image quality as many 
recent postings in usenet pictures groups. 
ship . jpg25 . 25192 q 25 
jpeg 's characteristic blockiness becomes apparent 
at this setting  ( djpeg helps some) .  . 
still , i 've seen plenty of usenet postings that were 
of poorer image quality than this. 
ship . jpg5o . 6587 q 5 optimize ( optimize cuts table overhead ) 
blocky , but perfectly satisfactory for preview or 
indexing purposes. note that this file is tiny 
the compression ratio from the original is 173 1 ! 

in this case jpeg can make a file that 's a factor of four or five smaller 
than a gif of comparable quality (the q 75 file is every bit as good as the 
gif , better if you have a full color display) .  . this seems to be a typical 
ratio for real world scenes. 


5 what are good quality settings for jpeg 

most jpeg compressors let you pick a file size vs. image quality tradeoff by 
selecting a quality setting. there seems to be widespread confusion about 
the meaning of these settings. quality 95 does not mean keep 95 of the 
information , as some have claimed .  . the quality scale is purely arbitrary 
it 's not a percentage of anything. 

the name of the game in using jpeg is to pick the lowest quality setting 
 ( smallest file size) that decompresses into an image indistinguishable from 
the original. this setting will vary from one image to another and from one 
observer to another , but here are some rules of thumb .  . 

the default quality setting ( q 75) is very often the best choice. this 
setting is about the lowest you can go without expecting to see defects in a 
typical image. try q 75 first if you see defects , then go up. except for 
experimental purposes , never go above q 95 saying q 100 will produce a 
file two or three times as large as q 95 , but of hardly any better quality. 

if the image was less than perfect quality to begin with , you might be able to 
go down to q 50 without objectionable degradation .  . on the other hand , you 
might need to go to a higher quality setting to avoid further degradation .  . 
the second case seems to apply much of the time when converting gifs to jpeg .  . 
the default q 75 is about right for compressing 24 bit images , but q 85 to 
95 is usually better for converting gifs  ( see section 14 for more info) .  . 

if you want a very small file  ( say for preview or indexing purposes ) and are 
prepared to tolerate large defects , a q setting in the range of 5 to 10 is 
about right. q 2 or so may be amusing as op art . 

 ( note the quality settings discussed in this article apply to the free jpeg 
software described in section 6b , and to many programs based on it. other 
jpeg implementations , such as image alchemy , may use a completely different 
quality scale. some programs do n't even provide a numeric scale , just 
high medium low style choices . ) . 


6 where can i get jpeg software 

most of the programs described in this section are available by ftp .  . 
if you do n't know how to use ftp , see the faq article how to find sources . 
 ( if you do n't have direct access to ftp , read about ftpmail servers in the 
same article . ) . that article appears regularly in news.answers , or you can 
get it by sending e mail to mail with 
send usenet news.answers finding sources in the body. the anonymous ftp 
list faq may also be helpful it 's usenet news.answers ftp list faq in 
the news.answers archive .  . 

note this list changes constantly .  . if you have a copy more than a couple 
months old , get the latest jpeg faq from the news.answers archive .  . 


6a if you are looking for canned software , viewers , etc 

the first part of this list is system specific programs that only run on one 
kind of system. if you do n't see what you want for your machine , check out 
the portable jpeg software described at the end of the list. note that this 
list concentrates on free and shareware programs that you can obtain over 
internet but some commercial programs are listed too. 

x windows 

xv  ( shareware , 25) is an excellent viewer for jpeg , gif , and many other 
image formats .  . it can also do format conversion and some simple image 
manipulations .  . it 's available for ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . (18 . 24 . 0 . 12) . , 
file contrib xv 3 . 00 . tar . z .  . version 3.00 is a major upgrade with support 
for 24 bit displays and many other improvements however , it is brand new 
and still has some bugs lurking .  . if you prefer not to be on the bleeding 
edge , stick with version 2.21 , also available from export .  . note that 
version 2.21 is not a good choice if you have a 24 bit display  ( you 'll get 
only 8 bit color) , nor for converting 24 bit images to jpeg .  . but 2.21 works 
fine for converting gif and other 8 bit images to jpeg .  . caution there is a 
glitch in version 2.21 be sure to check the save at normal size checkbox 
when saving a jpeg file , or the file will be blurry .  . 

another good choice for x windows is john cristy 's free imagemagick package , 
also available from export . lcs . mit . edu . , file contrib imagemagick . tar . z .  . 
this package handles many image processing and conversion tasks .  . the 
imagemagick viewer handles 24 bit displays correctly for 
displays , it does better  ( though slower) color quantization than xv or the 
basic free jpeg software. 

both of the above are large , complex packages. if you just want a simple 
image viewer , try xloadimage or xli .  . xloadimage supports jpeg in its latest 
release , 3 . 03 .  . xloadimage is free and available from export . lcs . mit . edu . , 
file contrib xloadimage 3 . 03 . tar . z .  . xli is a variant version of xloadimage , 
said by its fans to be somewhat faster and more robust than the original. 
(the current xli is indeed faster and more robust than the current 
xloadimage , at least with respect to jpeg files , because it has the v4 
decoder while xloadimage 3.03 is using a hacked over v1 .  . the next 
xloadimage release will fix this . ) . xli is also free and available from 
export . lcs . mit . edu . , file contrib xli . 1 . 14 . tar . z .  . both programs are said 
to do the right thing with 24 bit displays .  . 


ms dos 

this covers plain dos for windows or os 2 programs , see the next headings .  . 

one good choice is eric praetzel 's free , which views jpeg and gif files. 
the current version , 2.5 , is available by ftp from sunee . uwaterloo . ca . 
(129 . 97 . 50 . 50) . , file pub jpeg viewers zip .  . this is a good basic 
viewer that works on either 286 or 386 486 machines. the user interface is 
not flashy , but it 's functional .  . 

another freeware jpeg gif tga viewer is mohammad 's hiview .  . the 
current version , 1.2 , is available from simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note 
below) , file msdos graphics hv12 . zip .  . hiview requires a 386 or better cpu 
and a vcpi compatible memory manager  ( qemm386 and work windows and 
os 2 do not) .  . hiview is currently the fastest viewer for images that are no 
bigger than your screen. for larger images , it scales the image down to fit 
on the screen  ( rather than using panning scrolling as most viewers do) .  . 
you may or may not prefer this approach , but there 's no denying that it 
slows down loading of large images considerably .  . note installation is a 
bit tricky read the directions carefully ! 

a shareware alternative is for dos ( 30) .  . this is easier to 
install than either of the two freeware alternatives .  . its user interface is 
also much spiffier looking , although personally i find it harder to use 
more keystrokes , inconsistent behavior. it is faster than but a 
little slower than hiview , at least on my hardware.  ( for images larger than 
screen size , and seem to be about the same speed , and both 
are faster than hiview . ) . the current version is 2.1 , available from 
simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics dcview21 . zip .  . 
requires a vesa graphics driver if you do n't have one , look in vesadrv2 . zip . 
or vesa tsr . zip . from the same directory.  ( many recent pcs have a built in 
vesa driver , so do n't try to load a vesa driver unless complains 
that the driver is missing . ) . 

a second shareware alternative is fullview , which has been kicking around 
the net for a while , but i do n't know any stable archive location for it. 
the current  ( rather old) version is inferior to the above viewers anyway. 
the author tells me that a new version of fullview will be out shortly 
and it will be submitted to the simtel20 archives at that time. 

the well known gif viewer  ( cshow ) supports jpeg in its latest 
revision , 8 . 60a .  . however , cshow 's jpeg implementation is n't very good 
it 's slow  ( about half the speed of the above viewers ) and image quality is 
poor except on hi color displays .  . too bad ... it 'd have been nice to see a 
good jpeg capability in cshow .  . shareware , 25. available from simtel20 and 
mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos gif cshw860a . zip .  . 

due to the remarkable variety of pc graphics hardware , any one of these 
viewers might not work on your particular machine. if you ca n't get any 
of them to work , you 'll need to use one of the following conversion programs 
to convert jpeg to gif , then view with your favorite gif viewer .  .  ( if you 
have hi color hardware , do n't use gif as the intermediate format try to 
find a targa capable viewer instead. vpic5 . 0 . is reputed to do the right 
thing with hi color displays . ) . 

the independent jpeg group 's free jpeg converters are from simtel20 
and mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics jpeg4 . zip .  ( or 
jpeg4386 . zip . if you have a 386 and extended memory) .  . these files are dos 
compilations of the free source code described in section 6b they will 
convert jpeg to and from gif , targa , and ppm formats .  . 

handmade software offers free jpeg gif conversion tools , gif2jpg jpg2gif .  . 
these are slow and are limited to conversion to and from gif format in 
particular , you ca n't get 24 bit color output from a jpeg .  . the major 
advantage of these tools is that they will read and write hsi 's proprietary 
jpeg format as well as the usenet standard jfif format. since hsi format 
files are rather widespread on , this is a useful capability .  . version 
2.0 of these tools is free  ( prior versions were shareware) .  . get it from 
simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics gif2jpg2 . zip .  . 
note do not use hsi format for files to be posted on internet , since it is 
not readable on non pc platforms .  . 

handmade software also has a shareware image conversion and manipulation 
package , image alchemy .  . this will translate jpeg files  ( both jfif and hsi 
formats) to and from many other image formats .  . it can also display images. 
a demo version of image alchemy version 1 . 6 . 2 . is available from simtel20 and 
mirror sites  ( see note below) , file msdos graphics zip .  . 

note about simtel20 the internet 's key archive site for pc related programs 
is simtel20 , full name simtel20 . army . mil . (192 . 88 . 110 . 20) .  . simtel20 
runs a non unix system with weird directory names where this document 
refers to directory  ( eg ) msdos graphics at simtel20 , that really means 
msdos . graphics . . if you are not physically on milnet , you should 
expect rather slow ftp transfer rates from simtel20 .  . there are several 
internet sites that maintain copies  ( mirrors ) of the simtel20 archives 
most ftp users should go to one of the mirror sites instead. a popular usa 
mirror site is oak . oakland . edu . (141 . 210 . 10 . 117) . , which keeps simtel20 files 
in  ( eg ) pub msdos graphics . if you have no ftp capability , you can 
retrieve files from simtel20 by e mail see informational postings in 
comp . archives . msdos . announce . to find out how. if you are outside the usa , 
consult the same newsgroup to learn where your nearest simtel20 mirror is. 

microsoft windows 

there are several windows programs capable of displaying jpeg images. 
 ( windows viewers are generally slower than dos viewers on the same hardware , 
due to windows  system overhead .  . note that you can run the dos conversion 
programs described above inside a windows dos window . ) . 

the newest entry is , which is free and extremely fast. version 1.0 
is available from ftp . rahul . net . , file pub pc jpeg wecj . zip .  . 
requires windows 3.1 and 256 or more colors mode. this is a no frills 
viewer with the bad habit of hogging the machine completely while it 
decodes and the image quality is noticeably worse than other viewers .  . 
but it 's so fast you 'll use it anyway , at least for previewing .  .  .  . 

is freeware , fairly fast , has good on line help , and can write out the 
decompressed image in windows bmp format but it ca n't create new jpeg 
files , and it does n't view gifs .  . also lacks some other useful 
features of the shareware viewers  ( such as brightness adjustment) , but it 's 
an excellent basic viewer .  . the current version , 0.9 , is available from 
ftp . cica . indiana . edu . (129 . 79 . 20 . 84) . , file pub pc win3 desktop jview090 . zip .  . 
 ( mirrors of this archive can be found at some other internet sites , 
including wuarchive . wustl . edu . ) . 

winjpeg  ( shareware , 20) displays jpeg , gif , targa , tiff , and bmp image files 
it can write all of these formats too , so it can be used as a converter .  . 
it has some other nifty features including color balance adjustment and 
slideshow .  . the current version is 2.1 , available from simtel20 and mirror 
sites  ( see note above) , file msdos winjp210 . zip .  .  ( this is a slow 
286 compatible version if you register , you 'll get the 386 only version , 
which is roughly 25 faster . ) . 

is another shareware entry ( 30) .  . this was an early and promising 
contender , but it has not been updated in some time , and at this point it 
has no real advantages over winjpeg .  . if you want to try it anyway , the 
current version is 0.97 , available from ftp . cica . indiana . edu . , file 
pub pc win3 desktop cview097 . zip .  . (i understand that a new version will 
be appearing once the authors are finished with for dos . ) . 

 ( see dos heading ) also works under windows , but only in full screen 
mode , not in a window. 

os 2 

the following files are available from hobbes . nmsu . edu . (128 . 123 . 35 . 151) .  . 
note check pub uploads for more recent versions the hobbes moderator 
is not very fast about moving uploads into their permanent directories. 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics jpegv4 . zip . 
32 bit version of free conversion programs , version 4. 
pub os2 all graphics jpeg4 16 . zip . 
16 bit version of same , for os 2 1 . x .  . 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics zip . 
image archiver 1.02 image conversion viewing with pm graphical interface. 
strong on conversion functions , viewing is a bit weaker .  . shareware , 15. 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics pmjpeg11 . zip . 
1.1 os 2 2 . x . port of winjpeg , a popular viewer for windows 
 ( see description in windows section) .  . shareware , 20. 
pub os2 2 . x . graphics zip . 
0.85 jpeg gif bmp viewer .  . gif viewing very fast , jpeg viewing 
fast if you have huge amounts of ram , otherwise about the same speed 
as the above programs. strong 24 bit display support. shareware , 20. 

macintosh 

most mac jpeg programs rely on apple 's jpeg implementation , which is part of 
the quicktime system extension so you need to have quicktime installed. 
to use quicktime , you need a 68020 or better cpu and you need to be running 
system 6.0.7 or later.  ( if you 're running system 6 , you must also install 
the 32 bit quickdraw extension this is built in on system 7 . ) . you can get 
quicktime by ftp from ftp . apple . com . , file dts mac quicktime quicktime . hqx .  . 
 ( as of 11 92 , this file contains quicktime 1.5 , which is better than qt 1.0 
in several ways. with respect to jpeg , it is marginally faster and 
considerably less prone to crash when fed a corrupt jpeg file. however , 
some applications seem to have compatibility problems with qt 1 . 5 . ) . 

mac users should keep in mind that quicktime 's jpeg format , pict jpeg , is 
not the same as the usenet standard jfif jpeg format.  ( see section 10 for 
details . ) . if you post images on usenet , make sure they are in jfif format. 
most of the programs mentioned below can generate either format. 

the first choice is probably , a free program for viewing images 
that are in jfif format , pict jpeg format , or gif format. it also can 
convert between the two jpeg formats .  . the current version , 2.0 , is a big 
improvement over prior versions. get it from sumex aim . stanford . edu . 
(36 . 44 . 0 . 6) . , file info mac app jpeg view 20 . hqx .  . requires system 7 and 
quicktime .  . on 8 bit displays , usually produces the best color 
image quality of all the currently available mac jpeg viewers .  . can 
view large images in much less memory than other mac viewers in fact , it 's 
the only one that can deal with jpeg images much over 640x480 pixels on a 
typical 4mb mac .  . given a large image , automatically scales it down 
to fit on the screen , rather than presenting scroll bars like most other 
viewers .  .  ( you can zoom in on any desired portion , though . ) . some people 
like this behavior , some do n't .  . overall , 's user interface is very 
well thought out. 

, a shareware ( 40 ) image viewer converter , supports jfif and 
pict jpeg , as well as gif and several other image formats .  . the latest 
version is 2 . 3 . 2 .  . get it from sumex aim . stanford . edu . , file 
info mac art gif gif converter 232 . hqx .  . requires system 6.0.5 or later. 
is not better than as a plain jpeg gif viewer , but 
it has much more extensive image manipulation and format conversion 
capabilities , so you may find it worth its shareware fee if you do a lot of 
playing around with images. also , the newest version of can 
load and save jfif images without quicktime , so it is your best bet if 
your machine is too old to run quicktime .  .  ( but it 's faster with quicktime . ) . 
note if runs out of memory trying to load a large jpeg , try 
converting the file to gif with jpeg convert , then viewing the gif version. 

jpeg convert , a mac version of the free jpeg conversion utilities , is 
available from sumex aim . stanford . edu . , file info mac app jpeg convert 10 . hqx .  . 
this will run on any mac , but it only does file conversion , not viewing .  . 
you can use it in conjunction with any gif viewer .  . 

previous versions of this faq recommended imagery jpeg v0 . 6 . , a jpeg gif 
converter based on an old version of the code. if you are using this 
program , you definitely should replace it with jpeg convert .  . 

apple 's free program pictpixie can view images in jfif , quicktime jpeg , and 
gif format , and can convert between these formats .  . you can get pictpixie 
from ftp . apple . com . , file dts mac quicktime qt . 1 . 0 . stuff . pictpixie . hqx .  . 
requires quicktime .  . pictpixie was intended as a developer 's tool , and it 's 
really not the best choice unless you like to fool around with quicktime .  . 
some of its drawbacks are that it requires lots of memory , it produces 
relatively poor color image quality on anything less than a 24 bit display , 
and it has a relatively unfriendly user interface. worse , pictpixie is an 
unsupported program , meaning it has some minor bugs that apple does not 
intend to fix.  ( there is an old version of pictpixie , called 
, floating around the net. if you have this you should trash 
it , as it 's even buggier .  . also , the quicktime starter kit includes a much 
cleaned up descendant of pictpixie called picture compressor .  . note that 
picture compressor is not free and may not be distributed on the net . ) . 

storm technology 's picture decompress is a free jpeg viewer converter .  . 
this rather old program is inferior to the above programs in many ways , but 
it will run without system 7 or quicktime , so you may be forced to use it on 
older systems. (it does need 32 bit quickdraw , so really old machines ca n't 
use it . ) . you can get it from sumex aim . stanford . edu . , file 
info mac app picture decompress 201 . hqx .  . you must set the file type of a 
downloaded image file to  jpeg  to allow picture decompress to open it. 

if your machine is too old to run 32 bit quickdraw (a mac plus for instance) , 
is your only choice for single program jpeg viewing .  . if you 
do n't want to pay for , use jpeg convert and a free gif viewer .  . 

more and more commercial mac applications are supporting jpeg , although not 
all can deal with the usenet standard jfif format. adobe photoshop , version 
2.0.1 or later , can read and write jfif format jpeg files  ( use the jpeg 
plug in from the acquire menu) .  . you must set the file type of a downloaded 
jpeg file to  jpeg  to allow photoshop to recognize it. 

amiga 

 ( most programs listed in this section are stored in the aminet archive at 
amiga . physik . unizh . ch . (130 . 60 . 80 . 80) .  . there are many mirror sites of this 
archive and you should try to use the closest one. in the usa , a good 
choice is wuarchive . wustl . edu . look under mirrors amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  .  .  . ) . 

plus is an excellent jpeg viewer converter , as well as being a 
general image manipulation tool. it 's cheap  ( shareware , 20) and can read 
several formats besides jpeg .  . the current version is 2 . 0 . 8 .  . a demo version 
is available from amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror sites) , file 
amiga gfx edit hamlab208d . lha .  . the demo version will crop images larger 
than 512x512 , but it is otherwise fully functional .  . 

 ( shareware , 30) is an image renderer that can display jpeg , , 
and gif images. the program can be used to create animations , even 
capturing frames on the fly from rendering packages like lightwave .  . the 
current version is 1.05 , available from amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror 
sites) , file amiga gfx rend105 . lha .  .  ( note although this directory is 
supposedly for amigados 3.0 programs , the program will also run under 
amigados 1.3 , 2.04 or 2 . 1 . ) . 

viewtek is a free jpeg gif anim viewer .  . the current version is 1.04 , 
available from amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror sites) , file 
amiga gfx show viewtek104 . lha .  . 

if you 're willing to spend real money , there are several commercial packages 
that support jpeg .  . two are written by thomas krehbiel , the author of 
and viewtek .  . these are cinemorph , a standalone image morphing package , and 
, an impressive 24 bit image capture , conversion , editing , painting , 
effects and prepress package that also includes cinemorph .  . both are 
distributed by great valley products. art department professional  ( adpro ) , 
from inc , is the most widely used commercial image manipulation 
software for amigas .  . , from black belt systems , is another 
well regarded commercial graphics package with jpeg support. 

the free jpeg software is available compiled for amigas from 
amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( and mirror sites) in directory amiga gfx conv , file 
amigajpegv4 . lha .  . these programs convert jpeg to from ppm , gif , targa formats .  . 

the amiga world is heavily infested with quick and dirty jpeg programs , many 
based on an ancient beta test version of the free jpeg software  ( thanks 
to a certain magazine that published same on its disk of the month , without 
so much as notifying the authors) .  . among these are , , 
, and probably others i have not even heard of. in my opinion , 
anything older than version 3  ( march 1992) is not worth the disk space 
it 's stored on if you have such a program , trash it and get something newer .  . 

atari st 

the free jpeg software is available compiled for atari st , tt , etc , 
from atari . archive . umich . edu . , file atari graphics jpeg4bin . zoo .  . 
these programs convert jpeg to from ppm , gif , targa formats .  . 

for monochrome st monitors , try , which manages to achieve four level 
grayscale effect by flickering .  . version 4.1 reads jpeg files. available 
from atari . archive . umich . edu . , file atari graphics zoo .  . 

i have not heard of any other free or shareware jpeg capable viewers for 
ataris , but surely there must be some by now pointers appreciated. 

acorn archimedes 

! , supplied with risc os 3 version 3.10 , can convert from and view 
jpeg jfif format. provision is also made to convert images to jpeg , 
although this must be done from the cli rather than by double clicking .  . 

recent versions  ( since 7 . 11) . of the shareware program translator can handle 
jpeg , along with about 30 other image formats .  . while older versions can be 
found on some archimedes , the current version is only available by 
registering with the author , john , 31 , 7544 wj , enschede , 
the netherlands .  . price 35 dutch guilders  ( about 22 or 10 pounds) .  . 

there 's also a commercial product called ! jpeg which provides jpeg read write 
functionality and direct jpeg viewing , as well as a host of other image 
format conversion and processing options. this is more expensive but not 
necessarily better than the above programs. contact dt software , freepost , 
cambridge , uk .  . tel 0223 841099 .  . 


portable software for almost any system 

if none of the above fits your situation , you can obtain and compile the free 
jpeg conversion software described in 6b .  . you 'll also need a viewer program. 
if your display is 8 bits or less , any gif viewer will do fine if you have a 
display with more color capability , try to find a viewer that can read targa 
or ppm 24 bit image files. 

there are numerous commercial jpeg offerings , with more popping up every 
day. i recommend that you not spend money on one of these unless you find 
the available free or shareware software vastly too slow. in that case , 
purchase a hardware assisted product. ask pointed questions about whether 
the product complies with the final jpeg standard and about whether it can 
handle the jfif file format many of the earliest commercial releases are 
not and never will be compatible with anyone else 's files. 


6b if you are looking for source code to work with 

free , portable c code for jpeg compression is available from the independent 
jpeg group , which i lead. a package containing our source code , 
documentation , and some small test files is available from several places. 
the official archive site for this source code is ftp . uu . net . (137 . 39 . 1 . 9 . 
or 192 . 48 . 96 . 9) .  . look under directory graphics jpeg the current release 
is jpegsrc . v4 . tar . z .  .  ( this is a compressed tar file do n't forget to 
retrieve in binary mode . ) . you can retrieve this file by ftp or uucp .  . 
if you are on a pc and do n't know how to cope with  . tar . z . format , you may 
prefer zip format , which you can find at simtel20 and mirror sites  ( see note 
above) , file msdos graphics jpegsrc4 . zip .  . this file will also be available on 
compuserve , in the forum  ( go pics ) , library 15 , as jpsrc4 . zip .  . 
if you have no ftp access , you can retrieve the source from your nearest 
comp . sources . misc . archive version 4 appeared as issues 55 72 of volume 34 .  . 
 ( if you do n't know how to retrieve comp . sources . misc . postings , see the faq 
article how to find sources , referred to at the top of section 6 . ) . 

the free jpeg code provides conversion between jpeg jfif format and image 
files in gif , pbmplus ppm pgm , utah rle , and targa file formats .  . 
the core compression and decompression modules can easily be reused in other 
programs , such as image viewers .  . the package is highly portable we have 
tested it on many machines ranging from pcs to crays .  . 

we have released this software for both noncommercial and commercial use. 
companies are welcome to use it as the basis for jpeg related products. 
we do not ask a royalty , although we do ask for an acknowledgement in 
product literature  ( see the readme file in the distribution for details) .  . 
we hope to make this software industrial quality although , as with 
anything that 's free , we offer no warranty and accept no liability .  . 

the independent jpeg group is a volunteer organization if you 'd like to 
contribute to improving our software , you are welcome to join. 


7 what 's all this hoopla about color quantization 

most people do n't have full color (24 bit per pixel ) display hardware. 
typical display hardware stores 8 or fewer bits per pixel , so it can display 
256 or fewer distinct colors at a time. to display a full color image , the 
computer must map the image into an appropriate set of representative 
colors. this process is called color quantization .  ( this is something 
of a misnomer , color selection would be a better term. we 're stuck with 
the standard usage though . ) . 

clearly , color quantization is a lossy process. it turns out that for most 
images , the details of the color quantization algorithm have much more impact 
on the final image quality than do any errors introduced by jpeg (except at 
the very lowest jpeg quality settings) .  . 

since jpeg is a full color format , converting a color jpeg image for display 
on 8 bit or less hardware requires color quantization .  . this is true for 
all color jpegs even if you feed a 256 or less color gif into jpeg , what 
comes out of the decompressor is not 256 colors , but thousands of colors. 
this happens because jpeg 's affects each pixel a little 
differently , so two pixels that started with identical colors will probably 
come out with slightly different colors. each original color gets smeared 
into a group of nearby colors. therefore quantization is always required to 
display a color jpeg on a display , regardless of the image 
source. the only way to avoid quantization is to ask for gray scale output .  . 

 ( incidentally , because of this effect it 's nearly meaningless to talk about 
the number of colors used by a jpeg image. even if you attempted to count 
the number of distinct pixel values , different jpeg decoders would give you 
different results because of roundoff error differences .  . i occasionally see 
posted images described as 256 color jpeg . this tells me that the poster 
(a) has n't read this faq and (b) probably converted the jpeg from a gif .  . 
jpegs can be classified as color or gray scale  ( just like photographs ) , but 
number of colors just is n't a useful concept for jpeg . ) . 

on the other hand , a gif image by definition has already been quantized to 
256 or fewer colors. (a gif does have a definite number of colors in its 
palette , and the format does n't allow more than 256 palette entries . ) . 
for purposes of usenet picture distribution , gif has the advantage that the 
sender the color quantization , so recipients do n't have to. 
this is also the disadvantage of gif you 're stuck with the sender 's 
quantization .  . if the sender quantized to a different number of colors than 
what you can display , you have to re quantize , resulting in much poorer 
image quality than if you had quantized once from a full color image. 
furthermore , if the sender did n't use a high quality color quantization 
algorithm , you 're out of luck. 

for this reason , jpeg offers the promise of significantly better image quality 
for all users whose machines do n't match the sender 's display hardware. 
jpeg 's full color image can be quantized to precisely match the user 's display 
hardware. furthermore , you will be able to take advantage of future 
improvements in quantization algorithms  ( there is a lot of active research in 
this area) , or purchase better display hardware , to get a better view of jpeg 
images you already have. with a gif , you 're stuck forevermore with what was 
sent. 

it 's also worth mentioning that many gif viewing programs include rather 
shoddy quantization routines .  . if you view a 256 color gif on a 16 color ega 
display , for example , you are probably getting a much worse image than you 
need to. this is partly an inevitable consequence of doing two color 
 ( one to create the gif , one to display it) , but often it 's 
also due to sloppiness .  . jpeg conversion programs will be forced to use 
high quality quantizers in order to get acceptable results at all , and in 
normal use they will quantize directly to the number of colors to be 
displayed .  . thus , jpeg is likely to provide better results than the average 
gif program for low color resolution displays as well as high resolution ones ! 

finally , an ever growing number of people have better than 8 bit display 
hardware already 15 bit hi color pc displays , true 24 bit displays on 
workstations and , etc. for these people , gif is already 
obsolete , as it cannot represent an image to the full capabilities of their 
display. jpeg images can drive these displays much more effectively .  . 
thus , jpeg is an all around better choice than gif for representing images 
in a machine independent fashion. 


8 how does jpeg work 

the buzz words to know are chrominance subsampling , discrete cosine 
transforms , coefficient quantization , and huffman or arithmetic entropy 
coding .  . this article 's long enough already , so i'm not going to say more 
than that here. for technical information , see the comp . compression . faq .  . 
this is available from the news.answers archive at rtfm.mit.edu , in files 
pub usenet news.answers compression faq part 1 3 . if you need help in 
using the news.answers archive , see the top of this article. 


9 what about lossless jpeg 

there 's a great deal of confusion on this subject. the jpeg committee did 
define a truly lossless compression algorithm , i.e. , one that guarantees the 
final output is bit for bit identical to the original input. however , this 
lossless mode has almost nothing in common with the regular , lossy jpeg 
algorithm , and it offers much less compression .  . at present , very few 
implementations of lossless jpeg exist , and all of them are commercial. 

saying q 100 to the free jpeg software does not get you a lossless image. 
what it does get rid of is deliberate information loss in the coefficient 
quantization step. there is still a good deal of information loss in the 
color subsampling step.  ( with the v4 free jpeg code , you can also say 
sample 1x1 to turn off subsampling .  . keep in mind that many commercial 
jpeg implementations cannot cope with the resulting file . ) . 

even with both quantization and subsampling turned off , the regular jpeg 
algorithm is not lossless , because it is subject to roundoff errors in 
various calculations .  . the maximum error is a few counts in any one pixel 
value it 's highly unlikely that this could be perceived by the human eye , 
but it might be a concern if you are doing machine processing of an image. 

at this minimum loss setting , regular jpeg produces files that are perhaps 
half the size of an uncompressed 24 bit per pixel image. true lossless jpeg 
provides roughly the same amount of compression , but it guarantees 
bit for bit accuracy .  . 

if you have an application requiring lossless storage of images with less 
than 6 bits per pixel  ( per color component ) , you may want to look into the 
bilevel image compression standard. this performs better than jpeg 
lossless on such images. jpeg lossless is superior to on images with 
6 or more bits per pixel furthermore , jpeg is public domain (at least with a 
huffman back end) , while the techniques are heavily covered by patents .  . 


10 why all the argument about file formats 

strictly speaking , jpeg refers only to a family of compression algorithms 
it does not refer to a specific image file format. the jpeg committee was 
prevented from defining a file format by turf wars within the international 
standards organizations .  . 

since we ca n't actually exchange images with anyone else unless we agree on 
a common file format , this leaves us with a problem. in the absence of 
official standards , a number of jpeg program writers have just gone off to 
do their own thing , and as a result their programs are n't compatible with 
anybody else 's .  . 

the closest thing we have to a de facto standard jpeg format is some work 
that 's been coordinated by people at c cube microsystems .  . they have defined 
two jpeg based file formats 
jfif  ( jpeg file interchange format) , a low end format that transports 
pixels and not much else. 
tiff jpeg , aka tiff 6.0 , an extension of the aldus tiff format. tiff is 
a high end format that will let you record just about everything you 
ever wanted to know about an image , and a lot more besides ) .  . tiff is 
a lot more complex than jfif , and may well prove less transportable , 
because different vendors have historically implemented slightly different 
and incompatible subsets of tiff .  . it 's not likely that adding jpeg to the 
mix will do anything to improve this situation. 
both of these formats were developed with input from all the major vendors 
of jpeg related products it 's reasonably likely that future commercial 
products will adhere to one or both standards. 

i believe that usenet should adopt jfif as the replacement for gif in 
picture postings .  . jfif is simpler than tiff and is available now the 
tiff 6.0 spec has only recently been officially adopted , and it is still 
unusably vague on some crucial details. even when tiff jpeg is well 
defined , the jfif format is likely to be a widely supported lowest common 
denominator tiff jpeg files may never be as transportable .  . 

a particular case that people may be interested in is apple 's quicktime 
software for the macintosh .  . quicktime uses a jfif compatible format wrapped 
inside the mac specific pict structure. conversion between jfif and 
quicktime jpeg is pretty straightforward , and several mac programs are 
available to do it  ( see mac portion of section 6a) .  . if you have an editor 
that handles binary files , you can strip a quicktime jpeg pict down to jfif 
by hand see section 11 for details. 

another particular case is handmade software 's programs  ( gif2jpg jpg2gif and 
image alchemy) .  . these programs are capable of reading and writing jfif 
format. by default , though , they write a proprietary format developed by 
hsi .  . this format is not readable by any non hsi programs and should not be 
used for usenet postings .  . use the j switch to get jfif output .  .  ( this 
applies to old versions of these programs the current releases emit jfif 
format by default. you still should be careful not to post hsi format 
files , unless you want to get flamed by people on non pc platforms . ) . 


11 how do i recognize which file format i have , and what do i do about it 

if you have an alleged jpeg file that your software wo n't read , it 's likely 
to be hsi format or some other proprietary jpeg based format. you can tell 
what you have by inspecting the first few bytes of the file 

1. a jfif standard file will start with the characters  ( hex ) ff d8 ff e0 , 
followed by two variable bytes  ( often hex 00 10) , followed by 'jfif' .  . 

2. if you see ff d8 at the start , but not the rest of it , you may have a 
raw jpeg file. this is probably decodable as is by jfif software 
it 's worth a try , anyway. 

3. hsi files start with 'hsi1' .  . you 're out of luck unless you have hsi 
software. portions of the file may look like plain jpeg data , but they 
wo n't decompress properly with non hsi programs. 

4. a macintosh pict file , if jpeg compressed , will have a couple hundred 
bytes of header followed by a jfif header  ( scan for 'jfif') .  . strip off 
everything before the ff d8 and you should be able to read it. 

5. anything else it 's a proprietary format , or not jpeg at all. if you are 
lucky , the file may consist of a header and a raw jpeg data stream .  . 
if you can identify the start of the jpeg data stream  ( look for ff d8 ) , 
try stripping off everything before that. 

in uuencoded usenet postings , the characteristic jfif pattern is 

begin line 
m c x ... 

whereas uuencoded hsi files will start with 

begin line 
m ' i ... 

if you learn to check for the former , you can save yourself the trouble of 
downloading non jfif files. 


12 what about arithmetic coding 

the jpeg spec defines two different back end modules for the final output 
of compressed data either huffman coding or arithmetic coding is allowed. 
the choice has no impact on image quality , but arithmetic coding usually 
produces a smaller compressed file. on typical images , arithmetic coding 
produces a file 5 or 10 percent smaller than huffman coding .  .  ( all the 
file size numbers previously cited are for huffman coding . ) . 

unfortunately , the particular variant of arithmetic coding specified by the 
jpeg standard is subject to patents owned by ibm , at t , and mitsubishi .  . 
thus you cannot legally use arithmetic coding unless you obtain licenses 
from these companies. (the fair use doctrine allows people to implement 
and test the algorithm , but actually storing any images with it is dubious 
at best . ) . 

at least in the short run , i recommend that people not worry about 
arithmetic coding the space savings is n't great enough to justify the 
potential legal hassles .  . in particular , arithmetic coding should not 
be used for any images to be exchanged on usenet .  . 

there is some small chance that the legal situation may change in the 
future. stay tuned for further details. 


13 does loss accumulate with repeated compression decompression 

it would be nice if , having compressed an image with jpeg , you could 
decompress it , manipulate it  ( crop off a border , say) , and recompress it 
without any further image degradation beyond what you lost initially .  . 
unfortunately this is not the case. in general , recompressing an altered 
image loses more information , though usually not as much as was lost the 
first time around. 

the next best thing would be that if you decompress an image and recompress 
it without changing it then there is no further loss , i.e. , you get an 
identical jpeg file. even this is not true at least , not with the current 
free jpeg software. it 's essentially a problem of accumulation of roundoff 
error. if you repeatedly compress and decompress , the image will eventually 
degrade to where you can see visible changes from the first generation 
output .  . (it usually takes many such cycles to get visible change . ) . 
one of the things on our to do list is to see if accumulation of error can 
be avoided or limited , but i am not optimistic about it. 

in any case , the most that could possibly be guaranteed would be that 
compressing the unmodified full color output of djpeg , at the original 
quality setting , would introduce no further loss. even such simple changes 
as cropping off a border could cause further roundoff error degradation .  . 
 ( if you 're wondering why , it 's because the pixel block boundaries move. 
if you cropped off only multiples of 16 pixels , you might be safe , but 
that 's a mighty limited capability ! ) 

the bottom line is that jpeg is a useful format for archival storage and 
transmission of images , but you do n't want to use it as an intermediate 
format for sequences of image manipulation steps. use a lossless format 
 ( ppm , rle , tiff , etc) while working on the image , then jpeg it when you are 
ready to file it away. aside from avoiding degradation , you will save a lot 
of compression decompression time this way ) .  . 


14 what are some rules of thumb for converting gif images to jpeg 

as stated earlier , you will lose some amount of image information if you 
convert an existing gif image to jpeg .  . if you can obtain the original 
full color data the gif was made from , it 's far better to make a jpeg from 
that. but if you need to save space and have only the gif to work from , 
here are some suggestions for getting maximum space savings with minimum 
loss of quality. 

the first rule when converting a gif library is to look at each jpeg , to 
make sure you are happy with it , before throwing away the corresponding gif 
that will give you a chance to re do the conversion with a higher quality 
setting if necessary. some gifs may be better left as gifs , as explained in 
section 3 in particular , cartoon type gifs with sixteen or fewer colors 
do n't convert well. you may find that a jpeg file of reasonable quality 
will be larger than the gif .  . (so check the sizes too . ) . 

experience to date suggests that large , high visual quality gifs are the best 
candidates for conversion to jpeg .  . they chew up the most storage so offer 
the most potential savings , and they convert to jpeg with least degradation .  . 
do n't waste your time converting any gif much under 100 kbytes .  . also , do n't 
expect jpeg files converted from gifs to be as small as those created 
directly from full color originals .  . to maintain image quality you may have 
to let the converted files be as much as twice as big as straight through 
jpeg files would be (i . e .  . , shoot for 1 2 or 1 3rd the size of the gif file , 
not 1 4th as suggested in earlier comparisons) .  . 

many people have developed an odd habit of putting a large constant color 
border around a gif image. while useless , this was nearly free in terms of 
storage cost in gif files. it is not free in jpeg files , and the sharp 
border boundary can create visible artifacts ( ghost edges) .  . do yourself 
a favor and crop off any border before jpeging .  .  ( if you are on an x windows 
system , xv 's manual and automatic cropping functions are a very painless 
way to do this . ) . 

's default q setting of 75 is appropriate for full color input , but 
for gif inputs , q settings of 85 to 95 often seem to be necessary to avoid 
image degradation .  .  ( if you apply smoothing as suggested below , the higher 
q setting may not be necessary . ) . 

color gifs of photographs or complex artwork are usually dithered to fool 
your eye into seeing more than the 256 colors that gif can actually store. 
if you enlarge the image , you will see that adjacent pixels are often of 
significantly different colors at normal size the eye averages these pixels 
together to produce the illusion of an intermediate color value. the 
trouble with dithering is that , to jpeg , it looks like high spatial frequency 
color noise and jpeg ca n't compress noise very well. the resulting jpeg 
file is both larger and of lower image quality than what you would have 
gotten from jpeging the original full color image  ( if you had it) .  . 
to get around this , you want to smooth the gif image before compression .  . 
smoothing averages together nearby pixels , thus approximating the color that 
you thought you saw anyway , and in the process getting rid of the rapid 
color changes that give jpeg trouble. appropriate use of smoothing will 
often let you avoid using a high q factor , thus further reducing the size of 
the compressed file , while still obtaining a better looking output image 
than you 'd get without smoothing .  . 

with the v4 free jpeg software  ( or products based on it) , a simple smoothing 
capability is built in. try smooth 10 or so when converting gifs .  . 
values of 10 to 25 seem to work well for high quality gifs .  . heavy handed 
dithering may require larger smoothing factors .  .  ( if you can see regular 
fine scale patterns on the gif image even without enlargement , then strong 
smoothing is definitely called for . ) . too large a smoothing factor will blur 
the output image , which you do n't want. if you are an image processing 
wizard , you can also do smoothing with a separate filtering program , such as 
pnmconvol from the pbmplus package. however , 's built in smoother is 
a lot faster than pnmconvol .  .  .  . 

the upshot of all this is that quality 85 smooth 10 is probably a 
good starting point for converting gifs .  . but if you really care about the 
image , you 'll want to check the results and maybe try a few other settings. 




for more information about jpeg in general or the free jpeg software in 
particular , contact the independent jpeg group at jpeg 


tom lane 
organizer , independent jpeg group 
internet bitnet tgl 

from  ( eliza strickler ) 
subject re i a  . bin . file from a unix machine now what 
organization georgia state university 
lines 42 

 ( nikolaus e schuessler ) writes 

in article  ( eliza strickler ) writes 
i just a  . bin . file from a unix machine which is 
supposed to be converted to a mac format. does anyone know 
what i need to do to this file to get it into any dos , mac 
or unix readable format. someone mentioned fetch on the unix 
machine is this correct could someone explain the  . bin . 
format a little 


this is almost certainly a file which is an encoded version 
of a mac file so the resource fork and data fork get preserved .  . 
you need a program that converts this to a regular file. if this is a 
file , you may have downloaded it in text mode and is probably 
corrupt  ( if you did) .  . if you 're using ftp to transfer it at any point make sure 
you type binary first. 

if you can open the file with a text editor and find 
 ( this file must be converted with bin .  .  .  .  . 
at the top , it is a binhex file and can be decoded with 
binhex 4.0  ( among other programs) .  . 

i opened the file with a text editor and it looks like 

e  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i have already tried binhex which does not seem to work. 
any other ideas 



project vincent systems manager email 
iowa state university computation center voice (515) 294 
ames ia 50011 snail 291 durham 




0 0 elizabeth 
0 
( 

from 
subject re pov ray related group needed 

organization ncr microelectronics , ft. collins , co 
lines 36 
in reply to 's message of 17 may 93 09 42 18 gmt 

on 17 may 93 09 42 18 gmt ,  ( liefting w) said 

liefting  ( magic fingers ) writes 


in article (stephen r. 
phillips) writes 

if it takes making it an alt group , then why not i 've been following this 
thread for , what has it been , two months now 

liefting the alt. is created for 2 purposes 1. for 
liefting groups which do not fit under the comp. or other  official  
liefting hierarchies 2. for the fast creation of hot new newsgroups 
liefting like alt . gulf . war . 

liefting because there is no voting process or any other control 
liefting facilities , sites are free to decide not to carry (some of) 
liefting the alt groups. 

liefting therefore , it is (i think) desirable to try to create 
liefting comp . graphics .  . raytrace , rendering or whatever and not an 
liefting alt group 

plus , many sites ,  ( especially many .com sites) do not carry any alt 
newsgroups .  .  ( we do n't for example . ) . a comp. group will get a much broader 
distribution and would be useful to many more people. plus the topic is 
important popular enough to warrant its own group , imho .  . 


kent dalton email 
ncr microelectronics phone (303) 223 5100 x 319 
2001 ct. fax (303) 226 
fort collins , colorado 80525 

does someone from peoria have a shorter attention span than me 

from (peter j menchetti ) 
subject a graphic design newsgroup 
organization university of nevada , reno department of computer science 
lines 3 

which newsgroup discusses graphic design on pcs and macs 

y'know like with corel draw 

from (paul fine) 
subject tiff 6.0 
nntp posting host paul fine . mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation 
lines 5 

i recently read in a book that the tiff version 6.0 specification was due 
to be released in the spring of 1992. i am interested in finding out about 
the new features of the tiff spec  ( and if it is out) .  . specifically , i need 
to know if tiff 6.0 supports vq decompression and or image 
tiling .  . 

from c . dk .  ( povl h. pedersen ) 
subject re products to handle hdtv moving  ( 180mb sec ) 
organization uni c , danish computing centre for research and education 
lines 9 

how does the 16 bit color of hdtv work it can not be 5 bit red green and 
blue like on the macintosh .  . this gives only 64 gray levels. 

apple also has developed a point point network that is around 200mb (not 
sure if it is bits or bytes) per sec. 

h. pedersen macintosh specialist .  . knows some dos and unix too. 
c . dk . 
finger me at for pgp public key 

from  ( kevin sahr ) 
subject looking for polygon 
organization university of colorado at colorado springs 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

does anyone know where i can find a code which would take concave 
polygons and break them up into a set of convex polygons 

thanks , 

kevin 



from (s n rajesh ) 
subject looking for a job as a software engineer 
keywords c c , gui , xvt , operating systems , computer networking .  . 
reply to (s n rajesh ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 194 

i am not sure that i am supposed to post this mail here. however 
during the last year , while i was involved in developing graphical user 
interface  ( gui ) applications , i have enjoyed being personally part of this 
news group i got some interesting information which helped me in my 
work. i am posting my resuming hoping that people working in my area would 
make time to look at it. 


hall , 
isu , ames , ia 50011 .  . 
(515) 294 1525 
april 29 , 1992. 

dear prospective employer 

i am seeking employment as a software engineer with interests in software 
design and development , in which i can utilize my experience in hardware , 
c c programming , graphical user interface  ( gui ) , operating systems and 
computer networking .  . 

i received my bachelors of engineering  ( be ) degree in electronics 
engineering in 1990 and a m.s. degree in electrical engineering in dec 1992 
from iowa state university .  . currently i am enrolled in a m.s. in computer 
engineering at iowa state university .  . 

during my masters program , as a research assistant since jan 1991 , i have 
published three papers including one in the ieee transactions on magnetics .  . 
these papers are a reflection of the quality of my research and my ability 
to learn new concepts quickly. 

i have been involved in many projects involving software developments and 
have extensive experience programming in c , c , fortran and assembly level. 
i am also familiar with operating systems like unix , ultrix and ms dos .  . 
i am familiar with motif x programming and currently , as a research assistant , 
am involved in graphical user interface  ( gui ) design using the multiplatform 
gui toolkit xvt . my experiences also include areas such as operating systems 
and computer networks , through course work and projects. i was involved in the 
study of the design and development of the internals of the operating 
system. i have also been involved in many tcp ip programming projects in 
computer networking .  . 

while in college i learnt the importance of clear and concise communication .  . 
i have also learned a lot about time management. in my m.s. program i 
have maintained a 3 . 70 . grade average , worked 20 hours per week and 
have enjoyed being involved in many other extra activities. 

my software experiences along with my hardware background  ( electronics 
engineering ) would be very helpful in my career goals as a software engineer .  . 
i request that my qualifications may kindly be reviewed .  . i would like to 
have an interview to discuss your employment needs and my career goals. 
i am eager to hear from you soon. 


sincerely 

s.n. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
resume 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

s. n. 


work residence 
305 isu , hall , isu 
ames , ia 50011 ames , ia 50011 
(515) 294 1525 

e mail 

objective to obtain a challenging position as a software engineer 
involving software design and development , in which i can 
utilize my experience in hardware , c c programming , 
graphical user interface  ( gui ) , operating systems and 
computer networking .  . 

education currently enrolled in a m.s. in computer engineering , iowa state 
university , ames , iowa 50011 .  . 

m.s. in electrical engineering , iowa state university , ames , 
iowa 50011 (dec 1992) major 3.8 4.0 
overall 3.7 4 . 0 .  . 
thesis probability of detection  ( pod ) models for eddy current 
evaluation  ( nde ) methods. 
 ( project funded by federal aviation administration  ( faa ) 

b.e. in electronics engineering , university , 
, india  ( jan 1990) .  . 

publications s. n. , l. and s. s. , numerical model based 
approach for estimating probability of detection in 
applications , ieee transactions on magnetics , vol. 29 , 
no. 2 , march 1993. 

s. n. , l. and s. s. , estimation of 
eddy current probability of detection using 3d finite element 
model , presented at the 19th annual review of progress in 
quantitative evaluation , san diego , 
california  ( jul 1992) 

s. n. , l. , s. s. and n. , probability 
of detection models for eddy current methods , presented at 
the 18th annual review of progress in quantitative 
evaluation , brunswick , me  ( jul 1991) 

relevant of operating systems electronic devices and circuits 
course computer network architecture pulse and digital circuits 
work advanced computer communications artificial neural networks 
introduction to supercomputing pattern recognition 
microprocessors and computer digital image processing 
organization digital signal processing 
computer technology and integrated circuits and design 
programming 

projects implementation of the fork system call on the operating 
system. also involved in the implementation of a cpu 
scheduling algorithm taking into consideration the aging 
of processes .  . this project involved the study of the design 
and development of the internals of the operating system. 
design and development of an interrupt driven keyboard driver. 
this project involved a thorough understanding of device 
drivers. 
design and development of a unix like tree structured 
directory which allows the creation of subdirectories and 
organization of files accordingly. this project included the 
implementation of routines such as mkdir , rmdir , cd , ls and 
rm to support the directory structure. 
analysis of methods of congestion control in computer 
networks .  . 
implementation of the ford routing algorithm for a 
distributed network. the communication between network nodes 
was based on udp .  . this project involved programming in c . 
simulation of the various digital logic functional units 
starting from the basic gates to registers , counters , adders , 
, arithmetic logic unit  ( alu ) and so on. the 
project involved extensive c programming in an unix 
environment. 

work research assistant , center for , iowa state university , ames , 
experience ia 50011  ( aug 1992 present) 
work involves development of applications using graphical 
user interface  ( gui ) toolkits .  . familiar with programming in 
a motif x environment. more recent work involves development 
of multiplatform gui applications , in c , using the portable 
gui toolkit xvt . 
 ( this project is supported by nist  ( national institute of 
standards and  . 

research assistant , center for , iowa state university , ames , 
ia 50011  ( jan 1991 aug 1992) 
work involved developing software for modeling electromagnetic 
techniques such as the eddy current method. it also 
involved optimization of the code on the parallel computer 
cray  . 
 ( this project was supported by faa and involved working in 
close contact with the aircraft industry  . 

engineer , indian telephone industries , india .  . 
work involved design and development of a microprocessor 
 ( 8085 ) based programmable telephone used in cordless 
telephones .  . involved programming of a 8085 microprocessor 
to control the pulsing actions of the relays in a telephone 
circuit  ( jan nov 1989) .  . 

computer languages c , c , fortran , assembly level. 
skills software motif x , xvt , computer graphics  ( hoops ) , tcp ip 
programming , image processing utilities , ideas , autocad .  . 
operating systems unix , stellix , ultrix , ms dos .  . 
systems dec series , hp and sun workstations , macintosh , 
stellar .  . 
parallel systems cray , ibm , , n cube .  . 

honours and iowa state university graduate college scholarship 
activities  ( jan 1991 present) 
ranked 42 out of over 20 , 000 students in bachelors of 
engineering entrance examination ensuring full 
scholarship , from the state , to pursue my bachelors 's degree. 
current member of ieee 

references available upon request. 














from  ( chad cipiti ) 
subject fractint on a speedstar 24x 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 17 
reply to  ( chad cipiti ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


i'm still looking for fractint drivers or a new release which supports the 
24bit color mode of the diamond speedstar 24x .  . there are some 2 , 4 and 26 
million drivers , but none work with the 24x .  . 

any help would be appreciated ! 

thanks ! 

chad 



.... new in 1993 
. sea world of ohio chad cipiti 
shark . 
. encounter . make contact .  . 

from wang 
subject help 
organization sponsored account , physics , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 12 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

hi there , 

i am here looking for some help. 

my friend is a interior decor designer .  . he is from thailand .  . he is 
trying to find some graphics software on pc. any suggestion on which 
software to buy , where to buy and how much it costs he likes the most 
sophisticated 
 ( software(the more features it has , the better) 

thanks in advance 


from  ( justin sullivan ) 
subject re lcd vga display 
organization dialix services , sydney , new south wales , australia 
x newsreader nn version 6 . 4 . 19 . 1 
lines 30 

in  ( sandy santra ) writes 

mike mattone wrote 

i 've only had the computer for about 21 months. 

only ! that 's a long time ! 

is that a reasonable life 
cycle for a lcd display 

i think 21 months with nothing wrong until now is quite reasonable .  . if 
you had bought a compaq or toshiba , you might have reasonably expected the 
machine to last longer before something went wrong but that 's a moot 
point , perhaps. 

maybe. i 've had an epson portable with backlit lcd since 1988 which is 
still used daily and the screen on that is fine. the only problem it 
has  ( and ever has had ) is the arm of the screen is sorta lose and if 
you bend it fairly harshly the screen goes off until you wiggle it 
round a bit. but other than that , it 's been perfect ! so what 's that , 
about um , 60 months ! 


justin sullivan  ( system administrator ) dialix services sydney 
modem (02) 948 
ph perth (09) 244 




from (richard stoakley ) 
subject 3d for unix 
keywords 3d , three d , 
organization university of virginia computer science department 
lines 7 

could someone please post a list of good three d that will 
run on sparc stations preferably cheap. thanks 

richard 




from  ( roddi walker ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization computer science , monash university , australia 
lines 11 


on a more cheerful note , perhaps hacking is n't completely dead. 

as someone else said , take the gnu offerings for example free , redistributable and 
often better than the commercial stuff. take also the number of papers published 
every year in all the fields of computer science the vast majority of these papers 
detail original work of real , often exceptional merit and the authors are sharing 
this knowledge. 

have fun , 


from  ( lars erik stenholm ) 
subject parametric drafting 
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden 
lines 24 
nntp posting host hemul . nada . kth . se . 


hello ! 

i'm looking for documentation books on parametric drafting .  . 

does anyone know of such material , electronic on a gopher ftp site 
or books authors .  . 

im not looking for commercial software rather info on implementation 
and theory of the subject. im planning to make a parametric 
generator for autocad and i would need some  . 

everything you know is of interest ! 

thanks in ! ! 

lasse 






lars erik , student at the university of stockholm , sweden .  . 

from (john nagle ) 
subject re point in polygon routine needed 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 18 

andrew lewis tepper writes 
i do n't know if this routine is standard , i just came up with it recently 
for a polygon of points p1 .  .  . pn . , and a point p , make a table as follows 
 ( t(1 ) angle from p1 to p to p2 
 ( t(2 ) angle from p2 to p to p3 
... 
 ( t(n ) angle from pn to p to p1 
express all angles as pi angle pi .  . 
add all entries in the table. if the sum 0 , the point is outside. if 
the sum is pi , the point is inside. if the point is , you 
have a strange polygon .  . if any angle was pi , the point is on the 
border .  . 

i think it 's known , but it 's neat .  . 

can it be extended to 3d 

john nagle 

from (john nagle ) 
subject oriented bounding box generation 
summary want bounding box generator 
keywords bounding box oriented 3d 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 12 

i'm looking for code that will generate a minimum volume oriented 
bounding box for an arbitrary polyhedron .  . anyone know of such code 

why i'm converting objects from 
one modelling system into another , and the destination system is object 
oriented .  . so i want to represent each object in its own coordinate system , 
that of its bounding box , with the objects then translated and rotated 
appropriately , this being the representation used in the destination 
system. 

john nagle 


from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re coreldraw bitmap to scodal 
lines 21 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article , writes 

does anyone know of software that will allow 
you to convert coreldraw ( . cdr) . files 
containing bitmaps to scodal , as this is the 
only format our bureau 's recognises .  . 

corel draw will do it version 2 onwards .  . if you have version 1 perhaps an 
upgrade is in order. 

another alternative would be to use a different bureau that can take postscript .  . 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from  ( marcelo eid ) 
subject 
nntp posting host ing . puc . cl . 
organization universidad catolica de chile 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 14 

hello 
can anybody help me to find a program that converts a format named 
raw  ( also known as img ) to the gif format or jpeg one. 
it 's desirable to be for a unix machine than for a pc. 

( 
raw format of a n n image is a file that contain a tail of 
n n characters , each one referencing to the k n j pixel of the 
image , where k and j lies between 0 and n 1. 
) .  . 





from  ( sandy santra ) 
subject re lcd vga display 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 28 

mike mattone wrote 
has anyone else experienced anything like this if this just means that i 
need to replace the screen then i guess i 'll have to but i thought that the 
death of my lcd screen would be a little less dramatic when it eventually 
happened. i did n't want to take it in to be repaired before i asked on the 
net about this because i already know what they 'll say yep , you gotta have 
this replaced and it 's gonna cost you . 

i 've only had the computer for about 21 months. 

only ! that 's a long time !  ( echoing above posting) the way the market 
is going nowadays , your machine 's obsolete two weeks before you buy it. 
sounds like you 'll have to sink some money into it for repair , but 
that 's sometimes necessary for equipment. 

is that a reasonable life 
cycle for a lcd display 

i think 21 months with nothing wrong until now is quite reasonable .  . if 
you had bought a compaq or toshiba , you might have reasonably expected the 
machine to last longer before something went wrong but that 's a moot 
point , perhaps. 


sandy 
berkeley , california 



from (richard mancuso ) 
subject ascii or ansi pics .  . where . 
organization educational computing network 
lines 10 
nntp posting host uxa . ecn . bgu . edu . 

can someone tell me where i could find ansi or ascii pics 

i already found the gopher ascii pics. 


thanks 

richard 



from mad  ( andy booth ) 
subject revolt an otis project 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 103 

the otis project presents .  .  .  . 

revolt 
 .  .  . the . first in a continuing series of collaborative 
art initiatives designed to exploit the 
of the  . this series of 
structured art manipulation projects will attempt 
to stretch across network encouraging 
use of electronic mail , fax , video , photography , 
scanned conventional art and even sound to 
create multi artist still visuals in gif and 
jpg formats .  . from all technical levels 
are welcome. 

revolt will be structured simply .  . there will be 
three stages of production. the first stage will 
consist of all participants creating one still 
work as a starter piece that two other 
pants will , in turn , manipulate .  . all first stage 
base images are due by sunday , may 23rd , 1993 , 
midnight central daylight time. 

stage two will begin on may 24th .  . all images will 
be sent to another  ( arbitrarily chosen ) participant 
for them to do manipulations on in anyway they see 
fit. for purely digital artists , this may consist 
of filtering the image through their favorite paint 
program. for analog artists , this may well be 
printing a hardcopy of the image and adding their 
own part with pen , pencil or white out then scan 
ning in the image again to be transferred on to 
the third stage artist. all second stage works 
are due by midnight on sunday , may 30th .  . 

stage three is the finishing stage and will begin 
on may 31st .  . all artists will do what they think 
it takes to finish up the image they 've been given 
using whatever technique they see as worthy .  . 
these images will be due on june 6th , midnight .  . 

all involved will participate in each stage of 
creation. 


to join , send email mail with the following info 

name 
email address 
mail address 
scanner access  ( color grey none) 
printer access  ( laser postscript inkjet color dot ) 
computer access (mac ibm pc sun amiga atari next other) 
output format  ( tiff targa gif jpeg pict postscript fax 
photocopy pcx windows bitmap ) 
graphics level  ( 8bit 16bit 24bit ) 
ftp access 
time limitations 

address the information to 

email mad (andrew booth , project manager ) 
 ( include revolt in the subject line) 
mail the otis project 
revolt 
po bx 
omaha , ne 68124 1113 


remember , all starter images are due on sunday , may 23rd .  . 
deposit them at either of these ftp sites 

sunsite . unc . edu . ( pub multimedia pictures otis incoming ) 
or 
141 . 214 . 4 . 135 .  ( projects otis incoming ) 
or 
 .  .  . send . uuencoded images to us via email .  .  .  . 
or 
 .  .  . send . hardcopies to address above .  .  .  . 
or 
 .  .  . arrange . fax exchange .  . 

if you do n't get your starter image in , you wo n't be 
able to participate until phase ii  ( in mid  . 


we will do our best to accomodate facilitate image exchange 
for the technologically impaired . if you do n't have 
access to a scanner , but need one , we 'll try to help. 
if you need an image printed out and sent to you , let 
us know  ( send an sase if you anticipate this) .  . 

additional information available on the following 
suggestions for use of uncommon 
 ( such as video stills , electronic imaging and sound ) 
fax availability times 
copyright considerations  ( appropriation ) 
image conversion 
the otis project in general 


andy booth were you ever abducted by aliens ever see elvis 
po bx at the local 7 11 i would like to hear from you 
omaha , ne 68124 1113 about any paranormal experiences you have had. 

from  ( martin  ( cena sid ) 
subject re 3d input devices 
originator 
keywords 3d , input , device 
organization c . e . n . a .  .  ( centre d etudes de la navigation aerienne ) 
lines 11 


hello , 
i'm interested in those devices too. 
could also send me your suggestions. 
thank in advance. 
regards .  . 


martin (e mail 69 84 56 88) 
centre d etudes de la navigation o o 
div. support informatique 

from 
subject kubota kenai specs 
organization center for instructional and research computing activities 
lines 118 
reply to 
nntp posting host maple . circa . ufl . edu . 


okay , i got enough replies about the kubota kenai systems that i 
will post a summary of their capabilities .  . i have n't actually used one 
or seen one , so take the specs with a grain of salt. i 'd like to see 
an independent review of one against , say , an sgi indigo extreme or 
something. 

basically , the kenai workstations are dec alpha axp based workstations that 
run osf 1 ( dec 's ) and will likely run windows nt in the future. they are 
binary compatible with digital 's osf 1 alpha axp implementation .  . 
is their graphics subsystem , which is upgradable in the field by 
simply adding transformation engines . 

the two main kenai machines are the 3400 imaging and 3d graphics workstation 
and the 3500 imaging and 3d graphics workstation .  . 


3400 3500 

cpu dec alpha axp 133mhz dec alpha axp 
on chip cache 8k 8k 8k 8k 
onboard cache 512k 512k 
word size 64 bit 64 bit 
memory ( initial ) 32 32 
memory ( future ) 1gb 
111 126 
75 84 
112 128 

graphics 

transform modules 1 6 1 6 
frame buffer modules 5 , 10 , 20 5 , 10 , 20 
frame buffer 
double buffered double buffered 
z buffer 24 bit 24 bit 
alpha 8 bit 8 bit 
stereo support yes yes 
other both machines will double buffer or do 
stereo output per window. both have an 
auxiliary video output that is rs , 
ntsc , and pal 

storage 

internal fixed 2 3.5 4 3.5 
internal removable 1 5.25 2 5.25 
max capacity 9 . 11.6 gb 

io 

both have 100mb sec , scsi 2 , ethernet , and 

application programming interfaces 

both have libraries for xlib , motif , mit pexlib , dec pexlib dec phigs , and gl 

okay , now the real stuff. the kenai stations work with a graphics architecture 
known as  . the comes in three models , the e , p , and v. they 
use a superscalar risc processor at  . their 
capabilities are as follows 

e p v 

2d vectors 800 200k 2000 4000 
3d vectors 1 350 1100 1800 
3d vectors 2 300 1000 1600 
3d vectors 3 300 500k 800 1300 
3d triangles , 4 200 500k 600 1000 
3d triangles , 5 100 200k 300 400k 500 600k 

1 10 pixel , flat shaded , connected 
2 10 pixel , shaded , connected 
3 10 pixel , 2 pixel wide , anti aliased , connected 
4 50 pixel , shaded , z buffered , strip 
5 50 pixel , texture mapped ,  . , point sampled 

image processing 

cine loop 8 bit 15 s 37 58 mp s 60 68 mp s 
cine loop 16 bit 14 mp s 25 mp s 38 mp s 
cine loop 24 bit 12 21 mp s 21 mp s 21 mp s 
contrast stretching 1 14 mp s 25 mp s 20 mp s 
bilinear zoom 6 mp s 11 mp s 20 mp s 
2 6 s 11 s 

1 lookup table 12 , 16 bit to 8 
2 interpolation , 8 bit 

configurations 
frame buffer modules 5 10 20 
transform engine mod .  . 1 3 3 5 5 6 


as you can see , these are pretty powerful workstations , and the best part 
is the pricing .  . i would recommend that you call kubota for more information. 
their number is 408 727 8100 .  . i'm sure they 'll send you an information you 
may want. oh , some prices 

low end 

kenai 3400 , e series w 1 tem and 5 fbm 27 , 795 dollars u.s. 
kenai 3500 , e series w 1 tem and 5 fbm 45 , 345 dollars u.s. 

high end 

kenai 3400 , v series w 6 tem and 20 fbm 61 , 795 dollars u.s. 
kenai 3500 , v series w 6 tem and 20 fbm 79 , 345 dollars u.s. 

if someone could post a relative comparision with an indigo extreme or 
something i would appreciate it. 

hope this helps someone out there , 

brian 

ps i am not affiliated with kubota in any way. hell , i thought they made 
tractors or something. ) 

from  ( earl boebert ) 
subject  .  . gcd . formats reference needed 
organization 
lines 6 

can some kind soul point me to references for the above formats 

thanks , 

earl 


from  ( ken fishkin ) 
subject re oh make up your mind ! !  ( was re xv problems) 
organization xerox parc 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( chris lilley ) writes 
re a true 24 bit xv 

if you would come up with a solid , logical , well argued and lucid description of 
precisely how these proposed extensions would work , feel free to post them 

do n't mind if i do. 
as someone who would love to see xv go to 24 bit , this 
would be plenty for me. 

a) xv can load a 24 bit image , and display it in all it 's 
24 bit glory on 24 bit x displays .  . 
b) all other operations  ( crop , dither , smooth , etc . ) . are not 
supported on 24 bit images. 

how hard would this be 



ken 

from  ( alex kiernan ) 
subject re  . sci . files and  . sco . files 
distribution world 
organization  ( dis(organised ) 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 16 

in article writes 

hello there ! 

a week ago a guy asked what a  . sco . file was .  . 

regards 
rued 



yes me , why 


alex kiernan 


from  ( bob fitzsimmons ) 
subject re vga graphics library 
keywords c , library , graphics 
article i.d. 
organization oregon grad .  . inst. computer science and eng. , beaverton 
lines 26 

in article  ( bill sheppard ) writes 
many high end graphics cards come with c source code for doing basic graphics 
sorts of things  ( change colors , draw points lines polygons fills , etc . ) .  . does 
such a library exist for generic vga graphics cards chips , hopefully in the 
public domain this would be for the purpose of compiling under a non dos 
operating system running on a standard pc. 


i'm also interested in info both public domain and commercial graphics library 
package to do pc vga graphics. 

i'm currently working on a realtime application running on a with a 
non dos kernel that needs to do some simple graphics. i'm not sure if 
of the graphics library is going to be an issue or not. 
i suspect i 'll implement the display controller as a server process that 
handles graphics requests , on a mailbox , one at a time. if this 
provides sufficiently frequent display updates then i believe that i can 
restrict all graphics operations to be performed by the server and thus 
access to the library to a this single process and avoid the need 
for a reentrant graphics library. 

being fairly new to the realtime systems world i may be overlooking something , 
what do you think 

cheers , 
bob  ( 503)297 ) 

from (michael clark ) 
subject video memory 
reply to 
organization the national capital freenet 
lines 38 


hello 
i have posted to this newsgroup once before and recieved a 
moderately helpful response on a couple of issues. this i appreciated very 
much . i would however like to know why it is that ther is simply no 
information out there on some subjects for the relativly novice graphics 
programmer .  . the subjects are 

1) how do you access the extra video memory on a video board. i 
know somwhere there standard video bios calls that allow you to 
 . i have 1meg of memory on my board and according to all the books 
and info i have read i am only (at maximum ) using 256k of it. there is a 
way to do this in standard vga cause i have seen paging  ( written in 
assembly , which i do n't know) written into apps hat use mode 13h .  . to get 
any speed at all you have to do this. how do i do it 

2) the vesa standard. what gives here. i have read most of what 
the net has to offer on vesa and as far as coding for vesa goes most of 
the advice is cryptic at best. where do i get public domain info that will 
tell me in mostly plain english how the vesa calls work. 

my biggest gripe is about number 1. i have bought graphics books , 
i have asked graphics professors , i have hunted the net through both 
gopher , and archie , i asked apps programmers and it is like there is 
some lock on this information. graphics programming books tell alot of 
algorithm information , but they always fall short of telling 
you how to really control the video bios .  . what are all the calls folks , i 
know there are people out there that know how to tis stuff. where 
are you , and why have n't you written a book yet 

please help 

thanks in advance 

stephen palm 

(please send all personal replies to the above address , thanks ) 


from  ( dick wilmot ) 
subject re products to handle hdtv moving  ( 180mb sec ) 
nntp posting host zen . holonet . net . 
organization holonet national internet access system 510 704 1058 modem 
lines 48 

writes 


hi , 

i 'd like to know if there is any system  ( cpu hd array framebuffer ) 
which can play and record hdtv quality moving picture in realtime .  . 

hdtv has about 6mb frame , so recording playing moving picture will need 
about sec bandwidth .  . i'm thinking to treat the raw data .  .  . not 
compressed .  . 

finding a disk array that can do sec. will be difficult. the fastest 
ones i know about are from maximum strategy  ( ibm also sells these) .  . they 
can attach at up to 144 mb sec.  ( 64 bit) .  . for these kinds of data 
rates you need more than scsi for connections .  . their latest model , the 
raid 5 model gen 4 only does 90 mb sec. but i think this may be a 
limitation only of the channel and that customer needs have not 
exceeded that speed since their older model was faster. they are also not 
idle  ( must be working on newer products that might be faster) and are a 
small company so you might be able to ask about custom interfaces .  . they 
still marketed the older , faster model as of a few ago. 

maximum strategy , inc. 
801 court 
milpitas , ca 95035 


you might still want to look into compression as it will be very difficult 
to keep the bus fully working at all times sustained throughput 
might come close to maximum burst rate. 

interesting problem. tell us more if you can 

if anyone can advise me what kind of product i should look into , please 
e mail me. i will appriciate it. the vendor 's e mail address , price of 
the products , actual performance data of the products , any info will 
help me. 

thanks in advance , 

sato , tokyo , japan 
e mail 

dick 
editor , independent raid report 
(510) 938 


from  ( chris sherman ) 
subject re povray tga rle 
nntp posting host unx . sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 77 

in james . comp . vuw . ac . nz . (craig andrew humphrey ) writes 


in article ,  ( jihun park ) writes 
hello , 
i have some problem in converting tga  ( file(generated by povray ) to 
rle file. when i convert , i do not get any warning message. but 
if i use xloadimage , something is wrong. 

edited 

i know that i need to install and , but i do not spend 
time to install them. even i do not want to generate  . rgb . from povray 
and then convert them to rle , if possible . ( . rgb . to rle works , but 
it will mess up my directory with so many files , and it needs 2 more 
steps to finally convert to rle file. say cat ) 
does any body out there have same experience problems 


well for starters , why use rle files 

exactly .  .  .  . 

i did n't want to mess with tga or rle .  . so i wrote the following script. 
all you need is the very standard set of pbm utilities .  . 

this script is a  . pov . to  . jpg . converter .  . just run it like this 

1280 1024 fred . pov . 

you will need to modify the path 's in the script to reflect where you put 
povray and its include files. if you have a problem with disk space , you 
can use named pipes instead of temporary files. 

i hope you find it useful .  .  .  . 



! bin sh 

if lt 3 then 
echo usage 0 width height pov . other options 
exit 
fi 

width 1 
height 2 
datafile 3 
shift 3 

datafile sed e s ( .  . )  . pov . 1 ` 


datafile  . 


cd 
afs rnd . sas . com . u sherman pov build povray 
l afs rnd . sas . com . u sherman pov include 
o tmp data w width h height fr i 

echo 
width height tmp data  . grn . tmp green 
width height tmp data  . red . tmp red 
width height tmp data  . tmp blue 
tmp red tmp green tmp blue  . jpg . 
rm tmp red tmp green tmp blue tmp data  . grn . tmp data  . red . 
tmp data  . 
echo wrote output to  . jpg . 





chris sherman 



from  ( kouhia juhana ) 
subject comp . graphics . research . 
organization tampere university of technology 
lines 13 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 


i have not seen articles in comp . graphics . research . for a long time. 
does it he work anymore 

i have seen many conference related postings in comp . graphics . , 
and it is hard to believe that people have not tried to post them to 
c . g . research .  . 

if somebody has not got his article to comp . graphics . research . , then 
write to me or post here. 


juhana kouhia 

from matt  ( mattias dahlberg ) 
subject re cd i titles  ( was re rumours about 3do ) 
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , stockholm university 
lines 12 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

mark samson wrote 

speaking of , they have licensed games to philips interative 
media international for cd i. 

and for the commodore  . 



regards email 
mattias matt i love it. 


from (paul martz ) 
subject re kubota kenai specs 
nntp posting host bambam 
reply to (paul martz ) 
organization evans sutherland computer corp. , salt lake city , ut 
lines 30 

in article names . nerdc . ufl . edu . , writes 
okay , i got enough replies about the kubota kenai systems that i 
will post a summary of their capabilities .  . ... 

graphics 

transform modules 1 6 1 6 
frame buffer modules 5 , 10 , 20 5 , 10 , 20 
frame buffer 
double buffered double buffered 
z buffer 24 bit 24 bit 
alpha 8 bit 8 bit 


does this mean they can either do alpha or , but not both 
simultaneously 

stereo support yes yes 
other both machines will double buffer or do 

stereo output per window. both have an 
auxiliary video output that is rs , 
ntsc , and pal 

same question again , does this mean they can either do double 
buffering or stereo , but not both simultaneously 


paul 
evans sutherland 

from  ( roy smith) 
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly 
organization new york university , school of medicine 
lines 47 
nntp posting host med . nyu . edu . 

(richard j. mcdougald ) writes 
since there 's no (not really ) such thing as a decent raster to vector 
conversion program , this tracing technique is about it. simple stuff , 
like b w logos , etc. do pretty well , while more complicated stuff goes 
haywire .  . 

the first and only thing i 've ever tried to auto trace was a piece 
of a nautical chart using adobe illustrator 3 . 2 .  . i wanted to get the 
outline of the coast for western long island sound. i was simultaneously 
suprised at how good a job it did and disappointed at how poorly it did. i 
suspect what i gave it was a very difficult thing not only is the coastline 
very irregular , but overlaid on the chart are numerous sets of 
(not only lattitude and longitude , but loran grids as well) .  . the most 
common mistake it make was whenever the coastline was roughly parallel and 
tangent to a grid line , it would take off following the instead of 
the coast. i think the best improvement would be some sort of interactive 
algorithm that would let you step in and say no , dummy , you 're going the 
wrong way . 

steve , a friend of mine a few years  ( back ) , did his 
doctoral work analysing electron micrographs of phage  . 
a good chunk of the work was writing a program to take a digitized 
and automatically trace the centerline of the virus particles .  . 
this is essentially the same problem that illustrator tries to solve with 
its auto trace tool. 

in some respects the problem steve worked on was harder , since he 
was trying to do quantitative analysis of the virus structure and finding a 
good centerline was only the first step , but a step on which all future 
analysis depended .  . however , in other respects , it was an easier problem 
since the program could be written with a lot of knowledge about what the 
virus particles were supposed to look like , and the analysis could be 
restricted to those particles which happend to be relatively straight , 
clean , and well imaged you do n't always have that freedom auto tracing real 
life images. in any case , it gave me some insight into just how difficult 
this problem is to solve in the general case. 

( ) steve is no longer with us. he and his wife disappeared while 
on vacation in hawaii a couple of years after they graduated .  . their last 
known location was hiking in a densely wooded in a mountainous area. while no 
bodies were ever found , they are presumed to have been the victim of some 
sort of fall or accident in the woods. 

roy smith 
project , department of microbiology , coles 202 
nyu school of medicine , 550 first avenue , new york , ny 10016 
this never happened to bart simpson .  . 

from  ( daniel e. bradley ) 
subject help ! quicktime 1.5 system 7.1 problem 
keywords quicktime mac 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 14 

i am unable to run quicktime 1.5 on my iivx running system 7.1 , and 
i do n't know why.  ( if there is a better group to post this to , please 
let me know . ) . quicktime 1.0 works fine , but when i try to run a movie 
in any application that supports it , like simple player , canvas or 
word , i get the message sorry a system error occurred ' application ' 
trap continue restart , i press continue and get 
the application  unknown  has unexpectedly quit , because an error of 
type 12 occurred .  . substitute simple player or canvas or word for 
' application , and the messages are always the same. if i restart with 
quicktime 1.0 , i have no problems. any suggestions i am at a loss. 
thanks in advance. oh yah , please email me as i do n't check 
the newsgroups very often. 
dan bradley 


from  ( dave dennis ) 
subject re adobe type manager what good is it 
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci .  . 
lines 29 

(peter j menchetti ) writes 

the subject says it all. i bought adobe type manager and find it completely 
useless. i some atm fonts and could n't install them. what 's the use 
are you supposed to be able to convert atm fonts to truetype 

if there 's anyone out there who has this program and actually finds it 
useful , enlighten me ! 

pete 

there are some tricks to installing atm to windows .  .  .  . install them first 
to dos , then run the atm control panel to get them into windows. 

the best reason for atm is that adobe is the standard. truetype is a 
failed ms venture to undercut adobe when adobe was being nasty about 
keeping their formats proprietary .  . just about any service bureau or print 
shop will smirk and send you on your way if you bring a truetype document 
to them for high resolution printing or ripping .  . 

although there are lots of pretty tt fonts floating around , they are really 
for dot matrix or your own lazer printer .  . 
however , you can convert your tt fonts with or some similar program 
to atm fonts for high end stuff. 

if you are using dot matrix for all your printing , you may have wasted 
your money ! 

dave 

from  ( donn cave ) 
subject re anyone know use rayshade out there 
organization university of washington 
lines 13 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 
keywords rayshade , uw .  . 

 ( twixt your toes ) writes 

i'm using rayshade on the u . w .  . computers here , and i 'd like input 
from other users , and perhaps swap some ideas. i could post 
uuencoded  . gifs . here , or  . ray . code , if anyone 's interested. i'm having 
trouble coming up with colors that are metallic (i . e .  . brass , steel ) 
from the rgb values .  . 

sorry , i'm not a rayshade user but hey , it looks like this group could 
use some traffic. my guess is that metallic is n't a color , in the rgb 
sense. rather , it 's a matter of how the surface reflects light. i'm not 
sure what property metallic materials have , that makes them recognizable 
as such , but i'm pretty sure any color material can look metallic .  . 

from  ( chan yin mei ) 
subject help ! colour display restriction limitation 
originator 
organization charles sturt university , wagga wagga , nsw , australia 
lines 29 

hi netters , 

i'm doing a project which is about image analysis. firstly , i 
have to find out any restrictions or limitations on the colour display 
on various kind of workstations , they are decstation , hp , amiga , apollo .  . 

secondly , i read from some graphic texts that image is displayed 
in 24  ( bites(please point out to me if i got it wrong) .  . but , the images 
which i will deal with are displayed in 16 bites by the software they 
are using currently .  . so , will there be any problems to display them 
under x windows in the future because we are thinking to implement the 
gui by x windows for our project 


is there any person here can help me to solve the problem or 
query above or , give me some advice or suggestion where i can find 
them out. 

please send me an e mail if there are any. thanks in advance. 



yours 

christine chan 


my address 


from  ( carl christensen ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
organization temple university 
lines 14 
nntp posting host astro . ocis . temple . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

i think the main reason is that in the good old hacker days of the  ( young(er ) 
gates  and jobs  of the world , the computer was not as widespread a 
as it is now. with the increased popularity of the pc 
come a plethora of mundane business uses which required more practical 
minded and narrower focused programmers .  . 

why be a hacker when you can get a good job programming databases or 
programs for accountants basically , the yuppies caught up and 
disciplined the hackers , and molded them in their own image. 


carl christensen , , , dept. of computer science 
temple university 
curiouser and curiouser ! lc philadelphia , pa usa 

from (robert woodward ) 
subject gif viewer 
lines 7 
nntp posting host 128 . 206 . 12 . 104 . 
organization physiology dept , university of missouri 
lines 7 

i am having trouble viewing gif files on my system. large sections 
do n't show up. i have tried vpic and both do the same. i am 
running a gateway 486 with a speedstar plus vga card and an 
nec multisync 16 inch monitor. any suggestions i do n't know if 
robert woodward 
department of physiology , university of missouri , columbia , mo 
e mail 

from  ( thomas helke ) 
subject how can i download files graphics 
organization wetware diversions , san francisco 
lines 21 

how can i find these files and graphics that people 
are downloading from their unix systems then , how 
do i download them i am a complete beginner in 
this (obviously) , so please baby step me through 
the process. first of all , i do n't see amongst 
these newsgroups where there is anything remotely 
like a gif , tif , or compiled shareware program 

thanks in advance for any information you can 
give me. (i know there is a unix command , ftp , 
that will allow me to do this , but first i 
need to know where to go to find the file 
i want download via ftp , etc. 

thomas helke 



wq ! 



from  ( dan conway ) 
subject re calculating regular polyhedra vertices 
organization hp scientific instruments division palo alto , ca 
lines 16 

i 'd be interested in a copy of this code if you run across it. 
 ( mail to the author bounced ) 
comp . graphics .  ( rick turner) 12 53 am may 13 , 
1993 
i fooled around with this problem a few years ago , and implemented a 
simple method that ran on a pc. 
was very simple about 40 or 50 lines of code. 
. . . 
somewhere i still have it 
and could dig it out if there was interest. 

rick 

dan conway 



from  ( chris rende ) 
subject need recommendations on imaging workstations 
lines 23 


i need recommendations on imaging workstations .  . as a minimum , i have the 
following requirements 

high resolution graphics (black and white ) for display of fax images. 
support the display of multiple windows 
fax image , 3270 emulation window to ibm host , etc .  .  .  . 
high speed network interface for 3270 , image data , etc .  .  .  . 
 ( 16mb token ring , ethernet , etc .  .  . ) . 
mouse 


any information experience would be appreciated. 

thanks , 


car. 


from  ( torgeir veimo ) 
subject virtual sound 
keywords virtual sound , surround sound 
organization for norway 
lines 31 

i'm looking for algorithms or articles on virtual sound. what i want to do is 
the following 

from a fast source , eg. a cdrom , several sound sources are read , each having 
it 's own defined position and other attributes , eg. direction etc. given the 
listeners position and direction , the sum of sound played back in each of the 
listeners will be a function of this position and direction. this 
means that some simulation of the ears coloring of sound relative to it 's 
incoming direction have to be done for each sound source. (i think this is 
possible to do with a lookup table of impulse responses for several angles 
relative to each ear , and interpolate an impulse function from this for a given 
angle. this impulse function could then be convoluted with the sound from the 
source. this impulse function must be changed every time some sound source 
changes position or the listener changes orientation . ) . additionally some 
reflection , diffusion and absorbtion due to the environment wich is defined 
could be simulated , but this requires some sort of sound 
simulation , kinda like some radiosity algorithm .  . 

have someone done this and or written articles on implementing such a system 

please post or mail any answers or comments. 


torgeir veimo 

studying at the university of bergen 

 .  .  . i'm . gona wave my freak flag high !  ( jimi hendrix ) 

 .  .  . and . it would be okay on any other day ! (the police) 


from  ( geoffrey warren hicks ) 
subject colour transform for red green colour blindness 
nntp posting host extro . ucc . su . oz . au . 
organization sydney university computing service , sydney , nsw , australia 
lines 29 


posted on behalf of craig who does not have access to 
a net account 


can anyone provide me with a colour space transform that would 
emulate the effects of red green colour blindness i have had 
a quick look in the computer graphics literature with no results. 
perhaps someone who has access to medical information could help 

i would like to write a program  ( probably a ppm filter ) to allow 
previewing of images to check for sufficient contract for colour 
blind users. not being colour blind myself , this is a bit difficult ! 

please email replies i will summarise and repost if there is 
sufficient interest 

craig 



craig you can have it good , cheap , 
chief engineer , or fast. any two. 
picture start productions arthur c. clarke 
email c 
phone 61 2 959 5550 educate do n't legislate 




from  ( ing1023 ) 
subject vatican library 
organization electrical and computer engineering , university of pretoria 
lines 8 
nntp posting host mccartney . ee . up . ac . za . 



the vatican library recently made a tour of the us. 
can anyone help me in finding a ftp site where this collection is 
available. 

thanx in advance 
j. watson 

from  ( graeme gill ) 
subject re gamma correction 
organization australia pty. ltd. , melbourne , australia 
summary here is a faq contribution on gamma 
lines 184 

in article ,  ( mark adler ) writes 

can someone who knows what they 're talking about add a faq entry 
on gamma correction thanks. 

i get regular questions about gamma correction since i go to great pains to 
deal with it properly in xli (the image loader program i  . 

here is an explanation i often use to answer these questions. 

this might be suitable for inclusion in the faq .  . 

graeme gill .  . 


a note on gamma correction and images 

author graeme w. gill 


date 93 5 16 


what is all this gamma stuff anyway 


although it would be nice to think that an image is an image , 
there are a lot of complications .  . not only are there a whole bunch of 
different image formats  ( gif , jpeg , tiff etc etc) , there is a whole 
lot of other technical stuff that makes dealing with images a bit 
complicated. gamma is one of those things. if you 've ever downloaded 
images from bbs or the net , you 've probably noticed  ( with most image 
viewing programs) that some images look ok , some look too dark , and some 
look too light. why is this you may ask. this , is gamma correction 
 ( or the lack of it) .  . 

why do we need gamma correction at all 


gamma correction is needed because of the nature of crts  ( cathode 
ray tubes the monitors usually used for viewing  . if you 
have some sort of real live scene and turn it into a computer 
image by measuring the amount of light coming from each point of 
the scene , then you have created a linear or un gamma corrected 
image. this is a good thing in many ways because you can manipulate 
the image as if the values in the image file were light (ie .  . adding 
and multiplying will work just like real light in the real world) .  . 
now if you take the image file and turn each pixel value into a voltage 
and feed it into a crt , you find that the crt does n't give you 
an amount of light proportional to the voltage .  . the amount of light 
coming from the phosphor in the screen depends on the the voltage 
something like this 

light out voltage crt gamma 

so if you just dump your nice linear image out to a crt , the image 
will look much too dark. to fix this up you have to gamma correct 
the image first. you need to do the opposite of what the crt 
will do to the image , so that things cancel out , and you get 
what you want. so you have to do this to your image 

gamma corrected image image (1 crt gamma ) 

for most crts , the crt gamma is somewhere between 1.0 and 3 . 0 .  . 

if that is all it is , why does it seem so complicated 


the problem is that not all display programs do gamma correction .  . 
also not all sources of images give you linear images  ( video cameras 
or video signals in general) .  . because of this , a lot of images 
already have some gamma correction done to them , and you are 
rarely sure how much. if you try and display one of those images 
with a program that does gamma correction for you , the image gets 
corrected twice and looks way to light. if you display one of those 
images with a program that does n't do gamma correction , then it will 
look vaguely right , but not perfect , because the gamma correction is 
not exactly right for you particular crt .  . 

whose fault is all this 


it is really three things. one is all those display programs 
out there that do n't do gamma correction properly. another is 
that most image formats do n't specify a standard gamma , or 
do n't have some way or recording what their gamma correction is. 
the third thing is that not many people understand what gamma 
correction is all about , and create a lot of images with varying 
gamma 's .  . 

at least two file formats do the right thing. 
the utah graphics toolkit  . rle . format has a semi standard way of recording 
the gamma of an image. the jfif file standard  ( that uses jpeg compression) 
specifies that the image to be encoded must have a gamma of 1.0 (ie .  . a 
linear image but not everyone obeys the rules) .  . 

some image loaders  ( for instance xli an x11 image utility) 
allow you to specify not only the gamma of the monitor you 
are using , but the individual gamma values of image you are trying to 
view. other image viewers (eg .  . xv another x11 image program) and 
utilities (eg .  . the pbm toolkit) provide ways of changing the gamma 
of an image , but you have to figure out the overall gamma correction 
yourself , allowing for undoing any gamma correction the image has , 
and then the gamma correction you need to suite your crt monitor. 

note that xv 2.21 does n't provide an easy way of modifying the 
gamma of an image. you need to adjust the r , g and b curves to the 
appropriate gamma in the controls. altering the intensity 
in the hsv controls does n't do the right thing , as it fails to 
take account of the effect gamma has on h and s. this tends 
to give a tint to the image. 

how can i figure out what my viewer does , or what gamma my screen has 


the simplest way to do that is to try loading the file jpg . 
 ( provided with xli distribution ) , which is a jfif jpeg format file 
containing two grayscale ramps .  . the ramps are chosen to look linear 
to the human eye , one using continuous tones , and the other using 
dithering .  . if your viewer does the right thing and gamma corrects 
images , then the two ramps should look symmetrical , and the point 
at which they look equally bright should be almost exactly half 
way from the top to the bottom.  ( to find this point it helps if 
you move away a little from the screen , and de focus your eyes a 
bit . ) . 

if your viewer does n't do gamma correction , then left hand ramp will have 
a long dark part and a short white part , and the point of equal brightness 
will be above the center. 

if your viewer does have a way of setting the right amount of gamma correction 
for a display , then if the equal brightness point is above center increase the 
gamma , and decrease it if it is below the center. the value will usually be 
around 2.2 

with xli for instance , you can adjust the display gamma with the 
flag , and once you 've got it right , you can set the display gamma 
environment variable in your  . profile . 

how do i figure out what the gamma of an image is 


this is the most tricky bit. as a general rule it seems that a lot of 
true color (ie .  . 24 bit ,  . ppm .  . jpg) . images have a gamma of 
1.0  ( linear ) , although there are many about that have some gamma 
correction .  . it seems that the majority of pseudo color images 
(ie .  . 8 bit images with color maps  . gif . etc . ) . are gamma corrected 
to some degree or other. 

if your viewer does gamma correction then linear images will 
look good , and gamma corrected images will look too light. 

if your viewer does n't do gamma correction , then linear images will 
look too dark , and gamma corrected images will ok. 

why linear images are sometimes not such a good thing 


one of the reason that many high quality formats  ( such as 
video ) use gamma correction is that it actually makes better 
use of the storage medium .  . this is because the human 
eye has a logarithmic response to light , and gamma correction 
has a similar compression characteristic .  . this means images 
could make better use of 8 bits per color  ( for instance) , 
if they used gamma correction .  . the implication though , is that 
every time you want to do any image processing you should 
convert the 8 bit image to 12 or so linear bits to retain 
the same accuracy .  . since little popular software does this , and 
none of the popular image formats can agree on a standard 
gamma correction factor , it is difficult to justify gamma corrected 
images at the popular level. 

if some image formats can standardize on a particular gamma , 
and if image manipulation software takes care to use 
extra precision when dealing with internal data , 
then gamma corrected distribution of images would be a good thing. 

(i am told that the kodak format for instance , has a 
standard gamma correction factor that enables it to get the 
highest quality out of the bits used to hold the image) .  . 





from  ( jussi dc ) 
subject language 
organization bo akademi university , finland 
distribution comp . graphics . 
lines 25 

hi ! 

we have an old montage fr 1 35mm film recorder .  . when connected to a pc with 
its processor card it can directly take hpgl , targa and language 
files. 24 bit targa is quite ok for raster images , but conversion from 
whatever one happens to have can be quite slow. this language 
seems to be  ( got the source file for one test image) a vector based language 
that can handle one million colors. it does some polygons too , and perhaps 
something else 

the question is , where can i find some information about this language 
a ftp site , a book , a company address , .... 

 ( ok , it would be nice to have a windows driver for it , but i'm not that 
optimistic .  .  . ) . 

thanks in advance for any help ! 






computing centre bo akademi university , finland 


from  ( zidouri 03 95) 
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42 
organization tokyo institute of tech. , precision and intelligence lab. , japan 
lines 23 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 08 29 03 gmt 

on wed , 21 apr 1993 08 29 03 gmt , (peter hauke ) said 

peter joachim lous wrote 

peter does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from 

peter yep , here 's a theory that i once heard bandied around. rather than thinking 
peter of the number think of the sound. for tea two. a sort of anagram on tea for two , 
peter two for tea , for tea two. 

un other suggestion is there is no tea above ! it just 
and for two many things are possible think binary , , y n , 
l r , t f no wonder there was eve for adam ! 

peter ) 

) ) 


 . 

we cooperate in what we agree on , and forgive each other for that 
in which we disagree. hassan el  . 

from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re 48 bit graphics .  .  .  . 
keywords 48 bit alpha channel image 
lines 41 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 


in article ,  ( wonko 
the sane ) writes 

i was recently talking to a possible employer ( mine ! ) ) and he made a 
reference to a 48 bit graphics computer image processing system. i seem to 
remember it being called image or something akin to that. anyway , he claimed 
it had 48 bit color a 12 bit alpha channel. that 's 60 bits of info what 
could that possibly be for specifically the 48 bit color that 's 280 
trillion colors , many more than the human eye can resolve .  . is this an 
anti aliasing thing or is this just some magic number to make it work better 
with a certain processor .  . 

well 48 bit colour could be for improved resolution but 16 bits per channel 
seems like a bit excessive .  . i have seen a paper that quoted 10 bits per channel 
of 12 bits for computational precision .  . more than that would seem to be wasted .  . 

perhaps the frame buffer uses another which needs more bits to 
represent the full range rgb is a cube so it is a compact encoding .  . 

most likely however is that there are two separate 24 bit (8 bits per component ) 
frame buffers .  . this set up , called double buffering , allows a complex 3d picture 
to be built up on one buffer while the other buffer  ( containing the previous 
frame ) is displayed .  . this makes for smoother animation. 

 ( sadly , i have access to none of them. just a dec 5000 25. sigh . ) . 

well hey if you want to brag about numbers , the 5000 range can take a turbo 
card with 96 bits per pixel .  . full double buffering  ( two 24 bit buffers ) , a 24 
bit z buffer and an extra 24 bit buffer for off screen image storage. 

mind you the card costs more than your workstation .  . 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from  ( ewing terry ) 
subject and animation 
organization idaho state university , pocatello 
lines 14 
nntp posting host cwis . isu . edu . 


now i have a couple raytracing questions. 
just so you know i'm using povray 1.0  ( both ms dos and unix) and i'm generating targa files of varying size. 

1) ok , so i can view these wonderful pictures on my screen. what 's the best way to get them on to paper would it be possible to take it to 's and have them make an actual picture on paper from it 

2) i was thinking about making a small animation bit with different raytraced 
frames .  . is this a bad idea any tricks to it 

3 

) 
how would i get a sequence of targa files made into an animation 
that i could put on a videotape is there a cheap way 

from  ( liefting w) 
subject re pov ray related group needed 
organization fac .  . wiskunde informatica , vu , amsterdam 
lines 20 

 ( magic fingers ) writes 


in article (stephen r. phillips) writes 

if it takes making it an alt group , then why not i 've been following 
this thread for , what has it been , two months now 

the alt. is created for 2 purposes 
1. for groups which do not fit under the comp. or other  official  
hierarchies 
2. for the fast creation of hot new newsgroups like alt . gulf . war . 

because there is no voting process or any other control facilities , 
sites are free to decide not to carry (some of) the alt groups. 

therefore , it is (i think) desirable to try to create comp . graphics .  . 
raytrace , rendering or whatever and not an alt group 

wouter 

from  ( douglas s. greer ) 
subject research positions in 3d graphics , munich , germany 
originator 
reply to  ( douglas s. greer ) 
organization european computer industry research centre , munich 
lines 36 


european computer research centre 

research positions in 3d graphics 

is currently expanding its research staff in three dimensional 
graphics. we are looking for highly qualified researchers with a phd in 
computer science and a proven ability to conduct highly innovative 
research. preference will be given to candidates who have strong 
experience in developing and implementing algorithms for 
three dimensional graphics , visualization and user interaction .  . we 
presently have positions available for both experienced researchers and 
recent graduates .  . candidates with especially strong backgrounds may be 
considered for positions as visiting scientists or for ph.d. student 
research positions .  . 

the european computer industry research centre is located in munich , 
germany with english as the working language. the centre is funded by a 
consortium of major computer companies , with a mission to pursue 
research in fundamental areas of computer science. active areas of 
research include visualization and user interfaces , distributed 
computing , parallelism , deductive systems and databases .  . the center 
employs 45 researchers of 21 different nationalities .  . 

the small but rapidly growing graphics group is currently investigating 
new methods for three dimensional human computer interaction and the 
integration of computer vision and computer graphics technology. the 
center has extensive computing facilities which includes sun 
workstations , apple , a well equipped graphics laboratory and 
network access to super computer facilities. 

offers competitive salaries and excellent benefits. for immediate 
consideration , send a written application with curriculum , 
telephone number , e mail address , and references to douglas greer , 
gmbh , 17 , d 8000 munich 81 , germany 


from  ( jack stephenson ) 
subject re what is this  . gl . file 
distribution usa 
organization datacom , sunrise , fl 
lines 27 

from article , by (john wallace ) 
i 've got this animation file with a  . gl . extension .  . 
what is this are there anu ms dos or os 2 programs 
which will run this file thanks. 


the gl file is an archive containing individual frames or pieces of 
frames  ( usually stored as  . pic . or  . clp . files) , fonts , and a  . txt . file 
that tells the grasp animation system how to display it. gl stands 
for grasp library. there is probably a detailed discussion of this subject 
in the alt . binaries . pictures . faq .  . 

there are freely distributable viewers for gl files , and they are usually 
named  . exe .  ( replace the with a version digit or  . most 
gl files contain frames that are hardware specific to particular modes 
of the cga , ega , or vga adapters on pcs. i think that there are some 
copies of available by anonymous ftp (i know that i got one there 
a long time ago) .  . 

good luck 
jack 


jack stephenson main e mail j 
datacom alternate e mail 
p.o. box 
ft. lauderdale , fl usa phone ( 1) 305 846 

from (craig lamparter ) 
subject 3ds normal array 
organization hewlett packard neely golden gate area  ( northern calif . ) . 
lines 12 



does anyone truely understand the invalid normal array error 3ds gives 
you while rendering it seems to present itself while rendering 
complicated images. i have circumvented this problem by rendering at 
the command line , however it would be nice to render inside the editor. 
is this a memory problem 

craig .  .  .  .  . 




from  ( doug parsons ) 
subject re 48 bit graphics .  .  .  . 
organization hp australasian response centre  ( melbourne ) 
lines 7 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 . 5 . 


apollo  ( now hp ) have a graphics board that does 80 bit graphics. when i 
heard that , i jumped .  . the answer is n't that it can do 100 trillion trillion 
trillion colors. it actually does 10 planes of 8 bits  ( or 5 planes of 16 
bits , etc . ) . for very fast graphics. 

douginoz .  . 

from  ( nick c. fotis ) 
subject  ( 27 apr 93) computer graphics resource listing weekly part 3 3 
lines 1529 
reply to  ( nick  ( nikolaos ) fotis ) 
organization national technical univ. of athens 

archive name graphics resources list part3 
last modified 1993 04 27 


computer graphics resource listing weekly posting part 3 3 

last change 27 april 1993 


11. scene generators geographical data maps data files 


dems  ( digital elevation models) 

dems  ( digital elevation models) as well as other cartographic data 
huge is available from spectrum . xerox . com . 192 . 70 . 225 . 78 . , pub map. 

contact 
lee moore webster research center , xerox corp. 
voice 1 (716) 422 2496 
arpa , internet 
check also on ncgia . ucsb . edu . (128 . 111 . 254 . 105) . , pub dems 

many of these files are also available on cd rom selled by usgs 
1 2 , 000 , 000 scale digital line graph  ( dlg ) data . contains datas 
for all 50 states. price is about 28 , call to or visit in offices 
in menlo park , in reston , virginia  ( 800 usa maps) .  . 

the data user services division of the bureau of the census also has 
data on cd rom  ( tso standard format) that is derived from usgs 
1 100 , 000 map data. call (301) 763 4100 for more info or they have 
a bbs at (301) 763 1568 .  . 

from dr . dobbs . 198 march 1993 

the u.s. defense mapping agency , in cooperation with their counterpart 
agencies in canada , the u.k. , and australia , have released the digital chart 
of the world (dcw) .  . this chart consists of over 1.5 gigabytes of reasonable 
quality vector data distributed on four cd roms .  . .... includes coastlines , 
rivers , roads , , airports , cities , towns , spot elevations , and depths , 
and over 100 , 000 place names. 

it is iso9660 compatible and only 200.00 available from 

u.s. geological survey 
p.o. box 25286 
denver federal center 
denver , co 80225 

digital distribution services 
energy , mines , and resources canada 
615 booth street 
ottawa , on 
canada 

director general of military survey 
 ( survey 3) 
elmwood avenue 
feltham , middlesex 
tw13 7ah united kingdom 

director of survey , australian army 
department of defense 
campbell park offices  ( cp2 4 24) 
campbell act 2601 australia 


fractal landscape generators 


public domain 

many people have written fractal landscape generators .  . for example 
for the mac some of these generators were written by 
(paul d. bourke) .  . 
many of the programs are available from the ftp sites and mail 
archive servers. check with archie .  . 

commercial 

vista pro 3.0 for the amiga from virtual reality labs list price 
is about 100. their address is 

2341 ganador court 
san luis obispo , 
ca 93401 
telephone or fax (805) 545 8515 

scenery animator  ( also for the amiga) is of the same caliber with vista pro 2. 
check with 
natural graphics 
p.o. box 1963 
, ca 95677 
phone (916) 624 1436 

do n't forget to ask about companion programs and data disks tapes .  . 

vista pro 3 has been ported to the pcs. 


cia world map ii 

note this database is quite out of date , and not topologically structured .  . 
if you need a standard for world cartographic data , wait for the 
digital chart of the world. this 1 1m database has been produced from 
the defense mapping agency 's and will be available , together with 
searching and viewing software , on a number of cd roms later this summer. 

check into hanauma . stanford . edu . and ucsd.edu  ( see ftp list above) 
the cia database consists of coastlines , rivers and political boundaries 
in the form of line strokes .  . also on hanauma . stanford . edu . is a 
array of elevation data , containing one ieee floating point number for 
every half degree longitude and latitude .  . 

a program for decoding the database , , can be found on the machine 
pi1 . arc . umn . edu . (137 . 66 . 130 . 11) .  . 
there 's another program , which reads a compressed cia data bank file and 
builds a phigs hierachical structure. it uses a phigs extension known as 
polyline sets for performance , but you can use regular polylines .  . ask 
joe stewart . 
the raw data at stanford require the package to be able to view it. 
 ( was posted in comp . sources . unix) .  . to be more exact , you 'll have to 
compile just the routines , not the whole package. 

data 

 ( national center for atmospheric research) has many types of 
terrain data , ranging from elevation datasets at 
various resolutions , to information about soil types , vegetation , etc. 
this data is not free they charge from 40 to 90 or more , depending 
on the data volume and media  ( exabyte tape , 3480 cartridge , 9 track tape , 
ibm pc floppy , and ftp transfer are all available) .  . their data archive 
is mostly research oriented , not hobbyist oriented .  . for more information , 
email to 

unc data tapes with voxel data 

there are 2 public domain tapes with data for the comparison and 
testing of various volume rendering algorithms  ( mainly mri and ct 
scans) .  . these tapes are distributed by the of unc @ chapel hill .  . 


the data sets  ( volume i and ii ) are also available via anonymous ftp from 
omicron . cs . unc . edu . 128 . 109 . 136 . 159 . in pub 

nasa 

many us agencies such as nasa publish cd roms with many altimetry data 
from various space missions , eg. viking for mars , magellan for venus , 
etc. especially for nasa , i would suggest to call the following 
address for more info 

national space science date center 
goddard space flight center 
greenbelt , maryland 20771 
telephone (301) 286 6695 
email address 

the data catalog ( not the data itself) is available online. 
internet users can telnet to nssdca . gsfc . nasa . gov . (128 . 183 . 10 . 4) . and log 
in as   (no password) .  . 

you can also dial in at (301) 286 9000  ( 300 , 1200 , or 2400 baud , 8 bits , 
no parity , one stop) .  . at the enter number prompt , enter md and 
carriage return. when the system responds call complete , enter a few 
more carriage returns to get the username and log in as   (no 
password) .  . 

nssdca is also an anonymous ftp site , but no comprehensive list of 
what 's there is available at present. 

earth sciences data 


there 's a listing of anonymous ftp sites for earth science data , including 
imagery .  . this listing is called earth sciences resources on internet , 
and you can get it via anonymous ftp from csn . org . 128 . 138 . 213 . 21 . 
in the directory cogs under the name internet . resources . earth . sci . 

some sites include 
aurelie . soest . hawaii . edu . 128 . 171 . 151 . 121 . pub images images 
ames . arc . nasa . gov . 128 . 102 . 18 . 3 . pub space cdrom images from 
magellan and viking missions etc. 
pub space index contains a listing of files available in the whole 
archive (the index is about 200k by itself) .  . there 's also an 
e mail server for the people without internet access send a letter 
to archive  ( or ames ! archive server) .  . in the 
subject of your letter  ( or in the body) , use commands like 

send space index 
send space shuttle ss01 . 23 . 91 . 

 ( capitalization is important ! only text files are handled by the 
email server at present) 

vab02 . larc . nasa . gov . 128 . 155 . 23 . 47 . pub gifs misc landsat 
landsat photos in gif and jpeg format 
it was shut down anyone has a copy of this archive 

others 

daily values of river discharge , streamflow , and daily weather data is 
available from , 5541 central ave. , boulder co 80301 .  . these 
disks are expensive , around 500 , but there are quantity discounts .  . 
(303) 938 1788 .  . 

check vmd . cso . uiuc . edu . 128 . 174 . 5 . 98 . , the wx directory carries 
data regarding surface analysis , weather radar , and sat view pics in 
gif format  ( updated hourly) 

pioneer . unm . edu . 129 . 24 . 9 . 217 . is the space and planetary image facility 
 ( located on the university of new mexico campus) ftp server. it provides 
anonymous ftp access to 150 cd roms with data images. 

a disk with earthquake data , topography , gravity , geopolitical info 
is available from  ( national geophysical data center) , 325 broadway , 
boulder , co 80303 .  . (303) 497 6958 .  . 

(at least in the us) now sells landsat mss data older than two years 
old for 200 per scene , and they have been talking about a similar deal 
for landsat tm data. the mss data are 4 bands , 80 meter resolution. 

check out anonymous ftp to ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu . in 
unix polyview alpha shape for a tool that creates convex hulls 
alpha shapes (a generalization of the convex hull ) from 3d point sets. 

the grips ii (gov .  . raster image processing software) cd rom 
is available from cd rom inc. at 1 800 821 5245 for 49 .  . 
code for viewing adrg  ( arc digitised raster graphics) files is 
available on the grips ii cd rom .  . the u.s. army engineer 
topographic labs  ( juan perez ) code is also available via ftp 
( adrg . zip . archive in spectrum . xerox . com . ) 

range data 

m. , l. the three dimensional image data files , 
tech. report , , national research council canada , 
ottawa , canada , 1988 
from what i understand , these data are from a laser range finder , 
and you can a copy for research purposes 



12. 3d scanners digitized 3d data 


a. cyberware labs , monterey , ca , manufactures a 3d color laser digitizer 
which can be used to model parts of , or a complete , human body. 
they run a service bureau also , so they can digitize models for you. 

address 
cyberware labs , inc 
8 harris ct , suite 3d 
monterey , ca 93940 
phone  ( 408)373 ) 1441 , fax  ( 408)373 ) 3582 

b. makes a 6d input device  ( actually a couple of models) 
that senses position  ( 3d ) and orientation ( 3d ) based on electromagnetic 
field interference .  . this equipment is also incorporated in the 
vpl dataglove .  . 
this hardware is also called , from keiser aerospace .  . 

ascension technology makes a similar 3d input device. 
there is a company , applied  ( sciences ) , that makes a 3d input 
device  ( position only) based on speed of sound triangulation .  . 

c. a company that specializes in digitizing is viewpoint .  . you can ask 
for viewpoint 's free 100 page catalog full of ready to 
ship datasets from categories such as cars , anatomy , aircraft , sports , 
boats , trains , animals and others. though these objects are 
quite expensive , the cataloge is nevertheless of interest for it 
has pictures of all the available objects in wireframe , polygon mesh .  . 

contact 

viewpoint , 
870 west center , 
orem , utah 84057 
ph 801 224 2222 
fax 801 224 2272 
1 800 dataset 



some addresses for companies that make digitizers 

ascension technology 
bird , flock of birds , big bird 6d trackers 
p.o. box 527 , 
burlington , vt 05402 
phone (802) 655 7879 , fax (802) 655 5904 

incorporated 
digitizer 6d trackers 
p.o. box 560 , hercules dr. 
colchester , vt. 05446 
tel (802) 655 3159 

logitech inc. 
red baron , ultrasonic 6d mouse 
6506 kaiser dr. 
freemont , ca 94555 
tel (415) 795 

shooting star technology 
mechanical 
1921 holdom ave. 
burnaby , b.c. canada 
tel (604) 298 8574 
fax (604) 298 8580 

spaceball technologies , inc. 
spaceball 6d stationary input device 
600 suffolk street 
lowell , ma , 01854 
tel (508) 970 0330 
fax (508) 970 0199 
tel in mountain view (415) 966 8123 

transfinite systems 
gold brick powerglove for macintosh 
p.o. box n 
mit branch post office 
cambridge , ma 02139 0903 
tel (617) 969 9570 
email 

vpl research , inc. 
head mounted display 
dataglove glove hand input device 
vpl research inc. 
950 tower lane 
14th floor 
foster city , ca 94404 
tel (415) 312 0200 
fax (415) 312 9356 

engineering 
flying mouse 6d input device 
1137 huntington rd. suite a 1 
south pasadena , ca 91030 4563 
(213) 255 0900 



13. background imagery textures datafiles 


first , check in the ftp places that are mentioned in the faq or in the ftp 
list above. 

24 bit scanning 

get a good 24 bit scanner , like epson 's .  . suggested is an scsi port for 
speed. eric haines had a suggestion in rt news , volume 4 , 3 
scan textures for wallpapers and floor coverings , etc. from doll 
house supplies. 
so you have a rather cheap way to scan patterns that do n't have 
scaling troubles associated with real materials and scanning area. 

books with textures 

find some houses books magazines that carry photographic material. 
educorp , 1 619 536 9999 , sells cd roms with various imagery also 
a wide variety of stock art is available. 
stock art from big name stock art houses , such as comstock , 
, and metro image base , is available. 

in italy , there 's a company called belvedere that makes such books 
for the purpose of clipping their pages for inclusion in your 
graphics work. their address is 
edition belvedere co. ltd. , 
00196 rome italy , 
piazzale , 19 
tel. (06) 360 44 88 , fax (06) 360 29 60 

texture libraries 

a. mannikin sceptre graphics announced textiles , a set of 256x256 24 bit 
textures .  . initial shipments in 24 bit iff  ( for amigas ) , soon in 24 bit 
tiff format. algorithmically built for tiled surfaces. srp is 40 volume 
 ( each volume 40 images @ 10 disks) .  . demo disks for 5 are available. 

contact 
mannikin sceptre graphics 
1600 indiana ave. 
winter park , fl 32789 
phone (407) 384 9484 
fax (407) 647 7242 

b. essence is a library of 65  ( sixty five) new textures for imagine 
by impulse , inc. these textures are fully compatible with the floating point 
versions of imagine 2.0 , imagine 1.1 , and even turbo silver .  . 
written by steve worley .  . 

for more info contact 
essence info 
apex software publishing 
405 el camino real suite 121 
menlo park ca 94025 usa 

what about texture city 



14. introduction to rendering algorithms 


a. ray tracing 


i assume you have a general understanding of computer graphics. no then read 
some of the books that the faq contains .  . for ray tracing , i would 
suggest 
an introduction to ray tracing , andrew glassner (ed . ) . , academic press 
1989 , isbn 0 12 4 
note that i have not read the book , but i feel that you ca n't be wrong 
using his book. an errata list was posted in comp . graphics . by eric haines 


there 's a more concise reference also 

roman , unc @ chapel hill an introduction to ray tracing , in 
theoretical foundations for computer graphics and cad , ed. r . a . e . earnshaw . , 
nato as , vol. f 40. , pp. 1039 1060 .  . printed by springer verlag , 1988. 

it contains code for a small , but fundamentally complete ray tracer .  . 

b. z buffer  ( depth buffer ) 


a good reference is 

procedural elements for computer graphics , david f. rogers , 
mcgraw hill , new york , 1985 , pages 265 272 and 280 284 .  . 

c. others 


more info is needed 



15. where can i find the geometric data for the 


a. teapot 


displays on display column of ieee cg a jan '87 has the whole 
story about origin of the martin newell 's teapot .  . the article also has 
the bezier patch model and a pascal program to display the wireframe 
model of the teapot .  . 

ieee cg a sep '87 in jim blinn 's column jim blinn 's corner describes 
an another way to model the teapot bezier curves with rotations for 
example are used. 

the off and spd packages have these objects , so you 're advised to get 
them to avoid typing the data yourself. the off data is triangles at 
a specific resolution  ( around 8x8 x4 triangles meshing per patch) .  . 
the spd package provides the spline patch descriptions and performs a 
tessellation at any specified resolution. 

b. space shuttle 


has built a list of space shuttle 
datafiles .  . here 's a summary (from his sci . space . list) 

model1 
a modified version of the newsgroup model  ( model2 ) 

406 vertices  ( 296 useful , i.e. referred to in the polygon descriptions . ) . 
389 polygons  ( 233 3 vertex , 146 4 vertex , 7 5 vertex , 3 6 vertex) .  . 
payload doors non existent .  . 
units unknown. 

simon marshall has a copy. he 
said there is no proprietary information associated with it. 

model2 
the newsgroup model , in off format. you can find it in 

gondwana . ecr . mu . oz . au . , file pub off objects shuttle . geo . 
hanauma . stanford . edu . , pub graphics comp . graphics . objects shuttle . data . 


the triangles  model. 

this model is stored in several files , each defining portions of the model. 

greg henderson has a copy. he did 
not mention any restriction on the model 's distribution .  . 


the nasa model. 

the file starts off with a header line containing three real numbers , 
defining the offsets used by lockheed in their simulations 

x offset y offset z offset 

from then on , the file consists of a sequence of polygon descriptions 

3473 vertices .  . 
2748 polygons  ( 407 3 vertex , 2268 4 vertex , 33 5 vertex , 14 6 vertex , 
10 7 vertex , 8 8 vertex , 8 12 vertex , 2 13 vertex , 2 15 vertex , 
17 16 vertex , 2 17 vertex , 2 18 vertex , 3 19 vertex , 8 24 vertex) .  . 
payload doors closed. 
units inches. 

jon seems to be responsible for the model 
proprietary info unknown 


the old shuttle model. 

the file consists of a sequence of polygon descriptions .  . 

104 vertices .  . 
452 polygons (11 3 vertex , 41 4 vertex) .  . 
payload doors open. 
units meters .  . 

we have been using this model at star labs , stanford university , for 
some years now. contact me or my supervisor 
scott williams if you want a copy. 



16. image annotation software 


a. touchup runs in sunview and is pretty good. it reads in 
, but even if your image is n't normally stored 
in rasterfile format you could use screendump to make it a 
rasterfile .  . 

b. idraw  ( part of stanford 's interviews distribution ) can handle some 
image formats in addition to being a like tool. i'm not 
sure exactly what they are. 
you can ftp the idraw 's binary from interviews . stanford . edu .  . 

c. tgif is another like tool that can handle x11 bitmap  ( xbm ) 
and x11 pixmap  ( xpm ) formats .  . if the image you have is in formats 
other than xbm or xpm , you can get the pbmplus toolkit to convert 
things like gif or even some macintosh formats to xpm .  . 
tgif 's sources are available in the pub directory on cs . ucla . edu . 
 ( version 2.12 of tgif at patchlevel 7 plus and patch9 ) 

d. use the facility of khoros  ( see below) .  . 
this is just one utility in the overall system you can essentially do all 
your image processing and type graphics using this package. 

e. you might be able to get by with pbmplus .  . gives you text output 
bitmaps which can be overlaid on top of your image. 

f.  ice  requires sun hardware running openwindows 3 . it . 's a postscript based 
graphical editor , and it 's available for anonymous ftp from internet host 
eo . soest . hawaii . edu . (128 . 171 . 151 . 12) .  . requires sun c 2.0 and 
two other locally developed packages , the lxt library  ( an xlib based 
toolkit) and a small c class library. all files (pub ice . tar . z . , 
pub lxt . tar . z . and pub  . tar . z) . are available in compressed 
tar format. pub ice . tar . z . contains a readme that gives installation 
instructions , as well as an extensive man page (ice . 1) .  . 
a statically linked compressed executable pub ice sun4 . z . for 
sparc systems is also available for ftp .  . 

all software is the property of columbia university and may not 
be redistributed without permission. 

ice means image composition environment and it 's an imaging tool that 
allows raster images to be combined with a wide variety of 
postscript annotations in wysiwyg fashion via x11 imaging 
routines and news postscript rasterizing .  . 

g. use imagemagick to annotate an image from your x server. pick the 
position of your text with the cursor and choose your font and pen 
color from a pull down menu. imagemagick can read and write many 
of the more popular image formats .  . imagemagick is available as 
export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib imagemagick . tar . z . or at your nearest 
x11 archive .  . 



17. scientific visualization stuff 


x data slice  ( xds ) 

bundled with the x11 distribution from mit , 
in the contrib directory. available at ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu . 141 . 142 . 20 . 50 . 
 ( either as a source or binaries for various platforms) .  . 

national center for supercomputing applications  ( ncsa ) tool suite 


platforms unix workstations (dec , ibm , sgi , sun) 
apple macintosh 
cray supercomputers 

availability now available. source code in the public domain .  . 
ftp from ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu .  . 

contact national center for supercomputing applications 
computing applications building 
605 e. springfield ave. 
champaign , il 61820 

cost free  ( zero dollars) .  . 

the suite includes tools for 2d image and 3d scene analysis and visualization .  . 
the code is actively maintained and updated. 

spyglass 

they sell commercial versions of the ncsa tools. examples are 

spyglass dicer  ( 3d volumetric data analysis package) 
platform mac 

spyglass transform  ( 2d data analysis package) 
platforms mac , sgi , sun , dec , hp , ibm 

contact 
spyglass , inc. 
p.o. box 6388 
champaign , il 61826 
(217) 355 6000 

khoros 1.0 patch 5 

available via anonymous ftp at pprg . eece . unm . edu . (129 . 24 . 24 . 10) .  . 
cd to pub khoros to see what is available. it is huge ( 100 mb) , but good. 
needs unix and x11r4 .  . freely copied (not pd ) , complete with sources 
and docs .  . very extensive and at its heart is visual programming .  . 
khoros components include a visual programming language , code 
generators for extending the visual language and adding new application 
packages to the system , an interactive user interface editor , an 
interactive image display package , an extensive library of image and 
signal processing routines , and 2d 3d plotting packages. 

see comp.soft sys . khoros . on usenet and the relative faq for more info .  .  .  .  . 

contact 

the khoros group 
room 110 eece dept. 
university of new mexico 
albuquerque , nm 87131 

email khoros 




analysis visualization application for the macintosh .  . 
operates on 1d and 2d data arrays .  . import export several different file 
formats .  . several different plotting options such as gray scale , 
color raster , 3d wire frame , 3d surface , contour , vector , line , and 
combinations .  . , filtering , and other math functions , color look up 
editor , array calculator , etc. shareware , available via anonymous ftp from 
sumex aim . stanford . edu . in the info mac app directory. 
for other information contact doug norton (e mail 


iris explorer 

it 's an application creation system developed by silicon 
graphics that provides visualisation and analysis functionality for 
computational scientists , engineers and other scientists .  . the explorer 
gui allows users to build custom applications without having to write 
any , or a minimal amount of , traditonal code. also , existing code can 
be easily integrated into the explorer environment. explorer currently 
is available now on sgi and cray machines , but will become available on 
other platforms in time. bundled with every new sgi machine , as far as 
i know 

see comp . graphics . explorer . or comp . sys . sgi . for discussion of the package. 

there are also two ftp servers for related stuff , modules etc. 

ftp . epcc . ed . ac . uk . 129 . 215 . 56 . 29 . 
swedishchef . lerc . nasa . gov . 139 . 88 . 54 . 33 . mirror of the uk site 

ape 

back in the  old good days  , you could get ape for nearly free. 
now has gone commercial and the following vendor supplies it 

corporation 
929 harrison avenue 
columbus , ohio 43215 
tel 1 800 458 8731 and (614) 291 2912 
fax (614) 291 2867 

cost 
895  ( plus tax) runtime version with a site license for a single user 
(at a time) , no limit on the number of machines in a cluster .  . 
895 includes support maintenance and upgrades .  . 
source code more. additional user licenses 360. 

the name of the package has become ape iii (tm) .  . 
khoros is very similar to ape on philosophy , as are avs and explorer .  . 

avs 

see also 
comp . graphics . avs . 

platforms convex , cray , dec , evans sutherland , hp , ibm , kubota , 
set technologies , sgi , , sun , 
availability available on all the above 
for all unix workstations .  . 

contact 
advanced visual systems inc. 
300 fifth ave. 
waltham , ma 02154 

(617) 890 4300 telephone 
(617) 890 8287 fax 
email 

advanced visual systems inc. for cray , hp , ibm , sgi , , sun 
convex for convex 
advanced visual systems inc. or cray for cray 
dec for dec 
evans sutherland for evans sutherland 
advanced visual systems inc. or ibm for ibm 
kubota pacific inc. for kubota 
set technologies for set technologies 
for 

ftp site for modules , data sets , other info 
avs . ncsc . org . (128 . 109 . 178 . 23) . 

wit 

in a nutshell it 's a package of the same genre as avs , explorer , etc. 
it seems more a image processing system than a generic system (imho) 
major elements are 

a visual programming language , which automatically exploits the inherent 
parallelism 
a code generator which converts the graph to a standalone program 

iconified libraries present a rich set of point , filter , io , transform , 
morphological , segmentation , and measurement operations .  . 
a flow library allows graphs to employ broadcast , merge , 
synchronization , conditional , and sequencing control strategies .  . 

wit delivers an object oriented , distributed , visual programming 
environment which allows users to rapidly design solutions to their 
imaging problems. users can consolidate both software and hardware 
developments within a complete cad like workspace by adding their 
own operators (c functions ) , objects  ( data structures ) , and servers 
 ( specialized hardware) .  . wit runs on sun , 7xx , sgi and supports 
datacube mv 20 200 hardware allowing you to run your graphs in real time. 

for a free wit demo disk , call , fax , or e mail 
us stating your complete name , address , voice , fax , e mail info. 
and desired platform. 

pricing wit for sparc , one yr. free upgrades , 30 days 
technical support .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5000 us 

academic institutions discounts available 


contact 
logical vision ltd. 
suite 108 3700 gilmore way 
burnaby , b.c. , canada 

tel 604 435 2587 
fax 604 435 8840 

terry arden 

vis 5d 

a system for visually exploring the output of 5 d gridded data sets 
such as those made by weather models. platforms 

sgi iris with , gtx , tg , or g graphics , 
sgi crimson or indigo  ( r4000 , elan graphics suggested ) , irix 4 . 0 . x . 
ibm rs 6000 with gl graphics , aix version 3 or later 
gs 1000 and gs 2000  ( with truecolor display) 

in any case , 32  ( or more) mb of ram are suggested .  . 

you can get it freely  ( thanks to nasa support) via anonymous ftp 

ftp iris . ssec . wisc . edu .  ( or ftp 144 . 92 . 108 . 63) . , then 

ftp cd pub 
ftp ascii 
ftp get readme 
ftp bye 

note you can find the package also on wuarchive . wustl . edu . in the 
graphics graphics packages directory. 

read section 2 of the readme file for full instructions 
on how to get and install vis 5d .  . 

contact 
bill hibbard 
brian paul 

 ( ibm ) 

platforms ibm risc system 6000 , ibm power visualization server 
 ( simd mesh 32 , 40 mhz) 

working on  ( announced ) sgi , hp , sun 

contact 
your local ibm rep. for a trial package ask your rep to contact 

david kilgore 
data explorer product marketing 
 ( yktvmh(kilcore ) , (708) 981 4510 

wavefront 

data visualizer , personal visualizer , advanced visualizer .  . 
platforms sgi , sun , ibm rs6000 , hp , dec 

availability 
available on all the above platforms from wavefront 
technologies .  . educational programs and site licenses are 
available. 

contacts 
mike wilson 

wavefront technologies , inc. 
530 east montecito street 
santa barbara , ca 93103 
805 962 8117 
fax 805 963 0410 

wavefront europe 
21 23 
b 9000 gent , belgium 
32 91 25 45 55 
fax 32 91 23 44 56 

wavefront technologies japan 
17f shinjuku sumitomo bldg 
2 6 1 nishi shinjuku , ku 
tokyo 168 japan 
81 3 3342 7330 
fax 81 3 3342 7353 


plot3d and fast from nasa ames 

these packages are distributed from cosmic at least 
 ( for fast ask pat elson for 
distribution information) .  . in general , these codes are for us 
citizens only ( 



on the contrib tape of x11r5 .  . its specialty is display of up 
to 64 data sets (2d) .  . 



national center for atmospheric research. one of the original graphics 
packages. runs on sun , rs6000 , sgi , vax , cray y mp , decstations , and more. 

contact 
graphics information 
scientific computing division 
p.o. box 3000 
boulder , co 80307 3000 
(303) 497 1201 


cost 
 . edu . 
750 unlimited users 

 . gov . 
750 1 user 
1500 5 users 
3000 25 users 

.com users multiply  . gov . 2.0 

idl 

an environment for scientific computing and visualization .  . 
based on an array oriented language , idl includes 2d and 3d 
graphics , matrix manupulation , signal and image processing , 
basic statistics , gridding , mapping , and a widget based system 
for building gui for idl applications  ( open look , motif , or 
ms windows) .  . 

environments dec  ( vms and ultrix ) , hp , ibm rs6000 , sgi , sun , 
microsoft windows. (mac version in progress ) 
cost 1500 to 3750 , educational and quantity discounts 
available. 
see also comp . lang . idl . (the idl bundle ) 
contact research systems inc. 
777 29th street , suite 302 
boulder , co 80303 
phone 303 786 9900 
fax 303 786 9909 
e mail 
demo available via ftp .  . call or e mail for details. 

idl sips 

a lot of people are using idl with a package called sips .  . this was 
developed at the university of colorado  ( boulder ) by some people working 
for alex goetz .  . you might try contacting them if you already have idl 
or would be willing to buy it. it 's a few thousand dollars  ( american ) i 
expect for idl and the other should be free. those are the general 
purpose packages i 've heard of , besides what has. 
sips was written for imagery .  . i'm not sure how general purpose 
it is. you would have to contact goetz or one of his people and ask. i 
have another piece of software  ( pcw ) that does pc and walsh 
transformations with and clustering and limited image 
modification  ( you can compute an image using selected components) .  . i 've 
used it on 70 megabyte images without problems , but for the best 
speed you need an external dsp card. it will work without it , but large 
images take quite a while  ( 50 70 times as long) to process. that 's a 
freebie if you want it 

my favorite is idl  ( interactive data language) from research systems , 
inc. idl is in my opinion , much better and infinitely easier. its 
programming language is very strong and easy very pascal like. it 
handles the number crunching very well , also. personally , i like doing 
the number crunching with idl on the vax  ( or mathematica , igor , or even 
excel on the mac if it 's not too hairy ) , then bringing it over to nih 
image for the imaging part. i have yet to encounter any situation which 
that combination could n't handle , and the speed and ease of use 
 ( compared to iraf ) was incredible. by the way , it 's mostly astronomical 
image processing which i 've been doing. this means image enhancement , 
cleaning up bad lines pixels , and some other traditional image 
processing routines .  . then , for example , taking a graph of intensity 
versus position along a line i choose with the mouse , then doing a curve 
fit to that line (which i might do like in kaleidagraph . ) . 

for idl call research systems , for pv wave call precision visuals and 
for sips call university of colorado @ boulder . from what i can 
understand , you can get packaged programs from research systems , though 




contact robert , mit 



an interactive program designed to assist an engineer in 
investigating fluid dynamics data sets. 

platforms sgi , ibm , hp , sun , x terminals 

availability currently available on all of the above 
platforms .  . educational programs and volume 
discounts are available. 

contact 

intelligent light 
p.o. box 65 
fair lawn , nj 07410 
 ( 201)794 ) 7550 

steve kramer 




is primarily intended to do 3 d visualizations of data in an 
interactive environment with the ability to generate animations using 
frame accurate video recording devices. a user manual , on line help , and 
technical notes will help you use the program. 

cost 0 (free) , source code provided via ftp .  . 
platforms sgi 4d machines and ibm rs 6000 with the gl card z buffer 

where to find it 
ftp . scri . fsu . edu . 144 . 174 . 128 . 34 . pub 
a mirror is monu1 . cc . monash . edu . au . 130 . 194 . 1 . 101 . pub 

scry 

from the readme 

scry is a distributed image handling system that pro 
vides image transport and compression on local and wide area 
networks , image viewing on workstations , recording on video 
equipment , and storage on disk .  . the system can be distri 
buted among workstations , between supercomputers and works 
tations , and between supercomputers , workstations and video 
animation controllers .  . the system is most commonly used to 
produce video based movie displays of images resulting from 
visualization of time dependent data , complex 3d data sets , 
and image processing operations .  . both the clients and 
servers run on a variety of systems that provide unix like c 
run time environments , and sockets .  . 

the source is available for anonymous ftp 

csam . lbl . gov . 128 . 3 . 254 . 6 . pub scry . tar . z . 

contact 

bill johnston , ,  .  .  . ucbvax . ! csam . lbl . gov . ! johnston ) 

or 

david robertson ,  .  .  . ucbvax . ! csam . lbl . gov . ! davidr ) 

imaging technologies group 
ms 50b 2239 
lawrence berkeley laboratory 
1 cyclotron road 
berkeley , ca 94720 




is an x windows widget set based on the osf  ( open software 
foundation ) motif widget set. widgets are macro widgets 
comprising lower level motif widgets such as buttons , scrollbars , 
menus , and drawing areas. it is designed to address the reusability 
of 2d visualization routines and each widget in the library is an 
encapsulation of a specific visualization technique such as colormap 
manipulation , image display , and contour plotting .  . it is targetted 
to run on unix workstations supporting osf motif .  . currently , only 
color monitors are supported .  . since is a collection of widgets 
developed in the same spirit as the osf motif user interface widget 
set , it integrates seamlessly with the motif widgets .  . programmers 
using widgets see the same interface and design as other 
motif widgets .  . 

is a visualization software for computational fluid dynamics  ( cfd ) 
simulations .  . is designed to accept data generated from these 
simulations and apply various visualization techniques to present these 
data graphically .  . 
accepts three dimensional multi block data recorded in ncsa hdf format. 

iti . gov . sg . 192 . 122 . 132 . 130 . pub  ( scientific visualization ) 
pu these directories contain demo binaries for sun4 sgi 

cost us 200 for academic and us 300 for non academic institutions .  . 
 ( for each of the above items) .  . you 're getting the source for the licence .  . 

contact 

miss quek lee hian 
member of technical staff 
information technology institute 
national computer board 
ncb building 
71 , sicence park drive 
singapore 0511 
republic of singapore 
tel  ( 65)7720435 ) 
fax  ( 65)7795966 ) 
email 



distribution 
bob an interactive volume renderer for the sgi 
raz a disk based movie player for the sgi 
motif color editor 


the army high performance computing research center  ( ahpcrc ) has been 
developing a set of tools to work with large time dependent 2d and 3d 
data sets. in the graphics and visualization lab  ( gvl ) we are using 
these tools along side standard packages , such as sgi explorer and the 
utah raster toolkit , to render 3d volumes and create digital movies. 
a couple of the more general purpose programs have been bundled into a 
package called . 

, currently consisting of bob , raz and , is now available 
via ftp .  . the most interesting program is probably bob , an interactive 
volume renderer for the sgi .  . raz streams raster images from disk to 
an sgi screen , enabling movies larger than memory to be played. 
is a color map editor that works with bob and raz .  . source and 
pre built binaries for irix 4.0.5 are included. 

to acquire , anonymous ftp to 
machine ftp . arc . umn . edu . 
file pub gvl . tar . z . 

to use 
mkdir gvl cd gvl 
zcat gvl . tar . z . tar xvf 
more readme 

some bob features 
motif interface , sgi gl rendering 
renders 64 cubed data set in 0.1 to 1.0 seconds on a 
alpha compositing and maximum value rendering , in perspective 
 ( only maximum value rendering on personal iris) 
data must be a brick of bytes , on a regularly spaced grid 
animation , subvolumes , subsampling , stereo 

some raz features 
motif interface , sgi gl rendering 
loads files to a raw disk partition , then streams to screen 
 ( requires an empty disk partition to be set aside ) 
script interface available for movie sequences 
can stream from memory , like ncsa ximage 

some features 
motif interface 
easy to create interpolated color maps between key points 
rgb , hsv and yuv color spaces , multiple file formats 
communicates changes automatically to bob and raz 
has been tested on sgi , sun , dec and cray systems 

btw bob brick of bytes 
interpolated color 
raz  ( just a name) 

please send any comments to 


this software collection is supported by the army research office 
contract number 89 c 0038 with the university of minnesota army 
high performance computing research center. 


iap 

imaging applications platform is a commercial package for medical and 
scientific visualization .  . it does volume rendering , binary surface 
rendering , multiplanar reformating , image manipulation , cine sequencing , 
intermixes geometry and text with images and provides measurement and 
coordinate transform abilities .  . 

it can provide hardcopy on most medical film printers , image database 
functionality and interconnection to most medical  ( ct mri etc) scanners .  . 

it is client server based and provides an object oriented interface. it 
runs on most high performance workstations and takes full advantage of 
parallelism where it is available. it is robust , efficient and 
will be submitted for fda approval for use in medical applications. 

cost 20k for oem developer , 10k for educational developer 
and run times starting at 8900 and going down based on quantity .  . 

the developer packages include two days training for two people in toronto .  . 

available from 

isg technologies 
6509 airport road 
mississauga , ontario , 
canada , 

(416) 672 2100 
e mail rod gilchrist 



18. molecular visualization stuff 


based on a list from cristy , which asked for 
systems for displaying molecular dynamics , md for short 

flex 

it is a public domain package written by michael pique , at the scripps 
research institute , la jolla , ca. flex is stored as a compressed , 
tar ed archive  ( about 3 . 4mb) . at perutz . scripps . edu . 137 . 131 . 152 . 27 . , in 
pub flex .  . it displays molecular models and md trajectories .  . 



 ( for macintosh) .  . i searched with archie , and the most 
promising place is sumex aim . stanford . edu .  ( info mac app , and 
info mac art qt for a demo ) 

md display 

runs on sgi machines. call terry 



it is a crystallography package that does visualize molecules and much more. 
it uses the xview toolkit .  . 
call duncan 



i am writing my own visualization code right now. i look at md output 
(a specific format , easy to alter for the subroutine ) on pc 's .  . my 
program has hooks into gks .  . if your friend has access to phigs for x 
 ( pex ) and fortran bindings , i would be happy to share my evolving code 
 ( free of charge) .  . right now it can display supercells of up to 65 
atoms  ( easy to change) , and up to 100 time steps , drawing nearest 
neighbor bonds between 2 defining nn radii .  . it works acceptably fast 
on a 10mhz 286 .  . 



i did a project on molecular visualization for my master 's thesis , using 
unix x11 motif which generates a simple point and space filling model. 




is part of motecc 91 .  . look on malena . crs4 . it . (156 . 148 . 7 . 12) . , 
in pub motecc .  . 

motecc . info . txt . information about motecc 91 in plain ascii format. 

motecc . info . troff . information about motecc 91 in troff format. 
motecc . form . troff . motecc 91 order form in troff format. 
motecc . license . troff . motecc 91 license agreement in troff format. 

motecc . info . ps . information about motecc 91 in postscript format. 
motecc . form . ps . motecc 91 order form in postscript format. 
motecc . license . ps . motecc 91 license agreement in postscript format. 




i'm working on molecular dynamic too. a friend of mine and i have 

developed a program to display an md run dynamically on silicon 
graphics. we are working to improve it , but it does n't work under x , 
we are using the graphi .  . lib .  . of the silicon gr. because they are much 
faster then x. when we 'll end it we 'll post on the news info about 
where to get it with ftp .  .  ( will be free software) .  . 

xball v2 . 0 . 

written by david nedde .  . call 



an x window system program that uses osf motif for the 
display and analysis of molecular model data. data from several 
common file formats can be read and written current formats include 
alchemy , ii , gaussian , , , pdb , and msci 's xyz 
format (which has been designed for simplicity in translating to 
and from other formats) .  . also allows for conversion between 
several of these formats .  . 
is available at ftp . msc . edu .  . read pub readme for 
further details. 

insight ii 

from technologies inc. 

scarecrow 

the program has been published in j. molecular graphics 10 
(1992) 33 .  . the program can analyze and display , discover , 
and trajectories .  . the program package contains also software for 
the generation of probe surfaces , proton affinity 
surfaces and molecular orbitals from an extended program. 
it works on silicon graphics machines. 
contact leif or 

multi 

ns . niehs . nih . gov . 157 . 98 . 8 . 8 . pub multi 3.0  ( multi process 
molecular modeling suite ) 



it runs under sunview , and requires a fortran compiler and sun 's cgi 
libraries .  . is a tool provided for the interactive graphic 
manipulation of molecules and atoms .  . currently , up to 10 , 000 
atoms may be input. 
available via anonymous ftp , at rani . chem . yale . edu . , directory 
pub ( check with archie for other sites if that 's too far ) 

i would also suggest looking at least in sgi 's applications directory. 
it contains many more packages 



19. gis  ( geographical information systems software) 


grass 

 ( geographic resource analysis support system) of the us army 
construction engineering research lab (cerl) .  . it is a popular geographic and 
remote sensing image processing package. many may think of grass as a 
geographic information system rather than an image processing package , 
although it is reported to have significant image processing 
capabilities .  . 

feature descriptions 

i use grass because it 's public domain and can be obtained through the 
internet for free. grass runs in unix and is written in c. the source 
code can be obtained through an anonymous ftp from the office of grass 
integration .  . you then compile the source code for your machine , using 
scripts provided with grass .  . i would recommend grass for someone who 
already has a workstation and is on a limited budget. grass is not very 
user friendly , compared to macintosh software. a first review of 
overview documentation indicates that it looks useful and has some pixel 
resampling functions not in other packages plus good general purpose 
image enhancement routines (fft) .  . kelly maurice at corp. in 
boulder , co is a primary user of grass . this gentleman has used the 
grass software and developed multi spectral  ( 238 bands ) volumetric 
rendering , full color , on suns and stardents .  . it was a really effective 
interface. corp. currently has a contract to map part of venus 
and convert the magellan radar data into contour maps. you can call them 
at (303) 444 0094 or email care of 192 . 92 . 90 . 68 . 

host configuration requirements 

if you are willing to run a ux you could install grass on a macintosh 
which has significant image analysis and import capabilities for 
satellite data. grass is public domain , and can run on a high end pc 
under unix .  . it is raster based , has some image processing capability , 
and can display vector data  ( but analysis must be done in the raster 
environment) .  . i have used grass v . 3 . on a sun workstation and found it 
easy to use. it is best , of course , for data that are well represented 
in raster  ( grid cell ) form. 

availability 

's office of grass integration  ( ogi ) maintains an ftp server 
moon . cecer . army . mil . (129 . 229 . 20 . 254) .  . 

mail regarding this site should be addressed to 
grass ftp 

this location will be the new canonical source for grass software , as 
well as bug fixes , contributed sources , documentation , and other files. 
this ftp server also supports dynamic compression and uncompression and 
tar archiving of files. a feature attraction of the server is john 
parks  grass tutorial. because the manual is still in beta test stage , 
john requests that people only acquire it if they are willing to review 
it and mail him comments corrections .  . the ogi is not currently 
maintaining this document , so all correspondence about it should be 
directed to 

support 

listserv mailing lists 

 ( for grass users application level 
questions , support concerns , miscellaneous questions , etc) send 
subscribe commands to 

 ( for grass programmers system level 
questions and tips , tricks , and techniques of design and implementation 
of grass applications ) send subscribe commands to 


both lists are maintained by the office of grass integration  ( subset of 
the army corps of engineers construction engineering research lab in 
champaign , il) .  . the ogi is providing the lists as a service to the 
community while ogi and employees will participate in the lists , 
we can make no claim as to content or veracity of messages that pass 
through the list. if you have questions , problems , or comments , send 
e mail to lists and a human will respond. 

microstation imager 

intergraph  ( based in huntsville alabama ) sells a wide range of gis 
software hardware. microstation is a base graphics package that imager 
sits on top of. imager is basically an image processing package with a 
heavy gis remote sensing flavor. 

feature description 

basic geometry manipulations flip , mirror , rotate , generalized affine .  . 
rectification affine , 2nd , 3rd , 4th and 5th order models as well as a 
projective model  ( warp an image to a vector map or to another image) .  . 
rgb to ihs and ihs to rgb conversion .  . principal component analysis. 
classification k means and isodata .  . fourier xforms forward , filtering 
and reverse .  . filters high pass , low pass , edge enhancing , median , 
generic .  . complex histogram contrast control. layer controller manages 
up to 64 images at a time user can extract single bands from a 3 band 
image or create color images by combining various individual bands , etc. 

the package is designed for a remote sensing application (it can handle 
very large images ) and there is all kinds of other software available 
for gis applications. 
host configuration requirements 

it runs on intergraph workstations (a unix machine similar to a sun) 
though there were rumors  ( there are always rumors ) that the software 
would be ported to pc and possibly a sun environment. 

pci 

a company called pci , inc. , out of richmond hill , ontario , canada , makes 
an array of software utilities for processing , manipulation , and use of 
remote sensing data in eight or ten different industry standard 
formats , , landsat , and a couple of others whose titles i 
forget. the software is available in versions for ms dos , unix 
workstations  ( among them hp , sun , and ibm ) , and vms , and quite possibly 
other platforms by now. i use the vms version. 

the pci software consists of several classes groups packages of 
utilities , grouped by function but all operating on a common pci 
database disk file. the tape i o package is a set of utility 
programs which read from the various remote sensing industry tape 
formats into , or write those formats out from , the pci database file 
this is the only package i use or know much about. other packages can 
display data from the pci database to one or another of several 
pci supported third party color displays , output numeric or bitmap 
representation of image data to an attached printer , e.g. an epson type 
dot matrix graphics printer .  . you might be more spe 
interested in the mathematical operations package histo gram and 
fourier analysis , equalization , user specified operations (e . g .  . 
multiply channel 1 by 3 , add channel 2 , and store as channel 5 ) , and 
god only knows what all else there 's a lot. i do n't have and do n't 
use these , so ca n't say much about them you only buy the packages your 
particular application interest calls for. 

each utility is controlled by from one to eight parameters , read from 
a common parameter file which must be  ( in vms anyway) in your default 
directory. some utilities will share parameters and use the same 
parameter for a different purpose , so it can get a bit confusing setting 
up a series of operations .  . the standard pci environment contains a 
scripting language very similar to ibm pc basic , but which allows you to 
automate the process of setting up parameters for a common , complicated , 
lengthy or difficult series of utility executions .  .  ( in vms i can also 
invoke utilities independently from a dcl command procedure . ) . there 's 
also an optional programming library which allows you to write compiled 
language programs which can interface with  ( read from write to) the pci 
data structures  ( database file , parameter file) .  . 

the pci software is designed specifically for remote sensing images , but 
requires such a level of operator expertise that , once you reach the 
level where you can handle r s images , you can figure out ways to handle 
a few other things as well. for instance , the tape i o package offers a 
utility for reading headerless multi band  ( what adobe photoshop on the 
macintosh calls raw ) data from tape , in a number of different 
interleave orders. this turns out to be ideal for manipulating the 
graphic arts industry 's format , would probably (i have n't tried) 
handle targa , and so on. above all , however , you have to know what 
you're doing or you can screw up to the nth degree and have to start 
over. it 's worth noting that the pci database file is designed to 
contain not only raster  ( image ) data , but vectors  ( for overlaying map 
information entered via digitizing table ) , land use , and all manner of 
other information (i observe that a remote sensing image tape often 
contains all manner of information about the spectral bands , latitude , 
longitude , time , date , etc. of the original satellite pass all of this 
can go into the pci database ) .  . 

i believe that on workstations the built in display is used. on vax 
systems other than workstations pci supports only a couple of specific 
third party display systems (the name gould seems to come to 
mind) .  . one of my personal workarounds was a display program which would 
display directly from a pci database file to a vct q (q bus 
24 bit directcolor ) display subsystem .  . pci software could be overkill 
in your case it seems designed for the very high end 
applications users , i.e. those for whom a mac pc largely does n't suffice 
 ( although as you know the gap is getting smaller all the time) .  . it 's 
probably no coincidence that pci is located in canada , a country which 
does a lot of its land resource management via remote sensing i believe 
the canadian government uses pci software for some of its work in these 
areas. 

spam  ( spectral analysis manager ) 

back in 1985 jpl developed something called spam  ( spectral analysis 
manager ) which got a fair amount of use at the time. that was designed 
for airborne imaging spectrometer imagery  ( byte data , 256 pixels 
across by 512 lines by 256 bands ) a modified version has since 
been developed for  ( airborne visual and infrared imaging 
spectrometer ) which uses much larger images. 

spam does none of these things  ( rectification , classification , pc and 
ihs transformations , filtering , contrast enhancement , overlays) .  . 
actually , it does limited filtering and contrast enhancement 
(stretching) .  . spam is aimed at spectral identification and clustering .  . 

the original spam uses x or sunview to display. the version may 
require vicar , an executive based on tae , and may also require a frame 
buffer .  . i can refer you to people if you 're interested. pcw requires x 
for display. 

map ii 

among the mac gis systems , map ii is distributed by john wiley .  . 

clrview 

clrview is a 3 dimensional visualization program designed to exploit 
the real time capabilities of silicon graphics iris computers. 

this program is designed to provide a core set of tools to aid in the 
visualization of information from cad and gis sources. it supports 
the integration of many common but disperate data sources such as dxf , 
tin , dem , lattices , and arc info coverages among others. 

clrview can be obtained from explorer . dgp . utoronto . ca . (128 . 100 . 1 . 129) . 
in the directory pub sgi clrview .  . 

contact 
rodney 
head of design applications 
centre for landscape research 
university of toronto 
tel (416) 978 7197 
email 



end of resource listing 

nick  ( nikolaos ) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece 
home 16 st. , internet 
, gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! ! 
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578 

from  ( steve lamont ) 
subject re rgb to , and back 
organization university of calif. , san diego microscopy and imaging resource 
lines 21 
nntp posting host pitstop . ucsd . edu . 

in article  ( remco hartog ) writes 
i have a little question 

i need to convert rgb coded  ( red green blue) colors into coded 
 ( hue value saturnation ) colors. does anyone know which formulas to 
use 

i have a little answer 

see foley , van dam , feiner , and hughes , computer graphics principles 
and practice , second edition . 

if people would read this book , 75 percent of the questions in this 
would disappear overnight .  .  .  . 

spl 

steve lamont , (619) 534 7968 
san diego microscopy and imaging resource uc san diego la jolla , ca 92093 0608 
my other car is a car , too. 
bumper strip seen on i 805 

from  ( jihun park ) 
subject povray tga rle 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 25 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

hello , 
i have some problem in converting tga  ( file(generated by povray ) to 
rle file. when i convert , i do not get any warning message. but 
if i use xloadimage , something is wrong. 

error messages are , 
o o . rle . data . tga . 
xloadimage o . rle . 
o . rle . is a 0x0 24 bit rle image with no map  ( will dither to 8 bits) , with gamma of 1.00 
dithering image .  .  . done . 
building ximage .  .  . done . 
xloadimage x error  ( integer parameter out of range for operation) on 0x0 
xloadimage x error  ( invalid window parameter ) on 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i know that i need to install and , but i do not spend 
time to install them. even i do not want to generate  . rgb . from povray 
and then convert them to rle , if possible . ( . rgb . to rle works , but 
it will mess up my directory with so many files , and it needs 2 more 
steps to finally convert to rle file. say cat ) 
does any body out there have same experience problems 

thanks in advance , 

j. park 

from  ( chris lilley ) 
subject re xv problems 
lines 69 
reply to 
organization computer graphics unit , mcc 
distribution inet 


in article ,  ( kouhia juhana ) writes 

in article 
writes 

moved on a bit 

i wrote something about making color modifications quickly 
with 8bit quantized images and only at the saving the image to file 
process we have to make the modifications to the 24bit image. 
this makes sense , because the main use of xv is only viewing images. 

doing many changes to image , we should keep all modifications 
in a buffer and then before making the operations to 24bit image , 
we should simplify the operation list for unnecessary operations .  . 

think about what you are saying here. the 24 bit image is down to 8 
bits so many  similar  colours are mapped onto a single palette colour. this 
colour gets modified in fairly arbitrary ways. you then want to apply these 
modifications back to the 24 bit file , so you have to find which colours mapped 
to this one palette colour. ok you could do this by copying the 24 bit file to a 
32 bit file and using the extra 8 bits to hold the index entry. 
having done this , you need to do something to them ... what , exactly 

apply the difference in rgb between the original and modified palette entry to 
each colour in the group this could generate colours with rgb outside the range 
0 .  .  . 255 .  . it would also lead to discontinuities when different parts of a smooth 
colour gradient mapped to several different palette entries. 

you could interpolate from full modification to no modification depending how 
far each colour was from the palette entry. however i suspect this would look 
rather odd. 

so in summary , what i said in my previous posting still holds 

how would you suggest doing colour editing on a 24 bit file how 
would you group  related  colours to edit them together only global 
changes could be done unless the software were very different and 
much more complicated. 

if you want to do colour editing on a 24 bit image , you need much 
more powerfull software which is readily available commercially .  . 

in other words , to edit a 24 bit file you need software built for the job. 
tacking mods onto xv is going to create more problems than it solves .  . 

as to the other bits you seemed to be claiming that there were bugs in xv. if 
that was not what you meant , then 

 ( you misunderstood what i wrote as you have done in many 
places so far . ) . 

yes , i probably did. i found that the collected digest format of your posting 
made it a little difficult to understand precisely what your point was. sorry 
if i misunderstood .  . 

you also missed what is  ( were ) wrong with xv. however , i did wrote it. 

yes again. what is  ( was ) wrong with xv 


chris 

technical author , computer graphics and visualisation training project 
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , oxford road , 
manchester , uk .  . m13 internet 
voice 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 fax 44  ( 0)61 ) 275 6040 janet 


from devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . (john t. grieggs ) 
subject  ( 26apr93 ) comp . graphics . frequently asked questions  ( faq ) 
originator 
nntp posting host cerberus 
reply to devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca 
expires mon , 10 may 1993 16 05 30 gmt 
lines 956 

archive name graphics faq 

this message is automatically posted once a week or so in an effort to 
cut down on the repetitive junk in comp . graphics .  . it was last changed 
on  . if you have answers to other frequently asked questions that 
you would like included in this posting , please send me mail. if you 
do n't want to see this posting every week , please add the subject line 
to your kill file. thank you. 

if your copy of the faq is more than a couple of weeks old , you may want to 
seek out the most recent version. the latest version of this faq is always 
available on the archive site pit manager . mit . edu .  ( alias rtfm . mit . edu) . as 
pub usenet news.answers graphics faq .  . 


john 

john devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 

last update 

sorry i have n't posted this for a couple of weeks , but i was called out of 
town due to a death in the family. this is reality , folks. 

what 's new 

siggraph online bibliography project state . edu) .  . 

devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 



contents 

1) general references for graphics questions. 
2) drawing three dimensional objects on a two dimensional screen. 
3) 24 bit images down to 8 bits. 
4) converting color into grayscale .  . 
5) grayscale to black white. 
6) rotating a raster image by an arbitrary angle. 
7) free image manipulation software. 
8) format documents for tiff , iff , biff , nff , off , fits , etc. 
9) converting between vector formats .  . 
10) how to get pixar films. 
11) how do i draw a circle as a bezier  ( or b spline ) curve 
12) how to order standards documents .  . 
13) how to ftp by email. 
14) how to tell whether a point is within a planar polygon .  . 
15) how to a sphere .  . 
16) specific references on ray tracing and global illumination .  . 
17) siggraph information online 
18) siggraph panels proceedings available 
19) graphics mailing lists 
20) specific references on file formats 
21) what about gif 
22) what is morphing 
23) how to ray trace height fields 
24) how to find the area of a 3d polygon 
25) how to join acm siggraph 
26) where can i find mri and ct scan volume data 
27) specific references on spatial data structures including 
and 
28) where can i get a program to plot  ( xy(z ) data or  ( f(x ) data 
29) specific references on pex and phigs 
30) siggraph online bibliography project 


1) general references for graphics questions 

computer graphics principles and practice  ( 2nd ed . ) . , j.d. foley , 
a. van dam , s . k .  . feiner , j . f .  . hughes , addison wesley 1990 , isbn 
0 201 7 
procedural elements for computer graphics , david f. rogers , mcgraw 
hill 1985 , isbn 0 07 5 
mathematical elements for computer graphics 2nd ed. , david f. rogers 
and j. alan adams , mcgraw hill 1990 , isbn 0 07 2 
three dimensional computer graphics , alan watt , addison wesley 1990 , isbn 
0 201 0 
an introduction to ray tracing , andrew glassner (ed . ) . , academic press 
1989 , isbn 0 12 4 
graphics gems , andrew glassner (ed . ) . , academic press 1990 , isbn 
0 12 5 
graphics gems ii , james (ed . ) . , academic press 1991 , isbn 
0 12 0 
graphics gems iii , david kirk (ed . ) . , academic press 1992 , isbn 
0 12 0  ( with ibm disk) or 0 12 9  ( with mac disk) 
digital image warping , george , ieee computer society press 
monograph 1990 , isbn 0 8186 7 
digital image processing  ( 2nd ed . ) . , rafael c. gonzalez , paul , 
addison wesley 1987 , isbn 0 201 1 
a programmer 's geometry , adrian , john , 1983 , 
isbn 0 408 0 

an automatic mail handler at brown university allows users of computer 
graphics principles and practice , by foley , van dam , feiner , and 
hughes , to obtain text errata and information on distribution of the 
software packages described in the book. also , users can send the 
authors feedback , to report text errors and software bugs , make 
suggestions , and submit exercises .  . to receive information describing 
how you can use the mail handler , simply mail 
and put the word help in the subject line. use the subject line 
software distribution to receive information specifically concerning 
the software packages and  . 

errata for an introduction to ray tracing is available on 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . in graphics graphics books errata .  . 

errata for digital image warping is in the same directory as 
digital image warping . errata . . 

all c code from the graphics gems series is available via anonymous ftp 
from princeton . edu .  . look in the directory pub graphics for 
the various volumes  ( gems , , gemsiii ) , and get the readme file first. 

errata to graphics gems and graphics gems ii is available on 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . in graphics graphics books. 

a list of computer graphics , computational geometry and image processing 
journals is available from juhana kouhia , 


2) drawing three dimensional objects on a two dimensional screen. 

the simple answer is , you divide by the depth .  . for a more verbose 
explanation , see any of the above references , starting with 

the foley van dam feiner hughes computer graphics book is certainly 
a good start. chapter 6 is viewing in 3d , then read chapter 15 , 
visible surface determination . for more information go to chapter 16 for 
shading , chapter 19 for clipping , and branch out from there. 


3) 24 bit images down to 8 bits. 

find a copy of color image quantization for frame buffer display by 
paul , siggraph '82 proceedings , page 297 .  . there are other 
algorithms , but this one works well and is fairly simple. implementations 
are included in most raster toolkits  ( see item 7 below) .  . 

a variant method is described in graphics gems , p. 287 293 .  . note that 
the code from the graphics gems series is all available from an ftp site , 
as described above. 

check out john bradley 's diversity algorithm , which is incorporated into 
the xv package and described in the back of the manual. 

the imagemagick package  ( see section 7 for where it is) contains another 
algorithm which is presented as doing a better job than the 
other algorithms , but slower . 

there 's also an implementation of 

wan , wong , and , an algorithm for multidimensional data 
clustering , transactions on mathematical software , vol. 14 2  ( june , 1988) , 
pp. 153 162 .  . 

as princeton . edu . pub graphics shar .  . this code , 
in modified form , appears in the utah raster toolkit as well. 


4) converting color into grayscale .  . 

the ntsc formula is 

luminosity  . 299 . red .587 green  . 114 . blue 


5) grayscale to black white. 

the only reference you need for this stuff is 

digital halftoning , robert , mit press 1987 , isbn 0 262 6 

but before you go off and start coding , check out the image manipulation 
software mentioned in item 7 below. all of the packages mentioned can do 
some form of gray to b w conversion .  . 


6) rotating a raster image by an arbitrary angle. 

the obvious but wrong method is to loop over the pixels in the source 
image , transform each coordinate , and copy the pixel to the destination .  . 
this is wrong because it leaves holes in the destination .  . instead , 
loop over the pixels in the destination image , apply the reverse 
transformation to the coordinates , and copy that pixel from the source. 
this method is quite general , and can be used for any one to one 
2 d mapping , not just rotation .  . you can add anti aliasing by doing 
sub pixel sampling .  . 

however , there is a much faster method , with included , 
which involves doing three shear operations .  . the method was originally 
created for the im raster toolkit  ( see below) an implementation is 
also present in pbmplus .  . reference a fast algorithm for raster 
rotation , by alan paeth graphics 
interface '86  . an article on the im toolkit appears in 
the same journal. an updated version of the rotation paper appears 
in graphics gems  ( see section 1 ) under the original title. 


7) free image manipulation software. 

there are a number of toolkits for converting from one image format to 
another , doing simple image manipulations such as size scaling , plus 
the above mentioned 24 8 , color gray , gray b w conversions .  . 
here are pointers to some of them 

xv by john bradley .  . x based image display , manipulation , and format 
conversion package. xv displays many image formats and permits editing 
of gif files , among others. the program was updated 5 92 see the file 
contrib xv 2 . 21 . tar . z . on export . lcs . mit . edu .  . 

pbmplus , by jef poskanzer .  . comprehensive format conversion and image 
manipulation package. the latest version is always available via 
anonymous ftp as ftp . ee . lbl . gov . pbmplus  . tar . z . , 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . graphics graphics packages pbmplus pbmplus  . tar . z . , 
and export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib pbmplus  . tar . z .  . 

im raster toolkit , by alan paeth 
provides a portable and efficient format and related toolkit .  . the 
format is versatile in supporting pixels of arbitrary channels , 
components , and bit while allowing compression and machine 
byte order independence .  . the kit contains more than 50 tools with 
extensive support of image manipulation , digital halftoning and format 
conversion .  . previously distributed on tape c o the university of 
waterloo , an ftp version will appear someday. 

utah rle toolkit .  . conversion and manipulation package , similar to 
pbmplus .  . available via ftp as cs . utah . edu . pub urt , 
princeton . edu . pub graphics urt , and freebie . engin . umich . edu . pub urt . 

fuzzy pixmap manipulation , by michael mauldin . 
conversion and manipulation package , similar to pbmplus .  . version 1.0 
available via ftp as nl . cs . cmu . edu . usr mlm ftp fbm . tar . z . , 
ftp . uu . net . pub fbm . tar . z . , and ucsd.edu graphics fbm . tar . z .  . 

img software set , by paul raveling . reads and 
writes its own image format , displays on an x11 screen , and does some 
image manipulations .  . version 1.3 is available via ftp as 
export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib img 1 . 3 . tar . z . , and 
venera . isi . edu . pub img 1 . 3 . tar . z . along with a large collection of color 
images. 

xim , x image manipulator , by philip r. thompson .  . it does essential 
interactive image manipulations and uses x11r4 and the osf motif toolkit 
for the interface. it supports images in 1 , 8 , 24 and 32 bit formats .  . 
reads writes and converts to from gif , xwd , xbm , tiff , rle , xim , and 
other formats .  . writes level 2 postscript .  . other utilities and image 
application library are included. not a paint package. available via 
ftp from gis . mit . edu .  . 

xloadimage , by jim frost . reads in images in various 
formats and displays them on an x11 screen. available via ftp as 
export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib xloadimage , and in your nearest comp . sources . x . 
archive .  . 

xli , by gill , is an updated xloadimage with numerous improvements 
in both speed and in the number of formats supported .  . available in the 
same places as xloadimage  ( contrib tape , comp . sources . x .  . 

tiff software , by sam . nice 
portable library for reading and writing tiff files , plus a few tools 
for manipulating them and reading other formats .  . available via ftp as 
ucbvax . berkeley . edu . pub tiff  . tar . z . or ftp . uu . net . graphics tiff . tar . z . 

, an x11 tool for viewing a tiff file. it was written to handle 
as many different kinds of tiff files as possible while remaining 
simple , portable and efficient .  . illustrates some common problems 
with building pixmaps and using different visual classes. it is 
distributed as part of sam 's libtiff package and it is also 
available on export . lcs . mit . edu . , ftp . uu . net . and comp . sources . x .  . 
2.0 was announced in 4 91 it includes xlib and xt versions. 

alv , a sun specific image toolkit .  . version 2.0.6 posted to 
comp . sources . sun . on 11dec89 .  . also available via email to 
alv users 

popi , an image manipulation language. version 2.1 posted to 
comp . sources . misc . on  . 

imagemagick , an x11 package for display and interactive manipulation 
of images. includes tools for image conversion , annotation , compositing , 
animation , and creating  . imagemagick can read and write many of 
the more popular image formats .  . available via ftp as 
export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib imagemagick . tar . z .  . 

khoros , a huge ( 100 meg ) graphical development environment based on 
x11r4 .  . khoros components include a visual programming language , code 
generators for extending the visual language and adding new application 
packages to the system , an interactive user interface editor , an 
interactive image display package , an extensive library of image and 
signal processing routines , and 2d 3d plotting packages. available via 
ftp as pprg . eece . unm . edu . pub khoros . 

, a sunview based image processing and analysis package. it 
includes more than 200 image manipulation , processing and measurement 
routines , on line help , plus tools such as an image editor , a color 
table editor and several biomedical utilities .  . available via anonymous 
ftp as ads . com . pub vision list archive shareware 3 . 1 . tar . z . 

the san diego supercomputer center image tools , software tools for 
reading , writing , and manipulating raster images. binaries for some 
machines available via anonymous ftp in sdsc . edu .  . 

the independent jpeg group has written a package for reading and 
writing jpeg files. ftp to ftp . uu . net . graphics jpeg jpegsrc . v .  . tar . z . 

do n't forget to set binary mode when you ftp tar files. for you milnet 
folks who still do n't have name servers , the ip addresses are 

ads . com . 128 . 229 . 30 . 16 . 
cs . utah . edu . 128 . 110 . 4 . 21 . 
coral . cs . edu . au . 137 . 219 . 17 . 4 . 
export . lcs . mit . edu . 18 . 24 . 0 . 12 . 
freebie . engin . umich . edu . 141 . 212 . 103 . 21 . 
ftp . ee . lbl . gov . 128 . 3 . 112 . 20 . 
ftp . uu . net . 137 . 39 . 1 . 9 . or 192 . 48 . 96 . 9 . 
gis . mit . edu . 18 . 80 . 1 . 118 . 
gondwana . ecr . mu . oz . au . 128 . 250 . 70 . 62 . 
karazm . math . uh . edu . 129 . 7 . 7 . 6 . 
marsh . cs . curtin . edu . au . 134 . 7 . 1 . 1 . 
nic . funet . fir . 128 . 214 . 6 . 100 . 
ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu . 141 . 142 . 20 . 50 . 
nl . cs . cmu . edu . 128 . 2 . 222 . 56 . 
pit manager . mit . edu . 18 . 172 . 1 . 27 . 
pprg . eece . unm . edu . 129 . 24 . 24 . 10 . 
princeton . edu . 128 . 112 . 128 . 1 . 
sdsc . edu . 132 . 249 . 20 . 22 . 
ucbvax . berkeley . edu . 128 . 32 . 133 . 1 . 
venera . isi . edu . 128 . 9 . 0 . 32 . 
weedeater . math . yale . edu . 128 . 36 . 23 . 17 . 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . 128 . 252 . 135 . 4 . 
zamenhof . cs . rice . edu . 128 . 42 . 1 . 75 . 

please do not post or mail messages saying i ca n't ftp , could someone 
mail this to me there are a number of automated mail servers that will 
send you things like this in response to a message. see item 13 below for 
details on some. 

also , the newsgroup alt . graphics . pixutils . is specifically for discussion 
of software like this. you may find useful information there. 


8) format documents for tiff , iff , biff , nff , off , fits , etc. 

you almost certainly do n't need these. read the above item 7 on free 
image manipulation software. get one or more of these packages and 
look through them. chances are excellent that the image converter you 
were going to write is already there. but if you still want one of the 
format documents , many such files are available by anonymous ftp from 
zamenhof . cs . rice . edu . in directory pub graphics . formats .  . 

these files were collected off the net and are believed to be correct. 
this archive includes pixel formats , and two and three dimensional object 
formats .  . the future of this archive is uncertain at the moment , as mark 
hall will apparently no longer be maintaining it. 

a second graphics file format archive is now being actively maintained 
by quincey the latest version exists at 
ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu . in misc file . formats . graphics . formats .  . apparently , 
neither of these is complete , you might want to check both. 

fits stands for flexible image transport system. it 's a file format most 
often used in astronomy .  . despite the name , it can contain not only images 
but other things as well. there is a regular monthly fits basics and 
information posting on sci . astro . fits . read it if you want to know more. 



9) converting between vector formats .  . 

a lot of people ask about converting from hpgl to postscript , or 
to cgm , or whatever. it is important to understand that this is a very 
different problem from the image format conversions in item 7. converting 
one image format to another is a fairly easy problem , since once you 
get past all the file header junk , a pixel is a pixel the basic objects 
are the same for all image formats .  . this is not so for vector formats .  . 
the basic objects circles , ellipses , drop shadowed pattern filled 
round cornered rectangles , etc. vary from one format to another. 
except in extremely restricted cases , it is simply not possible to do 
a one to one conversion between vector formats .  . 

there is software for converting to and from cgm files on ftp . psc . edu .  . the 
contributor states that it runs on unix , ms windows , and possibly the mac .  . 
a better , more specific blurb would be most welcome. 

on the other hand , it is quite possible to do a close approximation , 
rendering an image from one format using the primitives from another. 
as far as i know , no one has put together a general toolkit of such 
converters , but two different hpgl to postscript converters have been 
posted to comp . sources . misc .  . check the index on your nearest archive 
site. 

a related frequent question is how to convert from some vector format 
to a bitmapped image from postscript to sun raster format , or hpgl to 
x11 bitmap .  . for example , some of the commercial postscript clones for 
pc 's allow you to render to a disk file as well as a printer .  . also , 
the postscript interpreters in the next box and in sun 's x11 news can 
be used to render to a file if you 're clever. but in general , the 
answer is no. however , if someone were to put together a vector to 
vector conversion toolkit , adding a vector to raster converter would be 
trivial .  . 

gnu ghostscript (from the fsf current version 2 . 5 . 2) . includes 
drivers for both ppm and gif format files , thus it can be used as 
a postscript to ppm or a postscript to gif filter .  . (it implements 
essentially all of postscript level 1 and alot of display postscript 
and level 2) .  . 


10) how to get pixar films. 

the various john pixar computer animated shorts are available 
on video tape. you can order them from direct cinema limited 

film individual price institutional price 
luxo , jr. 14.95 50.00 
red 's dream 19.95 75.00 
tin toy 24.95 75.00 
24.95 75.00 
luxo , jr. red 's dream tin toy 39.95 100.00 

all tapes are on 1 2 vhs ntsc .  . add 10 tape for pal format. also 
available 

tin toy t shirt 15.00 
3d t shirt 15.00  ( includes glasses ) 

for individual orders , add 5 s h for the first tape or shirt , 2 for 
each additional tape or shirt. for institutional orders , add 5 s h 
for the first tape , 3 for each additional tape. foreign shipping , add 
3 tape or shirt. call 800 525 0000  ( 213 396 international , 
213 396 3233 fax ) to charge to your credit card. call first to verify 
prices and availability .  . or , just write to 

direct cinema limited 
1749 14th street 
santa monica , ca 

allan has this to say 

at siggraph they were selling a tape with all four shorts 
for 25. that was a sale price. you can get it for slightly 
more than that normally .  . ( 35 maybe . ) . i believe it 's 
available from renderman retail (at pixar 's address) .  . 

pixar 
1001 west cutting blvd. 
richmond , ca. 
(510) 236 4000 
(510) 236 (fax) 

you can obtain a video directly from pixar which contains luxo , jr. , red 's 
dream , tin toy and for 25.00 , plus 2.50 for shipping. they 
will take your order over the phone or via fax with a major credit card. i 
ordered mine just last week and received it several days later. do n't expect 
to be able to rent a copy from your local video store. according to the license 
agreement printed on the back cover of the case , it cannot be rented .  . 


11) how do i draw a circle as a bezier  ( or b spline ) curve 

the short answer is , you ca n't .  . unless you use a rational spline you 
can only approximate a circle .  . the approximation may look acceptable , 
but it is sensitive to scale. magnify the scale and the error of 
approximation  . deviations from that were not 
visible in the small can become glaring in the large .  . if you want to 
do the job right , consult the article 

a of rational b spline circles 
by leslie and wayne tiller 
in ieee computer graphics and applications , volume 9 , number 9 , 
september , 1989 , pages 48 56 .  . 

for rough , non rational approximations , consult the book 

computational geometry for design and manufacture 
by i. d. and m. j. pratt , 
ellis publishers , halsted press , john wiley 1980 .  . 

for the best known non rational approximations , consult the article 

good approximation of circles by curvature continuous bezier curves 
by tor , morten , tom , and 
in computer aided geometric design , volume 7 , numbers 1 4  ( combined ) , 
june , 1990 , pages 33 41 elsevier science publishers  ( north holland ) 


12) how to order standards documents .  . 

the american national standards institute sells ansi standards , and also 
iso  ( international ) standards. their sales office is at 1 212 642 4900 , 
mailing address is 1430 broadway , ny ny 10018 .  . it helps if you have the 
complete name and number. 

some useful numbers to know 

cgm  ( computer graphics metafile ) is iso 4  . gks  ( graphical 
kernel system) is ansi x3 . 124 . 1985 .  . phigs  ( programmer 's hierarchical 
interactive graphics system) is ansi x3 . 144 . 1988. iges is ansi 
y14 . 26m . 1987 .  . language bindings are often separate but related numbers 
for example , the gks fortran binding is x3 . 124 . 1 . 1985 .  . 

standards in progress are made available at key milestones to solicit 
comments from the graphical public  ( this includes you ! ) .  . ansi can let 
you know where to order them most are available from global engineering 
at 1 800 854  . 


13) how to ftp by email. 

there are a number of sites that archive the usenet sources newsgroups 
and make them available via an email query system. you send a message 
to an automated server saying something like send comp . sources . unix . fbm , 
and a few hours or days later you get the file in the mail. 

in addition , there is at least one ftp by mail server. send mail to 
saying help and it will tell you how to use 
it. note that this service has at times been turned off due to abuse .  . 


14) how to tell whether a point is within a planar polygon .  . 

consider a ray originating at the point of interest and continuing to 
infinity .  . if it crosses an odd number of polygon edges along the way , 
the point is within the polygon .  . if the ray crosses an even number of 
edges , the point is either outside the polygon , or within an interior 
hole formed from intersecting polygon edges. this idea is known in 
the trade as the jordan curve theorem see eric haines  article in 
glassner 's ray tracing book  ( above ) for more information , including 
treatment of special cases. 

another method is to sum the absolute angles from the point to all 
the vertices on the polygon .  . if the sum is 2 pi , the point is inside , 
if the sum is 0 the point is outside. however , this method is about an 
order of magnitude slower than the previous method because evaluating the 
functions is usually quite costly .  . 

code for both methods  ( plus triangle testing ) can be found in 
the ray tracing news , vol. 5 , no. 3 , available from princeton . edu . 
pub graphics z .  . 


15) how to a sphere .  . 

one simple way is to do recursive subdivision into triangles .  . the 
base of the is an , and then each level divides 
each triangle into four smaller ones. jon leech 
has posted a nice routine called sphere . c . that generates the coordinates .  . 
it 's available for ftp on ftp . ee . lbl . gov . and princeton . edu .  . 

16) specific references on ray tracing and global illumination .  . 

rick speer maintains a cross indexed ray tracing bibliography 

highlights of this edition 

i) more than 500 citations spanning the period from 1968 through 
november '91 
ii ) papers from all siggraph , graphics interface , , cg 
international and proceedings through december , '91 
iii) all citations for easy lookup 
iv ) cross indices by keyword and author 
v ) glossary of the 119 keywords used. 

the bib is in the form of a postscript file. the printout is 41 pages long. 
below is a list of ftp sites and the that contain the file. it 's named 
speer . raytrace . bib . ps . z . and is compressed at most sites 

site dir 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . graphics graphics bib rt . bib . speer . 
karazm . math . uh . edu . pub graphics 
gondwana . ecr . mu . oz . au . pub papers 
nic . funet . fi . pub sci papers graphics 
coral . cs . edu . au . graphics papers 

eric haines maintains ray tracing and radiosity global 
illumination bibliographies .  . these are in refer format , and so can be 
searched electronically (a simple awk script to search for keywords is 
included with each) .  . the bibliographies are available at most of the 
sites listed above , and the most current versions are maintained at 
princeton . edu . pub graphics papers as  . and  . . 

tom wilson has collected over 300 abstracts from ray 
tracing related research papers and books. the information is essentially 
in plaintext , and latex and troff formatting programs are included. this 
collection is available at most of the sites above as rtabs .  . . 

17) siggraph information online 

from steve cunningham and ralph 

acm siggraph announces its online information site at siggraph . org . 
(128 . 248 . 245 .  . this site now provides siggraph information via both 
anonymous ftp and an electronic mail archive server. 

the anonymous ftp service is very standard , and the ftp directory includes 
both conference and publications subdirectories .  . 

to retrieve information by electronic mail , send mail to 
archive 
and in the subject or the body of the message include the message send 
followed by the topic and subtopic you wish. a good place to start is with 
the command 
send index 
which will give you an up to date list of available information. 


18) siggraph panels proceedings available 

from steve cunningham and bob judd 

acm siggraph announces the availability of the siggraph '91 panels proceedings 
at the siggraph . org . site (128 . 248 . 245 .  . the proceedings are available 
in three formats 
text  ( ascii ) 
rtf  ( rich text format , suitable for many word processors ) 
word  ( ms word for the macintosh) 
they may be retrieved from siggraph . org . in two ways 

(1) by anonymous ftp 
change to one of the directories 
publications panels proceedings text rtf word 
the text and rtf files may be downloaded in ascii mode , while the word 
files are stored in format and must be downloaded in binary 
mode. 

each directory contains a table of contents file  ( toc ) that describes the 
contents of each panel file. 

(2) by electronic mail 
send mail to 
archive 
you can retrieve either the text or rtf files. we suggest that you 
first retrieve the index files by putting one of the messages 
send txt index 
send rtf index 
in the subject or body of the message. you will get the necessary 
information to retrieve the actual transcript files. 


19) graphics mailing lists 

there are a variety of graphics related mailing list out there , each 
covering either a single product or a single topic. i have been an 
active participant in one of these for some time now , and find the 
focus and expertise which can be brought to bear on an isolated topic 
to be nothing short of amazing. 

please send me the appropriate information if you have any others you 
would like to see added. 

name imagine mailing list 
description discussion forum for users of the imagine 3d rendering and 
animation package by impulse , inc. 
platforms amiga , ibm 
subscription imagine 
posting 

name mailing list 
description discussion forum for users of the digital creations 
box , software , and file formats 
platforms amiga 
subscription 
posting 

name rayshade users mailing list 
description discussion forum for users of the rayshade raytracer 
platforms most unix boxes , amiga , mac , ibm 
subscription rayshade 
posting rayshade 

name lightwave 3d software for toaster mailing list 
description discussion forum for users of lightwave , the video 
toaster modelling and rendering package 
platforms amiga 
subscription lightwave 
with subscribe lightwave l in your message 
posting 

name pov mailing list 
description discussion forum for and pov renderers 
platforms unix 
subscription 
posting dkb 

name mailing list for massive parallel rendering 
description same 
platforms unix 
subscription mp render 
posting mp 

20) specific references on file formats 

graphics file formats , david kay and john levine , mcgraw hill 
1992 , isbn 0 8306 3059 7 paper , isbn 0 8306 3060 0 36 . 95 . hardcover , 
isbn 0 8306 3059 7 24.95 paper. comments 26 formats , no software 
 ( this is good , imho i prefer books which are non platform  . 
questions about this book may be sent to 


21) what about gif 

gif stands for graphics interchange format. it is portable and usable upon 
a wide variety of platforms .  . it is quite limited in some ways (yes , the 
keeper of the faq has some opinions after all) , and in fact , i do n't like 
it much. however , it looks to me like the most frequently asked question 
which was not previously covered in this list. the following is a list 
of newsgroups and the like where one could go to find out about gif .  . 

subject alt . binaries . pictures . faq general info 
subject alt . binaries . pictures . faq os specific info 
newsgroups alt . binaries . pictures . d . , alt . binaries . pictures . misc . , 
alt . binaries . pictures . utilities . , alt . binaries . pictures . fractals . , 
alt . binaries . pictures . fine . art . d . , news.answers 

available in the indicated usenet  ( newsgroup(s ) , or via anonymous ftp from 
pit manager . mit . edu . in the files 

pub usenet news.answers pictures faq part1 
pub usenet news.answers pictures faq part2 

also available from mail manager . mit . edu . by sending a mail 
message containing any or all of 

send usenet news.answers pictures faq part1 
send usenet news.answers pictures faq part2 

send a message containing help to get general information about the 
mail server. 

also , you could check out the resources described in sections 7 , 8 , and 
20 above for more information. 


22) what is morphing 

warping is the deformation of an image by mapping each pixel to a new 
location. morphing is blending from one image or object to another one. 
valerie hall has written an excellent introduction to warping and 
morphing .  . this is available for anonymous ftp from marsh . cs . curtin . edu . au . 
in the directory pub graphics bibliography morph .  . there are three files 

morph intro . ps . z .  ( postscript version , many pictures 1 . 
morph intro . txt . z .  ( text version) 
m responses . z .  ( responses to morphing questions) 

the files are compressed , so you must use binary transfer and 
uncompress them afterwards. 


23) how to ray trace height fields 

height fields are a special case in ray tracing .  . they have a number of uses , 
such as terrain rendering , and some optimization is possible. thus , they 
get their own faq section. note that further references can no doubt be 
located via the ray tracing bibs in section 16 above. 

the following paper seems to be the definitive reference 

f. kenton 
grid tracing fast ray tracing for height fields 
july , 1988 
ps . z . 

this is available as research report dcs rr 639 from yale university , 
it 's also in the siggraph '91 fractal modeling in 3d computer graphics and 
imaging course notes , and  ( best of all) it 's available on the net 

nic . funet . fi . pub sci papers ps . z . 
weedeater . math . yale . edu . pub papers ms . z . 
princeton . edu . pub graphics papers ms . z . 
coral . cs . edu . au . graphics papers ps . z . 
gondwana . ecr . mu . oz . au . pub papers ms . z . and ps . z . 

an implementation of this paper may be found in rayshade .  . 

another paper exists 

a david w. 
a sidney m. petersen 
t parametric height field ray tracing 
j proceedings of graphics interface '92 
i canadian information processing society 
c toronto , ontario 
d may 1992 
p 192 200 

and still one more 

, kolb , and mace 
the synthesis and rendering of eroded fractal terrains , 
computer graphics vol 23 , no. 3  ( siggraph '89 procedings ) p. 41 50 



24) how to find the area of a 3d polygon 

the area of a triangle is given by  ( in c notation ) , 

area 0.5 ( ( x 0 y 1 ) ( x 1 y 2 ) ( x 2 y 0 ) 
( x 1 y 0 ) ( x 2 y 1 ) ( x 0 y 2 ) ) 

and the area of a planar polygon is given by 

area 0.0 

for ( i 0 i n 1 i ) 
area ( x i y i 1 ) ( x i 1 y i ) 
area ( x n 1 y 0 ) ( x 0 y n 1 ) 
area 2.0 

if the area is a negative number , the polygon or triangle is 
clockwise , if positive , it is counterclockwise .  . 

from ronald 's gem  ( in graphics gems ii see section 1 above) , area 
of planar polygons and volume of polyhedra 

the area of a polygon p0 , p1 , p2 , ... pn , not in the x y plane , is 
given by 

 ( area(polygon ) 1 2 n . sigma pk x pk 1 

where n is the unit vector normal to the plane and p is a polygonal 
vertex .  . the . represents the dot product operator and the x 
represents the cross product operator .  . sigma represents the 
operator .  . represents the absolute value operator .  . pn 1 is equal 
to p0 .  . 


25) how to join acm siggraph 

probably the easiest way to join acm siggraph is to trot over to your 
local technical library and find a copy of communications of the acm .  . 
somewhere within the first few pages will be an application blank .  . 
fill it out and mail it in. acm membership for students costs 23.00 , 
voting or associate membership 77 . 00 .  ( yearly ) 

siggraph student membership costs an additional 16.00 , 26 . 00 . for 
voting or associate members  ( also  . to get tog  ( transactions 
on graphics) it 's another 26 . 00 . for students and 31 . 00 . for voting or 
associate members. 

if you just want to join siggraph without joining acm , it 'll cost you 
59 . 00 . (no student  . 

there are for overseas of publications .  . 

acm member services may be contacted via email at 
their phone number is (212) 626 0500 .  . fax number (212) 944 1318 .  . 
snailmail address 

acm 
po box 
church street station 
new york , new york 

siggraph will be held in anaheim , california , at the anaheim 
convention center  ( just up the street from disneyland ) on august 1 6 , 1993. 

26) where can i find mri and ct scan volume data 

volume data sets are available from the university of north carolina at 
omicron . cs . unc . edu . (152 . 2 . 128 . in pub  .  ( commerical 
use is prohibited . ) . 

head data a 109 slice mri data set of a human head. 

knee data a 127 slice mri data set of a human knee .  . 

data the result of a quantum mechanical calculation of a sod data 
of a one electron orbital of , an iron protein .  . 

sod data an electron density map of the active site of sod  ( superoxide 
 . 

ct head data a 113 slice mri data set of a ct study of a 
head. 

mr brain data a 109 slice mri data set of a head with skull partially 
removed to reveal brain. 

rna data an electron density map for  . 


27) specific references on spatial data structures including 
and 

h. , 
the design and analysis of spatial data structures , 
addison wesley , reading , ma , 1990. 
isbn 0 201 0. 

h. , 
applications of spatial data structures computer graphics , image processing , a 
nd gis , 
addison wesley , reading , ma , 1990. 
isbn 0 201 0. 


28) where can i get a program to plot  ( xy(z ) data or  ( f(x ) data 

gnuplot is a command driven interactive data function plotting program. it 
runs on just about any machine , and is very flexible in terms of supported 
output devices. the official north american distribution site for the latest 
version is dartmouth . edu . in pub gnuplot .  . more information is available from 
the usenet newsgroup comp . graphics . gnuplot . and its faq , graphics gnuplot faq .  . 

ace gr  ( xmgr motif xview ) is a data function plotting tool for 
workstations or x terminals using x. available from ftp . ccalmr . ogi . edu . 
in ccalmr pub  . 

 ( robot ) is a general purpose plotting and data analysis program. 
requires xview , x terminal or workstation .  . available from sunsite . unc . edu . 
in pub academic data analysis. 

is a popular two dimensional plotting program that accepts data in a 
form similar to the unix program graph and displays line graphs , scatter plots , 
or bar charts on an x11 display. available from ic . berkeley . edu . in pub. 

drawplot is a program for drawing 2d plots on x10 x11 windows , sunview 
displays , or terminals .  . available from xcf . berkeley . edu . in src local .  . 

29) specific references on pex and phigs 

pexlib programming manual , tom gaskins , 1154 pages , o'reilly associates , 
isbn 1 7 

pexlib reference manual , edited by steve , 577 pages , o'reilly 
associates , isbn 1 5 

phigs programming manual , tom gaskins , 908 pages , o'reilly associates , 
isbn 0 85 4  ( softcover ) , isbn 0 92 7  ( casebound ) 

phigs reference manual , edited by linda , 1099 pages , o'reilly 
associates , isbn 0 91 9 


30) siggraph online bibliography project 

the acm siggraph online bibliography project is a database of over 15 , 000 
unique computer graphics and computational geometry references in bibtex 
format , available to the computer graphics community as a research and 
educational resource .  . 

the database is located at siggraph . org . . users may download the bibtex 
files via ftp and peruse them offline , or telnet to siggraph . org . and log 
in as biblio and interactively search the database for entries of interest , 
by keyword .  . 

additions corrections suggestions may be directed to the admin , 
. 

john t.  ( telos @ jet propulsion laboratory ) 
4800 oak grove drive , pasadena , ca. 91109 m s 525 3660 (818) 306 6506 
uucp cit vax , elroy , ! jpl devvax ! 
arpa  .  .  . jpl . devvax ! vax . arpa . 

from  ( graeme gill ) 
subject re help need 24 bits viewer 
keywords 24 bit 
organization australia pty. ltd. , melbourne , australia 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( gilles deniaud ) writes 
hi , 

i'm looking for a program which is able to display 24 bits 
images. we are using a sun sparc equipped with parallax 
graphics board running x11 .  . 

xli , xloadimage or imagemagick export . lcs . mit . edu . 18 . 24 . 0 . 12 . contrib 

graeme gill 

from  ( torgeir veimo ) 
subject c classes for graphics 
organization for norway 
lines 16 

i'm planning on writing several classes to build a raytracing radiosity library 
on top of , and i'm wondering if like this is freely available on the 
net before i go to it. what i need is classes like rays , vectors , colors , 
shaders , surfaces , media , primitives , worlds  ( containing primitives ) and 
views images. 

please post or mail. 

torgeir veimo 

studying at the university of bergen 

 .  .  . i'm . gona wave my freak flag high !  ( jimi hendrix ) 

 .  .  . and . it would be okay on any other day ! (the police) 


from  ( kendall   sears ) 
subject re where did the hacker ethic go 
lines 46 
nntp posting host ulkyvx . louisville . edu . 
organization university of louisville 

where did the hacker ethic go 

we hackers of the 70 's and 80  are now comfortably employed 
and supporting families. the next generation takes 
the radical lead now. do n't look for radicalism among us 
old ones we 're gone .  .  .  . 

perhaps all of us hackers have become  ( ick ) professionals i have noticed 
my and my associates progression from hackers to computer professionals .  . 
it is rather  . it occurs when a series of things happen 

1) one 's ego one 's talent knowledge 
2) one 's financial situation takes precedence 
3) a change in priorities (esp .  . family ) possibly leading to 2) 
4) the hacker 's attitude makes the shift from fun to work 
5) one 's burns away the creativity needed for the hobby 

or the biggest killer (imo) 

6) one 's dreams are  ( sadly ) shattered on the hard rocks of society 's 
version of reality. without the dream the motivation dies , without 
the motivation the effort seems useless. 

another set of problems stems from our children. while most of us remember 
when there were several completely different computer systems , our children 
are growing up with just a few choices  ( msdos mac amiga) and do not enjoy 
the diversity we did. i remember the great computer fallout of the early 
eighties vividly as i was forced to stop using skills developed for systems 
that were now dead. the diversity of systems before then allowed for widely 
divergent paradigms .  . that period forced hackers to continually learn new 
systems in the attempt to keep up. not to mention that if a program was 
needed we were forced  ( in most situations ) to write it ourselves as a 
commercial offering was just not available. now our children are being 
taught the user mentality .  . as the number of us old timers dwindle we are 
not being replaced by the next generation. 

kendall .  . 

kendall sears 
programmer 
child development unit amiga 
department of pediatrics currently running 3.0 
university of louisville xx and supporting unix sys v rev 4. 

life is a game you play once. in order to win you must make a difference. 
remember this is not a practice session. 

from  ( bob wier ) 
subject adobe photoshop mailing list 
organization east texas state university 
lines 16 

i 've done a bit of looking , and hav n't been able to 
come up with a mailing list or newsgroup for users 
of adobe photoshop .  . assuming i 've just not missed 
it , i 'll go ahead and see if there is enough interest 
to start a mailing list  ( and or alt.  . 

drop me a note if you might be interested in subscribing .  . 

thanks ! 

bob (not of the grateful dead ) 

insert usual disclaimers here 
bob , east texas state u. , commerce , texas 
historic image processing project 
 ( watch for address change) 

from  ( ramin taraz ) 
subject need gif iff file format 
organization worcester polytechnic institute 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host bigwpi . wpi . edu . 


could somebody please email me some info on either what gif or iff 
file formats are , or where i can get such info 


thanx 



from  ( nick c. fotis ) 
subject  ( 27 apr 93) computer graphics resource listing weekly part 1 3 
lines 
reply to  ( nick  ( nikolaos ) fotis ) 
organization national technical univ. of athens 

archive name graphics resources list part1 
last modified 1993 04 27 


computer graphics resource listing weekly posting part 1 3 

last change 27 april 1993 

many faqs , including this listing , are available on the archive site 
pit manager . mit . edu .  ( alias rtfm . mit . edu) . 18 . 172 . 1 . 27 . in the directory 
pub usenet news . answers .  . the name under which a faq is archived appears 
in the archive name line at the top of the article. 
this faq is archived as graphics resources list part 1 3 

there 's a mail server on that machine. you send a e mail message to 
mail manager . mit . edu . containing the keyword help  ( without 
quotes ! ) in the message body. 

you can see in many other places for this listing .  . see the item 

0. places to find the resource listing 

for more information. 

items changed 


re arranged the subjects , in order to fir better in the 63k article limit. 
i plan on changing headers soon , so be careful ! only the resource listing 
keys are sure to remain in the subject line ! 

3. computer graphics ftp site list , by eric haines 
4. mail servers and graphics oriented 
9. plotting packages 

i'm thinking of making this post bi weekly .  . what do you think 



lines which got changed , have the ` ' character in front of them. 
added lines are prepended with a ` ' 
removed lines are just removed. use  diff  to locate these changes. 



this text is  ( c)copyright ) 1992 , 1993 of nikolaos c. fotis .  . you can copy 
freely this file , provided you keep this copyright notice intact .  . 

compiled by nikolaos  ( nick ) c. fotis , e mail 

please contact me for updates , corrections , etc. 

disclaimer i do not guarantee the accuracy of this document .  . 
use it at your own risk. 



this is mainly a guide for computer graphics software. 
i would suggest reading the comp. graphics faq for image analysis stuff. 

it 's entitled 
 ( date ) comp . graphics . frequently asked questions  ( faq ) 

john t. devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . is the poster of the 
official comp . graphics . faq 

i have included my comments within braces ' ' and ' ' .  . 

nikolaos fotis 



contents of the resource listing 


part1 

0. places to find the resource listing 
1. archie 
2. notes 
3. computer graphics ftp site list , by eric haines 
4. mail servers and graphics oriented 
5. ray tracing graphics related mailing lists. 
6. 3d graphics editors 
a. public domain , free and shareware systems 
b. commercial systems 
7. scene description languages 
8. solids description formats 

part2 


9. plotting packages 
10. image analysis software image processing and display 

part3 

11. scene generators geographical data maps data files 
12. 3d scanners digitized 3d data. 
13. background imagery textures datafiles 
14. introduction to rendering algorithms 
a. ray tracing 
b. z buffer  ( depth buffer ) 
c. others 
15. where can i find the geometric data for the 
a. teapot 
b. space shuttle 
16. image annotation software 
17. scientific visualization stuff 
18. molecular visualization stuff 
19. gis  ( geographical information systems software) 

future additions 
please send me updates info ! 



0. places to find the resource listing 


this file is crossposted to comp . graphics . , comp.answers and news.answers , 
so if you ca n't locate it in comp . graphics . , you 're advised to search in 
comp.answers or news.answers 
(the latter groups usually are archived in your site. contact your sysadmin 
for more info) .  . 

these 3 articles are posted to comp . graphics . 3 4 times a month and are kept in 
many places  ( see below) 



many faqs , including this one , are available on the archive site 
pit manager . mit . edu .  ( alias rtfm . mit . edu) . 18 . 172 . 1 . 27 . in the directory 
pub usenet news . answers .  . the name under which a faq is archived appears 
in the archive name line at the top of the article. 
this faq is archived as graphics resources list part 1 3 

there 's a mail server on that machine. you send a e mail message to 
mail manager . mit . edu . containing help in the subject field 



the inria mail server mirrors this posting  ( see under the 
subject 4 mail servers ) 



the resource listing is accesible through wais in the machine 
enuxva . eas . asu . edu .  ( port 8000 ) under the name graphics resources list. 
it 's got a digest type line before every numbered item for purposes of 
indexing .  . 



another place that monitors the listing is the files. 
for more info contact robert e. maas 



yet another place to search for faqs in general is the switch 
 ( swiss academic and research network) system in switzerland 

interactive 
telnet nic . switch . ch . 130 . 59 . 1 . 40 . , login as info . move to the 
info service usenet periodic postings directory. search in the 
file by typing and the word to look for. 
you may then just read the faq in the faqs directory , or decide 
to fetch it by one of the following methods. 

ftp 
login to nic . switch . ch . 130 . 59 . 1 . 40 . as user anonymous and 
enter your internet style address after being prompted for a 
password. 

cd info service usenet periodic postings 

mail 
send e mail to 

rfc 822 
archive 
x . 400 . 
s archive server ou nic o switch switch c ch 

enter 'help' in the bodypart to receive instructions. no information 
is required in the subject header line. 


1. archie 


the archie is a service system to locate ftp places for 
requested files. it 's appreciated that you will use archie 
before asking help in the newsgroups .  . 

archie servers 
archie . au . or 139 . 130 . 4 . 6 .  ( aussie nz ) 
archie . funet . fi . or 128 . 214 . 6 . 100 .  ( finland eur . ) . 
archie . th . darmstadt . de . or 130 . 83 . 128 . 111 . (ger . ) . 
cs . huji . ac . il . or 132 . 65 . 6 . 5 .  ( israel ) 
archie . kuis . kyoto . u . ac . jp . or 130 . 54 . 20 . 1 . (japan) 
archie . sogang . ac . kr . or 163 . 239 . 1 . 11 .  ( korea ) 
archie . ncu . edu . tw . or telnet 140 . 115 . 19 . 24 .  ( twn ) 
archie . doc . ic . ac . uk . or 146 . 169 . 3 . 7 .  ( uk ireland) 
archie . sura . net . or 128 . 167 . 254 . 179 .  ( usa md ) 
archie . unl . edu .  ( password archie1 )  ( usa ne ) 
archie . ans . net . or 147 . 225 . 1 . 2 .  ( usa ny ) 
archie . rutgers . edu . or 128 . 6 . 18 . 15 .  ( usa nj ) 
archie . nz . or 130 . 195 . 9 . 4 .  ( new zealand ) 

connect to archie server with telnet and type archie as username .  . 
to get help type 'help' .  . 
you can get   or  archie  , which are clients that call archie 
without the burden of a telnet session. 
  is on the x11 . r5 . contrib tape , and  archie  on comp . sources . misc . , 
vol. 27. 

to get information on how to use archie via e mail , send mail with 
subject help to archie account at any of above sites. 

 ( note to janet pss users the united kingdom archie site is 
accessible on the janet host doc . ic . ac . uk . . 
connect to it and specify archie as the host name and archie as 
the username . ) . 



2. notes 

 ( excerpted from the faq article ) 

please do not post or mail messages saying i ca n't ftp , could 
someone mail this to me there are a number of automated mail servers 
that will send you things like this in response to a message. 

there are a number of sites that archive the usenet sources newsgroups 
and make them available via an email query system. you send a message 
to an automated server saying something like send comp . sources . unix . fbm , 
and a few hours or days later you get the file in the mail. 



3. computer graphics ftp site list , by eric haines 


computer graphics related ftp sites  ( and maintainers ) , 22 04 93 
compiled by eric haines , 
and nick fotis , 

ray tracers 


rayshade a great ray tracer for workstations on up , also for pc , mac amiga .  . 
pov son and successor to dkb trace , written by compuservers .  . 
 ( for more questions call drew wells 
or dave buck david 
art ray tracer with a good range of surface types , part of vort package. 
another good ray tracer , from all reports pcs , mac ii , 
amiga , unix , vms  ( last two with x11 previewer ) , etc. 
rtrace portugese ray tracer , does bicubic patches , csg , 3d text , etc. etc. 
an ms dos version for use with djgpp dos extender  ( go32 ) exists also , 
as a mac port. 
vivid2 a shareware raytracer for pcs binary only  ( 286 287) .  . author 
stephen coy  ( coy@ssc vax . boeing . com) .  . the 386 387 (no source) version 
is available to registered users  ( us 50) direct from the author. 
steve hollasch 's 4 dimensional ray tracer renders , 
, hyperplanes , and  ( there 's 
a separate real time wireframe viewer written in gl called ) . 
mtv , qrt , dbw yet more ray tracers , some with interesting features. 

distributed parallel raytracers 


xdart a distributed ray tracer that runs under x11 .  . there are server binaries 
which work only on decstations , , hp snakes  ( 7x0 series) and next. 
the clients are distributed as binaries and c source. 
a network version of rayshade 4 . 0 .  . needs sun rpc 4.0 or newer .  . 
contact andreas 
prt , vm pray parallel ray tracers .  . 

volume renderers 


cornell 's volume renderer , from devine warren (fortran) .  . 

radiosity  ( and diffuse lighting ) renderers 


radiance a ray tracer w radiosity effects , by greg ward .  . excellent shading 
models and physically based lighting simulation .  . unix x based , though 
has been ported to the amiga and the pc (386) .  . 
india an indian radiosity package based on radiance .  . 
sgi rad an interactive radiosity package that runs on sgi machines with a 
spaceball .  . it includes a house database. 
author guy 
rad a simple public domain radiosity package in c. the solution can be run 
stand alone on any unix box , but the walk through requires a sgi 4d. 
author bernard kwok g 

renderers which are not raytracers , and graphics libraries 


sipp scan line z buffer and phong shading renderer .  . 
now uses the shadow buffer algorithm .  . 
tcl sipp a tcl command interface to the sipp rendering 
program. tcl sipp is a set of tcl commands used to programmed 
sipp without having to write and compile c code. 
commands are used to specify surfaces , objects , 
scenes and rendering options. 
it renders either in ppm format or in utah raster toolkit rle format 
or to the photo widget in the tk based x11 applications. 

vogle graphics learning environment  ( device portable) .  . 
an sgi gl like library based on vogle .  . 
a fast polygon renderer for intel and up. version 2 on up. 
it 's not photorealistic , but rather a real time renderer 
dr. 's journal pc renderer source code , with budget texture 
mapping .  . 

modellers , wireframe viewers 


vision 3d mac modeler , can output radiance rayshade files. 
irit a csg solid modeler , with support for freeform surfaces. 
x3d a wireframe viewer for x11 .  . 
3 d wireframe graphics toolkit , with c source , objects , other stuff 
look at major pc archives like wuarchive .  . one such file is 3dkit1 . zip . 
pv3d a shareware front end modeler for povray , still in beta test. 
french docs for now , price for registering 250 french francs .  . save disabled .  . 
some extra utilities , dxf files for the registered version. 

geometric viewers 


salem a gl based package from et al. for exploring mathematical 
structures .  . 
geomview a gl based package for looking and interactively manipulating 
3d objects , from geometry center at minnesota .  . 
xyz  ( experimental geometry zurich ) is a workbench for geometric 
computation for macintosh computers. 
gl wireframe previewer for steve hollasch 's  ( see above) 

data formats and data sets for ray tracing 


spd a set of procedural databases for testing ray tracers .  . 
nff simplistic file format used by spd .  . 
off another file format. 
p3d a lispy file format. 
tddd imagine  ( 3d modeler ) format , has converters for rayshade , nff , off , etc. 
also includes a nice postscript object displayer .  . some great models. 
converts to from tddd , off , nff , rayshade 4.0 , imagine , 
and vort 3d objects .  . also outputs framemaker mif files and isometric 
views in postscript .  . registered users get a tex pk font converter and 
a surfaces generator .  . 
glenn lewis 
note is also known as 
chapel hill volume rendering test datasets , includes volume sets for 
two heads , a brain , a knee , electron density maps for rna and others. 

written material on rendering 


rt news collections of articles on ray tracing .  . 
rt bib references to articles on ray tracing in refer format. 
rad bib references to articles on radiosity  ( global illumination) .  . 
speer rt bib rick speer 's cross referenced rt bib , in postscript .  . 
rt abstracts collection by tom wilson of abstracts of many rt articles. 
paper bank project various technical papers in electronic form. contact 
juhana kouhia 
online bibliography project 
the acm siggraph online bibliography project is a database of 
over 15 , 000 unique computer graphics and computational geometry 
references in bibtex format , available to the computer graphics 
community as a research and educational resource .  . 

the database is located at siggraph . org . . users may download 
the bibtex files via ftp and peruse them offline , or telnet to 
siggraph . org . and log in as biblio and interactively search 
the database for entries of interest , by keyword .  . 
for the people without internet access , there 's also an e mail 
server. send mail to 

archive 

and in the subject or the body of the message include the message send 
followed by the topic and subtopic you wish. a good place to start is 
with the command 
send index 
which will give you an up to date list of available information. 

additions corrections suggestions may be directed to the admin , 
. 

image manipulation libraries 


utah raster toolkit nice image manipulation tools. 
pbmplus a great package for image conversion and manipulation .  . 
libtiff library for reading writing tiff images. 
imagemagick x11 package for display and interactive manipulation 
of images. uses its own format  ( miff ) , and includes some converters .  . 
xv x based image display , manipulation , and format converter .  . 
xloadimage , xli displays various formats on an x11 screen. 
khoros a huge , excellent system for image processing , with a visual 
programming interface and much much more. uses x windows. 
fbm another set of image manipulation tools , somewhat old now. 
img image manipulation , displays on x11 screen , a bit old now. 
plays  . fli . animation under x11 
plays any resolution fli along with gif  ( 's(including animation 
extensions ) , dl 's and amiga iff  ( animations(3 , 5 , j , l) and iff 
 ( pictures(including ham , and color cycling ) 
sdsc sdsc image tools package  ( san diego supercomputing center) 
for image manipulation and conversion 
a 24 bit paint program for sgi 24bit workstations and 8bit indigos .  . 

libraries with code for graphics 


graphics gems i , ii , iii code from the ever so useful books. 
spline patch . tar . z . spline patch ray intersection routines by sean graves 
kaleido computation and 3d display of uniform polyhedra .  . mirrored in 
wuarchive .  . this package computes  ( and displays ) the metrical 
properties of 75 polyhedra .  . author dr. zvi har el , 
e mail 

( ) means site is an official distributor , so is most up to date. 


north america (please look for things on your own continent first .  .  . ) . 


wuarchive . wustl . edu . 128 . 252 . 135 . 4 . graphics graphics get contents file 
for a roadmap .  . graphics graphics objects tddd the objects 
and converters , mirrors unix c graphics rayshade ray tracer , mtv 
ray tracer , vort ray tracer , fbm , pbmplus , popi , utah raster toolkit .  . 
mirrors msdos graphics dkb ray tracer , fli demos .  . 
pub rad . tar . z . sgi rad , graphics graphics radiosity radiance 
and indian radiosity package. msdos ddj9209 . zip . version 21 
of , with fast texture mapping .  . there 's lots more , including 
bibs , graphics gems i ii code , off , rtn , radiance , nff , sipp , spline 
patch intersection routines , textbook errata , source code from roy 
hall 's book illumination and color in computer generated imagery , etc 
graphics graphics packages kaleido kaleido 
george 

princeton . edu . 128 . 112 . 128 . 1 . pub graphics  ( note capital g ) rayshade 
4.0 ray tracer  ( and separate 387 executable ) , color quantization 
code , spd , rt news , wilson 's rt abstracts , rt bib , utah 
raster toolkit , newer fbm , graphics gems i , ii iii code . 
pub graphics directory salem and other stuff. 
craig kolb 
replaces weedeater . math . yale . edu . note the capital g in 
pub graphics because there 's a trouble with princeton 's incoming 
area , you can upload rayshade specific stuff to 
weedeater . math . yale . edu . 128 . 36 . 23 . 17 . 

alfred . ccs . carleton . ca . 134 . 117 . 1 . 1 . pub dkb ray tracer , 
pub pov ray pov ray1 . 0 . compuserve group ray tracer  ( or pov ) . 
david buck david 

avalon . chinalake . navy . mil . 129 . 131 . 31 . 11 . 3d objects  ( multiple formats) , 
utilities , file format documents .  . 
this site was created to be a 3d object repository for the net. 
francisco x dejesus 

omicron . cs . unc . edu . 152 . 2 . 128 . 159 . pub chapel hill 
volume rendering test datasets .  . 

ftp . mv . com . 192 . 80 . 84 . 1 . official ddj ftp repository .  . 


peipa . essex . ac . uk . 155 . 245 . 115 . 161 . the pilot european image processing 
archive in a directory ipa synth or something like that , there are 
image synthesis packages. 
adrian clarke 

barkley . berkeley . edu . 128 . 32 . 142 . 237 . tcl extensions tsipp3 . 0b . tar . z . 
tcl sipp 
mark diekhans or 

acs . cps . msu . edu . 35 . 8 . 56 . 90 . pub sass x window fonts converter into 
rayshade 3.0 polygons , rayshade animation tool(s) .  . 
ron sass 

hobbes . lbl . gov . 128 . 3 . 12 . 38 . radiance ray trace radiosity package. 
greg ward 

geom . umn . edu . 128 . 101 . 25 . 31 . pub geomview geomview 
contact  ( for geomview ) 

ftp . arc . umn . edu . 137 . 66 . 130 . 11 . pub gvl . tar . z . the latest version of bob , 
and raz .  . source , a manual , man pages , and binaries for 
irix 4.0.5 are included  ( bob is a real time volume renderer ) 
pub contains also many volume datasets .  . 
ken chin purcell 

ftp . kpc . com . 144 . 52 . 120 . 9 . pub graphics steve hollasch 's 
thesis , pub graphics , pub graphics . 
pub mirror avalon mirror of avalon 's 3d objects repository .  . 
steve hollasch 

swedishchef . lerc . nasa . gov . 139 . 88 . 54 . 33 . programs hollasch 4d , 
sgi explorer modules and postscript manual , etc. 

zamenhof . cs . rice . edu . 128 . 42 . 1 . 75 . pub graphics . formats . various electronic 
documents about many object and image formats .  . 
mark hall 
will apparently no longer be maintaining it , see ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu .  . 

rascal . ics . utexas . edu . 128 . 83 . 144 . 1 . misc mac vision 3d facet 
based modeller , can output rayshade and radiance files. 

ftp . ncsa . uiuc . edu . 141 . 142 . 20 . 50 . misc file . formats . graphics . formats . 
contains various image and object format descriptions .  . many 
tools in various directories , e.g. sgi alpha shape alvis 1 . 0 . tar . z . 
3d alpha shape visualizer  ( sgi machines only) , 
sgi polyview3 . 0 . polyview . z . interactive visualization and analysis of 
3d geometrical structures .  . 
quincey 

tucana . noao . edu . 140 . 252 . 1 . 1 . iraf the iraf astronomy package 

ftp . ipl . rpi . edu . 128 . 113 . 14 . 50 . sigma erich spd images and haines thesis 
images. pub images various 24 and 8 bit image stills and sequences .  . 
kevin martin 

ftp . psc . edu . 128 . 182 . 66 . 148 . pub p3d p3d 2 0 . tar . p3d lispy scene 
language renderers .  . joel welling 

ftp . ee . lbl . gov . 128 . 3 . 254 . 68 . pbmplus . tar . z . , rayshade data files. 
jef poskanzer 

george . lbl . gov . 128 . 3 . 196 . 93 . pub ccs lib ccs . tar . z . ccs  ( complex 
conversion system) , a standard software interface for image processing 

hanauma . stanford . edu . 36 . 51 . 0 . 16 . pub graphics comp . graphics . best of 
comp . graphics .  ( very extensive ) , ray tracers dbw , mtv , qrt , and more. 
joe dellinger 

ftp . uu . net . 192 . 48 . 96 . 2 . graphics irit , rt news back issues (not 
complete ) , nurbs models , other graphics related material. 
graphics jpeg jpegsrc . v .  . tar . z . independent jpeg group package for 
reading and writing jpeg files. 

freebie . engin . umich . edu . 141 . 212 . 68 . 23 . utah raster toolkit , 
spencer thomas 

export . lcs . mit . edu . 18 . 24 . 0 . 12 . contrib pbmplus , image magick , xloadimage , 
xli , xv , img , lots more. pub mit demos gpc graphics 
performance characterization  ( gpc ) suite .  . 

life . pawl . rpi . edu . 128 . 113 . 10 . 2 . pub ray stochastic ray tracer . 
george 

cs . utah . edu . 128 . 110 . 4 . 21 . pub utah raster toolkit , nurbs databases . 
jamie painter 

gatekeeper . dec . com . 16 . 1 . 0 . 2 . pub dec off . tar . z . off models , 
also gpc benchmark files  ( planned , but not checked) .  . 
randi rost 

hubcap . clemson . edu . 130 . 127 . 8 . 1 . pub amiga incoming imagine stuff for the 
amiga imagine turbo silver ray tracers .  . pub amiga 
pub amiga incoming imagine objects many objects .  . 
glenn lewis 

pprg . eece . unm . edu . 129 . 24 . 24 . 10 . pub khoros khoros image processing 
package  ( huge , but great) . 
danielle 

expo . lcs . mit . edu . 18 . 30 . 0 . 212 . contrib pbmplus portable bitmap package , 
bitmap collection , raveling img , xloadimage .  . jef 
poskanzer 

venera . isi . edu . 128 . 9 . 0 . 32 . pub img . tar . z . and img . tar . z . some image 
manipulation , pub images rgb separation photos. 
paul raveling 

ucsd.edu 128 . 54 . 16 . 1 . graphics utah rle toolkit , pbmplus , fbm , 
databases , mtv , dbw and other ray tracers , world map , other stuff. 
not updated much recently. 

castlab . engr . wisc . edu . 128 . 104 . 52 . 10 . pub x3d . 2 . 2 . tar . z . x3d 
pub xdart . 1 . 1 .  . xdart 
mark 

sgi . com . 192 . 48 . 153 . 1 . graphics tiff tiff 6.0 spec libtiff software 
and pics. also much sgi and gl related stuff (e . g .  . opengl manuals ) 
sam 
supercedes okeeffe . berkeley . edu . for the libtiff stuff 

surya . waterloo . edu . 129 . 97 . 129 . 72 . graphics fbm , ray tracers 

ftp . sdsc . edu . 132 . 249 . 20 . 22 . sdsc 

ftp . brl . mil . 128 . 63 . 16 . 158 . brl cad information on how to get the 
brl cad package ray tracer .  . images various test images. 
a texture library has also begun here. 
lee a. butler 

cicero . cs . umass . edu . 128 . 119 . 40 . 189 . texture temp 512x512 grayscale 
textures , 
from julien flack . 

karazm . math . uh . edu . 129 . 7 . 7 . 6 . pub graphics rtabs . shar . 12 . 90 . z . wilson 's 
rt abstracts , vm pray .  . 
j. eric townsend or 

ftp . pitt . edu . 130 . 49 . 253 . 1 . users images 24 bit image archive 
(small) .  . james ralston crawford 

ftp . tc . cornell . edu . 128 . 84 . 201 . 1 . pub vis 

sunee . waterloo . edu . 129 . 97 . 50 . 50 . pub raytracers vivid , 
or sunee . uwaterloo . ca . 

archive . umich . edu . 141 . 211 . 164 . 153 . msdos graphics pc graphics stuff. 
msdos graphics raytrace vivid2 .  . 

apple . apple . com . 130 . 43 . 2 . 2 . pub prt .  . 

research.att.com 192 . 20 . 225 . 2 . netlib graphics spd package , polyhedra 
polyhedra databases .  ( if you do n't have ftp , use the netlib 
automatic mail replier uucp research ! netlib , internet 
send one line message send index for more info , 
send haines from graphics to get the spd ) 

siggraph . org . 128 . 248 . 245 . 250 . siggraph archive site. 
publications online bibliography project , conference proceedings 
in various electronic formats  ( papers , panels ) , siggraph video review 
information and order forms. 
other stuff in various directories. 
automatic mailer is archive ( send index ) .  . 

ftp . cs . unc . edu . 128 . 109 . 136 . 159 . pub reaction diffusion greg turk 's work on 
reaction diffusion textures , x windows code  ( siggraph '91 ) 

avs . ncsc . org . 128 . 109 . 178 . 23 . ftp volume datasets from the 
boston workshop on volume visualization '92 .  . this site is also the 
international avs center. 
terry myerson 

uvacs . cs . virginia . edu . 128 . 143 . 8 . 100 . pub suit demo sparc , dec , etc suit 
 ( simple user interface toolkit) .  . finger 
to get detailed instructions. 

nexus . yorku . ca . 130 . 63 . 9 . 66 . pub reports radiosity code . tar . z . rad 
pub reports radiosity thesis . ps . z . rad msc .  . thesis 
this site will be changed to ftp . yorku . ca . in the near future 

milton . u . washington . edu . 128 . 95 . 136 . 1 . ftp public virtual 
reality and distributed applications prototyping environment 
for unix .  . software support 
fly fly ! 3d visualization software demo. 
that package is built for fly throughs from various datasets in 
near real time. there are binaries for many platforms .  . 
also , much other virtual reality stuff. 

zug . csmil . umich . edu . 141 . 211 . 184 . 2 . x 3d files  ( an lcd glass shutter 
for amiga computers great for vr stuff ! ) 

sugrfx . acs . syr . edu . 128 . 230 . 24 . 1 . various stereo pair images. 
has closed down ( 

sunsite . unc . edu . 152 . 2 . 22 . 81 . pub academic computer science virtual reality 
final copy of the sugrfx . acs . syr . edu . archive that ceased to exist. 
it contains powerglove code , vr papers , 3d images and irc research 
material. 
jonathan magid 

archive . cis . ohio . state . edu . 128 . 146 . 8 . 52 . pub code for 
siggraph '92 course 23  ( procedural modeling and rendering techniques ) 
dr. david s. ebert state . edu . 

lyapunov . ucsd . edu . 132 . 239 . 86 . 10 . this machine is considered the 
repository for preprints and programs for nonlinear dynamics , 
signal processing , and related subjects  ( and fractals , of course ! ) 
matt kennel 

cod . nosc . mil . 128 . 49 . 16 . 5 . pub grid .  . ps , tex , ascii a short survey of 
methods to interpolate and contour bivariate data 

ics . uci . edu . 128 . 195 . 1 . 1 . honig various stereo pair images , 
movie . c . animates a movie on an x display (8 bit and mono ) with 
digital subtraction .  . 

taurus . cs . nps . navy . mil . 131 . 120 . 1 . 13 . pub cyberware demo . tar . z . human 
head data 

pioneer . unm . edu . 129 . 24 . 9 . 217 . pub texture maps hans du buf 's grayscale 
test textures  ( aerial swatches , textures , synthetic swatches) .  . 
space planetary image repository .  . provides access to 150 cd roms 
with data images (3 on line at a time) .  . 
pub info beginner info here you should start browsing .  . 
colby . 

cs . brown . edu . 128 . 148 . 33 . 66 . . for more info on 
mail s  software distribution  

pdb . pdb . bnl . gov . 130 . 199 . 144 . 1 . has data about various organic molecules , 
bonds between the different atoms , etc. 
atomic coordinates  ( and a load of other stuff) are contained in the 
 . ent . files , but the actual atomic seem to be missing. 
you could convert these data to pov , rayshade , etc. 

biome . bio . ns . ca . 142 . 2 . 20 . 2 . pub art some renoir paintings , 
escher 's pictures , etc. 

ic16 . ee . umanitoba . ca . sample set of images from the 
from the edge  cd rom  ( images of atomic landscapes , advanced 
semiconductors , superconductors and experimental surface 
chemistry among others) .  . contact 

explorer . dgp . toronto . edu . 128 . 100 . 1 . 129 . pub sgi 
pub sgi clrview .  . clrview , a tool that aids in visualization 
of gis datasets in may formats like dxf , dem , arc info , etc. 

ames . arc . nasa . gov . 128 . 102 . 18 . 3 . pub space cdrom images from magellan 
and viking missions etc. get pub space index first. 
pub spacelink has most of the spacelink service data  ( see below) 
e mail server available send mail to archive 
 ( or ames ! archive server) with subject help 
or send space index  ( without the quotes ! ) 
peter yee 

pubinfo . jpl . nasa . gov . 128 . 149 . 6 . 2 . images , other data , etc. from jpl 
missions .  . modem access at (818) 354 1333 (no parity , 8 data bits , 1 
stop bit) .  . 
or phone (818) 354 7170 

spacelink . msfc . nasa . gov . 128 . 158 . 13 . 250 .  ( passwd guest ) space graphics 
and gif images from nasa 's planetary probes and the hubble telescope .  . 
main function is support for teachers  ( you can telnet also to this 
site) .  . dial up access (205) 895 0028  ( 300 1200 2400 9600(v . 32) . baud , 
8 bits , no parity , 1 stop bit) .  . 

stsci . edu . 130 . 167 . 1 . 2 . hubble space telescope stuff  ( images and other 
data) .  . read the readme first ! 
pete or chris o dea 

pit manager . mit . edu . 18 . 172 . 1 . 27 . pub usenet news.answers the land of 
faqs .  . graphics and pictures directories of particular interest. 
also available from mail manager . mit . edu . by sending a mail 
message containing help 

uucp archive avatar rt news back issues. for details , write kory 



europe 


nic . funet . fi . 128 . 214 . 6 . 100 . pub sci papers paper bank project , 
including pete shirley 's entire thesis  ( with pics ) , wilson 's rt 
abstracts , pub misc cia worldmap cia world data bank , 
comp . graphics . research . archive , india , and much , much more. 
juhana kouhia 

dasun2 . epfl . ch . 128 . 178 . 62 . 2 . radiance .  . good for european sites , but 
does n't carry the add ons that are available for radiance .  . 

isy . liu . se . 130 . 236 . 1 . 3 . pub sipp sipp 3 . 0 . tar . z . sipp scan line z buffer 
and phong shading renderer .  . jonas yngvesson jonas 

irisa . fr . 131 . 254 . 2 . 3 . vm pray ray tracer , spd , nff many non spd 
nff format scenes , rayshade data files. didier 
may have disappeared 

phoenix . oulu . fi . 130 . 231 . 240 . 17 . fli animation files  ( pc vga ) 
also big  . flis .  ( 640 480 ) demos americans check wuarchive 
first . more animations to come. jari 


jyu . fi . 128 . 214 . 7 . 5 . pub graphics ray traces many ray tracers , including 
vm pray , dbw , dkb , mtv , qrt , rayshade , some rt news , nff files. jari 


garbo . uwasa . fi . 128 . 214 . 87 . 1 . much pc stuff , etc. , pc source contour . f . 
fortran program to contour scattered data using linear triangle based 
interpolation 

asterix . inescn . pt . 192 . 35 . 246 . 17 . pub rtrace rtrace nffutils . tar . z .  ( nff 
utilities for rtrace ) , medical data  ( cat , etc . ) . converters to nff , 
autocad to nff autolisp code , autocad 11 to scn  ( rtrace 's language) 
converter and other goodies. antonio costa 

vega . hut . fi . 128 . 214 . 3 . 82 . graphics rtn archive , ray tracers  ( mtv , qrt , 
others) , nff , some models. 
it was shut down months ago , check under nic . funet . fi . 

sun4nl . nluug . nl . 192 . 16 . 202 . 2 . pub graphics raytrace dbw . microray . , mtv , etc 

unix . hensa . ac . uk . misc unix ralcgm ralcgm . tar . z . cgm viewer and 
converter .  . 
there 's an e mail server also mail to 
with the message body send misc unix ralcgm ralcgm . tar . z . 

maeglin . mt . luth . se . 130 . 240 . 0 . 25 . graphics raytracing prt , others , doc 
wilson 's rt abstracts , vivid .  . 

ftp . fu . berlin.de 130 . 20 . 225 . 2 . pub unix graphics rayshade4 . 0 . inputs 
aq . tar . z . is rayshade aquarium americans check princeton . edu . first) .  . 
heiko berlin.de 

maggia . ethz . ch . 129 . 132 . 17 . 1 . pub and sun rpc 4.0 code 
andreas 

osgiliath . id . dth . dk . 129 . 142 . 65 . 24 . pub amiga graphics radiance amiga 
port of radiance 2.0 . per 

ftp . informatik . uni . oldenburg . de . 134 . 106 . 1 . 9 . pov raytracer 
mirrored in wuarchive , has many goods for pov .  . 
pub incoming polyray polyray raytracer 
pub incoming pv3d pv3d 

ftp . uni . kl . de . 131 . 246 . 9 . 95 . pub amiga raytracing imagine mirror of 
the hubcap imagine files. 

neptune . inf . ethz . ch . 129 . 132 . 101 . 33 . xyz xyz 
peter 

iamsun . unibe . ch . 130 . 92 . 64 . 10 . graphics a l system interpreter .  . 
christoph streit 

amiga . physik . unizh . ch . 130 . 60 . 80 . 80 . amiga gfx graphics stuff 
for the amiga computer. 

stesis . hq . eso . org . 134 . 171 . 8 . 100 . on line access to a huge astronomical 
database.  ( login no passwd ) 
decnet stesis (it 's the space telescope european coordination facility ) 
benoit , phone 49 89 320 06 433 


middle east 


gauss . technion . ac . il . 132 . 68 . 112 . 60 . kaleida 


australia 


gondwana . ecr . mu . oz . au . 128 . 250 . 70 . 62 . pub  ( vort(art ) ray tracer , vogle , 
wilson 's ray tracing abstracts , pub contrib  ( art scenes from 
italy) , pub images haines haines thesis images , graphics gems code , 
spd , nff off databases , nff and off previewers , plus some 8 and 
24bit images and lots of other stuff. pub rad . tar . z . sgi rad 
bernie kirby 

munnari . oz . au . 128 . 250 . 1 . 21 . pub graphics vort . tar . z . vort  ( art ) 2.1 csg and 
algebraic surface ray tracer , vogle , pub dbw , pbmplus .  . graphics 
room . tar . z .  ( art scenes from italy) .  . 
david hook 

marsh . cs . curtin . edu . au . 134 . 7 . 1 . 1 . pub graphics bibliography facial animation , 
pub graphics bibliography morph , pub graphics bibliography ui 
stuff about facial animation , morphing and user interfaces .  . 
pub fascia fred parke 's fascia program. 
valerie hall 


oceania asia 


ccu1 . auckland . ac . nz . 130 . 216 . 3 . 1 . ftp mac architec vision 3d facet 
based modeller , can output rayshade files . many other neat things 
for macs .  . paul bourke 
for users outside nz go to wuarchive . wustl . edu . , directory 
mirrors architec 

scslwide . sony . co . jp . 133 . 138 . 199 . 1 . sgi facial animation steve franks 
site for facial animation. 
steve franks or 


4. mail servers and graphics oriented 


please check first with the ftp places above , with archie 's help. 
do n't overuse mail servers. 

there are some troubles with wrong return addresses .  . many of these 
mail servers have a command like 
path a valid return e mail address 
to get a hint for sending back to you stuff. 

dec 's ftpmail 

send a one line message to without a subject field , 
and having a line containing the word 'help' .  . 
you should get back a message detailing the relevant procedures you 
must follow in order to get the files you want. 

note that the reply or answer command in your mailer will not work 
for this message or any other mail you receive from ftpmail .  . to send 
requests to ftpmail , send an original mail message , not a reply. 
complaints should be sent to the ftpmail gw 2 . pa . dec . com . 
address rather than to postmaster , since 's postmaster is not 
responsible for fixing ftpmail problems. 



for bitnet sites only , there 's 
send a one line 'help' message to this address for more info. 


red 

red listserv is essentially a mail server. 
the server sites that are available are 

location earn bitnet internet 

in turkey 
in denmark 
in italy 
in belgium 
in austria 
in germany stuttgart . de . 
in israel 
in netherlands 
in france 
in 
in taiwan 

you are urged to use the one that is closer to your location. 
send a message to one of these containing the body 

help 

and you 'll get more instructions. 


lightwave 3d mail based file server 

a mail based file server for 3d objects , 24bit jpeg images , gif images 
and image maps is now online for all those with internet mail access. 
the server is the official archive site for the lightwave 3d mail list 
and contains many pd and shareware graphics utilities for 
several computer platforms including amiga , atari , ibm and macintosh .  . 

the server resides on a bbs called the graphics bbs . the bbs is 
operational 24 hours a day 7 days a week at the phone number of 1 
908 469 0049 .  . it has upgraded its modem to a hayes ultra 144 
v . 32bis . v . 42bis . , which has speeds from 300bps up to 38 , 400bps .  . 

if you would like to submit objects , scenes or images to the server , 
please pack , uuencode and then mail the files to the address 


for information on obtaining files from the server send a mail message 
to the address file with the following in 
the body of the message 
help 
dir 
and a help file describing how to use the server and a complete 
directory listing will be sent to you via mail. 

now it includes the cyberware head and in format ! check it 
out , only if you ca n't use ftp ! 

inria 

pierre and sabine launched the inria mail 
server a few months ago. 

echo help mail inria 

will give you a quick summary of what inria contains and 
how to browse among its files. 

echo send contents mail inria 

will return the extended summary .  . 

as an other example 

echo send from misc mail inria 

will return the computer graphics resource listing mirrored from 
comp . graphics .  . 



there are many that store datafiles , etc . etc .  . , but a guide to these 
is beyond the scope of this listing  ( and the resources of the author ! ) 
if you can point to me internet or mail accessible that carry 
interesting stuff , send me info ! 


studio amiga is a 3d modelling and ray tracing specific bbs , (817) 467 3658 .  . 
24 hours , 105 meg online. 

from jeff walkup 
the castle 415 355 2396 (14 . 4k . v . 32bis . v . 42 . v . 42bis . mnp ) 
 ( in pacifica , dang close to san francisco , california , usa) 
the new user password is tao . 

j oin base 2 the castle g fx , anim , video , 3d s . i . g .  . , of which 
i am the sig op , . 

bob lindabury operates a bbs  ( see above the entry for the graphics bbs ) 

 you can call me ray  ray tracing related bbs in chicago suburbs  ( 708 358 5611 ) 
or  ( 708 358 8721 ) 

digital pixel  ( sysop mark ng ) is based at 
toronto , ontario , canada .  . 

phone (416) 298 1487 
storage space 330 megs 
modem type 14 . 4k . baud , 16 . 8k .  ( zyxel ) , v32bis , v32 , mnp 5 

access fee none .  .  . (free) 
system supported dos , os 2 , amiga , mac .  . 
netmail currently no echo mail. 
topics raytracing , fractals , graphics programming , cad , any comp. 
graphics related 


from david 

amiga graphics bbs (516) 473 6351 in long island , new york , 
running 24 hours at 14 . 4k . v . 32bis . , with 157 megs on line. 
we also subscribe to 9 mailing lists , of which 5 originate 
from our bbs , with 3 more to be added soon. these include 

lightwave , imagine , real 3d (ray tracing ) 

database files include 
imagine 3d objects , 3d renderings , scalable fonts , music 
modules , sound samples , demos , animations , utilities , 
text databases , and pending lightwave 3d objects .  . 

the graphics alternative 

the graphics alternative is in el cerrito , ca. , running 24 hours a 
day at 14 . 4k . hst v . 32bis . , with online and a 1300 user base. 
tga runs two nodes , node 1 (510) 524 2780 is for public access and 
includes a free 90 day trial subscription .  . tga is the west coast 
host for , the profesional cad and graphics network , supporting 
nodes across the continental u.s. , alaska , new zealand , australia , 
france and the uk .  . 

tga 's file database includes ms dos executables for pov , vivid , 
rtrace , rayshade , polyray , and others. tga also has numerous 
graphics utilities , viewers , and conversion utilities .  . registered 
vivid users can also download the latest vivid code from a 
special vivid conference. 


from scott 

the intersection bbs , 410 250 7149 .  . 

this bbs is dedicated to supporting 3d animators . the . system is provided 
free of charge , and is not commercialized in anyway. 
users are given full access on the first call. 

features usenet news internet mail , fidonet echo 's netmail , 
200 megs online , v . 32bis . v . 42bis . modem .  . 

platforms of interest amiga the , macintosh , ms dos , 
unix workstations  ( sun , sgi , etc) , atari st. 

from alfonso 

pi square bbs  ( 301)725 ) 9080 in maryland .  . it supports raytracers such as pov 
and vivid .  . the bbs runs off a 486 33mhz , hard drive and cd rom .  . 
now it runs on 1200 2400bps  ( this will change soon) 

topics graphics programming , animation , raytracing , programming  ( general ) 

from lynn 

design 's graphic connection. (503) 591 8412 in portland , oregon .  . 
v . 32 . v . 42bis .  . 

the bbs , aside from carrying typical bbs services like message bases 
( all topic specific ) and files ( cad and graphics related hundreds 
of megabytes ) , also offers material texture files that are full color , 
seamlessly tiling , photo realistic images. there are samples available 
to first time callers .  . the bbs is a subscription system although callers 
have 2 hours before they must subscribe , and there are several subscription 
rates available. people interested in materials can subscribe to the 
library in addition to a basic subscription rate , and can use their 
purchased time to download whichever materials they wish. 



5. ray tracing graphics related mailing lists 


imagine 

modeling and animation system for the amiga 
send subscription requests to imagine 
send material to 
 ( dave has substituted steve worley in the maintenance of 
the mailing list) please note that the unisys . com . address is 
no longer valid ! ! ! 

lightwave 

 ( for the amiga .  . it 's part of newtek 's video toaster ) 
send subscription requests to lightwave 
send material to 
 ( bob lindabury ) 

toaster 

send subscription requests to with a body of 
subscribe toaster list 

real 3d 

another modeling and animation system for the amiga 
to subscribe , send a mail containing the body 

subscribe l your full name 

to 

rayshade 

send subscription requests to rayshade 
send material to rayshade 
(craig kolb ) 

alladin 4d for the amiga 

send subscription requests to 

and in the body of the message write 

alladin 4d 

radiance 

greg ward , the author , sends to registered  ( via e mail) users digests of 
his with them , notes about fixes , updates , etc. 
his address is 



send subscription requests to 
send material to 

pov ray dkb raytracers 

to subscribe , send a mail containing the body 

subscribe dkb l your full name 

to 

send material to dkb 

mailing list for massively parallel rendering 

send subscription requests to mp render 
send material to mp 



6. 3d graphics editors 


a. public domain , free and shareware systems 


vision 3d 

mac based program written by paul d. bourke 
the program can be used to generate models directly in the rayshade 
and radiance file formats  ( polygons only) .  . 
it 's shareware and listed on the ftp list. 

brl 

a solid modeling system for most environments including sgi and x11 .  . 
it has csg and nurbs , plus support for non manifold geometry 
whatever it is . 

you can get it free via ftp by signing and returning the relevant license , 
found on ftp . brl . mil .  . uses ray tracing for engineering analyses .  . 

contact 

ms. carla moyer 
(410) 273 7794 tel. 
(410) 272 6763 fax 
cad e mail 

snail mail 

brl cad distribution 
aberdeen satellite office 1003 
old philadelphia road , 
suite 103 aberdeen 
md 21001 usa 

irit 

a constructive solid geometry  ( csg ) modeling program for pc and x11 .  . 
includes freeform surface support. free see ftp list for where to 
find it. 



a solid modeling program for pc written in turbo pascal 6.0 by 
ken van camp. available from simtel , msdos . srfmodl . directory. 

noodles 

from cmu , namely fritz printz and levent 
it 's based on non manifold topology .  . 
ask them for more info , i do n't know if they give it away. 



is an interactive 3 d editor builder written by dale p. stocker to 
create objects for the , , and dkb raytracer packages. 
is free and can be found , for example , in simtel20 as 
msdos . surfmodl . xyz21 . zip .  ( dos only ) 

3dmod 

it 's an msdos program. check at barnacle . erc . clarkson . edu . 128 . 153 . 28 . 12 . , 
pub msdos graphics 3dmod .  . . undocumented file format ( 
3dmod is (c) 1991 by micah silverman , 25 ave. , , 
new york 13676 , tel. 315 265 7140 



shareware , msdos . cad . ncad3d42 . zip . in simtel20 .  . undocumented file format ( 

vertex 

 ( amiga ) 
shareware , send 40 us  ( check or money order) to 

the art machine , 4189 nickolas 
sterling heights , mi 48310 
usa 

in addition to the now standard file formats , including lightwave , 
imagine , sculpt , turbo silver , geo and wavefront , this release offers 
3d professional and rayshade support.  ( rayshade is supported only by 
the primitive triangle , but you can easily include this output in 
your rayshade scripts ) 

the latest demo , version 1.62 , is available on fred fish 727 .  . 

for more information , contact the author , alex , at 

, phone (313) 939 2513 




 ( amiga ) 
it 's a spline based object modeller ( interactive 
coons path editor ) in amiga . physik . unizh . ch .  ( gfx 3d icoons1 . 0 . lzh) .  . 
it 's free  ( under the gnu licence ) and requires fpu .  . 

the program has a look feel which is a cross between journeyman and 
imagine , and it generates objects in format. 

it is possible to load journeyman objects into , so the program 
can be used to convert jman objects to imagine format. 

author helge e. rasmussen 
phone 45 36 72 33 00 , fax 45 36 72 43 00 

it 's also on fred fish disk series n . 775 . 


3d 

ver 1.1 from  ( shareware ) 

it 's at simtel20 . army . mil . and oak . oakland . edu . as pcad3d . zip .  ( for pcs ) 

it has this menu layout 

file file handling  ( load , save , import , xport .  .  . ) . 
draw draw 2d objects  ( line , circle , box .  .  . ) . 
3d draw 3d objects  ( mesh , sphere , block .  .  . ) . 
edit editing features  ( copy , move  .  .  . ) . 
surface modify objects  ( revolve , , sweep .  .  . ) . 
image image zooming features  ( update , window , half .  .  . ) . 
option global defaults  ( grid , toggles , axis .  .  . ) . 
plot print drawing picture  ( go , image .  .  . ) . 
render shade objects  ( frame , lighting , tune .  .  . ) . 
layer layer options  ( select active layer , set colors .  .  . ) . 



runs under windows 3.1 , and outputs pov files. a demo can be found 
on wuarchive . wustl . edu . in mirrors win3 demo demo3d . zip . 

author michael gibson 


b. commercial systems 


alpha 1 

a spline based modeling program written in university of utah .  . 
features splines up to trimmed nurbs support for boolean operations 
sweeps , bending , warping , flattening etc. groups of objects , and 
transformations extensible object types. 
applications include nc machining , animation utilities , 
dimensioning , fem analysis , etc. 
rendering subsystem , with support for animations .  . 
support the following platforms hp 300 and 800 's  ( x11r4 , hp ux 6 . 5) . , 
sgi 4d or pi machines  ( x11r4 and gl , irix 3 . 3 . 1) . , sun sparcstation 
 ( x11r4 , sunos 4 . 1 . 1) .  . 

licensing and distribution is handled by egs 
glenn , president 
engineering geometry systems 
275 east south temple , suite 305 
salt lake city , ut 84111 
(801) 575 6021 


educational pricing 
the charge is 675 per platform. you may run the system on as many 
different workstations of that type as you wish. for each platform 
there is also a 250 licensing fee for portable standard lisp  ( psl ) 
which is bundled with the system. you need to obtain an additional 
license from the university of utah for psl from the following address 
professor robert kessler 
computer science department 
university of utah 
salt lake city , utah 84112 

egs can handle the licensing of psl for u.s. institutions for a 
300 usd nominal fee 

vertigo 


they have an educational institution program. the package is used in 
the industrial design , architectural , scientific visualization , 
educational , broadcast , imaging and post production fields .  . 

they 'll quoting from a letter sent to me donate fully 
configured vertigo 3d graphics software worth over 29 , per 
package to qualified educational institutions for licencing on any 
number of silicon graphics personal iris or power series workstations .  . 
if you use an iris indigo station , we will also licence our vertigo 
revolution software  ( worth 12 , 000usd) .  . 

if you are interested in participating in this program please send a 
letter by mail or fax  ( 604 684 2108 ) on your institution 's letterhead 
briefly outlining your potential uses for vertigo together with the 
following information 1. unix version 2. model and number of sgi 
systems 3. peripheral devices 4. third party software. 

participants will be asked to contribute per institution to cover 
costs of the manual , administration , and shipping. 

we recommend that vertigo users subscribe to our technical support 
services. for an annual fee you will receive technical assistance 
on our support hotline , bug fixes , software upgrades and manual updates. 
for educational institution we will waive the 750 administration fee 
if support is purchased .  . 

the annual support fee is 2 , 500 plus the following cost for additional 
machines 

number of machines 2 20 20 
additional cost per machine 700 600 

there 's also a 5 day training program 

contact 
vertigo technology inc 
suite 1010 
1030 west georgia st. 
vancouver , bc 
canada , 

phone 604 684 2113 
fax 604 684 2108 

does anyone know of such offers from tdi , alias , softimage , wavefront , 
etc. this would be a very interesting part ! ! 

2 

basically , it 's a solid modeling kernel in top of which you build your 
 ( application(s ) 

available by license from 
cornell programmable automation 
cornell university 
106 engineering and theory center 
ithaca , ny 14853 

license fees are very low for educational institutions and gov't agencies .  . 
internal commercial licenses and re dissemination licenses are available. 
for an information packet , write to the above address , or send your 
address to (richard marisa ) 

acis 

from spatial technology. it 's a solid modelling kernel callable from c. 
heard that many universities got free copies from the company. 
the person to contact regarding acis in academic institutions is 

scott owens , e mail 

and their address is 

spatial technology , inc. 
2425 55th st. , bldg. a 
boulder , co 80301 5704 
phone (303) 449 0649 , fax (303) 449 0926 

movie byu cquel . byu . 

basically in my understanding , this is a fem pre and post proccessor 
system. it 's fairly old today , but it still serves some people in 
mech .  . eng. depts .  . 
now it 's superseded from cquel . byu .  ( pronounced sequel ) .  . that 's a 
complete modelling , animation and visualization package. runs in the usual 
workstation environments  ( sun , dec , hp , sgi , ibm rs6000 , and others) 
you can get a demo version (30 days trial period ) either by sending 20 
usd in their address or a blank tape. it costs 1 , 500 for a full run time 
licence .  . 

contact 

engineering computer graphics lab 
368 clyde building , brigham young univ. 
provo , ut 84602 
phone 801 378 2812 
e mail 


twixt 

soon to add stuff about it .  .  .  . if i get a reply to my fax 



it 's a volume renderer marketed by 
inc.  ( fairfield , iowa phone 515 472 2227 ) , running on pcs 
with 386 fpu at least. call for more info. 



a 3d volume renderer for windows. features include direct 
ray traced volume rendering , color and alpha mapping , 
gradient lighting , animation , reflections and shadows .  . 

runs on a  ( pc(386 or higher) with at least an 8 bit video  ( card(svga is fine) 
under windows 3 . x .  . it costs 495 .  . 

contact 

jaguar software inc. 
573 main st. , suite 9b 
winchester , ma 01890 
(617) 729 3659 
(john w poduska ) 



7. scene description languages 


nff 

neutral file format , by eric haines .  . very simple , there are some 
procedural database generators in the spd package , and many objects 
floating in various ftp sites. there 's also a previewer written in 
hp starbase from e . haines .  . also there 's one written in vogle , so you can 
use any of the devices vogle can output on. 
 ( check in sites carrying vogle , like gondwana . ecr . mu . oz . au) . 

off 

object file format , from dec 's randy rost 
the object archive server seems to be mothballed .  . in a future version , 
i 'll remove the ref. to it 

available also through their mail server. to obtain help about using this 
service , send a message with a subject line containing only the word 
help and a null message body to object archive 
for ftp places to get it , see in the relevant place . there 's an off 
previewer for sgi 4d machines , called off preview in 
godzilla . cgl . rmit . oz . au . . there are previewers for xview and sunview , 
also on gondwana .  . 

tddd 

it 's a library of 3d objects with translators to from off , nff , 
rayshade , imagine or vort objects .  . 
edited copy of the announcement follows (from raytracing news , v4 , 3) 

new library of 3d objects available via ftp , by steve worley 


i have assembled a set of over 150 3d objects in a binary format 
called tddd .  . these objects range from human figures to airplanes , 
from semi trucks to lampposts .  . these objects are all freely 
distributable , and most have readmes that describe them. 

in order to convert these objects to a human readable format , a file 
with the specification of tddd is included in the directory with the 
objects .  . there is also a shareware system called  ( officially 
on hubcap . clemson . edu) . that will convert  ( ala pbm ) to from various 
object formats imagine  ( extension of tddd ) , off , nff , 
rayshade 4.0 , or vort .  . source included for amiga unix as executables 
for the amiga .  . also outputs framemaker mif files and isometric views 
in postscript .  . 

p3d 

from pittsburgh supercomputing center. the p3d uses lisp with slight 
extensions to store three dimensional models. a simple lisp 
interpreter is included with the p3d release , so there is no need to 
have access to any vendor 's lisp to run this software. 

the mouse driven user interfaces for motif , open look , and silicon 
graphics gl , and the subroutine library for generating p3d 
without ever looking at the underlying lisp .  . 

the p3d software currently supports nine renderers .  . they are 
painter painter 's algorithm , dore , silicon graphics inc. gl language , 
generic phigs , sun phigs , dec phigs , rayshade , art ray tracer (from 
vort package) and pixar renderman .  . 

the code is available via anonymous ftp from the machines 
ftp . psc . edu . , directory pub p3d , and nic . funet . fi . , directory 
pub graphics programs p3d .  . 

renderman 

pixar 's renderman is not free call pixar for details. 



8. solids description formats 


a. eec 's esprit project 322 cad i  ( cad interfaces) has developed a 
neutral file format for transfer of cad data  ( curves , surfaces , and 
solid models between cad systems and from cad to caa  ( computer aided 
analysis) an cam  ( computer aided manufacturing ) 

b. iges v. 5.1 now tries to define a standard to tranfer solid 
models and csg .  . the current standard number is ansi y14 . 26m . 1987 
for documentation , you might want to contact nancy flower at 
technical services and standards , 1 800 225 6242 ext. 325 
and the cost is 100. 
this standard is not available in electronic format. 

c. step this slowly emerging standard tries to encompass not only 
the geometrical information , but also for things like fem , etc. 
the main bodies besides this standard are nist and darpa .  . you can get 
more information about by sending mail to 
and putting the line 
send index 
in the body (not the subject ) area of the message. 

the people at rutherford appleton lab. are also working 
on step tools they have an express compiler and an exchange file parser , 
both available in source form  ( and for free ) for research purposes. 
soon they will also have an express based database system. 

for the tools contact mike mead , phone 44  ( 0235 ) 44 6710  ( fax x 5893 ) , 
e mail or ... ! mcsun ! ! ! mm or 
mm relay . ac . uk . 



end of part 1 of the resource listing 

nick  ( nikolaos ) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece 
home 16 st. , internet 
, gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! ! 
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578 

from  ( bernie roehl ) 
subject re optimizing projections 
organization university of waterloo 
lines 31 

in article names . nerdc . ufl . edu . writes 
my three d library does a lot of projections ( duh ) , but currently it 
is projecting an object 's vertices on a per triangle basis . this is 
grossly inefficient for 99 of the objects displayed ( which can 
be optimized by doing projections one time , once for each vertex ) , but 
objects whose z intersect the hither plane ca n't benefit from 
this because new vertices must be created during z clipping .  . 

anyone have any better ideas 

yes. here 's what you should do. 

keep the vertices in an array , and have the polygons  ( triangles are okay , 
but n sided polygons are slightly more efficient ) store the indices into 
the array of the vertices that comprise them. you set a flag for each 
vertex when you transform it , so you do n't have to transform any vertex 
more than once you also do backface elimination before processing the 
polygon , so that vertices that belong only to do n't have 
to be transformed at all. 

whenever you transform a vertex , check if it 's on the far side of the hither 
plane if it is , you can project it right away and store the result. 

then do your z clip any vertices that get produced will have to have their 
projection done at that stage. 


bernie 
university of waterloo dept of electrical and computer engineering 
mail 
voice (519) 885 1211 x work 

from wang 
subject re 3d graphics software company info 
organization computer science , indiana university 
lines 6 

i believe many people will be happy to have this information. so , 
please post it to the comp . graphics .  . 

thanks , 



from (k .  . r. subramanian ) 
subject companies involved with scientific visualization .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 10 

if anyone has a list of companies doing data visualization  ( software 
or hardware) i would like to hear from them. thanks. 




k . r . ph (908) 582 
at t bell laboratories , rm. email 
600 mountain av. 
murray hill , nj 07974 

from  ( steve hollasch ) 
subject re raytracing colours 
summary illumination equations 
organization kubota pacific computer , inc. 
lines 44 

 ( adrian secchia ) writes 
when an incident ray  ( i ) strikes an object at point p ... the reflected 
ray  ( r ) and the transmitted ray  ( t ) is calculated from the formulae .  . 

calling the routine recursively on r and t will return the colours 
along the rays (r and t) as and  . each object has its own 
colour and each light source has (1 i n) .  . 

the question is 
how do you combine , , and all the 's to get 
the correct resulting colour to return along the i ray 

first of all  ( this is not a snide response ) , if you 're confused about 
this issue , you will stumble over a lot of other things as well. i suggest 
that the weakness is your reference material. get an introduction to ray 
tracing by andrew glassner for very good coverage of the raytracing 
algorithm .  . you could also refer to the 2nd edition of foley van dam .  . 

on to the question. the simple answer is that you just keep adding up 
all the contributions and then clamping at the maximum intensity .  . for 
example , if your intensity values range from 0.0 to 1.0 , then keep adding up 
and clamp the resultant values to 1.0  ( you might have to clamp the lower 
bound to 0.0 if you have dark bulbs , but that 's another issue ) .  . so , you 
get some illumination equation like this 

i  ( ldiffuse(light n ) 

the contribution due to reflection is just summed with the light 
intensity , as is the light due to transparency .  . now , a slightly less 
hand waving illumination equation is this 

i  ( kdld(light n ) 

that is , each component of the illumination equation is governed by the 
material constants ka , kd , kr and kt .  . so the maximum you can get from 
transparency for a given object , for example , might be 0.4 , 0.1 , 0.5 for a 
purple colored glass object. 

hopefully this answers your question. i 'll forward my illumination 
equation sermon to you also. 


steve hollasch kubota pacific computer , inc. 
santa clara , california 

from (dr .  . edmund west) 
subject avs presentation 
organization public access 
distribution tor 
lines 46 

university of toronto 
instructional and research computing 

is sponsoring a technical presentation 
on visualization software 


a d v a n c e d v i s u a l s y s t e m s ( a v s) s o f t w a r e 


2 10 pm 4 00 pm 
thursday , may 6 , 1993 
fleming building 
room 1105 


advanced visual systems will present this technical seminar on 
avs , the world 's leading visualization software package. avs is 
a point and click , module driven , easy to use product that 
produces full color , two or three dimensional rendered scenes for 
interactive observation .  . it is supported on all current unix 
risc platforms from sun , sgi , ibm , h p , dg , and dec. it also 
runs under dec vms .  . 

avs is in its fourth year on the street and is very mature .  . all 
fields of science , engineering , medicine , and even business 
applications now use avs .  . this seminar will focus on its many 
features in technical detail during a half hour slide 
presentation. following a question period there will be a live 
demonstration using a sun sparcstation .  . in addition , a new avs 
program called campus will be introduced at this meeting. 

also discussed will be the international avs center , which 
provides an on line repository of over 1000 graphics modules at 
the north carolina supercomputer center in , nc .  . avs has 
tools to write one 's own customized modules should these 
not be available with avs or from avs international .  . 


s p e a k e r s 

the scheduled speaker for this presentation is mr. paul 
of associates , the distributor of avs in 
canada .  . 

t h i s p r e s e n t a t i o n i s o p e n t o t h e p u b l i c 

from 
subject re kubota kenai specs 
organization center for instructional and research computing activities 
lines 21 
reply to 
nntp posting host maple . circa . ufl . edu . 

in article , (paul martz ) writes 
does this mean they can either do alpha or , but not both 
simultaneously 

i do n't know the answer the to this one , although with 8 bits i would assume 
that it was one or the other. 


stereo support yes yes 
other both machines will double buffer or do 

stereo output per window. both have an 
auxiliary video output that is rs , 
ntsc , and pal 
same question again , does this mean they can either do double 
buffering or stereo , but not both simultaneously 

according to the literature , it will do quadruple buffering so that you 
can have double buffered stereo output .  . 

brian 

from 
subject processing half a gif 
organization state systems , south australia 
lines 6 

i 've been playing with a program called to modify some  . gif . files. the 
problem is it keeps displaying only 50 of the image. starting from the top , it 
, leaves 20 blank , then down another 20 etc. anyone know what i'm 
doing wrong , or is there another piece of software i should use instead 

thanks for your tolerance ! 

from  ( roy smith) 
subject re sgi sales practices  ( was crimson  ( was kubota announcement )) 
organization new york university , school of medicine 
lines 26 
nntp posting host med . nyu . edu . 

 ( dave olson ) writes 
but surely you do n't expect a system you buy now for a five year 
period to be constantly upgradable over that entire five year period 

what 's sort of interesting about this whole thread is just how much 
it has in common with similar threads in groups dealing with other vendor 's 
hardware. i currently deal basically with hardware from 3 vendors apple , 
dec , and sgi and thus tend to monitor the groups about those vendor 's 
hardware. currently , it seems like sgi customers are pissed at sgi about 
dropping support for the personal iris , dec customers are pissed at dec for 
dropping mips support in favor of the new alpha boxes , and apple customers 
seem to get pissed every time a new mac is introduced that 's faster and 
cheaper than the one they just bought .  . when i used to be a sun customer 
years ago , i remember people being pissed at sun for leaving their 386 
and 680x0 customers out in the cold when sparc came along. 

what 's really interesting is that from what i can tell , the mis 
folks in the basement with their es 9000 do n't seem to be pissed at ibm .  . 
why i have no idea. either ibm really does take care of their customers 
better , or they just have their customers brainwashed better than the 
smaller vendors do. 

roy smith 
project , department of microbiology , coles 202 
nyu school of medicine , 550 first avenue , new york , ny 10016 
this never happened to bart simpson .  . 

from  ( graeme gill ) 
subject re povray tga rle 
organization australia pty. ltd. , melbourne , australia 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( jihun park ) writes 
hello , 
i have some problem in converting tga  ( file(generated by povray ) to 
rle file. when i convert , i do not get any warning message. but 
if i use xloadimage , something is wrong. 

error messages are , 
o o . rle . data . tga . 
xloadimage o . rle . 
o . rle . is a 0x0 24 bit rle image with no map  ( will dither to 8 bits) , with gamma of 1.00 
dithering image .  .  . done . 
building ximage .  .  . done . 
xloadimage x error  ( integer parameter out of range for operation) on 0x0 
xloadimage x error  ( invalid window parameter ) on 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

this happens when your x server has run out of memory. you need 
more memory or you need to quit any un neccessary running clients. 

graeme gill .  . 

from (mike ressler ) 
subject stop this argument ! xv 3.00 is 24 bit !  ( was re oh make up your .  .  . ) . 
organization jet propulsion lab mid infrared camera project 
lines 13 
nntp posting host cougar . jpl . nasa . gov . 

stop ! stop ! stop ! stop ! this argument is getting silly ! xv 3.00 now handles 
24 bit images without them. all these arguments are moot , null , 
and void .  . please stop quibbling about a now obsolete version of the program. 

besides , you can now generate tons of about the new shareware 
licensing it uses instead ... 

mike 

mike infrared photon jockey 
... less science by dead guys ... 
ms dos 4 . 01 . ms dos 4 . 01 . windoze dr dos 6.0 os 2 2.0 linux x 
... finally getting something useful done with my pet 386 ... 

from  ( nikolaus e schuessler ) 
subject re i a  . bin . file from a unix machine now what 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 26 

in article  ( eliza strickler ) writes 
i just a  . bin . file from a unix machine which is 
supposed to be converted to a mac format. does anyone know 
what i need to do to this file to get it into any dos , mac 
or unix readable format. someone mentioned fetch on the unix 
machine is this correct could someone explain the  . bin . 
format a little 


this is almost certainly a file which is an encoded version 
of a mac file so the resource fork and data fork get preserved .  . 
you need a program that converts this to a regular file. if this is a 
file , you may have downloaded it in text mode and is probably 
corrupt  ( if you did) .  . if you 're using ftp to transfer it at any point make sure 
you type binary first. 

if you can open the file with a text editor and find 
 ( this file must be converted with bin .  .  .  .  . 
at the top , it is a binhex file and can be decoded with 
binhex 4.0  ( among other programs) .  . 



project vincent systems manager email 
iowa state university computation center voice (515) 294 
ames ia 50011 snail 291 durham 

from  ( brendan langoulant ) 
subject 3d input devices 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 9 
nntp posting host mackerel . gu . uwa . edu . au . 
keywords 3d , input , device 

greetings all , 
does anyone use some form of 3d input device i would like to hear any 
information on any systems that people are currently using .  .  .  . 

please email responses. i will summarise if i get some feedback. 


brendan 


from lightwave  ( lightwave 3d mail list administrator ) 
subject monthly lightwave mailing list faq 
lines 130 


mail list 

what is lightwave 

is part of a suite of programs that come bundled with a 
device called the toaster (from newtek , inc . ) . that operates on an 
amiga platform. the lightwave software  ( lightwave and 
lightwave modeler ) allows and artist to create three dimensional 
photo realistic images for a variety of purposes. 

why are we doing this 

this mailing list is for those interested in the lightwave software , how 
it operates and in ideas on how to obtain the best quality images 
available to them. the list is for those who own the toaster and 
lightwave as well as those just interested in what can be done with the 
package. we hope to share information , tips , procedures and to bond as 
a group. 

what are the rules 

since lightwave modeler are just a part of the newtek video toaster 
software , i'm sure we will discuss a few items related to the operation 
of the toaster .  . however , we will strive to keep the subject revolving 
specifically around the 3d software , related tools and products. 

you do not have to own a toaster to join this list ! 

ok ! how do i join 

to become a member of the mailing list you must send a mail 
message to the address 

lightwave 

in the body of the message enter 

subscribe lightwave l 

or just ask to be signed up and i will sign you up to the list. at this 
point in time the process is manual but i hope to get an automated 
script based system in place soon. there should n't be too much of a 
delay in joining .  . expect a welcome message within 5 days after you 
send your request. then , expect the mail to start flowing in ! 

how do i post to the list 

contributing to the list is simple. just mail your articles to the 
following address 



your article will be processed by the system and distributed to all 
others joined to the list. your articles will also be sent to you so 
you know that your article has made it to the list. however , those 
addresses that are either no good or no longer active will bounce back 
to you. so , if you post an article and another members address is no 
longer valid , your original article will be returned to you. this 
does n't mean it has n't been posted to the list. in fact , just the 
opposite is true. it means that your article was posted and that it 
could n't be sent to one or more of the members of the list due to a bad 
address. 

note i hope to have a fix for this behavior soon. 

how do i quit the list 

simply mail a request to be removed from the list to the same address 
you used to sign up 

lightwave 

in the body of the message enter 

unsubscribe lightwave l 

i will remove your name from the list of members. please , if you join 
the list and your account is going to be closed or if you will not be 
able to receive mail for a while , send a request to be removed from the 
list ! if you are just going to lose access for a short while still send 
a request for a suspension of your membership and i will suspend 
forwarding of the articles to you. 


what about old articles 

i am currently archiving all the articles posted to the list at the 
originating site  . however , i can not continue to do this due 
to lack of disk space. what we need is a volunteer that will maintain a 
compendium of articles sent to the list. they can compress and store 
them in archives on their system. they can then periodically post an 
index of the contents of the compendium and any other information that 
relates .  . 

if there are no volunteers then maybe someone can donate a large scsi 
hard drive to me for archival purposes. grin 

i have setup a mail based file server so that anyone interested in the 
list can obtain information as well as the entire archive of past 
articles , the membership listing and other information pertaining to 
the mailing list. for information on this service , please 
send a mail message to 



the first command to the server must be help or user name passwd . 

use help to request a current copy of the  . 
use user name passwd to connect to the service. 
use to get a short listing of all available commands .  . 



now what do i do 

well , sit back and enjoy the pouring out of information. if you have 
something to offer , please feel free to contribute that information to 
the list. every little bit helps. questions are welcomed ! it makes 
some of us feel important when we can answer them. grin 

if you have any questions or comments regarding the list , please contact 
me at the address 

lightwave 

cheers , 


bob lindabury 

from tgl  ( tom lane ) 
subject re vatican library 
summary here 's the info 
nntp posting host g . gp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 87 

reposted by request ... these images are great , but they are also large 
 ( 1500x1500 pixels is a typical size) .  . be warned. 

regards , tom lane 


from  ( roger squires ) 
newsgroups comp . archives . 
subject rec . arts . books . vatican library exhibit at library of congress online 
date 14 feb 1993 22 02 59 gmt 
x original newsgroups rec . arts . books . 
x original date 1 feb 1993 03 09 17 gmt 

archive name auto rec . arts . books . vatican library exhibit at library of congress online 


this is from another newsgroup looks quite interesting .  .  .  . 
rms 


announcing 
a new 
online exhibit 
from 
the library of congress 



rome reborn the vatican library renaissance culture 

an exhibit at the 
library of congress 
washington , dc 20540 

available by anonymous ftp from 
seq1 . loc . gov . 
(140 . 147 . 3 . 12) . 

pub vatican . exhibit . 



rome reborn the vatican library and renaissance culture 
presents some 200 of the vatican library 's most precious 
manuscripts , books , and maps many of which played a key role in 
the humanist recovery of the classical heritage of greece and 
rome .  . the exhibition presents the untold story of the vatican 
library as the intellectual driving force behind the emergence of 
rome as a political and scholarly during the 
renaissance .  . the exhibit will be on display in the jefferson 
building of the library of congress from january 8 , 1993 through 
april 30 , 1993. the online exhibit will be available by 
anonymous ftp indefinitely .  . 

the exhibit is divided into nine (9) sections the vatican 
library , archaeology , humanism , mathematics , music , medicine 
biology , nature described , a wider world i how the orient came 
to rome , and a wider world ii how rome went to china .  . each 
section consists of its own sub directory within the exhibit 
directory and contains the exhibit text for that section and 
separate jpeg image files for each object. this online exhibit 
includes not only objects from the library of congress exhibit , 
but also the alternate objects  ( brought from rome to be used if 
there were a problem with one of the primary objects ) and items 
omitted later in the planning process. 

this exhibit will be of interest to medieval and renaissance 
scholars in particular , but also to art historians , historians of 
science or medicine , early music scholars , students of the 
humanist movement , students of printing and the printed word , 
theologians , scholars of both far and near eastern studies , and 
to librarians and information professionals .  . please get the 
readme file for details on what files this exhibit contains .  . if 
you have questions about how to use ftp , speak to your local 
computer support person. if you have questions or comments about 
the content of the exhibit , please write to 
while if you have any questions or comments on the system please 
contact me. 

k . d .  . ellis 


k . d .  . ellis 
special projects office 
library of congress 
washington , dc 20540 9100 
internet 
