from  ( chad dougherty ) 
subject for xfree86 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 8 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 




chad dougherty tv sucks 
case western reserve univ. i know you 're upset right now , boy , 
so i 'll pretend you did n't say that ! ! 
homer simpson to bart 


from  ( gregory owen ) 
subject re sun 4 as x terminal 
in reply to 's message of wed , 12 may 1993 22 15 46 gmt 
organization tufts university department of computer science 
lines 19 


xkernel is available for sun 3 50s .  . is there a similar package available 


is this public domain if yes , where can one obtain a copy from 
yes , it is. it is available at ftp . ctr . columbia . edu . , probably 
in pub xkernel .  . 

in response to the earlier question , you could 
theoretically recompile xkernel on a sun4 .  . the binaries available are 
for the sun3 50 , but the author says it could be used on most 
architectures , and he does have a  do it yourself  type distribution .  . 

we use xkernel for about 7 machines here. email me if you 
have any questions i can help you with .  .  .  . 

greg owen , 
systems programmer and ta , tufts university computer science dept. 
personal info gcs go d p c l m m s g w w t r x 

from  ( atul parasnis ) 
subject dce rpc , threads , x motif clients 
organization cambridge technology partners 
lines 9 
nntp posting host luna . ctp . com . 


has anyone used dce threads with an x client 
is it possible to have one thread listening for incoming 
while another processes x events how do you set something 
like this up 
atul 




from (robert brodersen ) 
subject resolution , bitmapped fonts , device independence .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
organization oracle corporation , belmont , ca 
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 60 

i recently corrected the resolution on my sparcstation by changing 
usr lib x11 xdm xservers from 
0 local usr bin x11 x 0 ar1 500 dpi 100 
to 
0 local usr bin x11 x 0 ar1 500 dpi 85 

i determined that my 19 1152x900 monitor was 85 dpi by measuring the 
active screen area and dividing by resolution. 

however , this has caused my application fonts to behave strangely .  . 
after some research , i believe this is caused by my applications 
requesting fonts by family , weight , slant , and  . i believe 
that x is grabbing the first font on the path with these characteristics 
and displaying it. since i have only 75dpi and 100dpi fonts on my 
path , the results are inaccurate .  . i do have some speedo fonts , but 
not for the family i am using  . 

i think this is incorrect .  . the fonts should always be provided in the 
resolution of the display. this never seems to happen unless you 
explicitly request fonts by and ! this is true of both the 
and bitmapped fonts ! for instance , the command 

xfd fn ' bitstream charter 240 ' 

will invoke a 75dpi font  ( despite the fact that this is a speedo  . 

the command 

xfd fn ' adobe courier 240 ' 

will invoke a 75dpi font or a 100dpi font  ( depending on my font  . 
despite the fact that x knows my display is 85 dpi , and that it can 
generate an font for me ! unless i my applications specifies a 
resolution , x appears to pick a stupid default. 

is this a bug is it a feature if so , why is there anything i can 
do to get around this problem people have suggested that i lie about 
my resolution , and specify a single font path  ( 75 or 100 , not both) .  . 
this would at least make my app consistent , but i like being able to 
look at rulers that appear in my paint application and say yup , thats 
an inch . anyone have a set of bitmapped fonts i can use 

system info 
sun sparc 10 41 w 32 mb , sunos 4 . 1 . 3 .  . 

xdpyinfo 
version number 11.0 
vendor string mit x consortium 
vendor release number 5000 
screen 0 
dimensions 1152x900 pixels  ( 348x272 millimeters ) 
resolution dots per inch 

xset q font path 
usr lib x11 fonts misc , usr lib x11 fonts speedo , usr lib x11 fonts 100dpi , usr lib x11 fonts 75dpi 


thanks bob (415) 506 
applications architect , applications technology group , applications division 
oracle corporation , redwood shores , ca 94065 

from  ( lack mr g m) 
subject re xdm and env .  . vars 
organization the internet 
lines 18 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

in article sun , writes 
i am using xdm on x11r5 with and xview3 on and running 
sunos 4 . 1 . 1 .  . prior to using xdm , i used to set path and other environment 
variables  ( like , , arch , etc) in my  . login . file. with xdm , 
the  . login . file does n't get executed and therefore neither the olwm 
root window nor my applications know about these variables .  . 

you should try having a  . xsession . script in home to do these 
things. xdm will start up your process using the system version 
 ( usually usr lib x11 xdm xsession ) , which should check whether you have 
your won and change to that if you do.  ( take a copy of the system one 
and edit it) .  . 

note , that this file requires x access to be set. 

gordon lack 
the contents of this message may reflect my personal opinion. they are 
not intended to reflect those of my employer , or anyone else. 

from  ( henrik w. nielsen ) 
subject help. badmatch making 24bit win on 8bit server ! ! 
organization cci europe , research and development 
lines 72 



i'm trying to make a 24 bit window using xcreatewindow on a 8 bit 
pseudocolor server. as far as i know this should be possible if you 
server supports a truecolor or directcolor visual .  . i'm using a 
sun ipc with a card. 

running xdpyinfo gives 
... 
screen 0 
dimensions 1152x900 pixels  ( 352x275 millimeters ) 
resolution dots per inch 
depths (4) 1 , 5 , 8 , 24 
root window id 
depth of root window 8 planes 
number of colormaps minimum 1 , maximum 6 
default colormap 
... 
number of visuals 8 
default visual id 
... 
visual 
visual id 
class pseudocolor 
depth 8 planes 
size of colormap 256 entries 
red , green , blue masks 0x0 , 0x0 , 0x0 
significant bits in color specification 8 bits 
visual 
visual id 
class truecolor 
depth 24 planes 
size of colormap 256 entries 
red , green , blue masks 0xff , , 
significant bits in color specification 8 bits 
visual 
visual id 
class directcolor 
depth 24 planes 
size of colormap 256 entries 
red , green , blue masks 0xff , , 
significant bits in color specification 8 bits 


my code looks like this 

if  ( xopendisplay(null ) null ) 
 ( logexit(1 , cannot connect to x server s ,  ( xdisplayname(null ) 

xio . scr . use this screen 

if , xio . scr . , 24 , 
directcolor , 

memset( , 0 ,  ( sizeof(xsetwindowattributes ) 
xio . , , xio . , 
x , y , w , h , 0 , 24 , , 
, 0 , setwinattrib ) 



this results in a badmatch error. can anyone please tell me why 



henrik nielsen ii 
basic development cc cccc 
cci europe mail cc cc ii 
9 phone  ( 361 ) cc cccc ii 
dk ii 
denmark e u r o p e 


from (michael elbel ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization pcs computer systeme gmbh 
lines 54 

in  ( antonio freixas ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark a. davis ) writes 

oh boy have i wanted this too. however , i believe that the cursor will 
be under the server 's control  ( could be wrong) on an xterminal , for 
example , if the server was not the one controlling the cursor , then trying 
to get the xterm application to do the blinking would cause needless and 
yucky network overhead  . 



most people who write cursor blinking code just implement the simple case a 
straight  ( or so) on off cycle. however , the cursor will work much 
better if cursor blinking is suppressed (i . e .  . the cursor is made visible ) any 
time the cursor moves and for .5 to 1 sec thereafter .  . if you do n't do this , the 
cursor will be hard to track when in motion. 

you allways could port and use emu from export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib emu . tar . z .  . 
we 've implemented a blinking text cursor for the very reasons people mentioned. 
you can even configure the actual size of the text cursor  ( horizontal ver 
line cursors , smaller block cursors ) , turn on and off blinking , 
set the blink rate and so on. you even get blinking text ok , enough 
advertising .  . 

i have n't looked at the xterm code in this respect , but from the memories 
i have when we had to decide whether to start with xterm and make it do 
what we wanted  ( mostly the blinking text) , i 'd say it wo n't be easy , since 
xterm is a hairy mess  ( understandable if you follow it 's roots back to 
 . 

the actual task to get the cursor to blink is n't that difficult if you 
provide the right hooks .  . as antonio mentioned , you 'll have to show the 
cursor directly after it has moved , or people will become confused. 
since it 's a good idea to take the cursor off the screen when you 
do anything on screen anyways , this is n't very complicated. you 'll just 
have to start the blink process with the cursor showing directly after 
it 's mapped .  . 

as for the portability of emu and it 's newest version. the one on export 
is still the same as on the r5 contrib tape. we wanted to get out a new 
release for over six months now , but unfortunately we 're drowning in work. 
but since the changes are n't emu 's behavior much , i 'd say 
whoever wants to try emu should n't wait for a new version. 

as is , emu wo n't work on bsd derived systems (e . g .  . suns ) with anything else 
than a csh .  . there is a fix to this , which is very short  ( remove one line 
of code) .  . i 'll put this on export today. 

michael 

michael , digital pcs gmbh , muenchen , germany 
is nur fuer mia 
fermentation fault  ( coors dumped ) 

from (dean  ( ihg ) 
subject planet x 
nntp posting host gene . med . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 28 

does any one out there have experience with planet x , i am 
considering buying it to use on a sparcstation ipc , in this 
way i can run mac programs from the sparc .  . 

would you recommend buying this piece of software and what is 
the emulation on the sparc like does it give a window of a 
mac or does it give a window of just the individual programs 

any information would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks , 

dean 


institute of human genetics i 
university of minnesota i 
box 206 i if all you have is a hammer , 
harvard street at east river road i you tend to look at every 
minneapolis , mn 55455 i problem as a nail .  . 
i 
voice (612) 625 i 
fax (612) 626 i 
email i 





from  ( sergei naoumov ) 
subject twm 
nntp posting host augustus . physics . unc . edu . 
organization dept. of physics and astronomy , univ. north .  . carolina at chapel hill 
lines 9 

hey guys ! 
i run twm and would like to execute some program before leaving twm .  . in other 
words i would like to run some program before i do f . quit .  . is it possible 
to make a menu section which would contain these two parts 

thanks in advance , 
serge 



from paderborn . de .  ( markus koch ) 
subject x and motif config file for hp ux 8.0 
organization uni gh paderborn , germany 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host uni . paderborn . de . 


hello everybody out there ! 

i'm trying to compile and motif 1.2.1 on a hp running 
hp ux 8 . 05 .  . but it' seems to be not very succesful , because 
i have only hp . cf . config files for hp ux 7 . 0 .  . 

i tried standard cc and x was compiled with a lot of warnings .  . 
the motif applications are compiled quite well , but they wo n't run. 
i receive the error which is reported in faq , but 
i cannot fix it. the file is at the right location and it 
works fine under sunos .  . 
probably i have started the compilation only with a wrong 
config file. 

please help me ! 

thanx in advance 
markus 


markus koch gh paderborn 
email paderborn . de . 
phone 49 60 str .  . 100 
49 60 3318 paderborn , germany 




markus koch gh paderborn 
email paderborn . de . str .  . 100 
phone 49 60 paderborn , germany 


from (d 2) 
subject xwd and color 
reply to (d 2) 
organization plymouth state college 
lines 6 

anyone able to get xwd to dump anything that is not black white 

my text is not black .  .  .  . all . i get is window borders .  . i tried the xy 
option only because i did n't know what it did .  .  .  .  . still . no effect. 

any help on this matter would be greatly appreciated. 

from (j .  . scott farrow ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
nntp posting host fido . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 39 

 ( mark a. davis ) writes 

 ( mark wilkinson ext 3443 ) writes 

... 

but your performance will suck lemons running an xserver on a clone .  . 
(from experience) .  . you would be much better off with an xterminal if this 
is a new install. the performance will be at least four times better. 
in addition it would be much easier to install and use. on top of that 
they will cost about the same  ( price a clone with 4mb ram , ethernet card , 
very high performance graphics card , good monitor , server software , tcp ip 
for clone software , mouse , keyboard , etc , etc , etc .  .  .  .  . you spend a whole 
lot of ) .  . 

i can get 15 tektronix terminals for under 900 , and the performance 
is over 80000  .  .  .  .  . 


mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


i think your performance will depend upon the x server. 

i'm running linux and xfree86 on a 33mhz with 4mb of ram  ( 8mb swap ) and 
it runs just fine. its a lot better than some of the crappy old 
in the labs at school anyway. 

you could probably outfit a 386sx with a minimal linux x setup for 900 
and be better off than with an xterminal .  . imho .  . 


scott 


j. scott farrow student sysadmin programmer , university of colorado 
computing network services , boulder , colorado , usa , phone  ( 303)492 ) 
internet linux users do it for free 

from  ( jim wight ) 
subject re menubutton widget question 
organization the internet 
lines 24 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

scott evans server . cs . virginia . edu . writes 
i'm trying to create a button that has both a label and a bitmap using 
the menubutton widget .  . is this possible right now , all i get is the 
bitmap no sign of the label. 

that 's expected. the first sentence describing the bitmap resource in the 
menubutton section of the athena widget set c language interface 
documentation states 

bitmap a bitmap to display instead of the label. 

one way round this might be to make use of the button 's 
resource , but remember that you , or a user of your application , wo n't be able 
to set it from a resource file. also , the button wo n't automatically be the 
size of the bitmap .  . the bitmap will be tiled if necessary , or you could set the 
button 's dimensions to match its size. 

jim 


department of computing science , university of newcastle , tel 44 91 222 8238 
newcastle upon tyne , ne1 7ru , united kingdom .  . fax 44 91 222 



from  ( dave wilson ) 
subject open look where 
organization rhodes university , , south africa 
lines 9 

where can i obtain a copy of the open look widgets is it obtainable on 
the net somewhere , or do i need to order a copy  ( if so , how) 

thanks for any help. please email. 


dave wilson 
computing centre , rhodes university 
, south africa 

from (michael elbel ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization pcs computer systeme gmbh 
lines 48 

in bedfellow . mit . edu . writes 

on fri , 14 may 1993 07 15 25 gmt , (michael 
elbel ) said 

me as is , emu wo n't work on bsd derived systems (e . g .  . suns ) with 
me anything else than a csh .  . there is a fix to this , which is very 
me short  ( remove one line of code) .  . i 'll put this on export today. 

it 's more than that actually. in the version on export one cannot just 
specify a posix tty behaviour , the posix config files are incomplete 
without those of some specific platforms like suns and  . i looked 
twice at porting emu to linux , but stopped short becuse of the tty 
part. is there a  version of emu that supports posix tty 
explicitly 

hmm , depends on how you define  . jordan implemented the system 
dependent stuff in a way that you have basic implementations for , 
call it , operating system types , then you go ahead and write a include 
file for your specific machine or operating system using the basic 
implementations .  . since both jordan and i have n't encountered a 
os flavor yet , that is fully posix , we have n't gotten around to 
really implement  ( and test) a top level include file specifically 
for just posix .  . the posix routines are used in the sun specific file 
tty sun . i . for example , but here we also use some bsd stuff. all in all 
it still is probably better to implement a include file for each and 
every operating system than ' ifdef ing in existing ones. the type 
of mess that can result from that can clearly be seen in the xterm 
sources. even if quite a bit of code gets copied almost unchanged a 
couple of times , this only uses up some disk space , since only the 
drivers actually included from the toplevel include file will be 
compiled into emu .  . 

it should n't be hard to come up with a tty linux . i . file that fully 
relies on the posix stuff , but unfortunately i do n't have a linux 
system available to me , so i ca n't do the port myself. i would suggest 
you read the readme in term and if you have any problems or 
questions , contact me and we could try to sort this out. unfortunately 
we have to rely on help from the net on this part of emu , since we 
just do n't have access to that many different systems. 

michael 



michael , digital pcs gmbh , muenchen , germany 
is nur fuer mia 
fermentation fault  ( coors dumped ) 

from (ronald van loon ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization university of utrecht , 3d computer vision research group 
lines 25 

in  ( christophe muller ) writes 


it is interesting to look at the  ( change(s ) of mind that john has had. 

very interested indeed ! this is against this kind of changes that the gnu 
copyleft is protecting us. 

anyway , at , we will abandon xv. we were using it mostly for slide 
shows because of its loop feature that display does not have  ( display 
from the wonderful imagemagick package ! d ) , but i think i will implement 
it myself  ( even a shell script should do the job) and forget xv. 

cheers , 
christophe .  . 


are you the police no ma'am , we 're musicians .  . 

just use xloadimage instead  ( or  . 

ronald van loon in theory , there is no difference 
between theory and practice. 
group , utrecht 
the netherlands in practice however , there is. 

from (john sigler ) 
subject pixmap standard 
nntp posting host ti . com . 
organization development , texas instruments inc. , plano texas 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at texas instruments inc. 
the opinions expressed within are those of the user and not 
necessarily those of texas instruments .  . 

lines 20 


our group is interested in using a  pixmap  format for multi colored 
icons buttons etc that is easily converted to and from other format from 
 resource  files. using pbmplus we can easily move to from xpm to our other 
environments of ms windows and os 2 pm ( .  . we were wondering if xpm or some 
other format is under consideration to be used as a standard by the x 
consortium for r6 as we would prefer to use whatever will be best supported by 
x. 

along the same subject line , is the reason the standard x pixmap is not used 
because it does n't have an associated colormap and other attributes or is it 
more involved just wondering why there are n't editors for pixmaps out there 
for the  original  format. 

email replies preferred .  . thanks in advance. 

john 
texas instruments 
email 
standard disclaimers go here. 

from (mr .  . blue) 
subject some rookie questions 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 27 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

im new to xlib programming .  . im having a problem i hope someone here can 
help me with. i create a window , and i want it to have some background color , 
say red , and draw an oval in it. further , when i resize the window , i want 
to be able to redraw the image so that is fills the new window  ( whether it 
is larger or smaller . ) . im using on an rs6000 .  . 

my problem is this when i resize the window , only the original part of the 
window that was part of the window creation gets drawn into. everything else 
is a grey .  . the . oval tries to redraw itself but gets clipped .  . i can see that 
it would be the right size if i could see all of it , but it only shows up in 
the region that was the original size of the window when created. 

for example , i start out the window at in width and height. if i 
resize it to , the only part that has any color drawn into it is 
is from the origin out to  . the . rest is grey .  . further the oval 
only shows up in that area. 

what am i doing wrong how can i get a window to resize and redraw a 
re scaled image in it to take up the full size of the window 

second question 
could someone tell me what xaw and xmu are 

thanks , 
chris 



from  ( technical support) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
organization quarterdeck office systems , santa monica ca 
lines 30 

in article wilkinson writes 
hi all , 
this is the first time i 've posted to the net , so i hope this is 
going to the right people. 
i'm looking for software packages that run on an ibm pc clone that 
allows me to display openlook and motif windows on the pc. 
the idea is to use the pc as a cheap x windows terminal for use by 
process engineers at work. 

may i humbly suggest x  ( of course , i'm biased .  .  . ) . 

x is a multitasker for dos computers , that uses a standard 
x11r4 server as it 's display mechanism .  . dos applications and microsoft 
windows standard mode are converted on the fly to x protocol , allowing 
you to display them , or any r4 compatable x program from any machine 
on the net to display to the pc 's local display  ( or to any other display 
on the net) .  . 

free tools are available for devloping x applications for the dvx platform 
many x programs have been ported between dvx and unix with little or 
no modifications .  .  ( often , you only need to create a new makefile ! ) 

if you 're interested in more details , you can check out the usenet group 
comp . os . msdos . , or just email me directly at , 
and i 'd be happy to fill you in. 

quarterdeck office systems internet support tom 
pricing ordering tech questions 
bbs (310) 314 3227 fax (310) 314 3217 compuserve go quarterdeck 
anonymous ftp com . 17 . 8 . 10) . , leave your email address as password 

from  ( greg earle ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization personal usenet site , tujunga , ca usa 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host isolar . tujunga . ca . us . 
summary 
keywords cursor 

in article writes 
does anyone have any ideas that may be implemented to help prevent users from 
losing sight of the cursor in an xterm window under certain circumstances where 
there are many screen based fields .  . 

what i would like to do is make the cursor flash on or off , but so far have n't 
found a way of doing so. has anybody else had similar problems or fixes to 
make a cursor stand out more than the standard type. 

users ca n't find the cursor run it 'll turn the cursor into a 
mouse  ( rodent variety ( ) .  . if your users still ca n't find it , the cat will ! 


greg earle 
phone (818) 353 8695 fax (818) 353 1877 
internet 
uucp isolar ! a.k.a. ... ! elroy ! isolar ! earle 

from  ( tanya adamsson ) 
subject help ! 
organization the internet 
lines 15 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

i am just beginning to try using the athena toolkit and am having some problems 
getting started. i think that some files are missing on the system , but there is 
the possibility that they are just in a different directory. when i try to link 
my program it ca n't find , , , 
xtcreatemanagedwidget , or  . i 've included intrinsic . h . and 
command . h .  . i also had a problem on compile with but replaced that with 
a null in order to compile and see if there were any other problems. i have n't 
used a toolkit before and this is simply an example i got from the manuel .  . can 
someone tell me where i might look for these calls , that is , in what file not what 
directory they are supposed to be under because the system manager does n't believe 
in standard directories and generally does things his own way. (i am using unix) 

thank you for your assistance. 

t. j. 

from  ( amir j. katz ) 
subject xv 3.0 author is on vacation till may 10 or so 
organization see technologies ltd. 
lines 9 
reply to 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to  ( xpert list) 

for all those people flaming john bradley , the author of xv he 's on 
vacation till may 10  ( or 15 , i do n't remember) .  . maybe we all should slow 
down and wait to hear his side wrt copyrights , fees , etc. 


amir j. katz  ( or ingr ! ! amir ) 
system specialist voice 972 52 
see technologies ltd. fax 972 52 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . to boldly go where no one has hacked before  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from (andrew e page ) 
subject encyclopedia directory of widgets 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 12 

is there such a document either in the bookstores or possible 
on an ftp site somewhere nothing really fancy , just something 
that gives a listing of the available widgets , and the resources 
that are to them , and what flavors of motif they 
occur in. 




andrew e. page  ( warrior poet ) decision and effort the archer and arrow 
mac consultant the difference between what we are 
macintosh and dsp technology and what we want to be. 

from (s .  . sridhar ) 
subject re tvtwm icon manager 
organization unisys open systems group , san jose 
lines 22 

in article , (s .  . sridhar ) writes 
keywords tvtwm icon manager 

need help on resource bindings for tvtwm .  . here 's what i 'd like to 
see the icon manager do. 

say i iconify a window and this shows up on the icon list. now when i 
pan into another section of the virtual desktop and try to 
the window that i (sp ) earlier , i 'd like this window to 
in the current region. 

any resources that i can use to do this or more important , can i 
do this rather find it painful to remember where i iconified a 
window , go back there and  . or simply , it is a pain to 
pan around to get to a window. 

thanks , 




just opened up the distribution .  . 

from  ( jim wight ) 
subject re button 3 popup menus with athena widgets 
organization the internet 
lines 42 
to 
cc 

ok , i'm being driven batty .  . 

trying to create popup menus (ie .  . press , and a menu 
 . i would really like to use the standard athena 
classes to achieve this goal , but for my best attempts 
i cannot get the menus to come up without using a menubutton 
as the parent of the widget tree. i know this should be 
possible to to with an  ( xtpopupspringloaded( ) and a 
little twiddling , but something is escaping me. 

read the documentation for the (4 . 2 . 3 . positioning the  . 
the reference is to the r5 documentation .  . 

i had not done this before but in less than 10 mins i knocked up the following 
wcl application that does what you want using a command widget .  . even if you are 
not familiar with wcl the example is so simple it should be pretty obvious what 
is going on. the crucial thing is the use of the and 
actions .  . 


ari . app 

app . command 
app . menu 
app . translations . override n 
 ( xawpositionsimplemenu(menu )  ( menupopup(menu ) 

menu . 
menu . one , two , three 

one . 

two . 

three . 


jim 


department of computing science , university of newcastle , tel 44 91 222 8238 
newcastle upon tyne , ne1 7ru , united kingdom .  . fax 44 91 222 

from  ( jim wight ) 
subject axe 5.0 is available 
organization the internet 
lines 89 
reply to 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

i have placed a new release of my axe editor in axe 5 . 0 . tar . z . on 
export . lcs . mit . edu . (18 . 24 . 0 . 12) . and arjuna . ac . uk . (128 . 240 . 150 . 1) .  . 

the significant change this time , and the justification for the hike 
in the major version number , is 

o undo has been implemented .  . 

by default only the last change can be undone , but a resource is 
provided to allow the user to specify how many , including unlimited , 
levels of undo information should be kept .  . also , undo of undo is 
supported .  . 

there is no truth in the rumour that the next version will be 19 ) 



for those who have not encountered axe before here is a summary of 
what it is all about 

axe is a simple to use text editor for x that represents a significant 
improvement over  . also built around the athena text widget it 
features , amongst other things , 

o multiple windows 
o multiple buffers 
o default menu interface 
o optional button interface , with choice and layout of buttons 
under user control 
o for expert use and access to external filters 
o provision for defining a keyboard macro 
o geometry specification and resizing in terms of characters 
o file selection via a browser 
o knowledge of line numbers 
o parenthesis matching 
o regular expression searching 
o restricted or unlimited undo 
o ability to change font 
o easy entry of control codes 
o xterm like keymap feature 
o easy runtime setting of selected preferences  ( resources ) 
o both brief and comprehensive on line help 
o server mode with cooperating client programs 
o optional extension language using tcl 
o optional xaw3d widget set compatability 
o collection of reusable widgets that the functionality of axe 

i have personally built and run core axe , i.e. without the tcl and 
xaw3d options , on the following systems 

sun sparc sunos 4 . 1 . x . mit x11r5 
sun sparc sunos 5.1 mit x11r5 
encore 4.3 mit x11r5 
dec 5000 120 ultrix 4.2 mit x11r5 
hp 9000 710 hp ux 8.07 mit x11r5 
mac iici au x 3.0 mit x11r5 

but not all have been subject to the same level of testing. i have 
only tested the tcl and xaw3d options on the first. 

a number of ' ifdef sysv  isms that have been fed back to me have been 
incorporated into the code and a possible replacement is 
provided for those systems that do not have one. 

although axe will probably build under r4 run time problems have been 
encountered in the past. i have not bothered to try this version under 
r4 , and have not put any effort into solving previously known 
problems. therefore , if you are at r4 you very much take pot luck. if 
it does n't work the only alternative is to try the last release , 
2.1.1 , of version 2 which should still be around. it does n't have as 
many features and uses the widget creation library  . not only 
that , it requires an old version of wcl , 1.06 or 1 . 05 .  . version 3 of 
axe was nearing completion when version 2 of wcl came out so axe 2 
never got converted to make use of it. 

axe is available by anonymous ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . (18 . 24 . 0 . 12) . 
and arjuna . ac . uk . (128 . 240 . 150 . 1) . initially , and probably in due 
course from several other ftp sites. check your nearest using 
 . 

if you ca n't ftp , try sending email to with the 
word help alone in your message body. you will receive instructions 
on how to ftp via email. 

jim 


department of computing science , university of newcastle , tel 44 91 222 8238 
newcastle upon tyne , ne1 7ru , united kingdom .  . fax 44 91 222 

from  ( liam r. e. quin ) 
subject open look gui frequently asked questions 
organization inc. , toronto , canada 
expires 10 jun 1993 06 02 12 gmt 
lines 1231 


frequently asked questions about the open look graphical user interface. 

if your question is n't here , please try (at least ) 
man openwin 
man 
man 7 xview 
and looking in the appropriate manuals listed in the bibliography below 
before posting to the comp . windows . open . look , comp . windows . x . or 
alt . toolkits . xview . newsgroups and or their corresponding mailing lists. 

special notes 
i have not updated this faq for the recently announced openwindows 4 , 
due to ship later this year. 
yes , sun is moving to motif , along with all of cose .  . but the motif to 
which they move will be a new motif , with some of the open look ui 
features added. 
yes , openwindows 4 will use dps instead of news. news is dead. 
this means tnt is dead , too. 
xview and olit will be supported , but probably not enhanced after the 
next release. i do n't know if there will be a source release of 
xview 3.1 or not. 
the cose environment will include at least some of sun 's , 
ported to motif .  . look for calendar manager and , at least. 
yes , the new will be mime compliant .  . 

frequently asked questions for x11 are posted to comp . windows . x . monthly .  . 

this is version revision 1 . 48 . last posted version 1.46 

contents  ( in rn and trn you can use control g to go to the next topic ) 

subject terminology open look , openwindows , x11 , xview ,  ( mo)olit ) , motif 
subject window managers olwm , olvwm 
subject openwindows , terminals , and other displays 
subject configuration files getting started with openwindows 
subject key bindings , cut and paste 
subject applications finding out .  .  .  . 
subject , calendar manager , etc. 
subject trouble shooting strange error messages 
subject trouble shooting it wo n't let me type 
subject trouble shooting not authorized to use display 
subject trouble shooting other common problems 
subject trouble shooting xview problems 
subject fonts 
subject environment variables 
subject where can i get it ftp , implementations , etc .  .  .  . 
subject bibliography books , manuals , journals , papers , beer mats 
subject getting this file , revision history , recent changes 


subject terminology open look , openwindows , x11 , xview , olit , , motif 

@ what is open look 
open look is a specification of a graphical user interface  . 
a gui determines the and feel' of a system the shape of 
windows , buttons and scroll bars , how you resize things , how you 
edit files , etc. 

the open look gui is specified , developed and maintained jointly by 
sun microsystems and at t  ( or usl ) .  . 

see also 
bibliography 

@ what is openwindows 
openwindows is a windowing environment that conforms to the open look 
graphical user interface specifications .  . it 's compatible with the 
x11 window system from mit as well as  ( currently ) sun 's news and sunview , 
so you can programs written for any of those systems. 
it comes from sun and also with system v release 4 from certain vendors .  . 
openwindows is sometimes also called openwin or , after the 
program used to start it and the main executable itself , respectively .  . 
it should not be called  or  open look  or  , as 
these terms are either wrong or apply to something else. 
a commerical openwindows source licence costs about 5 , 000 for the server , 
plus about 25 , 000 for , and another 40 , 000 for tooltalk .  . 
the current versions of openwindows for various platforms are 
sunos 4.1.1 on sun 3 2.0 
solaris 1 . x .  ( sunos 4 . 1 . x) . on sparc 3.0 
solaris 2.0  ( sunos 5) on sparc 3.0.1 

see also 
mixing x11 and openwindows 
where can i get it 

@ what are olit , xview and tnt 
these are all toolkits for programmers to use in developing programs 
that conform to the open look specifications .  . see the bibliography 
for documentation on the individual toolkits .  . here 's a brief summary 

olit was at t 's open look intrinsics toolkit for the x window system 
it used a widget set , and was probably the easiest for people who were 
already x11 xt programmers to learn. you could buy the source from at t , 
although you did n't get the same version tht sun ship. sun includes the 
olit library in openwindows (q . v . ) . it is also often included in 
system v release 4. it was written in c. the release of olit in 
openwindows 3.0 was olit 3 . 0 .  . olit support passed to usl  ( then a 
division of at t , now owned by novell ) , who replaced it with (q . v . ) .  . 
note that because of the nature of xt , you will probably 
want or need olit source in order to develop a large application or 
anything else that uses  . 
see the proceedings of the 1991 x technical conference 

xview is sun 's toolkit for x11 , written in c. xview is similar in 
programmer interface to sunview .  . there 's even a shell script to help 
migrate source code from sunview to xview .  . xview is often said to be 
the easiest toolkit to learn if you are not familiar with x windows. 
the xview toolkit is included in openwindows , and full source is 
available by anonymous ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu .  ( and  . 
the current version of xview from sun is 3 . 0 .  . 
despite rumours to the contrary some even from within sun the 
xview toolkit is not about to be dropped by sun. xview will be 
included in the next release of openwindows , unlike news. 
on the other hand , the xview toolkit is not likely to receive as much 
attention from sun in the future as olit .  . 

the news toolkit  ( tnt ) was an object oriented programming system based 
on the postscript language and news. tnt implements many of the 
open look interface components required to build the user interface of 
an application. it 's currently included in openwindows .  . 

the current version of tnt from sun is 3.1 release 3 contains some 
incompatibilities with  1.0 and tnt 2.0 , but sun are committed to 
supporting the api , at least until they stop news support some time 
later this year and replace it with display postscript .  . wail .  . 
you might ask what committed to' means in this context the 
answer seems to be that it means absolutely nothing. 
sun currently asserts that it is committed to olit , however. 

the c user interface toolkit  ( uit ) consists of an object oriented c 
class library layered on top of xview and a tool to generate code from 
devguide 3 gil files. the uit also includes features that simplify 
event management and the use of postscript and color. it is said to be 
compatible with openwindows v2 and v3 , and presumably v3 . 0 . 1 . , since the 
release mentions that it works on solaris 2. 
uit is not an official sun supported product but an ongoing project of 
various people within sun. it can be found on export . lcs . mit . edu . in 
the mit contrib directory as tar . z .  ( use binary mode ! ) .  . 

@ where does motif fit in 
it does n't ) .  . motif is an alternative graphical user interface that 
is being developed by osf .  . it has a and feel' reminiscent of 
microsoft windows and the os 2 presentation manager. there are no non 
commercial motif toolkits available , although the motif source is sold 
reasonably cheaply by osf .  . although motif is currently available on 
more platforms than openwindows , the open look gui is almost certainly 
used on many more machines , simply because sun  ( and sysvr4 ) have such a 
large installed base. 
sun 's cd ware volume 2 contains a roadmap for improving motif 
applications by converting them to olit ) there are also notes in 
the table  olit demo , demo  . 

@ what is 
is a version of olit from at t usl that lets users choose between 
a motif and an open look ui feel at run time. it will be part of system v 
release 4 . 2 .  . 
contact joanne , , (908) 522 6677 

@ what about that display postscript thing 
sun and adobe have agreed that sun will include the dps extension to x 
in the next release of openwindows .  . dps is essentially a badly designed 
hack on top of a slow level 2 postscript interpreter intended to give a 
very small subset of the functionality of news whilst simultaneously 
being harder to use , as i understand it. the only real advantage it 
has over news is that the manual is much smaller , being generally less 
complete dps is also available on more kinds of machine. 
performance on our rs 6000 is not suitable for interactive work 
what it will be like on the sparcstation remains to be seen. 
note that whereas x news fonts are shared by both subsystems , the dps 
extension to x does not make type 1 postscript fonts available to 
ordinary x11 programs. it is not like atm on a pc in this regard .  . 
 ( there is at least one third party version which does make fonts 
available , however) 

subject window managers olwm , olvwm 

@ what are olwm and olvwm 
they are window managers .  . a window manager is the part of the x window 
system (e . g .  . x11 ) that is responsible for deciding how to lay out windows 
on the screen , and for managing the user 's interaction with the windows. 

olwm is the standard open look window manager. 
it 's included with all of the openwindows (q . v . ) . implementations , and 
you can also get the source by ftp , since sun donated it. 

olvwm is a version of olwm that manages a desktop   ( hence the 
 in its name) .  . it shows a little map on the screen , with the 
currently displayed area represented by a little rectangle .  . you can 
move around by dragging the rectangle or with the arrow keys. this 
lets you run several clients  ( applications ) and move the display around 
from one to the other. olvwm was derived from the openwindows 3.0 olwm 
by scott oaks you need to have xview 3.0 to compile it. 
get olvwm from an ftp site such as export . lcs . mit . edu .  ( in the contrib 
directory there are three  . 

@ can i use my favorite window manager with openwindows instead of olwm 
yes. if you use twm , for example , or mwm , you wo n't be able to use 
the pin and feature of olwm , and you  ( probably ) wo n't see the 
footers some windows use to display certain messages. 

if you use twm , you 'll want to use the f . delete . function to menus 
and get rid of programs that do n't have a  button when not run 
under olwm .  . 
for twm , put this in your home  . twmrc . 
target f . delete . 
where target is a icon from usr include x11 bitmaps .  . 
alternatively , try 
add a menu to each window managed by twm or tvtwm 
menu f . menu . ol . menu . 

menu ol . menu . 
quit f . delete . 


for mwm , you can double click on the menu icon on the left of the title 
bar to dismiss a pop up window (i am  . 

see the manual page for your window manager  ( twm , etc) .  . 

subject openwindows , terminals , and other displays 

@ can i use olwm and olvwm without openwindows or on an x terminal 
the openwindows server combines sunview , news (postscript) and x11 .  . 
this means that it can run programs compiled for any of those systems. 
unfortunately , it means that some openwindows programs need either news 
or sunview support , and thus wo n't run on an x terminal .  . this includes 
pageview in particular .  . 

you can use olwm or olvwm  ( see above) on an x terminal or a non open 
windows display , and most open look clients (e . g .  . olit or xview ones) 
will work perfectly well. you may find that you get complaints about 
fonts not being found. if so , see the fonts section below. 
if you are running the window manager built in to an ncd terminal , you 
may have problems with input focus setting input true in the terminal 's 
file in usr lib x11 xdm may or may not help. 


subject configuration files getting started with openwindows 

@ what configuration files do i need to know about 

 . xinitrc . and  . 

the first time you run openwindows , a  . xinitrc . file will be created in 
your login directory ( home) .  . if it already exists , you might have to 
edit it somewhat it 's simplest to move it and any other old x11 files 
you have to another directory , and then merge the old and new files. 

if your site uses xdm , you should use  . xsession . instead of  . xinitrc . , 
since xdm does n't look at your  . xinitrc . file. 

 . openwin . init ,  . openwin . menu and  . openwin . sys 

these are optional files you can create in your home directory , 
depending on which version of olwm or olvwm you use. 
look in lib  ( normally usr openwin lib ) for these files 
without the leading . and copy any you want to change. you may need 
to edit your  . xinitrc . to get them recognized .  . if you are not on an 
x terminal , you will want to run a console window  ( such as c , 
c , xterm c) or chuck 's program so that 
system output will be directed there instead of writing over your screen. 
note that  . openwin . sys is not executed unless you edit  . xinitrc .  . 

 . xdefaults . 

you can put x windows resource specifications in here. in particular , 
it is a good idea to include at least 
openwindows . focuslenience . true 
input true 
these allow non icccm compliant programs to receive input even if they 
forget to ask for it. 

props , the program that runs when you select  from the default 
root menu under olwm or olvwm , writes your choices into  . xdefaults .  . 
do n't put comments in  . xdefaults . , since  them. 

 . startup . ps . 

this is the news user profile file , read by openwindows  ( actually xnews ) 
on startup .  . this is documented in the news programming manual , near the 
back. the most useful thing to put here is postscript code to change 
the keyboard repeat rate , although you must be very careful , since a 
syntax error in the postscript means that will either not start up 
at all or will get broken in strange ways. the news manual gives code 
that is both incorrect and insufficient .  . 
warning things in this file rarely work on both openwindows 2 and 3. 

note that the mouse speed is best set in your  . xinitrc . with xset m see 
the man page for xset ( man xset , and xset help ) for more information. 

here 's what home  . startup . ps . should look like if you want a delay of 
about a third of a second  ( 300000 microseconds ) , and a repeat rate of 
twenty or so keys per second  ( 30000 microseconds between repeats ) for 
openwindows 3. you 'll have to experiment a bit because the 
is the delay between keys sent , and thus does n't include the time to 
process each key , which is probably higher on my 4 110 than on your 
10 51 gti injection ) again , this is for openwindows 3 .  .  .  . 

do n't want the demos see p. xxxii of news toolkit reference manual 
false def 

begin 
0 def 
0 30000 def 
note and 30000 differ greatly .  .  .  . 
end 

you must also have a  . user . ps . file in the same directory , like this 

news 3 0 
3 0 
tnt 3 0 

pop force repeat . ps . to 



if you change these parameters , you can test them without restarting the 
openwindows server like this 
i  . startup . ps . 
welcome to x11 news version3 
i 
welcome to x11 news version3 
send 
now press control d 

you can also either of these two files ( . startup . ps . and  . user . to make 
the root window be retained , so that a postscript drawing on the 
background wo n't be erased when you move windows 
retained true put 
will do this. note that this may increase the amount of memory used 
by the news server (xnews) dramatically .  . 

see also 
trouble shooting it wo n't let me type 
trouble shooting is there an easy way to edit xdefaults 
environment variables 

@ how can i configure open look for a left handed mouse and keyboard 
you can use xmodmap to change the mouse buttons , but be prepared for one 
or two occasional surprises .  . see also man 7 xview for a list of 
you can change , at least for xview programs. 

with openwindows 2.0 , you can use to set the mouse mappings 
and then let sunview handle them. the status returned by should 
tell you whether your server is running under sunview or not put this 
in your  . xinitrc . 

if eval 
then 
xmodmap e pointer 1 2 3 
input from defaults 
else 
xmodmap e pointer 3 2 1 
fi 


@ how can i get the screen to go blank when the system is idle 

run from etc rc.local if you can it 's a boring but 
effective screen saver .  . see  . 
under solaris 2 you 'll need to copy from an older system , as 
it 's not supplied. then add a new file in etc rc2 . d . to make the system 
run automatically .  . 

subject key bindings , cut and paste 

@ how do i cut and paste between xterm and openwindows programs 

to go from xterm to textedit  ( say ) 
select the text you want to copy by dragging the select mouse button 
in xterm 
press copy in the xterm  ( this key is l6 , or meta c (the o'reilly 
xview manual gets this wrong) 
move to the textedit window , and press paste  ( l8 or meta v ) 

if this does n't work , see trouble shooting cut and paste 

to go the other way , from textedit to xterm 
select the text in textedit .  . no need to use copy 
move to the xterm window and press adjust (the middle mouse button) .  . 
you can also use the copy cut and paste buttons. 

@ copy paste is boring. what short cuts are available 

quick copy within textedit , , etc 
click select to get a text caret where you want the copied text to go 
press and hold down the paste  ( or cut ) button 
select the text you want to copy move. you 'll see that it 's underlined 
or crossed out , as appropriate.  ( in the jed demo it goes grey ) 
let go of the paste  ( or cut ) button. 
the text you underlined or crossed out appears at the insert caret .  . 

drag and drop to move a selection 
select the text you want to copy or move , by dragging or multiple 
clicking the select or adjust mouse button 
put the mouse pointer anywhere within the selection 
press and hold down down the select mouse button , and move the mouse 
pointer a little to the right you 'll see the cursor changes to be the 
first 3 letters of the text  ( or some other icon) .  . 
still holding select down , move the mouse over the point where you want 
to drop the text 
you may see the mouse pointer change to a rifle sight or target , to show 
that it 's ok to drop things here 
let go of select , and the text is moved .  . this works in text fields of 
dialogue boxes as well as in text subwindows .  . 

drag and drop to copy a selection 
this is the same as using drag and drop to move a selection , except that 
you must hold the control key down as well as the select mouse button. 

@ what are the default key bindings in textedit and elsewhere 

see the man page for  ( textedit(1 ) for some of them. 
in general , the editing moving commands go in the opposite direction when 
shifted e.g. ctrl w a word , and ctrl w the word to the 
right of the insert point. 

meta i include file meta f find selection  ( forward backward ) 

ctrl a start of line ctrl back word 
ctrl e end of line ctrl forward word 
ctrl w delete word ctrl u delete to start end of line 
ctrl return move to end start of document 

see the o'reilly xview reference manual for a list of some of the default 
keys see also the olwm or olvwm manual page. 

@ what can i put in my  . where is it documented 

see the manual page for  . 

subject applications finding out .  .  .  . 
contact sunsoft  ( or sun) and ask for the catalyst open look guide , 
which lists over 200 pages of applications , and also the huge 
catalyst listing of products for suns , updated six monthly .  . 

sun 's free cd roms each contain demo versions of several popular 
open look applications. often you can simply contact the vendor 
concerned to have the license upgraded from demo , and receive the full 
product documentation .  . 

produces a cd rom for users , printer 's , which 
contains drivers for a variety of printers and plotters , as 
well as 600 fonts that you can license. 

there is a separate faq posting in comp . windows . open . look that lists 
a number of free and commercial mail for a 
copy , including open look ui application list in the subject for a 
faster reply. 

subject , , calendar manager , etc. 

@ is there a tty based interface to cm  ( calendar manager ) 
yes , cm delete , cm insert and cm lookup these all have manual pages. 
if man cm delete does n't work or gives strange messages , see under 
trouble shooting strange error messages , below. 

@ how can i arrange to have my  . signature . included in my outgoing mail 
the best way is 
cd 
cp usr lib  . . 
chmod w  . 
edit  .  ( use vi , textedit , or whatever you prefer ) 
add the 
key  ( right(3 ) filter 
cat  . signature . 
 ( you might need to change to home) 

now pressing r3 will insert your  . signature . file. 



subject fonts 

@ does openwindows support type 1 postscript fonts 
yes , under either solaris 2.0 or 2.1  ( i'm not sure which) .  . 
or , not yet , in other words. 

if you have framemaker there is a utility to import them , i'm told. 
the 57 fonts supplied with openwindows are fully hinted , though , and 
comparing them to the microsoft windows and apple truetype fonts is 
interesting .  .  .  . the f3 font format is described in a publication from the 
sun group , listed in the bibliography below. documentation on 
the unbundled version of is also available from sun  . 

you can buy f3 fonts from , , , and probably 
other major  . 

 software supports type 1 fonts .  . 

@ improving font rendering time 
although the sun type renderer  ( typescaler ) is pretty fast , it 's not as 
fast as loading a bitmap ) .  . you can pre generate bitmap fonts for sizes 
that you use a lot , and you can also alter and access the font cache 
parameters .  . if you have a lot of memory you might want to increase the 
font cache size. 
i 
welcome to x11 news version3 will say this at you 
type this line ... 
300 and here 's my server was using 300 kbytes 
1024 
just to check 

1024 
see pp. of the news 3.0 programmer 's guide. you need to say i 
so that the postscript packages are loaded see the man page. 

@ making bitmap fonts for faster startup 
mkdir home 
cd home 
20 m lib fonts 
creating afb . 
b afb . 
afb . . fb . 
chars parameter greater than number of characters supplied. 
ls 
afb . fb . synonyms . list . 

. ff .  ( encoding latin ) 
cat . compat . list . no such file or directory 
xset fp 
xset fp rehash 

if you want the server to see your new font directory every time , 
add this directory to your environment variable in one 
of your start up files , e.g.  . login . or  . profile .  . 

@ converting between font formats  ( convertfont , etc . ) . 
you can also use folio fonts with an x11 server , by converting them to a 
bitmap  ( x11 bdf format) first. your licence forbids you from using the 
fonts on another machine , and unless you have you should n't 
use them for printing .  . having said all that .  .  .  . you can use and 
to generate bdf files that you can compile with or 
 . 

use (from the distribution ) to convert tex pk fonts to 
x11 bdf format , which you can then use with either x11 or  . 

you can also use der mouse 's getbdf to get bdf fonts from a running 
x display server ftp larry . mcrcim . mcgill . edu . (132 . 206 . 1 . 1) . x getbdf 

@ xview olit fonts at 100 dpi 
there are n't any. more precisely , the various text fonts , such as 
typewriter sans , are available at 100 dpi , and in fact are 
scalable under openwindows .  . the glyph fonts are bitmaps , and do n't 
scale very well. 

subject trouble shooting strange error messages 

@ no manual entry for cm lookup 

if man does n't seem to find openwindows commands , even though you are 
running openwindows , try setting the environment variable 
share man usr man export 
or 
setenv share man usr man 
for csh users. should be usr openwin on most systems. 

@ window window creation failed to get new fd 
@ window base frame not passed parent window in environment 
@ cannot create base frame. process aborted .  . 

these messages all come from sunview programs. sunview was an 
earlier windowing system for suns , and was not networked .  . some of 
the sunview programs are still around in usr bin , and have names 
that are the same as their openwindows counterparts .  . you almost 
certainly want to run the programs in instead. 

set your path so that bin  ( and openwin bin xview for 
openwindows 2) come before bin  ( or usr bin , they 're the same) , or 
you 'll get the sunview versions of , , , etc. 

@ memory fault core dumped 
if you get this from the binder , or if binder suddenly , 
get the following patches 
02 binder 
03 
03 tooltalk 

@ trouble compiling xt , xmu or olit programs get 

if you are using openwindows 3.0  ( x11r4 based xt) , contact your local 
sun office and request the following patches 
02 4 . 1 . x . openwindows 3.0 libxt jumbo patch 
03 4 . 1 . x . openwindows 3.0 undefined symbols when using shared libxmu 

if you ca n't install the patch , a workaround is to add 
u get u get 
on the link  ( ld or cc ... o  .  .  . ) . line. an alternative is to add 
assert 
to cflags in your makefile , or even in imake . tmpl .  . 


subject trouble shooting it wo n't let me type 

@ when i try to type into some programs , i just get beeps or nothing happens 
it is a good idea to include at least 
openwindows . focuslenience . true 
input true 
in your  . xdefaults . file , as these allow non icccm compliant programs to 
receive input even if they forget to ask for it. 
see the next item for editing  . xdefaults . 

subject trouble shooting cut and paste not working 

@ i ca n't paste from xterm to xview  ( including sun deskset ) programs 
under openwindows 2 , you need to add the following either to your 
home  . xdefaults . file , or to lib app defaults xterm instead 

xterm vt100 . translations . override 
key l6 select  ( set(clipboard ) n 
key l8 insert  ( selection(clipboard ) 

you must not move the mouse between ending the selection and pressing 
l8 (the paste key) ! 

under openwindows 3 , this is already in the app defaults file , so if it 
is n't working , check that is set to 
usr openwin lib t n s 
and if it is n't , either set it or copy merge the above lines from 
lib app defaults xterm into usr lib x11 app defaults xterm .  . 
see also environment variables 

this version automatically puts each xterm selection onto the clipboard 
xterm vt100 . translations . override n 
ctrl meta insert  ( selection(primary , cut buffer0 ) n 
ctrl meta select  ( end(primary , cut , clipboard ) n 
keypress l8 insert  ( selection(clipboard ) 
note be sure that the n is at the very end of the line , there must 
be no following spaces , and any or signs showing that this faq file 
was altered must also be removed ! 

if you are using x11r5 , you may find that adding the lines 
key start  ( extend( ) select  ( end(primary , clipboard , cut buffer0 ) n 
kill  ( selection( ) n 
before the keypress l8 line will make  ( cut ) work as a cut key ! 

if you alter home  . xdefaults . instead , you must use what x calls a 
specific  resource name 
xterm . vt100 . translations . 
will do. 

@ i ca n't paste from xview  ( including sun deskset ) programs to xterm 

if you do n't have the sun l keys on the left of your keyboard , you can 
use meta x , meta c and meta v for cut , coy and paste respectively .  . 
you can change the keys by adding the following two lines to 
your  . xdefaults . file , edited as you wish (the values shown here are the 
defaults ) 

openwindows . copy . c meta , l6 
openwindows . paste . , v meta , l8 

lists of resources are in the manual page for xview , and also in the 
blue book to volume 7 , xview reference manual  from 
o'reilly , and also in the olwm and olvwm manual pages. 

@ i always get the same piece of text when i press paste  ( l8 , meta v ) 
remove the file tmp shelf and see if that helps see also the 
next item. 

@ cut copy and paste do n't work at all  ( openwindows only) 
oh dear. use ps grep xv to check that sv xv sel svc is running 
and that either you or root started it , depending on whether you started 
openwindows with openwin or by logging in through xdm .  . 
if not , start it. if it dies , check that there is no tmp  . sv . xv sel svc 
before restarting it you may need to be root to remove it , or you can 
reboot your workstation .  . 
check that there is space in tmp  ( use df tmp ) , and also see if there 
are a lot of files there with names like tmp tty . txt . if there are 
several hundred of them , cut and paste may take so long that it times out. 

quit any tools such as , and cm  ( calendar ) , start 
a terminal emulator and remove and tmp tty . txt . and tmp text files 
that are still there. it 's simplest to quit openwin and start it again 
after doing that , if cut and paste was broken , but if it starts working 
again you can just carry on. note that files in tmp not owned by you 
might be in use by another worker comrade , so do n't remove those without 
checking first ! 

subject trouble shooting not authorized to use display 

if you get error messages that look like 
xlib connection to 0.0 refused by server 
xlib internal error during connection authorization check 
error ca n't open display 
try , on the machine running openwindows or x11 , 
xhost machine 
where machine is the computer on which you ran the command that failed. 
if you want to let other users run programs on the same machine as you , 
using your display , you will have to type the bizarre looking 
xhost 
 ( or xhost , if is the name of your workstation) .  . 
this lets any user on  access your display. 

with openwindows 3.0 you can also use xauth , and the programmer 's guide 
describes how to do this in chapter 8 , p. 101 .  . this is more secure .  . 
also check the man page for fbtab(5) to stop other users accessing the 
framebuffer directly ! 

also note that there is a sun patch for openwindows 3.0 under sunos 4.1.1 
to fix a serious security problem. it is available through your local 
sun answer center as well as through anonymous ftp from ftp . uu . net . 
192 . 48 . 96 . 2 . system in sun dist 
fix filename checksum 
01 . tar . z . 5 


on an x terminal , there may be a setup menu that lets you change or 
disable the list of hosts that can access the display. 

if you start getting this message after you 've been logged in overnight , 
there might be a cron job that 's removing the unix sockets in tmp 
that are used to communicate with the server when display does n't have 
a hostname before the , or is empty. have the system administrator 
change the cron script to skip sockets .  . 

subject trouble shooting other common problems 

@ i get console error messages on my screen and they do n't go away  ( sun 3 or 4) 
if refresh makes the messages vanish , but new ones come along later , 
you need to run xterm c from your  . xinitrc . , or start one up in 
the background and then choose save workspace from the 
workspace utilities menu. better still , pick up and run 
that. get it from export . lcs . mit . edu . in the contrib directory. it 
will monitor the console and open , flash its icon or beep when a 
message appears it 's very easy to configure .  . 

if refresh from the workspace utilities menu does n't make the messages , 
go away .  .  .  . 
a sun with a frame buffer has two screens you can move the 
mouse off the right hand (by default ) edge of the screen and onto 
a whole new  ( but monochrome) display , called 0.1 . see the man. 
page for openwin i have a shell script that checks for this and , 
if there 's a dev cgfour0 , does 
openwin dev dev cgfour0 dev dev bwtwo0 
if you are running x11 or openwindows 2 , you might need to add this 
to your  . xinitrc . or other startup file 
( 
eval display unix 0.1 
olvwm display unix 0.1 
) 
later releases of olwm and olvwm do this automatically .  . 
you can also run switcher e 0 to get rid of the messages. also , see 
the note about , above. 

@ is there an easy way of editing  . xdefaults . 
use  , which appears in the default root menu as  . 
this starts  , a property editor which will re write your 
 . xdefaults . after removing comments. it then applies any changes. 
keep comments by using comment. instead of ! , for example , 
comment.  . font . italic 37 

@ how do i get the file manager to use emacs instead of textedit 
set the default editor to 
sh c exec emacs font 18 file 
 ( you can change the font if you prefer a smaller one) 

@ how do i run openwindows in inverse video 
this tends not to work under openwindows 2. with 3.0 , 
there are various ways , including using bg and fg options. if you 're 
using openwindows 2 on a sun 3 , probably the best you can do  ( short of 
upgrading the workstation to a sparc ! ) is to use xterm instead of  . 

@ why do n't flat check boxes work 
a known bug may make guide 's output dump core if you use these. 
a workaround is to edit the guide output , as it 's only guide 's output 
that 's broken , not the actual check box code. 
this applies only to versions of devguide before devguide 3 . 0 .  . if you 're 
still using an ancient devguide , you should upgrade as soon as possible 
the new one is fantastic ! 

@ when i leave openwindows , my screen goes blank or my mouse cursor stays 
on the screen. 
try running clear colormap if this helps , put it as the last line in 
the shell script you use to start openwindows (e . g .  .  . 

@ when i use snapshot , the system crashes , or the server hangs , or something. 
this was a bug related to some systems only. the only work round was to 
use some other screen dump program , such as xwd , xv 2.21 or xgrabsc .  . 

@ why have some of my function keys stopped working 
keys f11 and f12 changed from and to and 
respectively in openwindows 3. applications must be recompiled , or you 
might be able to use xmodmap or the public domain program to 
change your keyboard layout back again. 

@ when i type or or textedit , i get the sunview version 
see under trouble shooting strange error messages below. 

 ( see also next item ) 

@ mixing x11 and openwindows 
 ( see also next item ) 

note that openwindows 3.0 includes the x11r4 core distribution  ( to patch 
level 18) , but not the contrib directory. these notes apply to 
openwindows 2.0 , although you could also the do same sort of thing with 
openwindows 3.0 and x11r5 .  . 

install the x11 libraries in usr lib x11 .  . you can openwindows 
and x11r4 or x11r5 , they 're all compatible in this respect. 
put the x11 binaries in  ( for example) usr bin x11 .  . 

put usr bin x11 last in your path , so that you get openwindows versions 
of programs instead of x11 ones where appropriate , although this is a 
matter of preference .  . in any event , put the openwindows bin directory 
first see the preceding item for more details on that. if you have 
bin  ( or usr bin , they 're the same directory on sunos ) earlier in 
your path than bin xview , you 'll get sunview programs instead 
of openwindows ones ! 

set ld library path so that usr openwin lib is last , after the x11 
library directory. this does n't matter with openwindows 3.0 , but with 
older versions you 'll get error messages from x11 programs if you do n't 
do this. the messages are generally harmless  ( see next item ) , although 
xdm core dumps if this is n't right. 

set to the directory containing openwindows if it is n't 
usr openwin .  . 

see also 
environment variables  ( especially  . 

@ i get error messages on my screen about ld.so libx11 . so . 4 . not found 
set ld library path to be usr openwin .  . if you also use x11 , use 
usr lib usr usr openwin lib 
if you put this in a shell script or your  . profile . , use 
usr openwin lib instead of usr openwin this is for 
bin sh for csh it is different. 

@ i launch my and i get ld.so map heap error (9) at dev zero 
your system needs to be patched .  . look in lib 
and install the patch. 

@ why does n't run for me 
you must be running openwindows to use  . it wo n't run under 
x11  ( on an x terminal or on anything else) because it uses news to draw 
the postscript text and pictures. 
if you are using openwindows 3.0 , you need to use the openwindows 3.0 
compatible navigator it 's called  . navigator . on the cd rom .  . 
if all users are using openwindows 3.0 , you can replace 
navigator  . navigator . altogether  ( rename the old one first to 
satisfy your sense of paranoia ! ) 
the navigator . binary is also on cd ware vol 2. 
note that the data files are in postscript , so you can look at them with 
a viewer (q . v . ) .  . 

@ why are n't there any fish in 
a fixed version of is available by ftp from 
ftp . eng . auburn . edu . 131 . 204 . 10 . 91 . as pub z . 

@ why is the properties choice disabled in the window menu 
it is n't implemented yet. many programs do respond to the properties 
key  ( l3 ) , though , or have a pop up menu with properties on it. 

@ file completion in the c shell is broken in 
sadly true , but use or xterm instead and it 's fine. it also 
works if you run command tool on a remote machine. 
fixed in openwindows 3.0.1 shipped with solaris 2. 

@ when i run olit programs , some of the widgets are red ! 
release 3 of olit added mouseless operation action widgets can be 
selected via the keyboard. the currently selected item is highlighted 
in red (the stain' ) to show that it has the input focus .  . 
to disable it in most places , add this to your home  . xdefaults . file 
off 
textedit . on 
on 
you can change the color using  ( for example) 

input green 
list your background color 
see the man page  ( resources(3w ) , at the start of the olit 3 widget set 
reference manual included in the openwindows 3 programmer documentation .  . 
meanwhile contact your distributor and ask for patch id 30 , the 
olit 3.0 jumbo patch. 

@ when i run several programs , the colors on the screen all change when 
i move into a different window ! ( colormap flashing ) 

this is becasue most hardware can only display a few colors at a time. 
however , you can minimise the effect with the following procedure 
start all the applications with colors that you wish to reserve .  . 
run 
cmap compact save 
to create the  . file 
put the line 
cmap compact init 
near the start of your start up file ( . 
exit and then restart the window system. 
cmap compact init will push those colors  . to the end of 
the colormap and reserves them. 

also note that control l2 locks the colors of the current window , and 
control l4 unlocks them this is described in the olwm manual page. 

@ uses the wrong colors , or makes the colormap flash  ( see above) 
this problem was reported by people for some reason running the motif 
window manager  ( mwm ) with openwindows .  . 
try running pageview like this 
bin 
bin pageview 
bin discard 

@ xdm breaks things 
command tool does n't like being run without a unix  . 
use etc to start your command tools and all will be well. 
sunview applications may need to be run with , as in 
exec usr bin traffic 
because xdm wo n't set the necessary environment variables .  . 
note that the mit xdm starts up the x server as root , which is a security 
hole for openwindows use the openwindows 3.0 xdm or be aware that your 
users can access files and start unix processes ass root .  .  .  . 

@ function keys 11 and 12 stopped working 
in openwindows 3.0 , the x11 names ( keysyms ) for these keys was changed 
to and  . code which uses them should be recompiled , 
or you might be able to get away with 
xmodmap e  keysym  

subject trouble shooting xview problems 
this section is here only until an xview faq appears , which has been 
promised , but has n't reached here. note that there is also a usenet 
newsgroup , alt . toolkits . xview . , although it does n't to have very 
wide distribution and has of the order of one or two articles 
per month. you should also look at the faq in comp . windows . x .  . 

@ how do i set the font of individual scrolling list items 
panel list font takes an int row number and an xv opaque font handle. 
panel list fonts take a null terminated list of xv opaque font handles .  . 
there is no easy way to make an entire list fixed width font .  . 
you have to make sure that you always specify panel list font when you 
insert a new row into that list , or write a convenience function 
insert  ( row(list , row , string ) that hides the nasty bits. 

@ how do i keep an xview pop up window displayed after a button is pressed 
in the button callback , do 
xv  ( set(button , panel notify status , xv error , null ) 
this will keep the window visible .  . 
you might also need to investigate the menu notify status attribute .  . 

@ how do i make an xview button look pressed 
call panel begin  ( preview( ) and panel cancel  ( preview( ) these are 
documented in er the xview 3 source .  .  .  . 

@ openwindows 3 imake does n't work properly 
here is greg earle 's patch , to be applied in note that you 
should edit lib config sun . cf . afterwards to get and 
right  ( minorversion is 1 in sunos 4.1.2 , for example) .  . 
i have edited the patch a little , so any bugs are mine ) 

bin orig . wed sep 18 07 02 02 1991 
bin tue aug 6 00 39 20 1991 

30 , 34 

elif n then 
! args lib config 

else 
30 , 34 

elif n then 
! args i lib config ' ' 

else 
lib config site . def . orig . wed sep 18 01 26 19 1991 
lib config site . def . tue aug 6 00 44 37 1991 

0 
1 , 7 
define  ( openwinhome ) bin 
define  ( openwinhome ) lib 
define  ( openwinhome ) share include 
define  ( installnonexecfile(file , dest ) @@ 
install file @@ 
 ( install ) c  ( instdatflags ) file 
define 

note the patch is new , but i have not marked each line with a liam 

subject environment variables 

environment variables , and plausible values to use this list does n't 
take into account any local changes that you might have made , of course. 
this list is for openwindows 3.0 differences for openwindows 2.0 are 
marked , and i 've added some comments for users of x11r4 and x11r5 , too. 

display the name of the x windows display to use 
0.0  ( on the local machine , the one actually running x11 or xnews ) 
0.1  ( on some machines for a second , monochrome screen) 
machine running unix 0.0  ( on other machines) 
 ( you may need to do xhost other machine to let programs on other 
machines use your display see also under trouble shooting , and see 
the section on xauth in the openwindows version 3 programmer 's guide , 
pp. 101ff ) 
see also console messages , under trouble shooting 
where searches for fonts 
usr openwin lib fonts 
 ( you can also use xset fp dir to add a directory to the font path , 
but you may have to do xset fp rehash afterwards. this is fine 
under openwindows , but many x11 servers have font problems) 
where xview looks when you press the help key  ( or f1 ) 
usr openwin lib locale usr openwin lib help 
 ( on sunos 4 . 0 .  . , or with openwindows 2.0 , omit the first entry , which 
is for sites using a local other than c or usa ) .  . 
ld library path where to look to find shared c libraries 
usr lib usr usr openwin lib usr cc 
(the usr cc lib entry is only needed if you use c programs) 
where openwindows lives 
usr openwin 
keyboard , mouse serial devices to use instead of the console 
 ( do n't set these for normal use dev kbd and dev mouse ) 
path where the shell searches for programs to run 
 ( openwinhome ) bin  ( openwinhome ) bin xview usr local bin . 
home bin . usr ucb usr bin usr bin x11 usr hosts 
 ( you will certainly want to change this example ! there is no 
 ( openwinhome ) bin xview in openwindows 3 . 0) . 
where programs look for app defaults files 
usr openwin lib t n s 
 ( this is set automatically by openwin in openwindows 3 . 0) . 
you might want to use usr lib x11 t n s , or perhaps both , 
separated with a , for example  ( for sh users) 
lib t n s usr lib x11 t n s 
export 
if you use x11r5 , you might instead want 
usr lib x11 l t n c s 
usr lib x11 l t n c s 
usr lib x11 t n c s 
usr lib x11 l t n s 
usr lib x11 l t n s 
usr lib x11 t n s 
lib t n s 
 ( put all this on one line , though , with no spaces ! ) 

together with the following in lib xinitrc 
xrdb merge  end xrdb  
customization 
end xrdb 

xrdb merge  end xrdb  
ifdef color 
customization color 
endif 
end xrdb 

you automatically get a color oclock , , bitmap , , and 
since they use the customization resource appearing as c in 
the  .  ( see oclock  ( n ) 
according to rainer . 


subject where can i get it ftp , implementations , etc .  .  .  . 

xview 3.0 is available by anonymous ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . and 
elsewhere. 

can be bought from at t in source form. 

openwindows can be obtained from sun , or you can get the source from 
interactive systems inc. it is also included in some vendors  system v 
release 4 implementations , although that 's not always the latest version. 
the current release of openwindows from sun for supported architectures 
is 3.0 for the sun 3 series it is frozen at openwindows 2 . 0 .  . 
note that sun includes openwindows with sunos , and it is also included as 
the windowing system for solaris .  . 

there are said (by sun) to be over 35 ports of openwindows either 
available now or in progress. unfortunately , none of them seem to 
be available from anywhere. contact for more information. 


subject bibliography books , manuals , journals , papers , beer mats 

the open look (tm) graphical interface is documented in two books 
sun microsystems inc. , look graphical user interface application 
style guidelines  , addison wesley , 1989 
and 
sun microsystems inc. , look graphical user interface functional 
specification  , addison wesley 

the main documentation for the x window system comes from 
o'reilly associates in about nine or ten volumes .  . 
the most useful for open look users are 
volume 1 xlib programming manual 
volume 2 xlib reference manual 
volume 3 x window system user 's guide 
 ( an open look edition of volume 3 should appear later this year) 
volume 7 xview programmer 's manual dan heller 
make sure you get the 3rd edition for xview 3.0 
companion to volume 7 xview reference manual ed. thomas van 

the companion to volume 7 is an expanded version of the attribute 
summary from the previous edition of the xview programming manual , 
together with other reference information , so that in practice you 
have to buy both books. 

o'reilly also have a orange book on the differences between 
x11r4 and  . 

olit programmers will also want the xt books volumes 4 and 5. 
there is a new big fat green vol 5 updated for x11r5 .  . 

a journal , the x resource , may also be of interest. 

o'reilly associates , 103 morris street , a , , ca 
1 707 829 , or , in the usa and canada only , 1 800 998 9938 
fax 1 707 829  . 
email or uunet ! ora ! nuts. 
for other distributors mail , fax , or call 1 707 829  . 

some of the o'reilly examples are available fro ftp from 
export . lcs . mit . edu . in the contrib oreilly directory. 

the system v release 4 documentation from prentice hall may also include 
a section on openwindows .  . 

david miller describes programming with olit in his 
open look at unix  (m t press) .  . 

gives an excellent introduction to x and to olit 
programming , as well as setting up and using x and openwindows , in 
r desktop guide to open look  
sams , 1992 isbn 0 672 0 
you can get the examples from this book as 
export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib examples . tar . z . 

also about using olit , and xt in particular 
the x window system programming and applications with xt , 
open look edition , 
doug young and john pew , prentice hall , 1992 , 
isbn 0 13 x 
there are also hp widgets and motif  ( ugh ) versions of this book. 
the example source code in this book can be obtained by ftp from 
export . lcs . mit . edu . , file contrib young . pew . olit . z . . 

there is an introduction to xview in 
applications for sun systems  , vol 1 , guide for 
 ( macintosh(r ) programmers   ( sun microsystems , pub. addison wesley ) 

to learn more about the news and postscript languages , see 

the news book , springer verlag , 1989  ( sadly , a little out of date) 

postscript language reference manual , second edition , 
adobe systems inc. , addison wesley , 1990 the red book 
note that openwindows 3 is a level 1 postscript implementation , 
with certain level 2 features  ( such as composite fonts) to some 
degree. 

postscript language tutorial and cookbook , 
adobe systems inc. , addison wesley , 1985 the blue book 

there 's at least one book on using solaris (i . e .  .  . 

sun also supplies a large amount of documentation with openwindows , 
although you may have to order it separately .  . here 's what i have they 
are each a little over 21 cm square  ( wider than a4 paper) , and vary from 
about 1 cm to about 3cm thick .  . they say 's guide  or 's 
guide  on the front. the user manuals have a red stripe on the bottom , 
and the programmer ones have a green stripe .  . 

800 6006 10 openwindows version 3 release manual 
800 10 openwindows version 3 installation and start up guide 
800 10 openwindows version 3 reference guide 
800 10 openwindows version 3 user 's guide 
800 10 desktop integration guide also available in bookstores 
800 6027 10 programmer 's guide 
800 10 openwindows version 3 reference manual the man pages 
800 6319 10 the news toolkit 3.0 reference manual 
800 10 news 3.0 programming guide 
800 10 olit 3.0 widget set reference manual 
800 10 xview 3.0 reference manual converting sunview applications 

800 10 f3 font format specification order separately 

there are also some other sets of documentation , including the 
documentation from the group , for example. there does n't seem 
to be a complete list anywhere. 

tooltalk 1.0 setup and administration guide  ( sunsoft , 1991) 
800 10 tooltalk 1.0 programmer 's guide  ( sunsoft , 1991) 
there might be documentation about the link manager somewhere , too. 

at t includes several large thorny bushes  worth of paper with olit .  . 

sun 's cd rom contains a lot of the above documentation , 
including some of the o'reilly books (not the xview 3 volume 7 , though) .  . 

volume 8 of the o'reilly series is about x administration , and mentions 
openwindows , although it is primarily aimed at x11r5 .  . 

several other books are in the works .  .  .  . 


subject getting this file , revision history , recent changes 

mail to ask for it. douglas n. arnold 
keeps an up to date copy on ftp . math . psu . edu .  ( currently 146 . 186 . 131 . 129) . 
in the file ftp pub faq open look. 
the net . answers . archives and servers may or may not know about this file , 
since they 've just changed hands and this file was previously in one 
archive but not the other. 

id open look . faq . , v 1 . 48 . 93 05 09 18 03 13 lee exp 


acknowledgements 
andrei (feb binder patch) 
douglas n arnold (feb various changes ) 
ian darwin 
christopher davis 
paul eggert (feb on solaris 2 . 1) . 
r . stewart . ellis (feb assert nodefinitions ) 
jeff (feb the colormap stuff) 
rick heli (feb including  . signature) . 
nicholas (feb xt olit cc workaround ) 
larry matthias (feb news colormap flashing ) 
john b. (feb south paws ) 
christian hannover . de . (feb xt jumbo patch) 
kevin w. thomas  ( mar olvwm patches ) 
larry w.  ( mar various comments) 

and many others .  .  .  . you get deleted from this list after a while. 


liam quin , manager of contracting , inc , 1 416 239 4801 
open look ui faq list news game lq text text retrieval 

from  ( mark klamerus ) 
subject on 
x received by usenet . pa . dec . com . id wed , 19 may 93 06 20 27 0700 
x received by enet gw . pa . dec . com . id wed , 19 may 93 06 20 22 0700 
x received from enet . by enet . wed , 19 may 93 06 20 22 pdt 
x to comp . windows . x . usenet . 
x apparently to comp . windows . x . usenet . 
lines 22 


help , 

i 've got an applications with a series of pushbuttons across 
the top (a  . i wanted to add to these 
pushbuttons on and so that 
i can put up some descriptive text about the function of each 
pushbutton as the pointer crosses over it. 

i 've done this fine , but i 've turned up the following problem 

when the pushbuttons are sensitive i get callbacks on both of 
the above events , but when they are not sensitive i only get 
callbacks on events. this seems odd. i would 
expect this to be an all or nothing type of thing. 

is this a bug if not , can someone explain this behavior 

thanks , 

mark 


from  ( subodh nijsure ) 
subject scaling fonts in x 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 13 


x motif gurus , 

how do you handling scaling of x text while performing zooming 
operations on figures is restricting user to select scalable fonts too 
restrictive and a absolute no no 
any books that have discussion on this topic should have really taken more 
of those computer graphics courses but , now its too late ( ) 

i will summarize response. 
thanks in advance. 

( ) 

from  ( larry w. virden ) 
subject re ideas on xterm paste irritation 
reply to  ( larry w. virden ) 
organization software and shoe , uninc .  . 
lines 14 

in article ( achille hui , the day dreamer ) writes 
read the xterm 's manual pages for more informations about the avaliable 
actions of xterm .  . read the faq and get a good book on customizing your 
x applications. 

okay , i will byte .  . could someone provide more info on a  good book on 
customizing your x  i am in search of one which does not 
expect the reader to have the x11 source code memorized  ( or even available 
online ! ) 


s 
s larry w. inet 
s personal 674 falls place , , oh 

from (david brooks ) 
subject re xv 3.0 author is on vacation till may 10 or so 
reply to (david brooks ) 
organization open software foundation 
lines 14 

writes 
for all those people flaming john bradley , the author of xv he 's on 
vacation till may 10  ( or 15 , i do n't remember) .  . maybe we all should slow 
down and wait to hear his side wrt copyrights , fees , etc. 

while i have respect for john 's ability and integrity , i really regret his 
leaving just after a major release  ( or , more accurately , making the release 
just before  . several of us are having problems with xv 3.00 , and 
in particular i have issues with all the fixes that have so far been made 
to the imakefiles and xv . h .  . without john to adjudicate , and everybody 
posting fixes that work for them , chaos is inevitable let 's hope it is 
temporary .  . 

john brooks using his dad 's account 

from  ( berry kercheval ) 
subject re cga for windows 3.1 
organization xerox parc 
lines 15 

(stephen thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( neil golding ) writes 
looking for some assistance in locating information on how to run 
win 3.1 on a cga monitor. 
the cga driver for windows 3.0 works fine with win3 . 1 .  . 


oh no ! oh no ! they 've taken over comp . windows . misc . and now they re 
coming for us ! 

berry 


berry 


from  ( carl schmidtmann ) 
subject re any way to stop and application from re 
nntp posting host com . 
organization software group , inc 
distribution ba 
lines 30 

in article , (mike hoswell ) writes 

i'm quite familiar with a variety of window title setting methods. 

my question is .  .  .  . is there any way  ( via resources , etc) to stop an 
application 's ability to re name it 's own name properties 


sorry , that 's a feature. the icccm specifies how the app should set its title , so the wm is obliged to do it. if this bothers you , complain to the app writer. 

 .  .  . who . cares if it 's not  nice  to the application 

i want control ! ) 


write your own wm that does n't support the icccm .  . or write an program that you give a window id and a title. the your program can set the windows title for the app and then if the app changes it , your program switches it back again. 

mike 


mike never stop ! toasted 
climate and global dynamics disclaimer i represent myself only 
, po box 3000 , boulder co , 80307 
 .  .  . so . i 've got that going for me which is nice. think clearly .  . 



carl software group , inc 
(408) 736 867 court 
... ! apple ! ! cws sunnyvale , ca 94086 

from (peter j. scott ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
reply to 
organization jet propulsion laboratory , nasa caltech 
lines 10 
nntp posting host euclid . jpl . nasa . gov . 

i 've found that i have to add the 8 option for displaying jpegs 
with the new version. for some reason , if i do n't , it goes into 
24 bit mode and the resulting image is displayed with 216 colors 
(from a 6x6x6 array) instead of 256 and looks  . since i'm 
on the ubiquitous 8 bit pseudo color display i would have thought it 
could tell that. 


this is news. this is your peter scott , nasa jpl caltech 
brain on news. any questions 

from 
subject congruent corporation .  . x motif on windows nt 
organization laser scan ltd. , cambridge 
lines 22 

ok , many people emailed me asking for information on congruent corporation 's 
product which allows x motif unix applications to function on windows nt .  . 
today i was sent a telephone number by a kind person by the name of sam (i 'd 
give better attribution , but the mail is in a different application on vms () 

the number to call in new york city is  ( 212)431 ) 5100 

the email address is 

the product is  . 

other details i do not know. 

they said they 'd send me email info , but as yet it has not arrived. more 
as i get it. cheers folks ! 



washing one 's hands of the conflict between the powerful and the powerless 
means to side with the powerful , not to be neutral .  . 
quote by freire .  . 
poster by oxfam .  . 

from  ( vinod k nair ) 
subject using xterm to display output 
organization worcester polytechnic institute , worcester , ma 
lines 46 
distribution world 
nntp posting host sommerfeld . wpi . edu . 

hello , i am writing a program which forks of a number of child processes 
and each of the children printing things on the screen  ( quite messy in 
one window) .  .  .  . 

the xterm option seems to be the solution to opening up 
slave windows only to display output and i use the following code to 
open up a pty  ( taken from  .  . and . manage to open up an x term 
successfully .  .  .  .  . 

the problem however is how do i write into this x term please help ! 


static char pty name 12 
int pty  ( master void ) 

int pty  ( master void ) 

int i , fd 
char ptr 
struct stat 
static char 
static char 

 ( for ptr ptr ! 0 ptr ) 
 ( strcpy pty name , dev ) 
pty name 8 ptr 
pty name 9  0  

 ( if  ( stat pty name , statbuff ) 0 ) 
break 

 ( for i 0 i 16 i ) 
pty name 9 i 
 ( if  ( fd  ( open pty name , o )) 0 ) 
 ( return fd ) 


 ( return 1) 





email 
an eye for an eye makes the whole world blind 
mohandas gandhi 

from  ( casper h.s. dik ) 
subject re patch for x11r5 under solaris 2.1 
organization fwi , university of amsterdam 
lines 11 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host adam . fwi . uva . nl . 

 ( colin linahan ) writes 

hi , 
sorry if this is a faq but could someone please tell me where i 
can get the  ( patch(es ) for x11r5 so that i can compile it under solaris2 . 1 . 

export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib r5 . sunos5 . patch . tar . z . 

get xsun . multi . screen . tar . z . while you 're at it. 

casper 

from  ( dave lewis ) 
subject unsubscribe 
organization the internet 
lines 2 
to 

unsubscribe 


from bielefeld . de .  ( soenke voss ) 
subject how can i get a window to draw in 
nntp posting host uni . bielefeld . de . 
organization bielefeld 
keywords windows , widgets 
lines 23 


i have the task to program a x application for the first time and have some severe difficulties creating a window in which i can draw something. 
unfortunately some basic books on the topic of x application programming are not available to me for the moment. 

i am running a with hpux 8.07 , vue and x11r4 using xt xaw .  . 

what i did until now 
i initialized the x intrinsics a top level widget with  . i passed as a application class name  . 
then i set the argument values for window height and width using xtsetarg and 
passed it to the toplevel widget with  . 
when i call , i get a window of the specified size , but i have no idea how i can draw something in it. 

can anybody send me some help and perhaps some basic information how to use the widgets 
in which situation it is useful to use them and in which not 

thanks very much in advance 



faculty of economics 
bielefeld . de . university of bielefeld 
germany 


from (michael salmon ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
nntp posting host eos6c02 . ericsson . se . 
reply to (michael salmon ) 
organization ericsson telecom ab 
lines 26 

in article 
 ( julian g. self ) writes 
was n't the shareware fee a suggestion by john 
is so then it 's up to the individual to make the choice whether or not to 
honour it and part with money. personally if i was in his position i would 
do exactly the same thing , john has obviously put in lot of time and effort 
into xv and why should n't he receive some money for it. 

just my pennies worth 

 ( keep up the good work john ) 

the fee is a suggestion for an individual but licensing is mandatory 
for commercial , government , and institutional users. i wonder how many 
users of xv own the system that it runs on. 



michael salmon 

include standard . disclaimer . 
include witty . saying . 
include fancy . pseudo . graphics . 

ericsson telecom ab 
stockholm 

from  ( william l. jones ) 
subject re outline scalable fonts versus bitmap replicated scalable fonts 
organization the university of texas system 
lines 24 


after looking at the scaling code i realized the 

1) my problem with the resolution is due to an installation 
problem. 

2) that the x server or font server will rescale the best font it can find 
to meet your requirements. 

this means that if you server return a response like the following 

adobe medium o normal 0 0 75 75 p 0 1 

you can ask for the 

adobe medium o normal 14 100 90 90 p 0 1 

and it will generate it for you. you should try to always use 
known pixel sizes. 

bill jones 




from  ( jorgen eriksson ) 
subject drawing networks , graphs 
nntp posting host eua . ericsson . se . 
nntp posting user 
reply to 
organization telecom systems labs , stockholm , sweden 
lines 34 


are there any widgets , function 
librarys for drawing networks , 
graphs etc (not tree views ) 
freeware , shareware , comercial .  .  .  . 
like this , for instance 

o 


o o o 


o o .  .  .  .  . o . o 


o o 

just by giving the associations 
between the nodes .  . automatic 
layout generation. 

it would be nice if any node 
symbols could be used. maybe 
even to insert widgets as nodes .  . 

using different line styles etc. 
for describing associations .  . 

any information would be appreciated , 
thanks in advance , 




from  ( liam r. e. quin ) 
subject list of programs with open look user interface 
organization inc. , toronto , canada 
expires 2 jun 1993 04 00 04 gmt 
lines 576 


id open look programs . faq . , v 1.17 93 03 21 17 17 55 lee exp locker lee 

contents 
subject applications application builders 
subject applications graphing tools 
subject applications utilities 
subject applications other 
subject tools terminal emulators 
subject other commercial applications 
subject applications toolkit extensions 
subject openwindows 3 ports 
subject xview 3 ports 
subject xview 2 ports 
subject games  ( free and commercial ) 


subject applications application builders 

commercial devguide 3.0 
contact 
lets you use drag and drop to create an open look application with 
xview , olit , uit or tnt .  . very easy to use. 

free dirt 
there might be an olit port of this ui builder .  . 

commercial 
contact expert object 
one of the first third party gui builders to support open look , 
using the xview toolkit .  . it was reviewed in sunexpert magazine 
in 1990. 

commercial 
contact , debra frances , 1 303 440 
is a user interface builder which supports building applications 
that support both open look and motif .  . it generates code for 
's oi c toolkit and can make use of user created 
 . note  can also display an osf motif gui at runtime .  . 

free wcl 
uses x resources to specify an xt widget hierarchy and actions to 
user defined callbacks .  . uses olit , xt or motif .  . 

commercial xvt 
contact xvt systems ( 1 303 443 4223 ) 
lets you write code to a common subset of open look , motif , microsoft 
windows , the macintosh gui , and even terminals  ( using  . you buy 
an xvt toolkit for each environment. 


subject applications graphing tools 

free 
xview based program that plots lorenz and other chaotic things 
in real time. also includes a mathematical expression interpreter .  . 
ftp tn . cornell . edu . 

free ace gr graph and analysis program , 
ftp ftp . ccalmr . ogi . edu . 129 . 95 . 72 . 34 . 2 . 09 . tar . z . in ccalmr pub 
handles x y , , , fft analysis , running 
averages , polynomial fits , etc. 

free robot a scientific graph plotting and data analysis tool 
contact robin 
description 
graph plotting in various styles axes data manipulation arithmetic , 
functions , smoothing , folding , sorting fitting to data using , 
polynomials , , and or user defined functions annotation of 
graphs log files commands with loops etc. colour postscript output .  . 
ftp astrod . astro . psu . edu . (128 . 118 . 147 . 28) . in pub astrod 
ftp files robotx0 . 35 . tar . z . everything 
ftp files ps . z . just the documentation .  . 
ftp files robot . sun4 . z . binary built on a sparcstation .  . 
requirements 
robot is xview based .  . user interface portions of code are written in 
'c' .  . data manipulation code is written in fortran .  . hence a fortran 
compiler is also required or the public domain f2c package. 
alternatively , a sparc binary is available by anonymous ftp .  . 

subject applications utilities 

free boss 
description 
an open look ui to the casio boss scheduler 

free props 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . pub contrib lib xview3 clients props 
description 
this is the openwindows properties editor , that appears when you choose 
the properties .  .  .  . item from the workspace menu. 

free 
ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . 
description 
a special purpose console window that can filter out or take special 
action on specified console messages written by chuck  . 
requirements xview 

free faces 
description 
displays pictures of people who have sent you electronic mail. 
violates the data protection act in the u.k. 

subject applications other 


commercial 400 
contact bim ( 32 2 759 . 59 . 25) . 
x . 400 . address c be a p bim o horizon s g patrick 
notes 
is a complete x . 400 . electronic mail system. it consists 
in a user interface which gives access to all x . 400 . services 
with a consistent look and feel , a message transfer agent  ( mta ) system 
which can transfer messages over x . 25 . , tp . 4 . and tcp ip  ( using rfc  . 
a gateway to smtp mail is also available. 

free 
description 
a day week month year at a glance calendar and almanac .  . 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib tar . z . 
contact bill , tektronix , inc. 

free 
description 
a sunview program that was converted to xview , and is included with the 
gnu emacs distribution .  . 

free 
contact ian darwin 
a genealogy program , written in c using guide. 
incomplete as of jan '93 inquire for details. 

free workman audio cd player for x11  ( sun , ultrix ) 
requirements xview libraries 
ftp ultrix binary ftp . hyperion . com . in workman 
ftp ftp . ucsc . edu . in incoming database of over 750 cds 
contact (steven grimm ) 

free pan notes 

free wais 
ftp sunsite . unc . edu . 
description 
networked , distributed text retrieval system. olit based front end. 
notes 
you might to need to add to the makefile .  . 

free card index address book 

free xv display 
description 
an xview program for showing a text file , like  . 

commercial 1.0 
contact sunsoft or 
us 1 800 873 uk 0800 89 88 88 
germany 01 30 81 61 91 france 05 90 61 57 
platforms sparc , solaris 1 . x . 
price 249 
notes 
is a full text search and retrieval application designed to 
improve individual and group productivity .  . it makes an index to files 
and can later retrieve documents by words or phrases , ranking the results 
in relevance order. 

commercial showme 
contact sunsoft 
notes 
conferencing software that lets multiple connected users share the same 
drawing screen , with bitmap capture and pointer .  . 
requirements 
you can only run one showme per computer , so you have to have a cpu per 
conference member. 

free man pages viewer 

free list manager 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib 4 . 0 . tar . z . , contrib 4.0 readme 
requirements xview libraries 
contact mike  ( bitnet jipping@hope ) 
organisation hope college department of computer science 

free name finder 
contact 1 (205) 844 2280 
ftp ftp . eng . auburn . edu . 131 . 204 . 10 . 91 . pub name 2 . tar . z .  . 
patches pub name 2 . compile .  . 
requirements openwindows 3.0 , c 2.1 or greater to recompile 
description 
name finder was orginally designed as a replacement for the name finder 
missing from the openwindows version 3.0  . it has since grown 
into a tool for several electronic mail related activities including 
interaction with local listserv robots for handling mail lists , 
requesting full . name . style mail aliases from your local postmaster , and 
providing mailbox status information ala  . 

name finder is written in c  ( cfront 2 . 1) . using version 1 . 1 .  . 
if you do n't have access to a c compiler , a precompiled sparc 
executable is included in the distribution .  . 

free interface for bibtex databases 
requirements xview 
ftp iamsun . unibe . ch . 130 . 92 . 64 . 10 . in x11 1 . 11 . tar . z . 
ftp includes source and sparc binary for sunos 4 . 1 . 1 .  . 
version 1.11 
description 
gui for bibliography databases which can be used with 
latex , tex and framemaker 


free interface to ftp .  . 
ftp ftp . utexas . edu . as file packages x 1 . 1 . tar . z .  . 
contact bill jones 
requirements x11 , olit or motif or athena widgets 
notes 
formerly called  . 
compiles under (at least) ultrix , aix 3 . 1 . 5 . , aix 3.2 , convex os , sunos , 
unicos 6 . 1 . 4 . , and irix .  . uses olit .  . 
bug can also use osf motif and athena widgets .  . 


free olvwm open look virtual window manager 
contact scott oaks 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . in the contrib directory 
patches there are two patches 
requirements xview 3 
description 
olvwm is a version of olwm that manages a desktop   ( hence the 
 in its name) .  . it shows a little map on the screen , with the 
currently displayed area represented by a little rectangle .  . you can 
move around by dragging the rectangle or with the arrow keys. this 
lets you run several clients  ( applications ) and move the display around 
from one to the other. olvwm was derived from the openwindows 3.0 olwm .  . 

free ftptool open look front end to ftp 
requirements xview 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . in contrib 

free 
contact the turing institute 
requirements openwindows 3  ( running the server , not x11 ) 
hypertext package written entirely in news. runtime from turing . com . 
in pub or ftp . uu . net .  ( graphics news 5 . runtime . tar . z) . 

maestro (ftp from stanford . edu) . 
multimedia authoring tools , including support for sound , text video. 
(ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu) . 
an xview based newsreader for netnews .  . 

free 
ftp cs . dal . ca . pub comp . archives . 
ftp nuri . inria . fr . x contrib clients 
ftp se . pub netnews alt . sources . dec  . z . 
ftp src . doc . ic . ac . uk . usenet comp . archives . x11 terminal 
description 
a vt100 102 emulator , in both xview and sunview versions. includes 
buttons for the pf keys , etc. 

subject postscript and graphics viewers 

commercial pageview postscript previewer 
contact included in openwindows as part of  . 
notes 
type 1 support only in openwindows 3.0.1 under solaris 2 . 1 .  . 
antialiasing support with colour openwindows 3 try pageview aa dpi 150 
note that pageview uses the x11 news server to interpret the postscript , 
and thus wo n't run on an x terminal or other non openwindows server. 
it 's not enough to be runing an open look ui tm window manager such 
as olwm .  . 

commercial xps postscript program editor and previewer 
contact included with openwindows 2.0 under demo and share src 
notes 
only runs under openwindows 2. 

commercial 
contact included with openwindows 
simple interface to news and the openwindows server 

free 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . in contrib clients 
notes 
crispin 's postscript interpreter , much hacked .  . 
not open look compliant .  . no type 1 font support. 
there are other versions of this called  ,  , etc. 
do n't confuse this  with the one mentioned above. 

free ghostscript 
(from the free software foundation ) 
supports type 1 fonts .  . not open look based .  . 


subject tools terminal emulators 

free , 
requirements xview 3 toolkit 
notes 
these are included in the xview source distribution from 
export . lcs . mit . edu . in contrib they 're also included with sun 's 
openwindows .  . 

commercial 
contact micro resources inc. , , ohio , usa , 1 614 766 
notes 
a version of xterm with an open look ui , print interface , 
ansi x3 . 64 . colour escape sequences , etc. 

commercial 
contact the bristol group ltd. , 1 415 925 9250 and (49)  ( germany ) 
requirements openwindows 3 ( ) 
other products , , power base 
notes 
an olit based terminal emulator .  . i could n't get the demo version to 
give me a shell prompt , although it did look like it was a pretty fll 
emulation , with double height characters , colour , fonts , 
and so forth. 
with the union flag (the british flag ) as their logo i somehow expected 
an english address , perhaps in bristol .  .  .  . 

subject other commercial applications 

contact sunsoft  ( or sun) and ask for the catalyst open look guide , 
which lists over 200 pages of applications. 

you can also get the free cd rom , which contains demo versions 
of several popular open look ui applications. once you 've done this , 
you can often simply contact the vendor concerned to have the license 
upgraded from demo , and receive the full product documentation .  . 


product name author editor sgml based text editor word processor 
company name inc. , 1 416 239 4801 , 
description 
word processor or text editor that manipulates iso sgml documents .  . 
interfaces open look ui  ( xview ) , osf motif , mac , ms windows 


subject applications toolkit extensions 


product name xtra 
company name graphical software technology 
e mail 
phone 310 328 9338 fax 310 376 
keywords graphics , library , widgets , spreadsheet , help 
interfaces open look , motif 
platforms sparc , 400 700 , ibm rs6000 , interactive 386 
requirements x11 , xt , xol  ( or xm ) libraries and headers x11 
price 795 single user , 3000 network , 5000 source 
support price 400 30 calls 
source available yes 
description 
the xtra library contains a set of widgets that are 
from and compatible with either olit or motif widgets .  . the library 
includes widgets that implement the following spreadsheet , bar graph , 
stacked bar graph , line graph , pie chart , xy plot , hypertext , hypertext 
based help system , and data entry form. widgets have been successfully 
integrated with both teleuse from telesoft and builder from 
ics .  . a free demo is available for any of the supported platforms .  . 

product name xrt graph 
company name kl group 
e mail sun.com ! ! ! info , 
phone 1 416 594 1026 
description 
xrt graph is a graph object that extends the xview toolkit there are 
also xt versions for olit and motif .  . xrt graph supports line plots , 
scatter plots , strip charts , bar charts , stacking bar charts , pie charts 
and filled area charts , and in combination. it supports real time 
updates , true postscript output , and intelligent user feedback. it comes 
with builder , a graph prototyping tool , which supports code resource 
file generation. a free demo  ( vmgraph ) is available. 
there are free integration kits for uim x , teleuse , and builder 
 ( others in  . 
availability 
xrt graph for xview and olit are only available on sparc .  . 
xrt graph for motif is available on a dozen or so platforms .  . 


free slingshot xview extension 

slingshot provides rectangles  ( like the xt intrinsics  gadget ) , 
drag and drop support , images , icons and text , trees , lines , arrows .  .  .  . 

get it by ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . , in contrib 0 . tar . z . 
 ( remember to use binary mode in ftp ! ) .  . 
you can also get it by sending mail to archive 
with the body of each message containing a line like 
send 0 . part01 part02 
going up to 
send 0 . 
send 0 . 
send 0 . 
you can ask for one file at a time to reduce the impact on intermediate 
mail sites. ask the mail server for help with the subject line help . 
a human can be reached at archive 
add a line in the message 
path your mail address 
if you think the normal automatic reply address might not work. 


ada bindings for xview 
sun ada 1.1 includes among other things an ada source code generator 
for devguide .  . it uses the xview ada bindings .  . 
it does not yet july 1992 support (the guide file  . 

c bindings for xview 

's xv . 

uit 


subject openwindows 3 ports 

sun sparc , sunos 4.1 
sun sparc , solaris 2  ( actually 3.0.1 ) 
others none so far .  .  .  . 

there are said (by sun) to be two or three ports of openwindows either 
available now or in progress. contact anthony flynn at open 
international for more information.  ( originally they 
said 35 , but perhaps they meant 3 . 5) . 

openwindows source is available commercially , it costs about 5 , 000 for 
the server , including and the toolkits  ( filemgr etc) is 
another 25 , 000 tooltalk is 40 , 000 or so. 


subject xview 3 ports 

what xview 3 
system apple a ux 
porter  ( lou jones ) 
ftp org . 
notes 
the libraries and utilities  ( olwm , , etc) are available for 
anonymous ftp from org .  . i used gcc 2.1 to compile the 
sources. if there is enough interest , i can make the diffs 
available. 

system concurrent 7000  ( 68040 based) 
porter  ( sinan karasu ) 

system decstation ultrix 
porter  ( dave scott ) 
ftp media lab . media . mit . edu . ftp xview3 ultrix . 4 . 2 . mips . tar . z . 
notes 
let me stress that this is not fully tested , but seems to work 
pretty well. please let me know about any problems you find. 
problems i already know about 
large buttons under any non sun x server  ( non i.e. any 
standard mit 45 server) have the bottom of the button 
chopped off. we 're working on this one. ) 
xview 3 is also available on the dec freeware cd , from  . 
actually this seems not to be dave scott 's port please accept my apologies 
for listing this incorrectly .  . a correct entry will appear as soon as i get 
the necessary information. lee 

system hp 720 
porter ( ) 
ftp tesla . ie . 137 . 43 . 24 . 44 . , pub 
notes 
includes hp 720 build , hp xview patch file ,  . 

system 300 series 
porter  ( tim chown ) 

system 7xx series 
ftp ftp . csc . liv . ac . uk . 253 . 42 . hpux x11 xview 3 . part . 123  . tar . z . 

system intel  ( sysvr4 i386 ) 
porter (david dawes ) 
ftp ftp . physics . su . oz . au . , physics . su . oz . au . 4 x11r5 hierarchy 
notes 
his patches were for 4.0.3 but should work on dell , isc and intel 
svr4 with no worries .  . the files are readme . xview3 . and xview3 . diff . z .  . 
see also linux 

system ibm rs 6000 
porter  ( tom mcconnell ) 
compiler 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib xview3 fixes xview3 unofficial . patch . z . 
notes 
there is still a problem with tty support for the rs 6000 .  . for 
instance , the will not work. still , most everything else works. 
for those of you who have already installed my previous patch , i have 
put a separate patch for just the shared library problem. this file is 
contrib xview3 fixes xview3 xview lib . patch . z .  . 

system linux 
porter kenneth osterberg 
gcc 2.3.3 , 2 . 
ftp tsx 11 . mit . edu . pub linux binaries usr . bin . x11 . 
ftp sunsite . unc . edu . 
notes 
inlcudes olvwm , uit 

system sgi 
porter rainer 
ftp export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib xview3 fixes xview3 sgi unofficial . patch . tar . z . 
notes 

system series 5 
porter  ( tom mcconnell ) 


subject xview 2 ports 

in general , there is no point in using xview 2 if you have xview 3 available 
it 's a good idea to look for an xview 3 port first. moving from xview 2 to 
xview 3 is usually simply a matter of recompiling , unless you 've done 
dirty tricks or used undocumented calls. 


system stellar  ( stardent 1000 ) and 1500 3000 
porter  ( andy arvai ) 
ftp perutz . scripps . edu . (137 . 131 . 152 . 27) . in the pub xview directory 
notes 
is now kubota pacific  ( kpc ) 

system harris nighthawk 4000 system  ( cx ux unix) 
porter  ( andy warner ) 
status commercial 

system sgi iris 
porter ( ) 
ftp wuarchive . wustl . edu . graphics graphics sgi stuff xview 

system vax vms 
porter tgv inc ( ) 
notes 
steven wrote 
a company called tgv makes a product called xview for vms . 
they made xview 2.0 libraries .  . i have n't seen them advertising 
xview 3.0 libraries yet. 

subject games  ( free and commercial ) 

commercial flight simulator for gx equipped 
contact artificial horizons inc , 1 415 367 5029 
requirements openwindows (2 or 3) , sunos 4.1 or later , sparc gx or 

free minesweeper game based on hexagons 
contact , include in subject 
requirements openwindows 3.0 or later 
toolkit tnt 3 

free 

free pacman game 
ftp ftp . uu . net . usenet comp . sources . games . 


an open look  ( pacman(tm ) surrogate that 
appears as a debugger the bad guys are code bugs that 
move around your screen you (the good guy ) chase them 
with a 19 monitor that eats bugs. 


commercial simcity 
contact dux software , los , ca 
price us 89 
requirements openwindows 3  ( uses news) .  . does n't run on a 4 110 with ( 

free spider  ( included in openwindows under  and src' ) 
a patience style card game with two packs of cards and 
excellent bitmap cards. 
i suggest recompiling to allow the cards to have rounded edges. 

free (ftp from export . lcs . mi . edu . as contrib 2 . 1 . tar . z) . 
a motif olit based tool constructed to get you ready for the casino .  . 


liam quin , manager of contracting , inc , 1 416 239 4801 
open look ui faq list news game lq text text retrieval 

from  ( daniel louis smith) 
subject windows motif tools summary 
organization autodesk inc. , sausalito ca , usa 
lines 67 


i posted this may 12th 


i am looking for info on products that can take 
windows source on a unix box  ( such as sparc ) , and produce a 
motif executable .  . another requirement is that mfc 2.0 should 
be supported .  . i already know of 

wind u by bristol technologies 
hunter sdk 
by 

are there any others 

i will post a summary if it 's wanted. 


i got a few requests asking for a summary , so i 'll attempt one 
here 


here 's the ones i know of 

wind u bristol technologies 

hunter sdk hunter systems 



visual solutions 


hunter 

the company is going through some big changes. i expect 
to eventually see the hunter sdk pop up with a new name. at the moment , it 
is difficult to get phone calls returned and otherwise obtain info. 
hopefully they will post something about themselves once things settle down. 

visual solutions 

is a product that i just heard about. they do n't 
yet support or mfc .  . was used to port , a mathematical 
modeling package. does native motif widgets , like wind u from bristol .  . 
contact lemieux at 508 392 0100 for more info. she 's very helpful. 



this translates windows source to a unix executable that 
can switch off between a windows or quasi motif look and feel at 
runtime .  . they skip the xt and xm  ( motif ) x toolkit levels and go 
straight to xlib .  . they do n't yet support mfc .  . they 're at 415 896  . 

bristol 

this company that seems to be on the right track. wind u uses 
xlib xt xm to give a real motif app. they seem to be doing the most work 
in trying to support things like dde , common dialogs , and more on the horizon .  . 
my contact there is knowledgeable , responds to my email , and wrote an example 
program for me showing how to obtain x widgets from windows handles .  . 
they 're at 203 438 6969 , or you can email 



daniel l smith , autodesk , sausalito , california , (415) 332 x 
disclaimer accuracy of statements somehow to caffeine intake 

from  ( mark a. davis ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
organization lake taylor hospital computer services 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
lines 22 

 ( amancio hasty jr) writes 

but your performance will suck lemons running an xserver on a clone .  . 

i have a clone almost with no name generating on a 486 33mhz 
system. 

show me the realistic price tag .  .  .  . 

i can get 15 tektronix terminals for under 900 , and the performance 
is over 80000  .  .  .  .  . 

excuse me , but with a 486 50 256k cache , s3 928 isa card , 8mb (x11r5) running 386bsd you can get 100k at 1024x768 which i doubt 

nice , but way over 900 .  .  .  .  . 
my point is price performance not just performance .  .  .  . 



mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


from (george ross ) 
subject re xdm and env .  . vars 
organization department of computer science , edinburgh university 
lines 24 

in article sun , writes 
i am using xdm on x11r5 with and xview3 on and running 
sunos 4 . 1 . 1 .  . prior to using xdm , i used to set path and other environment 
variables  ( like , , arch , etc) in my  . login . file. with xdm , 
the  . login . file does n't get executed and therefore neither the olwm 
root window nor my applications know about these variables .  . 

one usual suggestion is to put everything into your every time shell rc file 
instead of your login only one , which is fair enough if you only have a few 
users who know what they 're doing. if you have several hundred users who do 
what the books tell them , though , then it 's confusing at best. another is to 
have your xterms run login shells , but that still leaves the window manager 
and the things that get started from its menus with the wrong environment. 

our alternative is that instead of having xdm run the client startup scripts , 
it runs the user 's favourite shell as a login shell , and has it then run the 
rest of the startup scripts .  . that way the user 's usual environment gets set 
up as normal and inherited by everything. you can find an almost current copy 
of our scripts and things in contrib edinburgh environment . tar . z . , available 
from the usual places. 

george d m ross , department of computer science , university of edinburgh 
kings buildings , road , edinburgh , scotland , 3jz 
mail voice 031 650 fax 031 667 

from gary keim 
subject re colors and x windows  ( aicons ) 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 26 

nntp posting host po4 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . comp . windows . x . 15 may 93 re colors and x windows 
(a .  .  . john  ( 4620 ) 

the problem is that we need solutions for applications now. and although 
i would love to have most of the things mentioned here , somebody has to write 
it. 

what i 'd like to see is this scenario 

each widget , view , whatever , describes it 's colors via a palette .  . 
palettes can be shared and they only contain descriptive information. 
they are not directly tied to the object that uses them. palettes are 
held in the server. a palette can , up to , the number of 
hardware color cells of color descriptors .  . 

when the input focus is in a particular widget , that widget has access 
to all of the colors that are described in its associated palette .  . all 
other widgets , , get the closest approximation that can be 
generated by a union of the colors from the current palette and any free 
colors that are left over. 

a widget specifies a color for imaging by providing an index  ( pixel ) 
into its associated palette .  . 

the bold part above is hard and would need to be done in the server. 


from (david tan , box 219 baker lab , , 2720402 ) 
subject ignorant imake xfig question 
originator 
organization cornell materials science center 
lines 23 

hi folks , 

i'm trying to compile xfig 2 . 1 . 7 . on a ss1 running sunos 4.1.1 and ow 2.0 , 
and i'm having a little trouble with make imake .  . specifically , make bombs 
when it needs to use any xaw file. this is n't surprising since x11 files 
on suns with the standard ow 2.0 distribution are in various places under 
usr openwin  ( xaw files are in usr openwin share include x11 xaw ! ! ) 
actually , the real problem is that i know squat about imake , and i do n't 
know how to tell imake where the x11 files are. i can see from the 
makefile that it 's looking in the wrong places , but the first line of the 
makefile reads 

makefile generated by imake do not edit ! 

help ! is there some way i can edit the imakefile to tell it where to 
look (i have set defines bug , as it said to in the readme 
file . ) . 

email and post are both fine. 

thanks in advance , 

dave 

from  ( adrian nye ) 
subject re cannot create 24 plane window  ( summary ) 
organization o'reilly and associates , inc. 
lines 23 
reply to 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 


i got several answers , the most complete was from errol crary 

i have just looked at the r4 server listings ( .  .  .  . mit server dix window . c . ) 
and there are several ways in which you can get a badmatch error , even 
though my o'reilly book only says borderwidth is for . 

as of the third edition  ( june 92) the o'reilly book  ( vol 2) under 
xcreatewindow says 

badmatch 
any invalid setting of a window attribute 
attribute besides win gravity , event mask , do not propogate mask , 
override redirect , or cursor specified for window 
depth non zero for 
parent of is 
border width is non zero for 
depth or visual invalid for screen 
width or height is 0 


adrian nye 
o'reilly and associates 

from  ( pat wilson ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh 
lines 22 


commercial , government , and institutional users must register their 
copies of xv , for the exceedingly reasonable price of just 25 per 
workstation x terminal .  . site licenses are available for those who 
wish to run xv on a large number of machines. contact the author 
for more details. 
... 

i would have appreciated an announcement of the policy change 
dartmouth will not be able to run xv 3.0 , and i'm probably going 
to have to take v2 off line (i somehow missed the shareware 
designation in the readme of v2 , and did n't realize that we were 
supposed to  . 

i also debate whether this , with the new institutions must pay 
policy belongs in the contrib directory on export to me , contrib 
means contributed (i . e .  . no strings , except copyright ) attached .  . 


pat wilson 
systems manager , project 


from 
subject the andrew view v. 2 no. 1 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

the latest issue of the andrew view , newsletter of the andrew consortium 
is available. the simplest way to get it is via ftp from 
emsworth . andrew . cmu . edu . (128 . 2 . 45 . in directory . newsletters 
subdirectories ascii and postscript contain the newsletter in those 
formats .  . 

if you have requested it in the past , you will receive an email copy. 
you may request to be placed on the mailing list by sending your request 
to info andrew 

fred hansen 

from karlsruhe . de . (m .  .   weber ) 
subject q whats 
organization university of karlsruhe , germany 
lines 16 
nntp posting host mathematik . uni . karlsruhe . de . 
mime version 1.0 
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1 
content transfer encoding 8bit 


we tried to compile an old x11r4 motif program with and a newer 
version of motif .  . 

but we newer succeed .  . any ideas 

cc o new . main.o a .  .  .  . a .  .  .  . a .  .  .  . matrix a . lib a . verb lib verb . a . tools lib a . tools lib libxm . a . l tools x11r5 lib lxmu lxt lx11 ll lm 
a . lxmu lxt lx11 ll lm l usr cc sun4 lc 
ld tools x11r5 lib libxaw . sa . 5 . o) . multiply defined 
error code 2 
make fatal error command failed for target  

thanks  . 

, markus weber karlsruhe . de . 
sometimes there 's nothing to feel. 

from (joseph vallot ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
reply to (joseph vallot ) 
organization s.a. , , france 
lines 20 


in article , (john 
bradley ) writes 
from (john bradley ) 
subject xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
date 28 apr 93 01 27 46 gmt 

no , not another false alarm , not a it 'll certainly be done by next week 
message .  .  .  . no , this is the real thing. i repeat , this is not a drill ! 

batten down the hatches , hide the women , and lock up the cows , xv 3.00 has 
finally escaped .  . i was cleaning its cage this morning when it overpowered 
me , broke down the office door , and fled the lab. it was last seen heading 
in the general direction of export . lcs . mit . edu . at nearly 30k per second .  .  .  . 

if found , it answers to the name of  contrib xv 3 . 00 . tar . z' .  . 

have a blast. i'm off to the vacation capital of the u.s. waco , texas .  . 

jhb 

from dortmund . de .  ( rainer klute ) 
subject re imake tex looking for beta testers 
organization cs department , dortmund university , germany 
lines 22 
nntp posting host tommy . informatik . uni . dortmund . de . 

in article news . informatik . uni . dortmund . de . , 
dortmund . de .  ( rainer klute ) writes 
if ... 

a)  .  .  . this . seems attractive to you , 
b)  .  .  . you . are willing to test imake tex and send me a short test 
report , 
c)  .  .  . you . are willing to cope with a rudimentary english documentation 
 ( however , the german version is completed and included) , 

then you are invited as a beta tester .  . i am looking forward to your 
e mail. 

please do n't respond anymore , i have enough beta testers now. thank you. 


dipl .  . inform .  . rainer klute i r b immer richtig beraten 
univ. dortmund , irb 
500500 ) tel. 49 231 755 4663 
d dortmund 50 fax 49 231 755 2386 

new address after june 30th univ. dortmund , d 44221 dortmund 

from  ( leonidas nikidis ) 
subject how works 
organization department of computing , imperial college , university of london , uk .  . 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host finch . doc . ic . ac . uk . 
keywords xlib , 


hi , 



could someone explain to me what exactly the xlib functions 

, , do , or to 

suggest a ftp site where i can find programs using these functions. 


ps the man pages does not explain much  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


thank you , 
leo .  . 








leonidas imperial college , london , uk 
dept. of computing 


from technik . uni . erlangen . de .  ( martin kreutzer ) 
subject problem with german keyboard on a 
organization , university of erlangen , germany 
nntp posting host e . technik . uni . erlangen . de . 
lines 9 
keywords keyboard special characters 

yesterday i changed the us keyboard of my with a german keyboard. 
and now i cannot get any alt graph characters  ( 'tilde' ) .  . 
when i exit from x i can get the characters , but not under x. 

can anybody give me some hints , where to check for the correct installation 
of the keyboard. 

martin 


from (michael elbel ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization pcs computer systeme gmbh 
lines 28 

in  ( allbery ) writes 

as quoted from by  ( bernward averwald ) 

back in the days of x11 . 1 . i did analyse the xterm code. the cursor 
was implemented by drawing a rectangle around the character. i does n't 
seem to be changed 'til now. 
but if you have the sources you could add a blinking cursor via 
or similar . 

the server overhead for this is mildly ridiculous , though  ( see also x , 
which does this in its dos windows) .  . do you really want xterm to wake up every 
half second and the server into doing a bitblt 

so what i'm running emu on a 25 mhz 68020 box. i cannot make out any 
difference in performance whether the cursor is set to blinking or 
not  ( if you think about it a bit , a cycle of 400 ms is a hell a lot of 
time for even the slowest pc) .  . since you would of course only enable 
the blinking text cursor when your xterm has the input focus , this 
application is active anyway. to repeat it , a blinking text cursor 
costs almost nothing in performance , it just needs some thought when 
designing the xterm software. 

michael 

michael , digital pcs gmbh , muenchen , germany 
is nur fuer mia 
fermentation fault  ( coors dumped ) 

from thomas richard  ( thomas r. stevenson ) 
subject in imakefile files 
keywords imakefile 
distribution world 
organization wayne state university 
lines 6 
nntp posting host 141 . 217 . 4 . 31 . 

i 've installed many x apps , and have that many of them imakefiles that have 
lines in them. when i do a to create the makefile , 
the makefile also has the  ( comment ) lines in them. i always have 
to edit out these lines because the make command on them. i was 
wondering what these lines were for , and what i might be doing wrong that 
causes the make command to dislike them. thanks ! 

from  ( marcus schnell ) 
subject re program to display  . gif . files 
organization international institute for applied systems analysis 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 11 

john chambers wrote 
it seems silly , but while i 've located things like tgif that can edit 
gif files , and various tools to convert to from gif format , i have n't 
been able to locate a program that just opens a window and displays a 
gif file in it. i 've looked thru various faq files , also to no avail. 
is there one lurking about in some archive nothing sophisticated 
just show the pretty picture 

xv 



from  ( samir k patel ) 
subject motif widgets using resource file 
organization computer science department , texas a m university 
lines 10 
distribution world 
nntp posting host photon . tamu . edu . 



i posted this question about motif widgets .  . i got it working 
fine. there was one bug in my  . file. it should work fine in normal 
case. 

thanks 


( ) 

from  ( dan r. greening ) 
subject re did microsoft buy 
organization software transformation , inc. 
lines 16 
nntp posting host jeff . sti . com . 

 ( jesse w. asher ) wrote 
i 've been getting mail from about the june conference and i was 
wondering if microsoft had bought the front says conference 
from microsoft windows nt developers . what 's the deal i thought 
x was for x windows 

i had exactly the same feeling. i was depressed .  . if you ever programmed 
windows and x11 , you 'd be depressed if an x conference touted its tutorials 
to show you how to convert from x to windows api .  . sort of like , how to 
convert your c classes to the new , improved c. 

what happened 


dan software transformation saratoga sunnyvale rd , 100 
(408) 973 8081 cupertino , ca 95014 

from (keith marlow pg ) 
subject pd apps for displaying 3d data sets 
article i.d. radon . marlow . 
organization university of east 
lines 16 


the subject line says it all really , i'm looking for a pd application 
which will just handle the displaying of 3d data sets  ( images ) in 
cross section , or any pointers to code which will aid in the development 
of such a system. 

thanks in advance 

keith marlow 



keith marlow , sys p g , , phone cyclone bbs on arc , 
 . norfolk pc files fidonet echoes charts acorn 
central 2 254 405 . 3 . support area radio info s w 
voice tried ms dos once .  .  . but did n't inhale 

from 
subject setting display 
reply to () 
lines 14 
nntp posting host aries . upenn . edu . 

i am working for a company which has only one connection to the internet. 
this is through a firewall gateway  ( unix workstation) .  . i would like to be 
able to telnet to a host outside the company and set the display to my pc 
which is running an x terminal emulator  ( exceed w) .  . the display can be set 
to the gateway workstation with no problem but when i set the variable to 
my ip address i get a error ca n't open display message. 

this ca n't be that hard to work around can it 

btw i have no trouble running x clients on local workstations  ( in the company) 
and having them display on my pc. 

curtis 


from (a .  . khattri ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization computer science dept , city university , london 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host fred . cs . city . ac . uk . 

back in the days of x11 . 1 . i did analyse the xterm code. the cursor 
was implemented by drawing a rectangle around the character. i does n't 
seem to be changed 'til now. 
but if you have the sources you could add a blinking cursor via 
or similar . 

the server overhead for this is mildly ridiculous , though  ( see also x , 
which does this in its dos windows) .  . do you really want xterm to wake up every 
half second and the server into doing a bitblt 

most dos x servers are terribly slow to use in my experience and no , i guess 
performance would be pretty bad. i believe the discussion is valid for an x 
server on a decent workstation .  . 


. the eno . 
the trouble with new age janet 
music is that there 's no 
evil in it .  .  . brian eno us 

from  ( henry system mgr . ) . 
subject choosing a window manager 
reply to 
organization uk canada netherlands joint astronomy centre , hilo , hawaii 
lines 13 

a while back (i . e .  . , several months) someone posted a method for allowing 
a user to choose  ( via and something else ) a window manager 
interactively at x startup time. could the original poster  ( or anyone 
else) please email a copy of the method to me , as i have lost the 
original posting thanks. 


henry ) 
computing systems manager ) perform random 
uk netherlands canada joint astronomy centre ) and senseless acts of beauty 
660 n. a place , hilo , hi ) 
808 969 ) 


from  ( rob ryan ) 
subject efficient pc clients 
organization system constructs , inc 
lines 27 

we 're looking at various x11 clients for pc 's and we 're looking for some 
information about the relative efficiency of different products. are any 
notably efficient  ( fast ) are any notably inefficient i assume that a 
graphics accelerator makes them significantly faster  ( right now i'm looking 
at ico running on 32 for windows sitting on the distinct tcp ip 
platform , and it 's (not surprisingly ) much slower than ico running on the 
's console .  . what are the key ways of improving performance for 
pc  ( presumably windows) clients 

also , what about async solutions (yes , i appreciate that it will be 
much slower even with v . 42bis . ) . i'm in the process of installing ppp 
 ( with header compression) .  . how does that compare to i 've seen 
a product called xremote by ncd that promises to be pretty efficient , but 
are there comparable products out there if we 're looking for efficiency 
for async , pc clients , what should we be looking at in addition to standard 
ppp w compression and xremote 

any information would be greatly appreciated. i'm still taking in all 
the information in the faq , but any tips about the relative efficiency 
of various product offerings would be great. (i get the impression 
that discussions about speed are largely application specific , but 
that not withstanding , any comments would be appreciated . ) . thanks. 

rob 

rob ryan , system constructs inc. 


from (scott moody ) 
subject x server only on sun 
keywords window manager 
organization man machine systems technology 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 32 

i have been using a hds x terminal , and really like it. what 
is really powerful is that it can run the x server without 
running a window manager. one can then run a special client 
x program called a window manager , either (1) run 
motif or openlook from it 's own firmware  ( limiting the network 
traffic but having no home) .  . or (2) run motif or openlook 
from some home place  ( like a sparc , or  . 

this is powerful , especially since i can exit one window manager 
 ( without killing windows) and then start up another manager. 
(some of my vms tools need special meta mouse that work in 
one manager and not the other) .  . 

well the question is 

on a sparcstation running openlook , does anyone know how to 
break apart olwm from the olwm slave program basically i 
want to run only the server , and go somewhere else to run 
the window manager. 


please respond my e mail  ( as well as posting) because of the 
large volumes in window . x) . 

thanks. 




scott moody (206) there are no answers  .  .  . just cross references 

uunet ! bcstec ! ! scott 

from  ( qi y. zeng ) 
subject source code of x 
article i.d. acsu . 
organization ub 
lines 16 
nntp posting host lictor . acsu . buffalo . edu . 

dear netters 
could you mail the source code of the book 
advanced x window application programming 
by johnson and 
to me 

if you need any source code , just ask me. 

thank you very much ! 


sincerely , 

,  . 

,  . suny at 

from  ( henry hawaii sysmgr ) 
subject help building xview on sparc classic 
lines 109 
reply to  ( henry hawaii sysmgr ) 
organization uk canada netherlands joint astronomy centre , hilo , hawaii 


can anyone help with this 

system sparc classic , solaris 2.1 , gcc 2.3.3 , x11r5 

when i try to build the xview libraries  ( xview3 , patched with the patch from 
the x11r5 solaris kit ) , i get the following error 

rm f loop . o . shared loop . o . 
gcc struct return e o2 i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include i usr x11r5 include 15 dos has locale dos has mmap loop . c . 
l c 
gcc struct return o2 i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include i usr x11r5 include 15 dos has locale dos has mmap c x . c . 
o shared loop . o . 
in file included from  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview notify . h . 29 , from  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview private h . 24 , from x . c . 18 
usr include sys h . 25 parse error before t' 
usr include sys h . 25 warning no at end of struct or union 
usr include sys h . 26 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
usr include sys h . 29 parse error before ` ' 
usr include sys h . 29 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
in file included from  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview private h . 24 , from x . c . 18 
.  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview notify . h . 286 parse error before ` ' 
.  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview notify . h . 286 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
in file included from x . c . 35 
usr include sys user . h . 226  undeclared , outside of functions 
loop . c . 71  undeclared , outside of functions 
loop . c . 85 variable  has but incomplete type 
loop . c . 88 parse error before ` ' 
loop . c . 88 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
loop . c . in function fig sig change  
loop . c . 687  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 687  ( each undeclared identifier is reported only once 
loop . c . 687 for each function it appears in . ) . 
loop . c . in function signal catcher  
loop . c . 751 parse error before t' 
loop . c . 764 t' undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 764 parse error before  
loop . c . 766  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 769  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 777 parse error before `)' ) 
loop . c . 795 warning assignment makes pointer from integer without a cast 
loop . c . parse error before `)' ) 
loop . c . in function send delayed sigs  
loop . c . 825 t' undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 825 parse error before  
loop . c . 837  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 839  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 848 parse error before `)' ) 
loop . c . at top level 
loop . c . 1022 parse error before ` ' 
loop . c . 85 storage size of  is n't known 
error code 1 
make fatal error command failed for target loop . o' . 
rm f loop . o . shared loop . o . 
gcc struct return e o2 i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include i usr x11r5 include 15 dos has locale dos has mmap loop . c . 
l c 
gcc struct return o2 i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include i usr x11r5 include 15 dos has locale dos has mmap c x . c . 
o shared loop . o . 
in file included from  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview notify . h . 29 , from  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview private h . 24 , from x . c . 18 
usr include sys h . 25 parse error before t' 
usr include sys h . 25 warning no at end of struct or union 
usr include sys h . 26 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
usr include sys h . 29 parse error before ` ' 
usr include sys h . 29 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
in file included from  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview private h . 24 , from x . c . 18 
.  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview notify . h . 286 parse error before ` ' 
.  .  .  .  .  .  . . build include xview notify . h . 286 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
in file included from x . c . 35 
usr include sys user . h . 226  undeclared , outside of functions 
loop . c . 71  undeclared , outside of functions 
loop . c . 85 variable  has but incomplete type 
loop . c . 88 parse error before ` ' 
loop . c . 88 warning data definition has no type or storage class 
loop . c . in function fig sig change  
loop . c . 687  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 687  ( each undeclared identifier is reported only once 
loop . c . 687 for each function it appears in . ) . 
loop . c . in function signal catcher  
loop . c . 751 parse error before t' 
loop . c . 764 t' undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 764 parse error before  
loop . c . 766  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 769  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 777 parse error before `)' ) 
loop . c . 795 warning assignment makes pointer from integer without a cast 
loop . c . parse error before `)' ) 
loop . c . in function send delayed sigs  
loop . c . 825 t' undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 825 parse error before  
loop . c . 837  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 839  undeclared  ( first use this function) 
loop . c . 848 parse error before `)' ) 
loop . c . at top level 
loop . c . 1022 parse error before ` ' 
loop . c . 85 storage size of  is n't known 
error code 1 
make fatal error command failed for target loop . o' . 

obviously , most of this is due to the problem encountered while including 
sys h . i 've tried several approaches , but ca n't get past this point. 
any help would be greatly appreciated. 

nui o , 

henry ) 
computing systems manager ) perform random 
uk netherlands canada joint astronomy centre ) and senseless acts of beauty 
660 n. a place , hilo , hi ) 
808 969 ) 


from 
subject wanted rolling demo creator 
lines 10 

wanted 
i have to produce a rolling demonstration of some x window motif software. 
does anybody know if there is some public domain software to record playback x 
window events or similar 

thanks in advance ... 

paul 

i must protest captain i am not a merry man ! ! ! ! worf 

from  ( jeff miller) 
subject o'reilly x , adobe p script , sun openlook books cheap 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 37 

i have some brand new copies of the following books for sale. some are 
down rev , do n't know which or by how much look to of pages , copyright 
date , etc. for clues .  . 

postscript language reference manual , adobe sys .  . inc. , addison wesley , 
copyr .  . 1986 , printed 1990. 299 pages. 22 . 95 .  . 

postscript language tutorial and cookbook , as above , 243 pages , 16 . 95 . 

i 'll sell the above two books as a set for 15 postage paid w in us. 

openlook gui functional specification , sun micro , addison w , copyr .  . 1989 , 
pages , 34 . 95 .  . 

openlook gui application style guidelines , 388 pages , 24 . 95 .  . 

i 'll sell the above two books as a set for 15 ppd .  . w in us. 

o'reilly associates definitive guides to the x window system , copyr .  . 
1990 , for version 11 , revised and updated for release 4 

vol. 0 x protocol reference manual , 498 pages 30 
vol. 1 xlib programming manual , 672 pages 34.95 
vol. 2 xlib reference manual , 792 pages 34.95 
vol. 7 xview programming manual , 640 pages 30 

i 'll sell the above four books as a set for 35 ppd .  . w in us 

due to the high hassle ratio i am asking for pre payment by check. i 'll 
be cashing , packing , and shipping so be prepared to wait 3 weeks 
for your books to show up. 

if you 'd like to pick them up , i live in san francisco .  . same prices though. 

e mail me if you are interested. thanks ! 



from  ( leo j. irakliotis ) 
subject please ! 
reply to 
nntp posting host summit . lance . colostate . edu . 
organization engineering network services , colorado state university 
lines 19 

this discussion on viewing  . ps . files x11 seems rather interesting 
but i fail to understand the reason it is not contained in 2 at most 
newsgroups .  . 

i am subscribed to comp . text . interleaf . and i could care less about 
 . ps . viewing under x11 .  . i am sure that members of this group interested in 
the topic can followup by looking at other newsgroups .  . 

could you please remove the comp . text . interleaf . from your distribution 
just as a sort of courtesy .  . 

best regards .  . 


leo j 

electrical engineering 
colorado state u 
(303) 491 optical computing lab 

from  ( doug hughes ) 
subject re fax software 
keywords free 
nntp posting host happy . vf . ge . com . 
reply to 
organization ge aerospace vf 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( philip brown) writes 


i 'd like to know if there is any free fax software for xwindows 
that i can use. 
i have a sun 4 110 running mit x11r5 .  . 
i checked the export . lcs . mit . edu . list , and there did n't seem to be 
anything there. 



tea a noxious brew of various oriental leaves , containing toxic acids .  . 
personally , i rather like it.  ( paraprhased from dr. who peter davidson ) 


check prep . ai . mit . edu .  . it 's called fax 3 . 2 . 1 . tar . z . or something to 
that effect and is the software for  . be forewarned that it 
requires (at the moment ) a fairly costly 450 fax modem with certain 
capabilities to use it. 



doug hughes 
system net admin martin marietta aerospace , valley forge , pa 
or 

from  ( janet a barnett ) 
subject re help. badmatch making 24bit win on 8bit server ! ! 
nntp posting host pookie . crd . ge . com . 
organization ge corp. research development , schenectady , ny 
lines 28 

in article  ( henrik w. nielsen ) writes 


i'm trying to make a 24 bit window using xcreatewindow on a 8 bit 
pseudocolor server. as far as i know this should be possible if you 
stuff deleted 
xio . , , xio . , 
x , y , w , h , 0 , 24 , , 
, 0 , setwinattrib ) 



this results in a badmatch error. can anyone please tell me why 



the colormap element of must be a legitimate truecolor 
colormap .  . so , use  ( xcreatecolormap( ) with the proper visual and use it 
in  ( and do n't forget the mask ! ) .  . 

and the inevitable caveat i usually use widgets , setting the visual 
and colormap resources rather than direct x routines , so i could be 
wrong. but , i think this is the general difficulty .  . 

allen barnett 
 ( whose wife graciously allowed to use her account) 



from  ( rudy bonefas ) 
subject need x win popup menu package 
reply to 
organization technologies , inc. 
lines 9 


rather than write my own , can anyone direct me to a package that will let me create 
cascaded popup menus in x windows. for reasons of portability , the package should 
not rely on any x toolkit other than xlib and the xt intrinsics .  . something written 
in c would be nice , too. 

thanks 



from  ( der hua liu) 
subject keycode wrong for 
nntp posting host jupiter . csie . ntu . edu . tw . 
organization the dept. of computer science and information engineering of ntu 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 15 

i am writing a x based which requires  . 
i found the keycode of is wrong. if i run the program on 
a linux 2) . with display set to the local linux and to 
the sun host (x11r5) , the two keycodes from the two xservers are different. 
of course , the keycode of is o.k. 

can anybody verify this did i do anything wrong 

thanks. 


edward der hua liu 
cs department 
national taiwan university , taiwan 


from  ( ik su yoo ) 
subject re did microsoft buy 
in reply to 's message of tue , 18 may 1993 21 00 29 gmt 
nntp posting host 128 . 96 . 136 . 123 . 
reply to ik su yoo 
organization bell communications research 

names . nerdc . ufl . edu . 

distribution usa 
lines 40 


mark mark a. davis writes 

in article  ( mark a. davis ) writes 

mark we are the ones in control of what we use. it is those who 
mark follow like blind sheep which cause the markets to skew .  . i'm sure 
mark there will be enough paid market nt conferences without it 
mark needing to be in what was once a conference for open windowing 
mark  . i know that if i were planning to go i would cancel .  . 
mark not because i have my eyes closed , but because nt does not belong 
mark at such a conference. i would , however , like to go to a closed 
mark environment nt conference to see the product because i am curious. 
mark i doubt , however , based on the objective opinions of those i trust , 
mark that i would be impressed. 

why do many ( ) people believe that '93 is one of the paid 
market hype nt conferences  ( as you put it) i for one am going , because 
i , too , am curious about the technology. i think this is a great chance 
to learn about nt , mainly because 

it will be presented in x 's home turf . i believe that the attendees 
will mostly have x backgrounds  ( biases ) thus , i expect that the 
nt presentations will face a tough audience. 

i can be there in person to judge for myself whether or not nt is what 
it is hyped to be. this is as closely as i can get to in evaluating the 
nt technology without actually using it myself , which i do n't have the 
time to do. 

if nt turns out to be a vapor technology and i get bored , there will be 
many other interesting tutorials presentations that i wo n't have to 
waste my time ... in california ! ) 

just my thoughts .  .  .  . 


ik su yoo 
rrc , 


from  ( da cheng ) 
subject x terminal faq 
organization u . c .  . berkeley math. department. 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host jaffna . berkeley . edu . 


subject 68) what is the current state of the world in x terminals 

jim morton posts quarterly to comp . windows . x . a list of 
manufacturers and terminals it includes pricing information. 

can somebody send me a copy of this faq 

thanks alot ! 

da 

from  ( joe kelsey ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization motorola , mobile data division seattle , wa 
lines 53 

in (george lindholm ) writes 
in article , (george lindholm ) writes 
in article (john bradley ) writes 
and here is the first patch ) the following fixes some problems with the 
imakefile files and makes it possible to compile xv 3.00 under solaris without 
having to use the ucb stuff 

oops , i did n't get the signal processing right  ( thats what i get from doing 
the work on an ascii terminal) .  . here is the fixed patch 

the patches for xv . h . need to use `` ifdef svr4   rather than the 
overly complex `` if  ( defined(sun )  ( defined(sysv)'' ) in order to 
compile xv on  . also , rand and srand 
do n't work very well use and to get better results. 
otherwise , xv 3.00 compiles just fine on my system v 4.0.4 box 
with xfree86 and gcc 2 . 3 . 3 .  . i just uncommented the gcc definition in 
the makefile , added l usr x386 lib i usr x386 include to the copts 
line and modified libs to include lsocket lnsl .  . really john , if you 
just use the imakefile things like this do n't even have to get 
mentioned .  .  .  . 

1.1 1993 04 28 08 33 13 
xv . h . 1993 04 28 17 47 38 

284 , 292 
284 , 298 


signal macros 
ifdef svr4 
define hold sig  ( sighold(sigalrm ) 
define release sig  ( sigrelse(sigalrm ) 
define pause sig  ( sigpause(sigalrm ) 
else 
define hold sig  ( sigblock(sigmask(sigalrm ) 
define release sig  ( sigblock(0 ) 
define pause sig  ( sigpause(0 ) 
endif 


default for most folks 

318 , 323 
324 , 333 
define random rand 
define srand 
endif 
ifdef svr4 
define random 
define 
endif 



from  ( trevor j. smedley ) 
subject buying x terminals 
organization technical university of nova scotia 
lines 18 

we are planning on buying 15 20 x terminals .  . i have the article from jim 
morton regarding prices , etc. , and am looking for any other information 
that will help me decide which to buy. 

the terminals will be connected to a dec 3000 400 axp with ram , 
running osf 1. from what i have found out so far , it would be best to run 
as much as possible in the terminal itself  ( x11 , window manager , xterm , 
etc . ) . , and that in order to do this we need n mb ram in the xterminal 
(where n ranges from 4 to 10 , depending on who i talk to) .  . 

what should i be looking for what sort of questions should i be asking 
the salespeople 

thanks 

trevor j. 
school of computer science 
technical university of nova scotia 

from  ( marcus schnell ) 
subject re save under with x11r5 
organization international institute for applied systems analysis 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 24 

hans bos wrote 
i have the following problem on x11r5 servers. 

when a window of my is obscured by a pop up window which has 
the save under attribute set , the subwindows of my window are not restored .  . 
normally , the subwindows are redrawn when the parent window gets an expose 
event , but because the save under attribute is used for the pop up window 
that obscured my window , no expose event is sent. 

we had the same problem and on most of our machines it works if we use 
backing store instead of save under .  . 

marcus 


marcus 
international institute for applied systems analysis 
a austria 
phone ( 43 2236 ) 715 21 487 
fax ( 43 2236 ) 731 48 
vice commissioner of the australian rules internet 
football league  ( arifl ) 1992 , 1993 , ... 



from  ( eric schwartz ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
in reply to 's message of wed , 12 may 1993 07 44 42 gmt 
nntp posting host beethoven . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization s bach b under  . organization . 
lines 12 

check out a program called pc xview .  . i 've used it before , and from 
what i can tell , it 's exactly what you 're looking for. last i checked , 
you should be able to find it for about 160 a copy. 

eric 


of course i'm certain ! heisenberg 
he had n't a single redeeming vice 
where does bob barker go when oscar 
i watch white wasting time is an important part of living. 


from (david . a . 
subject click to focus vs. point to focus 
organization at t 
lines 12 

i am having the problem of ensuring point to focus when the mouse 
cursor enters a window in my application. i'm using interviews , 
but that may not matter , this seems to be a generic problem in x. 
for example , i use openwindows on a sparc2 , with point to focus 
set , and that generally works , but not always , depending on what 
was going on in some window when i move the cursor from one shell 
tool window to another. or so it seems .  .  .  . 

my question , then , is what can i do within x to guarantee point to 
focus within my application thanks for any response. 

dave 

from (brian deford ) 
subject preventing user from hitting ctrl alt to exit x 
organization open networks , inc. , reston , va 
lines 49 

hello , 

i am admin for an rs 6000 running aix 3.2 , x11r5 , motif , and  . 
i want to prevent the user from hitting alt to exit x. 

i 've tried invoking x with  xinit t' , but that does n't work. 
xinit the t to the call to  . xinitrc . , and not to the 
call to x. 

the man page to xinit is no help. in fact , it tells 
me that xinit is a script when it is really a binary file. 

so far , the only way i 've been able to accomplish this feat is 
to add the t to the call to x in usr lpp x11 defaults  . 
i would rather not do it this way. does anyone have any other ideas 



brian internet 
open networks , inc. usenet uunet ! ! 
commerce park dr. 205 tel 703 648 
reston , va 22091 fax 703 648 


























i want to prevent the 

from  ( derek c. richardson ) 
subject xview 3.0 question 
nntp posting host ioas09 . ast . cam . ac . uk . 
reply to 
organization institute of astronomy , cambridge 
lines 14 

yet another xview question is there an  ( easy ) way of detecting when a user 
has resized a frame externally by way of the window manager (e . g .  . grabbing 
and letting go of the frame resize corners under olwm) if so , please let me 
know ! 

derek 


derek c. richardson tel  ( 0223 ) x 37501 
institute of astronomy fax  ( 0223 ) 
cambridge , u.k. 
e mail 



from  ( axel deininger ) 
subject x meta file , anyone 
nntp posting host cv . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard company , corvallis , oregon usa 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 19 

hi , 

i'm working on a project that involves storing an application 's rendering 
to an x display and then playing it back again. rather than 
reinvent the wheel , it like to find 
a file format for saving x protocol .  . 
software that saves and replays such a session. 

any ideas out there i 've heard that there is a version of 
that will save and replay sessions .  . 

i 'd be willing to share much of the code i develop back to the x community. 


axel .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 





from bonn . de .  ( juergen schietke ) 
subject chars of big fonts are shown partially 
organization research institute for discrete mathematics , bonn 
lines 30 

hi all , 

i wrote a small application which uses pixmaps copied into a window 
to show some drawings. this works perfectly for all kind of objects 
expect large fonts .  . what happens on the screen is that the right 
half of the font is not shown .  . the way i create these things is 
quite simple some aggregated code 

 ( xfillrectangle(disp , , , 0 , 0 , width , height) 
line string ( .  .  . ) . 
 ( xcopyarea(disp , , win , 0 , 0 , width , height , 0 , 0) 

i am using a 340 with bos 3 . 2 .  . 

the question is 
is this a bug in the aix x server  ( may be some ptfs ) , or did i do 
something wrong within my code 

sorry for the cross posting , but i really do not know what kind of 
error it is. 


juergen schietke 
research insitute for discrete mathematics 
university of bonn 
nassestr .  . 2 
5300 bonn 1  ( germany ) 

tel 49 0228 
e mail bonn . de . 

from  ( graeme gill ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization australia pty. ltd. , melbourne , australia 
lines 9 

in article ,  ( christophe muller ) writes 
anyway , at , we will abandon xv. we were using it mostly for slide 
shows because of its loop feature that display does not have  ( display 
from the wonderful imagemagick package ! d ) , but i think i will implement 
it myself  ( even a shell script should do the job) and forget xv. 

xli and xloadimage have a goto flag. 

graeme gill .  . 

from stu (joseph w shelby ) 
subject x11r5 server and decstation 5000 2 0 5 sans decnet 
organization james madison university 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 9 

has anybody built an x11r5 server that can run on a personal decstation 
5000 line with ultrix 4.3 the only catch is that being personal machines , 
we did not install decnet onto them , which the server on gatekeeper 
requires .  . 

any replies welcome .  .  .  . 
joe shelby 
stu 


from  ( johan danielsson ) 
subject re copyrights 
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden 
lines 10 
in reply to 's message of fri , 7 may 1993 13 05 17 gmt 
nntp posting host nada . kth . se . 

there will always be a zillion lawyers who , if they get paid well 
enough , will sue your brains out. gosh ! ca n't anyone send them off to 
another planet ! 
well maybe , it would be better to just send apple , microsoft and a few 
others  ( that way we would get rid of some terrible products as well ) 



drag n drop dead 
johan 

from (andrew jaffe ) 
subject 2.0.1 icon problems 
organization university of chicago , astronomy and astrophysics 
lines 24 


hi ! i 've just installed the new 2.0.1 and it all works 
fine , except 

on our grayscale xterm the custom icons compiled into the 
program do n't work at all , but on the bw terminal it works fine. 
i can set the icon to an xbm file with  . twmrc . , but that does n't 
give the neat o change when busy action.  ( other programs with 
similar actions , e.g. , xbiff , work fine . ) . 

the x interface author , george ferguson , suggests it might be a 
problem with the x intrinsics , but is n't willing to hack around 
to fix it himself. but i know zero about x programming , so i 
do n't think i can find it. 

does anyone out there know an obvious fix for the problem 

andrew 


andrew jaffe 
dep t of astronomy and astrophysics , u. chicago 
5640 s. ellis ave (312) 702 6041 
chicago , il 60637 1433 (312) 702 8212 fax 

from rick miller 
subject x face 
organization just me. 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 2 . 33 . 
summary go ahead .  .  .  . swamp me. eep ! 

i'm not familiar at all with the format of these x face thingies , but 
after seeing them in some folks  headers , i 've got to see them  ( and 
maybe make one of my own) ! 

i 've got dpg view on my linux box (which displays uncompressed x faces ) 
and i 've managed to compile un too .  .  .  . but now that i'm looking 
for them , i ca n't seem to find any x face 's in anyones news headers ! ( 

could you , would you , please send me your x face header 

i know i 'll probably get a little swamped , but i can handle it. 

 .  .  . i . hope. 

rick miller 
send a postcard , get one back ! kaj vi ! 
rick miller 16203 woods muskego , wis. 53150 usa 

from  ( rick mcteague ) 
subject need help with mit magic cookie 
nntp posting host orion . spd . louisville . edu . 
organization university of louisville 
lines 39 

i'm trying to turn on using mit magic cookie on my servers 
 ( cpu heads , xterminals ) , but i'm running into a couple of problems. 

first , at least one of our applications  ( maple ) does n't seem to understand 
how to deliver the magic cookie , and wo n't run on a display with authorization 
turned on. 

second , we have people with client software on remote machines , and i 
really do n't want to hassle them with having to copy their  . xauthority . 
file to the remote machine .  .  .  . assuming that the clients there support 
 . 

so , what i would like to do is turn on mit magic cookie by default , with 
non privileged users able to turn it off dropping back to host based 
authorization .  . 

(yes , i know how to turn it off by changing the xconfig file for the 
heads and the client authorize setting for the , but 
non privileged users ca n't do this . ) . 

i 've checked with the hp support line , and there does n't appear to be a way. 
can anyone confirm this , or do you know of a way to accomplish what i 
want 

btw , i'm running hpux 9.0 , and vue 3 . 0 .  . 

thanks in advance , 
rick 


rick 
electrical engineering department , speed scientific school 
university of louisville , louisville , ky 40292 
 ( 502 ) 588 7020 

internet 

disclaimer i'm a stand up comedian if anyone takes me seriously , i'm 
doing something wrong ! 

from 
subject xdm and env .  . vars 
organization the internet 
lines 27 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to xpert 

hi , 

i am using xdm on x11r5 with and xview3 on and running 
sunos 4 . 1 . 1 .  . prior to using xdm , i used to set path and other environment 
variables  ( like , , arch , etc) in my  . login . file. with xdm , 
the  . login . file does n't get executed and therefore neither the olwm 
root window nor my applications know about these variables .  . 

i used the displaymanager .  . 0 . resource in usr lib x11 xdm xdm config 
to succesfully pass the path variable .  . but i am having problems passing anything else ! ! ! i tried home  . login . in usr lib x11 xdm xsession 
but that did n't help. i also tried using 
displaymanager . arch 
which did n't work either. 

i would appreciate any help on this matter. 

thanks in advance , 
shash 


shash chatterjee email 
ec software phone (817) 763 1495 
lockheed fort worth company fax (817) 777 2115 
p.o. box 748 , 
ft. worth , tx 76101 



from bielefeld . de .  ( lars , d0 231 258 , , 0526189607 ) 
subject xdm configuration 
reply to bielefeld . de . 
nntp posting host uni . bielefeld . de . 
organization chaos unlimited 
lines 40 


hello ! 

we want to configure our x11r5 sytem  ( i486 33mhz running bsd like unix) 
comming up with a chooser menu with different machines on it (works) an then 
connect to them. but the only connection works is localhost ! 
an  x indirect machine ' works very well ! 
the configuration 

starting the  xdm  at boot time with no servers specified 
in xservers 
starting the x server at boot time with x indirect localhost 

the chooser menu appears with the machines named in 
bye 
' chooser ... broadcast 
the number of users on this machines and the load is 
displayed correct 

selecting an other machine than my own host the x server 
starts and nothing happens , after a time out the chooser menu 
appears again. 

i know the xdm bug in x11r4 , but all machines running x11r5 

please help 
lars 




lars e mail bielefeld . de . 
bielefeld  ( germany ) bielefeld . de . 
fuer physik d0 231 phone 49 521 106 
 . 25 fax 49 521 106 
4800 bielefeld 1 telex 932 362 





from tgl  ( tom lane ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
nntp posting host g . gp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization independent jpeg group 
lines 29 

 ( chris sherman ) gripes 
it really bums me out that xv went shareware .  . 

xv 's been shareware for about a year ... had n't you noticed 
i do n't have a problem with this. john bradley has put a hell 
of a lot of work into xv , and if he feels that it 's time to get 
some monetary reward from it , that 's surely his right. 

can the author legally sell xv xv uses tiff and jpeg code developed 
by others. did the author get permission to sell these works 

had you bothered to consult the distribution terms of the jpeg 
code (which are right there in the xv distribution ) , you would have 
observed that we specifically grant permission for use in shareware 
and commercial software. sam 's libtiff copyright also grants 
permission for unrestricted use including resale .  . 

my guess is that now nobody is going to want to help the author 
maintain the code anymore now that xv has become a commercial product , 

commercial there 's a big difference between a polite request 
for a voluntary donation and commercial , it 's illegal to copy this 
and we 'll sic our lawyers on you software. 

i do agree that john 's readme file could be a little clearer about 
what he means by personal use. 

regards , tom lane 
organizer , independent jpeg group 

from (david a. wagner ) 
subject re viewing postscript files under x windows 
originator 
nntp posting host phoenix . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 54 

in article  ( kin cho ) writes 

i can also live with a utility that converts postscript to plain 
text , retaining page counts so that i know how many pages 
the original document contains .  . 


well , i know of one hack to sort of do this conversion .  . first 
get ghostscript and check out the gs ps . file that comes with it. 
it prints out some information about where each text string goes on the 
page , and maintains page counts. i 've written a little c program to 
massage the output of gs gs ps . somewhat , so that you 
can get all the ascii strings in the document .  . no guarantees that it 
wo n't break up words sentences , though i 've used it with varying 
degrees of success. anyways , try this out , it may do what you want. 


massager a filter for use with gs does crude postscript ascii conversion 

usage 
cat file . ps . gs gs ps . massager 

i print a ctrl l after each new page. 

put the following source into massager . c . and compile it 


include stdio.h 
include string.h 

 ( main( ) 

char line 1000 , p 

while  ( fgets(line ,  ( sizeof(line ) , stdin ) ! null ) 
if  ( line 0 'p' ) 
printf( f n ) 
else if  ( line 0  s  line 1 ' ' ) 
if  ( p  ( strrchr(line , ')' ) null ) 
continue 
p ' 0' 
if  ( p  ( strchr(line ,  ( '(' ) null ) 
continue 
for (p p p ) 
if ( p ! ' ' (p 1 ! ')' ) p 1 !  ( '(' ) 
 ( putchar p) 
 ( putchar(' n' ) 


 ( return(0 ) 



david wagner 

from  ( thomas michanek ) 
subject re gui builders for vms 
organization , , sweden 
lines 28 

in article  ( mark d. collier ) writes 
i am looking for gui builders 's which run in a vms openvms 
environment. i am interested in both motif tools and gui independent 
tools such as xvt .  . my client also requires that the tool has been 
in production for at least 6 months in the vms environment. note 
that i have the list of tools from the faq , but not the info on 
vms availability .  . 

thanks 

take a look at teleuse , a complete from  ( formerly  . 
in the us , you can reach them at (619) 457 2700 .  . 

have an vms version of teleuse v2 . 0 . 5 . for vms v5 . 5 . or higher , 
built using decwindows motif 1.0  ( based on x11r4 and motif v1 . 1 . 1) .  . 

btw , the vms port from the unix version was made at my company , and was 
released in november 1992. 

. . . . 
thomas ` ` dial 46 13 
, , . phone 
email thomas . direct 
l i n k o p i n g s w e d e n fax 
` ' ` ' 




from  ( rick miller linux device registrar ) 
subject where can i find a list of toolkit options 
organization just me. 
lines 9 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 2 . 33 . 
x face a bo  e ,  ( eeqgbn7qy(en7as5u k g 6  ( pd 
0g w , `x r. zs o 

i 've just started messing with x windows under linux , and i 've run into this 
toolkit options thing in the man pages of a number of x clients. 

where can i get a list of these options is this only an xview thing 
 ( if so , would some kind soul show me how to set it up under linux ) 

rick miller 
send a postcard , get one back ! kaj vi ! 
rick miller 16203 woods muskego , wis. 53150 usa 

from 
subject windowing terminal help 
organization the internet 
lines 63 
to xpert 

e g l i n a f b 

from dennis l. hart date 14 may 1993 02 cst 
hart tel no 904 882 3154 
dept sas 

to internet ( smtp ) 


subject windowing terminal help 

greetings ! 


we have several 2000 windowing terminals and associated software on our 
network. we are able to open a lat terminal window to any of our workstation 
nodes but we are unable to get a lat x session to work. 

we have customized the terminal security to allow all lat connections .  . 

trying to invoke a lat x session from the 2000 results in the following 
message being displayed in the terminal manager window message area 

host does not support x sessions 

(the host is a model 60 and does support x sessions ) 


opening a lat terminal window and logging into the server node , setting the 
display variable as follows 

set display create node lat transport lat 

and then trying to create a on the as follows 

create term 

fails and gives the following error message 

failed to find language ,  ( xopendisplay ) returned null 
f cant open ca n't open display 

the 2000 is using its system defaults (ie .  . default  ( font(s ) , language ,  .  .  . ) . 
except for the security options to allow all connections and options enabling 
lat protocol .  . 

we have windowing terminals and the above things were enough to allow 
lat x sessions .  . 

vms version is 5.5 1 
running decwindows motif of model 60s 


please help. 


dennis hart 
atlantic research corporation 
directorate of computer sciences 
afb , fl 




from  ( jeff whitmire ) 
subject need help compiling 
reply to 
organization xerox corporation 

i am having trouble compiling  . i am running on a sparc ipc 
using sunos 4.1.1 and openwindows 3. i am getting undefined references 
to arguments to xtsetarg such as , , etc. am i 
using the wrong version of a library missing an include file any 
help would be greatly appreciated. 

jeff .  . 


jeff man is the best computer we 
email can put aboard a spacecraft 
phone (716) 422 ... and the only one that 
snailmail 780 salt road 845 20c can be mass produced with 
webster , ny unskilled labor .  . 
von braun 



from  ( mark borges ) 
subject re summary virtual mouse in ol v wm 
in reply to 's message of fri , 30 apr 1993 06 45 24 gmt 
nntp posting host colorado . edu . 
organization , university of colorado 
lines 14 

regarding re summary virtual mouse in ol v wm 
 ( mats larsson ) adds 
is not an ow resource .  . it belongs to  . 

not only that , the  ( olvwm(1 ) 3) . man page says it 's called 

 ( boolean ) 
this resource controls whether the keys below marked as 
involving grabs will be active or not. if this 
resource is set to false , then none of the bindings 
marked below with an asterisk will ever be active. 
default value true 



from  ( sriram srinivasah ) 
subject re animation with xputimage() 
organization communications , inc 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( derek c. richardson ) writes 
hi , i'm new to this group so please bear with me ! 

two years ago i wrote a sunview application for fast animation 
of raster files. with sunview becoming rapidly obselete , i 've 
finally decided to rewrite everything from scratch in xview .  . 
i put together a quick test , and i 've found that xputimage() 
is considerably slower  ( factor of 2 on average ) than the 
sunview command pw  ( rop( ) which moves image data from memory 
to a canvas .  . this was on a sparc ipx .  . it seems that 
(1) the x protocol communication is slowing things down or 
(2) xputimage is inefficient .  .  . or . both ! my question is , what 
is the fastest way in x11r5 to dump 8 plane image data to 
a window can i take advantage of the fact that the client is 
running on the same machine as the server or am i stuck with 
xputimage()  ( in which case i might as well give up now .  .  . ) . 

all help appreciated .  .  . thanks . ! 

derek 


the fastest way is to use an x server with shared memory extension .  . it uses 
shared memory if it is a local x server  ( hence images do n't have to be duplicated ) , 
and defaults to the regular image routines if either the shared mem extension 
is not available , or if it 's not the localhost .  . 

sriram 

from  ( simon gornall ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization kings college london image processing group 
x posted from ph . ac . uk . 
nntp posting host sol . ctr . columbia . edu . 
lines 19 

in article , (ronald van loon ) writes 
in  ( christophe muller ) writes 


it is interesting to look at the  ( change(s ) of mind that john has had. 

very interested indeed ! this is against this kind of changes that the gnu 
copyleft is protecting us. 

anyway , at , we will abandon xv. we were using it mostly for slide 
shows because of its loop feature that display does not have  ( display 
from the wonderful imagemagick package ! d ) , but i think i will implement 
it myself  ( even a shell script should do the job) and forget xv. 

we too will have to stop using it. shame really it was rather nice. 
still , i have no objection to the owner claiming money for legit .  . 
work he 's put in. we 'll just go back to the older versions of xv. 

simon .  . 

from  ( oliver jones ) 
subject re xquerytree , , and robustness 
organization software 
lines 24 

in article  ( josh marantz ) writes 
i have an application that wants to walk the server window hierarchy , 
looking for a window with a specific property. 

i think what happens is that xquerytree gives me an array of n 
children , but by the time i get to the nth child window , it has been 
destroyed .  . then i get a error , and my application exits .  . 

how can i make this robust i 've thought of the following 
... 
2. set up an x error handler that back to where i 
made the offending call. is this safe do i have to 
longjmp , or can i just return 

is an x protocol error. if you write a custom error handler 
which does not do  ( exit(1 ) the error handler will return and let 
your program carry on. so , using a is the way to 
go , but never mind the longjmp .  . 


3. register for on all the windows returned from 
xquerytree .  . ... 

too hard .  .  .  .  . 

from (peter j. mckinney ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc  ( long list of known servers ) 
nntp posting host hercules . lance . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
lines 1835 

 ( mark wilkinson ext 3443 ) writes 

hi all , 
this is the first time i 've posted to the net , so i hope this is 
going to the right people. 
i'm looking for software packages that run on an ibm pc clone that 
allows me to display openlook and motif windows on the pc. 
the idea is to use the pc as a cheap x windows terminal for use by 
process engineers at work. 

here 's a listing that i came accross a while ago. this question seems to 
come up often enough that i figured this would be of interest. note that 
the server x appeal for dos is available in demo form on the internet via 
anonymous ftp .  . this is one way of quickly checking out the feasability of 
using your system as an x server. enjoy ! 

pete 

begin enclosure 
from  ( daniel j. mccoy ) 
newsgroups comp . windows . x . , news.answers 
subject x servers for dos , microsoft windows , os 2 , macs , amigas , atari 
reply to  ( daniel j. mccoy ) 
organization i net inc. 
summary this is a guide or list of x servers that can be used on nonunix sic networked machines to display x clients running on unix machines. 

archive name xservers nonunix 
last modified 1993 04 01 
version 12.0 


x servers for dos , microsoft windows , os 2 , macs , amigas , atari 

april 1 , 1993 volume 12.0 

author daniel j. mccoy 
i net inc. 
software technology branch 
information systems directorate 
nasa johnson space center 

post mail nasa mail code pt4 
nasa johnson space center 
houston , texas 77058 

e mail 

this is a monthly guide of x servers that can be used on non unix 
networked machines to display x clients running on unix machines. i 
use the name unix loosely here. i know others can run x. 

the sources for this information come from many places the faq for 
comp . windows . x . , blurbs and info packets from the vendors , user manuals 
for the products themselves , conversations with sales representatives , 
personal experience , comp . windows . x . articles , etc. 

please forward any corrections or updates to the above address. 

this file is also available by anonymous ftp at 
export . lcs . mit . edu . 18 . 24 . 0 . 12 . in contrib xservers nonunix . txt . z . 
ftp . edu . 131 . 210 . 1 . 4 . in pub misc xservers nonunix . txt . 
msdos . archive . umich . edu . 141 . 211 . 164 . 153 . in 
msdos info xservers nonunix . txt . and msdos info zip . 


x servers for dos 
x 
ibm x windows 
micro x dos 
micro x lite 
pc decwindows motif v3 . 0 . 
pc x windows 
pc 
pc xview 
sage 1280 adapter and x windows display server 
x 
vista exceed 
x appeal 
x station 

for dos 
for tiga dos 

x servers microsoft windows 
x 
excursion for windows 
exodus for ms windows 
hcl exceed w 

x 
pc xview 
vista exceed 
x one 
x11 at 



x servers os 2 
ibm x windows for os 2 

x servers macintosh 
exodus 
macx 

x servers amiga 
unknown 
x window system version 11 release for the amiga computer 

x servers atari 
x tos window server and x tos window server color 
x servers x servers x servers x servers x servers x servers x servers 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
x 

vendor 
melinda 
quarterdeck office systems , inc. 
150 pico boulevard 
santa monica , ca 90405 
tel  ( 310)392 ) 9851 
fax  ( 310)399 ) 3802 
price 
275 
latest version 
1.0 
cpu 
386sx or higher  ( 286 version available) 
memory 
4 mbytes 
operating system 
dos 3.0 or higher 
dr dos 6 or higher 
mouse 
optional ms compatible pointing device 
graphics 
ega , vga , super vga , 8514 a , or 256 color 
ethernet card 

network software 

disk space 
40 mbyte hard drive 
features 
incorporates x into the multi tasking dos environment 
adds a graphical 3d look and feel to 
gives users a choice of window managers  ( look and feels ) 
provides a growth path from character mode dos to industry standard 
graphical user interfaces 
runs most regular dos applications 
runs dos extended applications up to 
can display dos applications within graphical windows 
dos applications and x clients either locally or remotely 
provides a simple port of applications from other x systems to 
x and vice versa 
gives developers a choice of application appearances , based on toolkit 
chosen 
supports toolkits that provide features required by developers such as 
push buttons , scrollbars , pop up dialogue boxes , etc. 
adobe type manager for scalable fonts and scalable dos windows 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
ibm x windows 

vendor 
ibm 
part 5765 025 
price 

latest version 
2.1 
cpu 

memory 

operating system 
dos 
mouse 

graphics 

ethernet card 

network software 

disk space 

features 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
micro x dos 

vendor 
communications corporation 
3073 lawrence expressway 
santa clara , ca 95051 
tel  ( 408)739 ) 0881 
fax  ( 408)739 ) 0936 
micro 
prices 
345.00 1 unit 
225.00 ea. 5 pack  ( greater discount for larger quantities ) 
upgrades at 25 of original price 
educational discount of 10 
latest version 
1.6.1 
cpu 
386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes 
operating system 
dos 3.1 or higher 
mouse 
2 or 3 button mouse with ms compatible driver 
graphics 
 ( ahead(v5000 ) 
 ( ati(18800 ) 
 ( everex(vp vga ) 
 ( genoa(6400 ) 
 ( paradise(900c00 11 30) 
 ( stb(em 16) 
 ( trident(8800cs ) 
tseng  ( labs(et 3000 4000 ) 
 ( video7(ht208 v7vga ) 
western  ( digital(900c00 11 30) 
 ( zymos(poach51 ) 
vesa 
and others 
ethernet card 
3com 503 505 523 
3com mc 
cabletron 1 2 3000 
micom 
western digital 
novell ne 1000 2000 
national semiconductor 
boards that have their own packet driver from manufacturer 
network software included 
tcp ip  ( integrated ) 
ncsa telnet , ftp , lpr , etc. 
packet drivers  ( clarkson crynwr ) 
network software supported 
beame whiteside bw tcp 
ftp software pc tcp 
sun pc nfs 
disk space 
3 mbytes (9 mbytes for all fonts) 
5 1 4 1.2 mbyte or 3 1 2 1.44 mbyte needed 
features 
x11r4 
intelligent installation program 
tcp ip built in 
support motif , open look , and dec 
supports clarkson  ( crynwr ) packet drivers 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
micro x lite 

vendor 
communications corporation 
3073 lawrence expressway 
santa clara , ca 95051 
tel  ( 408)739 ) 0881 
fax  ( 408)739 ) 0936 
micro 
prices 
75.00 
latest version 
1 . 5 . 3 . 
cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
640 kbytes 
operating system 
dos 3.1 or higher 
mouse 
2 or 3 button mouse with ms compatible driver 
graphics 
 ( ahead(v5000 ) 
 ( ati(18800 ) 
 ( everex(vp vga ) 
 ( genoa(6400 ) 
 ( paradise(900c00 11 30) 
 ( stb(em 16) 
 ( trident(8800cs ) 
tseng  ( labs(et 3000 4000 ) 
 ( video7(ht208 v7vga ) 
western  ( digital(900c00 11 30) 
 ( zymos(poach51 ) 
vesa 
and others 
ethernet card 
3com 503 505 523 
3com mc 
cabletron 1 2 3000 
micom 
western digital 
novell ne 1000 2000 
national semiconductor 
boards that have their own packet driver from manufacturer 
network software included 
tcp ip  ( integrated ) 
ncsa telnet , ftp , lpr , ... 
packet drivers  ( clarkson crynwr ) 
network software supported 
beame whiteside bw tcp 
ftp software pc tcp 
sun pc nfs 
disk space 
2 mbytes 
5 1 4 1.2 mbyte or 3 1 2 1.44 mbyte needed 
features 
x11r4 
intelligent installation program 
tcp ip built in 
8 clients on screen at time 
fixed font oriented  ( variable fonts available) 
support motif , open look , and dec 
supports clarkson  ( crynwr ) packet drivers 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
pc decwindows motif v3 . 0 . 

vendor 
dennis 
pc decwindows development 
digital equipment corporation 
30 porter rd. 
littleton , ma 
price 

latest version 
v3 . 0 . 
cpu 
286 , 386 
memory 
up to 15 mbytes 
operating system 
ms dos 
mouse 
any pointing device with ms mouse v6 . 0 . or later interface 
graphics 
ega (16 color and mono ) 
mcga 
vga (16 color and mono ) 
enhanced vga  ( 800x600 16 color and mono ) 
8514 a  ( 1024x768 16 256 color) 
pseudo color visual 
ethernet card 

network software 
tcp ip and decnet 
disk space 

features 
x11 release 4 server 
integrated virtual memory manager 
standard ibm compatible keyboards and digital 's 
session manager client integrated into the server 
suspend session feature to run dos commands 
font compiler for adobe bitmap distribution files 
keysym compiler to customize the keyboard for default keycode to keysym 
mappings over 70 pre defined keyboard mapping files 
configuration utility to define hardware environment and user 
preferences 
supports decnet and tcp ip .  . available from dec. 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
pc xview 

vendor 
network computing devices inc. 
pc 
9590 sw gemini drive 
beaverton , or 
tel  ( 800)800 ) ,  ( 503)641 ) 2200 
fax  ( 503)643 ) 

there are also 15 ncd technical and sales offices around the united 
states and other international offices 
price 
pc xview for dos 445 . 00 . for 1 1780 . 00 . for 5 
annual maintenance 150.00 for 1 450.00 for 5 
update 125.00 for 1 375 . 00 . for 5 
latest version 
pc xview for dos version 4.0 
cpu 
286 , 386  ( 386 recommended) 
memory 
1 mbyte (2 mbytes recommended) 
operating system 
dos 3.2 or higher 
mouse 

graphics 
cga , ega , vga , svga , xga , tiga 
8514 a video standard supported with extended memory 
japanese graphics mode 
high resolution graphics boards , dell , hp , nec , 
, and over 50 other based 
ethernet card 
over 35 ethernet communications boards supported 
network software needed 
tcp ip 
decnet 
disk space 
5 mbytes (7 mbytes recommended) 
features 
unix application support for traditional applications and 
window managers such as motif and open look 
off loads the graphics processing of unix hosts 
hot key to dos 
access to local peripherals and dos utilities 
easy and well documented installation procedures 
pop up control panel 
motif compliant local window manager 
ability to run in windows pif window 
hot key between x and dos (no longer have to exit ) a tsr 
dpmi compatibility 
enhanced protocol tracing 
support xremote protocol 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
pc x windows 

vendor 
intelligent decisions inc. 
536 dr. suite 2c 
sunnyvale , ca 
tel  ( 408)734 ) 3730 
fax  ( 408)734 ) 
price 
295 
latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
1 mbyte  ( more recommended for hi res or lots of pixmaps ) 
operating system 
dos 3.1 of higher 
mouse 
ms compatible mouse 
graphics 
vga , some svga 
ethernet card 

network software 
ftp software 's pc tcp 
wollongong 's win tcp 
disk space 
4 mbytes on hard disk 
features 
port of mit x11r4 server 
shape extension 
mit magic cookie 
xdmcp 
font compiler 
fonts supplied 
motif , open look , decwindows  ( vms and ultrix ) demonstrated to work with 
this server at last year. 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
pc 

vendor 
pc 
locus computing corporation 
9800 la blvd. 
, ca 
tel  ( 800)955 ) 
ca  ( 213)670 ) 6500 
uk 44 296 
price 

latest version 

cpu 
8088 , 8086 , 286 , 386 
memory 
640 kbytes base memory with 512 kbytes available 
896 kbytes extended memory 
operating system 
ms pc dos 3.1 or later 
mouse 
2 or 3 button mouse and driver (3 button mouse recommend ) 
graphics 
ega , vga , hercules , or at t 6300 
ethernet card 
exos 205 or 
3com 
western digital 
micom 
acer 
network software 

disk space 
5 1 4 inch high density or 3 1 2 inch diskette drive 
1 mbyte 
features 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
sage 1280 adapter and x windows display server 

vendor 
sigma designs , inc. 
landing parkway 
fremont , ca 94538 
tel  ( 415)770 ) 0100 
fax  ( 415)770 ) 
telex 
price 

latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 

operating system 
dos 3.0 or higher or unix system v 386 
mouse 

graphics 
high end or fixed frequency 64 khz monitors 
ethernet card 

network software 

disk space 

features 
menu driven installation and configuration program 
1280x1024 resolution 
tiga 340 , 8514 a ai emulation 
cga , mda , hercules , vga pass through emulation modes 
256 colors simultaneously from a palette of 16.7 million 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
x 

vendor 

tel 44  ( 0908 ) 560022 
price 

latest version 

cpu 

memory 

operating system 

mouse 

graphics 

ethernet card 

network software 

disk space 

features 
for ibm clones allows between x and dos 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
vista exceed 

vendor 
control data corporation 
vista distributing computing 
largo drive west 
suite 250 
landover , md 
tel  ( 301)808 ) 
price 
vista exceed 
vista exceed plus 
vista exceed plus 
latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
640 kbytes to 1 mbyte for dos server 
1.64 mbytes for vista exceed plus and vista exceed plus 
operating system 
ms dos or pc dos 3.0 or higher 
mouse 
2 or 3 button ms compatible mouse 
graphics 
ega , vga , or svga 
color or analog monochrome monitor 
ethernet card 
any supported by tcp ip transports listed below 
network software 
pc tcp network software for dos by ftp software inc. 
pc nfs by sun microsystems , inc. 
win tcp for dos by the group , inc. 
pathway access for dos by the group , inc. 
lan workplace tcp ip transport system by novell 
3 open tcp by 3com corporation 
hp arpa services by hewlett packard corporation 
net one tcp pc by bass , inc. 
or telnet package by beame whiteside software ltd. 
disk space 
hard disk 
features 
can may up to 16 mbytes available for client processing 
emulates a 3 button mouse with a 2 button mouse 
full interactive support for x font names and alias  schemes 
locally modify keyboard mapping 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
x appeal 

vendor 

s . a . s .  . , italy 
fax 39 586 
 ( before 1 1 93) 
 ( after 1 1 93) 
price 
350 with quantity discounts 
23 off for 20 copies 
39 off for 50 copies 
51 off for 100 copies 
additional 30 discount for educational institutions 
demo copies available through anonymous ftp at garbo . uwasa . fi . 
pc demo xap13exe . zip .  ( readme and executables ) 
pc demo xap10fon . zip .  ( local server fonts) 
pc connect drivers . zip .  ( packet drivers) 
latest version 
1.3 
cpu 
386sx or higher 
memory 
2 mbytes (4 mbytes recommended) 
operating system 
ms dos 3.30 or later 
mouse 
any pointing device with ms mouse compatible driver 
graphics 
most svga boards in 256 color mode 
ahead  ( v5000b ) 
ati  ( 18800 ) 
chips technologies  ( 82c452 ) 
genoa  ( 6400 ) 
ncr  ( 77c22e ) 
oak technologies  ( oti 067 ) 
paradise  ( wd90c00 ) 
trident  ( 8900 , 8900c ) 
tseng labs  ( et3000 , et4000 ) 
western digital  ( wd90c00 ) 
ethernet card 
any model compatible with packet drivers 
network software 
tcp ip included 
disk space 
at least 2 mbytes 
features 
full x11r5 server implementation , including pex and font server support 
screen painting exceeds 6000 in 1024x768 resolution  ( 256 colors) 
on a 386 33 without 387 
support for all color classes  ( staticgray , grayscale , , 
pseudocolor , truecolor and directcolor ) 
run time resolution switch and panning on a virtual screen 
emulates a 3 button mouse with a 2 button mouse 
fast cursor tracking 
full support for european keyboard layouts 
no memory limitation through use of virtual memory 
32 bit protected mode dos extended application 
built in tcp ip support , using the packet driver for the ethernet 
board  ( free packet driver collection included) 
interactive configuration utility 
x display manager control protocol support  ( for hosts running xdm ) 
x authorization  ( mit magic cookie 1) 
shape extension for non rectangular windows 
font compiler and rgb database utilities 
x11 fonts provided , including fonts for sun open windows and decwindows 
unix application support for traditional applications and 
window managers such as motif and open look 
built in rsh server , to allow file transfers and the execution 
of useful dos functions without leaving the x environment 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
x station 

vendor 

ca 
tel  ( 408)727 ) 
price 

latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 
memory 

operating system 

mouse 

graphics 

ethernet card 

network software 

disk space 

features 
up to 8 clients 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 


vendor 
jerry norman 
nth graphics , ltd. 
tel  ( 800)624 ) 
this x server project has been abandoned 
price 

cpu 
286 , 386 
memory 

operating system 
dos 3.3 or higher 
mouse 

graphics 

ethernet card 

network software 
tcp ip 
disk space 

features 
supports 1280x1024 or 1024x768 resolution monitors at 256 colors  ( out 
of 16m ) with hardware acceleration for graphics and text 
operations 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
for dos 

vendor 
age logic , inc. 
pacific heights blvd. 
san diego , ca 92121 
tel  ( 619)455 ) 8600 ,  ( 619)565 ) 7373 
fax  ( 619)597 ) 
email 

bert shure 
tel  ( 619)455 ) 
email , age ! 
price 
395 . 00 . 
with tcp ip 495.00 
latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes extended 
operating system 
dos 3.1 or higher 
mouse 
2 or 3 button mouse with ms compatible driver 
graphics 
ega , vga , svga or 8514 
ethernet card 
compatible with network software 
network software 
3com 3 open 2 . of higher) 
dec tcp ip (1 . 1 . of higher) 
ftp pc tcp (2 . 05 . of higher) 
novell lan workplace (4 . 01 . of higher) 
sun pc nfs (3 . 5 . or higher) 
wollongong pathway access (2 . 05 . or higher) 
disk space 
2 mbytes 
5 1 4 1.2 mbyte or 3 1 2 1.44 mbyte floppy needed 
features 
mit compliant with age extensions 
to dos and ms windows 
passive , telnet , rsh , , or xdmcp startup modes 
motif , openlook , and decwindows support 
virtual screen support 
international keyboard support 
full font library in snf format 
bdf to snf font compiler 
complete documentation 
support and update service 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 
for tiga dos 

vendor 
age logic , inc. 
pacific heights blvd. 
san diego , ca 92121 
tel  ( 619)455 ) 8600 ,  ( 619)565 ) 7373 
fax  ( 619)597 ) 
email 

bert shure 
tel  ( 619)455 ) 
email , age ! 
price 
495.00 
with tcp ip 595 . 00 . 
latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
512 kbytes 
operating system 
dos 3.0 or higher 
mouse 
2 or 3 button mouse with ms compatible driver 
graphics 
texas instruments based graphics accelerator with tiga 2.0 or 
higher whith dram 
ethernet card 
compatible with network software 
network software 
3com 3 open 2 . of higher) 
dec tcp ip (1 . 1 . of higher) 
ftp pc tcp (2 . 05 . of higher) 
novell lan workplace (4 . 01 . of higher) 
sun pc nfs (3 . 5 . or higher) 
wollongong pathway access (2 . 05 . or higher) 
disk space 
2 mbytes 
5 1 4 1.2 mbyte or 3 1 2 1.44 mbyte floppy needed 
features 
mit compliant with age extensions 
to dos and ms windows 
passive , telnet , rsh , , or xdmcp startup modes 
motif , openlook , and decwindows support 
virtual screen support 
international keyboard support 
full font library in snf format 
bdf to snf font compiler 
complete documentation 
support and update service 
optimized for tiga graphics accelerators 
dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos dos 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
x 

vendor 
melinda 
quarterdeck office systems , inc. 
150 pico boulevard 
santa monica , ca 90405 
tel  ( 310)392 ) 9851 
fax  ( 310)399 ) 3802 
price 
275 
latest version 
1.0 
cpu 
386sx or higher  ( 286 version available) 
memory 
4 mbytes recommended 
operating system 
pc or ms dos 3.0 or higher 
dr dos 6 or higher 
mouse 
ms compatible pointing device 
graphics 
ega 
vga 
super vga 
8514 a 
256 color 
ati 18800  ( 28800(800x600 ) 
c t  ( 82c452(720x540 ) 
c t  ( 82c453(1024x768 ) 
tseng  ( et3000(800x600 ) 
tseng  ( et4000(1024x768 ) 
genoa  ( 6400(800x600 ) 
wd  ( pvga1a(640x480 ) 
 ( wd90c00(640x480 ) 
 ( wd90c11(800x600 ) 
some revisions of  ( vega(800x800 ) and  ( v7vga(1024x768 ) 
ethernet card 

network software 

disk space 
40 mbyte hard drive 
features 
incorporates x into the multi tasking dos environment 
adds a graphical 3d look and feel to 
gives users a choice of window managers  ( look and feels ) 
provides a growth path from character mode dos to industry standard 
graphical user interfaces 
runs most regular dos applications 
runs dos extended applications up to 
can display dos applications within graphical windows 
dos applications and x clients either locally or remotely 
provides a simple port of applications from other x systems to 
x and vice versa 
gives developers a choice of application appearances , based on toolkit 
chosen 
supports toolkits that provide features required by developers such as 
push buttons , scrollbars , pop up dialogue boxes , etc. 
can run dos text and ms windows graphics programs locally and remotely 
adobe type manager for scalable fonts and scalable dos windows 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
excursion for windows 

vendor 
digital equipment corporation 
maynard , massachusetts 
price 

latest version 
1.0 
cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes 
operating system 
dos 
ms windows 3.0 or later 
mouse 
ms windows supported mouse 
graphics 
ms windows supported card 
ethernet card 

network software 
decnet with for dos 
tcp ip with for dos  ( tcp ip) 
tcp ip with pc tcp from ftp software , inc. 
tcp ip with 3com tcp with demand protocol architecture 
disk space 
7 15 mbytes hard desk 
3.5 720 kbyte or 5.25 1.2 mbyte floppy drive 
features 
seperate application windows for each x displayed by the x 
server 
excursion setup utility for installing excursion under ms windows 
control provides an easy way to start x applications and 
customize environment 
online help 
ability to cut and paste text or graphics between x and ms windows 
ability to compile new fonts 
ability to redefine keys on the keyboard 
personal password security access to excursion 
three button mouse emulation 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
exodus for ms windows 

vendor 
white pine software , inc. 
40 simon street , suite 201 
nashua , hn 3043 
tel  ( 603)886 ) 9050 
fax  ( 603)886 ) 
email 

price 
449 
latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes (4 mbytes recommended) 
operating system 
dos 
ms windows 3.0 or higher 
mouse 
recommended 
graphics 
ega , vga , svga , 
ethernet card 
most cards 
network software 

disk space 

features 
x11r4 
color and monochrome x screen support including 24bit truecolor 
backing store and save under options 
full xdmcp support 
access control support 
online help 
3 button mouse emulation 
text and graphics transfers between ms windows and macintosh 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
hcl exceed w 

vendor 
hummingbird communications ltd. 
2900 john street , unit 4 
markham , ontario , canada 
tel  ( 416)470 ) 1203 
fax  ( 416)470 ) 1207 
price 
595 1 copy 
536 2 4 copies 
476 5 9 copies 
417 10 or more copies 
latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes or more recommended 
operating system 
dos 
ms windows version 3  ( standard and 386 enhanced modes) 
mouse 
ms compatible pointing device 
graphics 
ega , vga , or vga 
ethernet card 
any compatible with the networking product you choose 
network software 

disk space 

features 
makes full use of 8514 and other high resolution graphics cards 
redesigned for ms windows (not an implementation of mit x) 
copy paste between x windows and ms windows 
interactive configuration utility 
full interactive support for font naming alias schemes 
font compiler 
log file of host generated messages 
backing store and save unders 
virtual screen support 
seven start up methods 
full support for european keyboards 
font , host access rgb databases loading 
x protocol trace functionality 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
micro x win 

vendor 
communications 
3073 lawrence expressway 
santa clara , ca 95051 
tel  ( 408)739 ) 0881 
fax  ( 408)739 ) 0936 
micro 
prices 
micro x win 425.00 1 unit 
300.00 ea. 5 pack  ( greater discount for larger quantities ) 
upgrades at 25 of original price 
educational discount of 10 
latest version 
2.2.1 for x11 release 5 
cpu 
386 , 486 
memory 
4 mbytes 
operating system 
ms dos 3.1 or higher 
ms windows 3.1 or higher 
mouse 
2 or 3 button with ms compatible driver 
graphics 
ms windows supported cards 
ethernet card 
3com 503 505 523 
3com mc 
cabletron 1 2 3000 
micom 
western digital 
novell ne 1000 2000 
national semiconductor 
boards that have their own packet driver from manufacturer 
network software included 
 ( winsock compatible) 
network software supported 
ftp software pc tcp 

sun pc nfs 
winsock compatible tcp ip stacks 
disk space 
5 mbytes 
5 1 4 1.2 mbyte or 3 1 2 1.44 mbyte needed 
features 
x11r5 
integrated rsh with displayed results 
auto start up with xdmcp or rsh 
easy additional session start up 
panning 
supports motif , open look , and decwindows 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
x 

vendor 
computer systems ltd. 
house , castle street , 
, england , 
tel 

corporation 
108 whispering pines drive , suite 115 
valley , california 
tel  ( 408)438 ) 8300 ,  ( 800)359 ) 3408 
fax  ( 408)438 ) 8360 
price 

latest version 

cpu 

memory 

operating system 
dos 
ms windows 
mouse 

graphics 

ethernet card 

network software 
rs 232 direct connections , rs 232 modem connections , , 
beame whiteside tcp ip , d link tcp ip for dos , ftp pc tcp , 
hp arpa services for dos , ibm aix access for dos users , 
icl (int 5b ) , locus pci , locus tcp ip for dos , 
ms lan manager for unix , ms lan manager for unix v2 . 1 . , ncr token ring , 
novell lan workplace for dos , sco xenix net , sun pc nfs , 
bass net one , one  ( int6b ) , 
wollongong pathway access dos , wollongong win tcp for dos , 
3 com 3 open tcp 
disk space 

features 
provides a character server for character applications 
emulation for dec vt100 , dec vt220 , dec , sco unix xenix console , 
x open ansi , interactive unix console , at t unix console 
automatically invokes the x server when an x client is selected 
passive , telnet , rsh , , and xdmcp startup modes supported 
full x11r4 font library provided in standard windows format 
bdf to windows compiler 
copy and paste of text available 
single iconic desktop 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
pc xview 

vendor 
network computing devices inc. 
pc 
9590 sw gemini drive 
beaverton , or 
tel  ( 800)800 ) ,  ( 503)641 ) 2200 
fax  ( 503)643 ) 

there are also 15 ncd technical and sales offices around the united 
states and other international offices 
price 
pc xview for windows 445 . 00 . for 1 1780 . 00 . for 5 
annual maintenance 150.00 for 1 450.00 for 5 
update 125.00 for 1 375 . 00 . for 5 
latest version 
3.1 
cpu 
286 , 386  ( 386 recommended) 
memory 
2 mbytes (4 mbytes recommended) 
operating system 
ms dos or pc dos 3.0 or higher 
ms windows 3.0 3.1 or windows nt 
mouse 
recommended but not needed 
graphics 
any compatible with ms windows 
ethernet card 

network software needed 
tcp ip 
decnet 
disk space 
7 mbytes (10 mbytes recommended) 
features 
runs ms windows applications alongside x clients 
cut and paste between x clients and ms windows 
applications using the windows clipboard 
full support of x11r4 features , including the shape extension 
off loads graphics processing from host computers 
runs in both standard and enhanced modes of ms windows 
manages x clients with a standard remote window manager or 
with ms windows 
full x11 fonts provided , including fonts for sun open windows 
and decwindows 
windows based compiler that converts bitmap description format 
bdf fonts to ms windows  ( format(fon ) fonts 
windows based file transfer program 
prints files from a remote host on your local printer 
built in client starter 
windows based installation and configuration 
support for network interfaces 
easy installation procedures 
x display manager control  ( protocol(xdmcp ) support 
support for multiple tcp ip network packages 
comprehensive and well organized user 's guide 
graphics cut paste 
virtual screen support 
support the xremote protocol  ( developed by ncd ) 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
vista exceed 

vendor 
control data corporation 
vista distributing computing 
largo drive west 
suite 250 
landover , md 
tel  ( 301)808 ) 
price 
vista exceed w 
latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes for ms windows server 
operating system 
dos 3.0 or higher 
ms windows 3.0 
mouse 
2 or 3 button ms compatible mouse 
ms windows supported mouse 
graphics 
ega , vga , or svga 
any supported by ms windows 
ethernet card 
any supported by tcp ip transports listed below 
network software 
pc tcp network software for dos by ftp software inc. 
pc nfs by sun microsystems , inc. 
win tcp for dos by the group , inc. 
pathway access for dos by the group , inc. 
lan workplace tcp ip transport system by novell 
3 open tcp by 3com corporation 
hp arpa services by hewlett packard corporation 
net one tcp pc by bass , inc. 
or telnet package by beame whiteside software ltd. 
disk space 
hard disk 
features 
can may up to 16 mbytes available for client processing 
emulates a 3 button mouse with a 2 button mouse 
full interactive support for x font names and alias  schemes 
locally modify keyboard mapping 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
x11 at 

vendor 
inference machines , inc. 
computer products division 
east avenue 
anaheim , ca 
tel  ( 714)978 ) and  ( 714)978 ) 6776 
fax  ( 714)939 ) 
price 

latest version 

cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
640 kbytes base memory 
2 mbytes extended memory 
operating system 
ms dos 3.1 or later 
ms windows 3.0 or later 
mouse 

graphics 
any graphics card and that supports ms windows ega or vga resolution , 
or better , are recommended 
cga  ( color graphics adapter ) 
compaq portable iii or portable 386 plasma display 
ega with high resolution color display 
ega whith low resolution color display 
hercules with high resolution monochrome display 
ibm 8514 a display 
olivetti monochrome or pvc display 
olivetti display 
wyse high resolution monochrome 
viking monochrome 
vga  ( video graphics array) 
ethernet card 
also compatible with , 3com , bass , western digital , 
tiara , 's x , and others 
network software 
either 's tcp ip driver set or ftp inc. pc tcp driver set 
(not included with x11 at ) 
disk space 
at least 2.5 mbytes of storage capacity available for x11 at software , 
excluding optional x fonts to use all x fonts supplied with x11 at , 
a total of 5.5 mbytes is required 
features 
concurrent ms dos x windows operation 
concurrent x windows telnet operation 
cut paste utility , ftp utility 
font compiler for user developed fonts 
telnet and ftp utilities included 
compatible with the following ftp software programs , when not operated 
under ms windows 
ftp , the file transfer protocol client 
, the file transfer protocol server 
, the network file system  ( nfs ) 
ping , a network test 
, the telnet virtual terminal client 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 
x one 

vendor 

saratoga avenue 
san jose , ca 
tel  ( 800)426 ) 2230 7 30 5 00 pst ,  ( 408)466 ) 1919 
fax  ( 408)446 ) 0666 
uunet ! ! sales 
price 
 ( free demo copies) 
latest version 

cpu 
386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes 
operating system 
dos 3.1 or higher 
ms windows 
mouse 
2 or 3 button mouse 
graphics 
vga 
super vga 

tiga 
vga boards with s3 chip set 
ethernet card 

network software 
's tcp ip included 
disk space 

features 
x11r4 
on screen setup 
builtin tcp ip 
supports local clients such as telnet vt100 window , a setup window , 
an rsh window , a local window manager 
dos and windows versions in one product 
hot key to dos 
90 days of telephone technical support 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 


vendor 
limited white pine is re as 
57 lane exodus for windows 
leeds 40 simon street , suite 201 
united kingdom nashua , hn 3043 
tel  ( 0532 ) tel  ( 603)886 ) 9050 
44 532 fax  ( 603)886 ) 
fax  ( 0532 ) 
44 532 

price 
449 . 00 . 1 users 9100 . 00 . 30 users 
1800 . 00 . 5 users 00 . 40 users 
3600 . 00 . 10 users 00 . 50 users 
00 . 20 users educational discounts available 
adding a user where at least 10 are installed 275.00 
xremote support per pc bundled 95.00 upgrade 150.00 
full documentation 60.00 evaluation copy 60.00 
latest version 
4.1 
cpu 
286 , 386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes (4 mbytes recommended) 
operating system 
dos 3.0 or later 
ms windows 3.0 or later 
mouse 
recommended but not required 
graphics 
ms windows compatible graphics 
ethernet card 

network software 
ftp pc tcp 
lan workplace for dos 
locus tcp ip for dos 
bass net one tcp pc 
wollongong win tcp for dos 
beame whiteside tcp ip 
sun pc nfs 
hp lan manager  ( arpa services for dos) 
3com 3 open 
disk space 
5 1 4 inch high density or 3 1 2 inch high density 
features 
copy and paste between x and ms windows 
use a host window manager or allow ms windows to control x clients 
support for all color classes  ( staticgray , grayscale , , 
pseudocolor , truecolor and directcolor ) 
several user options for performance enhancement 
x11 release 5 server 
fonts and server extensions including xdmcp 
icccm compliant 
x clients may also use ms windows fonts 
easy configuration of the system via dialog boxes 
provides the functionality of a three button mouse 
support for all international keyboards supported by windows 
host access control 
network aware setup and on line help 
iconic control panel for configuring 
dynamic server optimizations  ( xvision runs tests on the pc at install 
time to see how best to draw to the display) 
support for ncd xremote , decnet , shape extension , 24 bit color , 
ms windows font managers , all color classes , rsh , 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 


vendor 
age logic , inc. 
pacific heights blvd. 
san diego , ca 92121 
tel  ( 619)455 ) 8600 ,  ( 619)565 ) 7373 
fax  ( 619)597 ) 
email 

bert shure 
tel  ( 619)455 ) 
email , age ! 
price 
495.00 
with tcp ip 595 . 00 . 
latest version 

cpu 
386 , 486 
memory 
2 mbytes extended 
operating system 
dos 3.1 or higher 
windows 3.0 or higher 
mouse 
ms windows compatible mouse 
graphics 
card with ms windows driver 
ethernet card 

network software 
beame whiteside tcp ip (2 . 2 . or higher) 
ftp pc tcp (2 . 05 . of higher) 
dec (4 . 0 . or higher) 
hp arpa services (2 . 1 . or higher) 
novell lan workplace (4 . 01 . or higher) 
sun pc nfs (3 . 5 . or higher) 
bass net one tcp (16 . 5 . or higher) 
wollongong pathway access (4 . 1 . 1 . or higher) 
wollongong win tcp (1 . 1 . or higher) 
3com 3 open tcp (1 . 2 . or higher) 
disk space 
2 mbytes 
5 1 4 1.2 mbyte or 3 1 2 1.44 mbyte floppy needed 
features 
mit compliant with age extensions 
context sensitive on line help system 
cut and paste between x and ms windows 
start x applications with ms windows icons 
single and multiple window modes 
ms window manager used with x applications 
virtual screen up to 32 , 767 by 32 , 767 
passive , telnet , rsh , , and xdmcp startup modes 
backing store and save unders 
motif , openlook , and decwindows support 
full font library in format 
bdf to ms windows font compiler 
log file optionally saves system messages 
tutorial on the x window system 
microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows microsoft windows 

os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 
ibm x windows for os 2 

vendor 
ibm solutions center 
voice 1 800 ibm call 
fax 1 303 440 
price 
150 plus 200 for ibm tcp ip for os 2  ( required ) 
latest version 
version 1.2.1 
part number  ( x windows) 
 ( tcp ip) 
cpu 
386sx or higher 
memory 
6 mbytes recommended (4 minimum) 
operating system 
ibm os 2 2.0 or higher 
mouse 
os 2 compatible pointing device 
graphics 
ega , vga , super vga , 8514 a , xga , or other os 2 supported card 
ethernet card 
compatible with os 2  ( ndis ) 
network software 
ibm tcp ip  ( required ) 
disk space 
80 mbyte hard drive 
features 
incorporates x into the os 2 advanced pc operating system 
provides full x11r4 server , x font library , x font compiler , 
x client utilities 
runs as another object on the workplace shell  ( wps ) desktop 
cut and paste between os 2 , dos , and windows applications running under 
os 2 full tcp ip implementation including ftp , telnet , , 
ping , finger , slip , rsh , remote printing , , vt100 220 , and 
many more 
other modules available , including nfs , programmer 's toolkit  ( includes 
kerberos , rpc , dpi , ncs , ftp api , sockets api , api ) , 
and more 
os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 os 2 

macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh 
exodus 

vendor 
white pine software , inc. 
40 simon street , suite 201 
nashua , hn 3043 
tel  ( 603)886 ) 9050 
fax  ( 603)886 ) 
email 

price 
295 
latest version 
3.0 
cpu 
all macintosh computers 
exodus ii runs on macintosh computers with a 68020 or 68030 processor 
and a floating point co processor 
memory 
2 mbytes 
operating system 
version 6.0 or later 
version 6 . 0 . 3 . or later if you plan to use communications toolbox for 
network connections 
mouse 

graphics 

ethernet card 

network software 
tcp ip by apple computer , inc.  ( part of commsolutions ) 
tcp ip lan workplace by novell , inc.  ( formerly host 
access) 
decnet by software systems , inc. (a special version 
is distributed as part of commsolutions ) 
decnet community mac distributed by everex , inc. 
decnet decnet for macintosh  ( part of by digital equipment 
corporation ) 
distributed by digital equipment corporation 
appletalk 
disk space 

features 
supports 
under a ux , clients and server run on the macintosh 
under macintosh operating system , clients run on another computer 
conforms to the macintosh human interface guidelines 
user standard macintosh pull down menus 
functions as a macintosh program under the macintosh operating system 
handles macintosh events 
can use normal macintosh environment 
macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh 

macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh 
macx 

vendor 
apple computer , inc. 
cupertino , ca 95014 
tel  ( 408)996 ) 1010 
tlx 171 576 
or any apple dealer  ( businessland , , etc . ) . 
price 
macx order no. c 
macx manual set order no. b 
macx 1.1.7 update product order no. a 
mac x and x11 site license order no. c 
latest version 
1.2 
cpu 
any macintosh 
memory 
2 mbytes 
operating system 
system software 6.0.5 or later 
mouse 

graphics 
1 bit and 8 bit graphics 
ethernet card 

network software 
localtalk , ethernet 
disk space 
at least two floppy disks for 6.0.5 or later 
3.5 mbytes hard disk tor 7.0 
features 
x11 release 4 server 
icccm compatible cut and paste of text and graphics between the 
macintosh and x11 
shape extension  ( including shaped windows on the macintosh desktop ) 
optional built in icccm compliant window manager 
built in bdf font compiler 
built in standard colormaps 
built in window managers 
support for system software version 7.0 
support for multiple monitors 
copy and paste text and graphics 
macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh macintosh 

amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga 
unknown 

vendor 

price 

latest version 

cpu 

memory 

operating system 

mouse 

graphics 

ethernet card 

network software 

disk space 

features 
amiga 3000 machines offer an x server and open look tools and libraries 
on a full svr4 implementation 
amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga 

amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga 
x window system version 11 release for the amiga computer 

vendor 
, inc. 
dale luck 
1881 drive 
milpitas , ca 95035 
tel  ( 408)262 ) 1469 
fax  ( 408)262 ) 8276 
usenet boing ! dale 
bix duck 
amiga ! boing ! beacon . mit . edu . 
price 
395 . 00 . ( 90.00 yearly maintenance fee) 
latest version 
4.1 
cpu 
amigados computer 
a1000 
a2000 

a3000 

a4000 
a500 

memory 
1 mbyte for server and 640x400 2 color display 
more ram required for local clients 
operating system 
amigados operating system v1 . 3 . or later 
mouse 
amiga 2 button mouse , or optical 3 button mouse , tablet , trackball , 
or international keyboard 
graphics 
ntsc to  ( 1440x482(60hz ) ,  ( pal(1440x568 50 hz ) 
overscan , genlock and interlace supported 
viking 1  ( 1024x8000(60hz ) ,  ( 1024x1024(50hz ) 
super screens to on smaller display 
productivity screen 640x480 60hz noninterlaced  ( 640x960 interlaces ) 
two colors out of a palette of 4096 can be selected .  . cursor has two 
separately controlled colors 
color server 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 colors from 4096 .  . viking 1 4 gray 
scales .  . some resolutions restricted 
640x480 , 800x600 , noninterlaced 256 16m 
1280x1024 , noninterlaced 256 16m 
ethernet card 
commodore 
network software 
commodore tcp ip or decnet for ethernet and serial 
connections , for local 
disk space 
7 14 mbytes 
features 
contains x11r4 clients , fonts , etc. 
amiga xpr uses the standard amiga printer device technology which 
supports more that 50 different types of printers .  . black and 
white of color 
r4 monochrome and color servers 
optional programmer 's toolkit includes the header files , libraries , 
and sample programs 
optional mwm window manager 
optional toolkits widgets motif , xview , hp 
amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga amiga 

atari atari atari atari atari atari atari atari atari atari atari atari atari 
x tos window server and x tos window server color 

vendor 
x software michael 
x tos division 
8 
w 
germany 
tel 49 1411 
fax 49 
email 
price 
x tos window server  ( for all tos computers) dm 1 , 098 . 00 . 
x tos window server color  ( for all tos computers) dm 1 , 498 . 00 . 
option 030  ( for 68030 or 68040 processors only) dm 98 . 00 . 
x tos window server color option 030 and option pex t . b . a .  . 
overseas order handling dm 100.00 
none ec european order handling dm 50.00 
latest version 
502 .  . 
cpu 
atari mega st , ste , tt 
68000 to 68040 
memory 
2 mbytes (4 mbytes recommended) 
operating system 
tos 1.4 or higher 
mouse 
atari mouse 
graphics 
x tos window server 
monochrome , 
monochrome  ( tt , sm194 ) 
x tos window server color 
monochrome , 
monochrome  ( tt , sm194 ) 
color 
color 
color 
color 
ethernet card 
atari card  ( mega or vme bus) 
wacker  ( mega or vme bus) 
end enclosure 

peter j. mckinney 
electrohydrodynamic laboratory 
fluid mechanics and wind engineering program 
civil engineering department 
colorado state university 


from  ( nick maclaren ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
nntp posting host bootes . cus . cam . ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge , england 
lines 39 

in article bird . think . com .  ( barry margolin ) writes 
in article  ( mark a. davis ) writes 
you are stuck in a distributed system feedback loop ! what if you are on an 
xterminal or running xterm over the net to another machine that is when the 
load problems occur .  . if you had a machine with 20 attached and 
they all had blinking cursors in xterm 's , this could represent a considerable 
ethernet bandwidth waste. 

ethernet certainly has enough bandwidth for a few blinking cursors .  . my 
lisp machine blinks the cursor twice a second and updates the time in the 
status line every second. this uses under 1k bytes second , or about .1 of 
the bandwidth of ethernet .  . a hundred of them on a single ethernet might be 
a problem , but a couple dozen should be fine. 

bandwidth is unlikely to be the problem , except over a wet string network. 
one of major flaws of x is the horrendous number of transactions  ( and 
hence process switches ) that it forces upon a host. actual measurements 
 ( hourly average ) are 5 per second per logged in user , which can lead to 
20 50 or more process switches  ( depending on whether each event is 
filtered by the window manager as well as the applications and how 
many processes are needed for each character . ) . 

while a blinking cursor needs only the application and the networking 
process , and does not add any transactions , it will add something like 
10 process switches per second per user. this is a significant increase 
in overhead , especially as the application may have quite a large working 
set. if you want a rapidly blinking cursor , there could be as many 
as 50. 

if you want to go there , i would n't start from here ! 


nick maclaren 
university of cambridge computer laboratory , 
new museums site , pembroke street , 
cambridge cb2 , england .  . 
email 
tel. 44 223 
fax 44 223 

from  ( rui picas ) 
subject subscribe me 
organization the internet 
lines 3 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

please subscribe me. 

e mail 

from  ( marc bouron ) 
subject re looking for a file manager under twm 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 27 


in article bs . de . , bs . de .  ( thorsten sommer ) writes .  .  .  . 
hi out there ! 

every command line shell user close your ears , , eyes .  .  .  . 

i'm looking for a x file manager which can be driven under twm .  . 
somebody told me last night , there is one under openwindows 
 ( and there certainly is one under ms windows ) .  . 

but i 'd like an x one , you know , with icon 's , click and drag , directory structures 
shown in a graphic layout , a paper basket etc. ... 

anybody got an idea 

i 've recently joined the motif world , so i 'd like a similar tool for 
motif .  . i 've used to the openwin one in the past and miss it. 

cheers , 

m a r c 


marc cr ltd. 
44  ( 0)895 ) place , the drive , 
uxbridge , middlesex , 


from  ( godtom ) 
subject drop 
organization corporation , washington , dc usa 
lines 1 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 



from (michael carley ) 
subject dvi viewers 
nntp posting host unix2 . tcd . ie . 
organization trinity college , dublin 
lines 11 

i need some help in tracking down a dvi viewer for x. i have xdvi but we 
have not got the x libraries and includes installed so 
i) is there a way around this , as we are trying to avoid 
installing the stuff  ( space is at a  . 
ii)would ) someone be prepared to make the binaries 
available. we have a and a  . 

thanks for any help 
michael , dept. of mech engineering , 
tcd 


from  ( lourdu udumula ) 
subject xterm slave mode 
organization fermi national accelerator laboratory , batavia il 
lines 11 
distribution world 
nntp posting host fnal . gov . 
keywords xterm 

i am into this newgroup after a long time. could somebody tell me 
what the slave mode in the xterm is and what can it be used for any info 
where i can get more info or examples .  . i want to use a bunch of xterms and 
send the input from one application to these xterms and get the output on the 
xterms .  . please email me any info. 

thanks , 





from  ( scot wingo ) 
subject cool demo now available on internet ! 
keywords , xprinter , bristol , cool 
organization bristol technology inc. 
lines 92 




bristol technology announces the availability of 
its  ( hyperhelp(tm ) and  ( xprinter(tm ) demo for downloading .  . 

this demo the two products in the form of a 
diagram editor called de .  . 

download the demo and see some of these exciting features for yourself 

o complete on line context sensitive help system. 

o printing support for and postscript .  . 

o rotated text support ! 

o source code for the demo is provided. 

the demo is available via anonymous ftp from ftp . uu . net . (137 . 39 . 1 . 9) .  . 

there are two versions of the demo located in the vendor bristol directory 
sun sun4 . demo . tar . z .  ( sunos 4 . x) . 
hp tar . z .  ( hp ux 8 9) 

if you have any questions about the demo , send an 
e mail to 

if you want another version of the demo  ( rs6000 , etc .  .  . ) . 
please send an e mail to 

remember to use binary mode ! 


what are and xprinter read on .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

bristol technology is proud to announce version 3.0 of 
its popular product and version 2.0 of xprinter .  . 

3.0 

is the de facto standard for on line context 
sensitive help in the unix marketplace .  . through a one 
line function call , application developers can access the 
full features of and cut down drastically on 
their development time. can use the same rtf , 
project , and bitmap files as the ms windows help facility .  . 
this allows a documentation department to maintain a single 
set of help documents portable between ms windows , motif and 
open look. can also be authored in framemaker .  . 
and with 3.0 bristol introduces its sgml compiler ! 

new features in 3.0 include secondary windows , a character 
based viewer , segmented bitmaps , sgml support , and an improved history 
window. 

xprinter 2.0 

xprinter 2.0 allows developers to add sophisticated 
printer support to their existing new x based applications 
very easily. xprinter uses the xlib api for both the 
display and printer .  . this lets you use the exact same code 
for drawing and printing .  . take a look at the source code for 
our demo and see xprinter in action. 

if you are interested in adding postscript and support 
to your application , xprinter is the tool for you ! earlier 
this year dn usl signed an agreement that 
resulted in xprinter becoming the standard printing technology 
for unix svr4 . 2 .  . 


feel free to run the demo and let us know what you think about 
and xprinter .  . 

if you have any questions or comments , send them to us at 
or call us at (203) 438 6969 .  . 

happy demoing , 



the staff at bristol technology 










from (robert ross ) 
subject detecting saving geometry changes 
summary trying to detect geometry changes from window manager 
keywords geometry , mwm 
nntp posting host louie . li . loral . com . 
organization loral instrumentation 
distribution usa 
lines 35 

hi , 

i'm trying to get my program to monitor resize position events , 
so that when the program exits , i can save the last known geometry in 
some sort of  preferences  file. 

i am adding an event handler for to the 

 ( xtaddeventhandler(toplevel , , false , , mydata ) 

this works fine , and my callback is called whenever the window is resized 
or repositioned using the window manager  . 

however , when i'm just resizing the window , using any resize handle on the 
window manager resize decoration , the x and y are set to zero in the 
passed to the event handler callback .  . i'm accessing the 
structure , like the x11 manual says.  ( xev x . , xev y) .  . 
the width and height memebers are correct. 

when i reposition the window , using the window manager , the 's 
structure contains all the correct x , y , width , height member settings. 

q1 anybody know why , when just resizing , the x and y are being set to zero 

q2 any other way to handle detecting and saving geometry changes 

i 've tried using  ( xtgetvalues( ) on the toplevel widget when exiting my 
application  ( before destroying any widgets) and all i get is garbage values 
for the x , y , width , height resources. 

thanks 


bob ross mr. plow , that 's the name. that name 
loral instrumentation , san diego , ca again is mr. plow homer simpson 

from  ( matthew freedman ) 
subject non roman font availability 
article i.d. shelley . 
distribution world 
organization u . w .  . information systems 
lines 16 
nntp posting host elvis . cac . washington . edu . 

can anybody tell me anything about the availibility of non roman fonts 
for x windows especially unicode and or han fonts .  . 

also , how about conversion tools for getting pc macintosh fonts into a 
format suitable for x i would assume it is not too difficult for 
bitmap fonts .  . 

the faq 's for this group and comp . fonts . are not very helpful on these 
questions. 


matthew m. freedman 
u. of washington information systems 
15th ave. ne 3rd floor (206) 543 
seattle , wa 98105 


from  ( mark a. davis ) 
subject re xterm fonts 
organization lake taylor hospital computer services 
lines 37 

 ( bernward averwald ) writes 

in article  ( mark a. davis ) writes 
i have a problem which many of you might have run into. we use lots of 
ascii terminals and use them to the max. meaning lots of attributes , line 

this means needing all attributes to work , including bold and line drawing. 
the only fonts which seem to meet these criteria are a pairs of fonts in 
which one is bold and the other normal , while both have , fixed 
spacing , and several sizes. 

the only standard fonts which work are the fonts like and under 
misc . they work great , except i need a font one size larger , 10x20 .  . now 
10x20 works well , but there is no bold counterpart ! 


you do n't need a  bold  counterpart .  . from 

fb font 
this option specifies a font to be used when dis 
playing bold text. this font must be the same 
height and width as the normal font .  . if only one 
of the normal or bold fonts is specified , it will 
be used as the normal font and the bold font will 
be produced by this font .  . the 
default is to do of the normal font .  . 

i have tried that with one font , if your xterm are set up 
to not remap bold (which they are be default ) to reverse , then nothing happens 
when bold is displayed .  . it would appear (at least in x11r4 ) than you cannot 
display bold in an xterm without specifying two fonts a normal and a bold .  . 
i wish someone would prove that incorrect .  . 


mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


from  ( per andersson ) 
subject x , shared libraries , and replacing modules in them 
organization ab 
lines 16 


hi. 

i'm wonderring if it is possible to replace a single module , as o . 
in a shared library , as libx11 . so . in suns openwindows .  . i tried to rtfm , but 
i did n't get any wiser that way. also , can i do the same on an rs6000 machine 
running 3 . 2 . 2 .  ( if it is possible at all) .  . i know how to do it with real 
libraries (ar) .  . i am trying to replace xlookupstring in the delivered 
libraries , with another that does a few special things. 

per 


per andersson on free time) 
managing networks ( and occasionally suns ) at , but not speaking for 
ab , j rf , sweden 

from  ( brad daniels ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization communications services (713) 684 5900 
lines 24 

given that all the source code contains explicit permission to use or 
modify the code without fee in addition to the shareware notice , i would 
say that the shareware notice is  . all you need to do is 
make minor changes to create a derivative work which is explicitly allowed 
under the first part of the copyright notice. of course , this would be 
the author 's wishes on the subject , but i 'd say if you 're 
not going to pay him no matter what , you 'd be on relatively safe ground 
with that approach .  .  .  . in fact , given the internal contradictions of the 
copyright notices , i 'd guess none of it could ever be enforced , but not being 
a lawyer , i ca n't be positive. 

regardless , the fees he 's asking are not excessive , and i would encourage 
anyone who wants to use the program to pay them if at all possible. even 
though it is unlikely that you have actual legal obligations to pay the 
author , it would be reasonable to do so , to support his efforts if nothing 
else. 

brad 


brad daniels ` if money ca n't buy happiness , 
i guess i 'll have to rent it. 
i do n't work for , and weird al 
do n't speak for my employer .  . 

from  ( osvaldo gervasi ) 
subject public domain or low price case for rs6000 
organization universita  di 
lines 12 

we are looking for a public domain or low price case , running on 
aix 6000 3.2 and or solaris 1.1 and or sun os 3.1 , for x motif and or 
x openlook .  . 

i'm not a regular follower of these groups , so i would prefer an 
answer to this e mail. thanks in advance , regards , 




centro di universita  di 
piazza universita  , 2 

from  ( thomas tornblom ) 
subject re type1 rasterizer where 
in reply to 's message of 11 may 1993 15 04 44 gmt 
organization communicator nexus ab 

lines 18 

in article  ( support account) writes 

in article  ( thomas tornblom ) writes 
i'm trying to locate the type1 rasterizer that ibm donated to the x 
consortium .  . i 've found patches to it but not the original source. 

it 's on the r5 contrib tape. 

mike , ingres uk 

yes i found it there. thanks everyone. 

thomas 

real life thomas t email 
snail mail communicator nexus ab phone 46 18 
box fax 46 18 
s 751 08 uppsala , sweden 

from  ( pedro antonio bayon ) 
subject xfig with open look problem 
nntp posting host 
organization i d 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 26 

i'm a solaris 2.1 user with a classic workstation .  . 

i have compiled xfig 2 . 1 . 7 . version with flag to use it with 
openwindows , but when i run it , the program runs and runs and runs (15 minutes ) 
and never is ready to work with it. the labels are not completed and i ca n't 
push any button. 

i have no problem if i does not run the openwindows but x. 

any solution 

thanks in advance and excuse for my english. 




pedro antonio 
e mail 

x . 400 . adress 
c es iris o ou relay 
dd . rfc . 822 es . 





from (george ross ) 
subject twm greyscale 
organization department of computer science , edinburgh university 
lines 55 

as distributed , twm thinks everything with three or more colormap cells must 
be a colour screen. here 's a patch to have it use the screen 's visual class. 

twm . c . dist . wed may 12 14 56 55 1993 
twm . c . wed may 12 15 47 53 1993 

343 , 352 
343 , 384 

scr  ( unsigned long) 1) scr d depth) 1 

ifdef 
if  ( displaycells(dpy , scrnum ) 3) 
scr monochrome monochrome 
else 
scr monochrome color 
else 
template 

int nitems 

template . visual .  ( defaultvisual(dpy , scrnum ) 
template . visualid . visual) . 
template . screen . 
 ( xgetvisualinfo(dpy , , 
template , nitems ) 
if  ( nitems 1) 
switch  ( visualinfo class) 
case 
case pseudocolor 
case truecolor 
case directcolor 
scr monochrome color 
break 

default scr monochrome monochrome 
break 


else 
 ( void )  ( fprintf(stderr , 
d visual  ( match(es ) , assuming mono n , 
nitems ) 
scr monochrome monochrome assume 


endif 

setup default colors 
scr true 


george d m ross , department of computer science , university of edinburgh 
kings buildings , road , edinburgh , scotland , 3jz 
mail voice 031 650 fax 031 667 

subject re of xlib functions. known problem 
from  ( martin visser ) 
distribution world 
nntp posting host bhp . com . au . 
lines 27 

i 've found a problem in the use of xlib functions regarding re  . i 
decided to implement an animated cursor  ( using 6 created cursors ) by calling 
from a sig signal handler .  . this is used to indicate we are 
waiting for a operator request to complete.  ( on a production control system) .  . 
i was redrawing the screen underneath the animated cursor and then restoring 
the standard cursor when complete. i found dumped core , and upon analysis 
it was when the sig handler was called during a call. 
was doing a bcopy  ( presumably an internal structure ) when the 
was called. presumably the  ( internal ) structure that was manipulating 
was not in a stable state and sent to where it should n't have been. 

has anyone else experienced this is there any official documentation that 
says you should ensure this does n't happen or should  ( bcopy( ) be atomic .  . 
we are running on sgi irix 4 . 0 . 1 . with x11r4 .  . 




regards , martin 

martin visser electrical software engineer 
engineering technology department 
bhp steel slab and plate products division 
p.o. box wollongong nsw 2500 australia 
phone 61 42 75 7522 ext. 6207 
fax 61 42 75 7038 
e mail 

from  ( kaleb keithley ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization x consortium , mit laboratory for computer science 
lines 19 

 ( bernward averwald ) writes 

yes. do n't confuse the mouse cursor with the text cursor in the xterms .  . 
the latter is only controlled by the application. 
back in the days of x11 . 1 . i did analyse the xterm code. the cursor 
was implemented by drawing a rectangle around the character. i does n't 
seem to be changed 'til now. 
but if you have the sources you could add a blinking cursor via 
or similar . 

 ( xt(app)addtimeout ) does n't work in xterm , because , despite appearances 
to the contrary , xterm is not really an xt based application. other 
sources like timeouts and inputs are never checked in xterm 's main 
loop. so do n't be surprised when you try this and it does n't work. 



kaleb 


from  ( rainer hochreiter ) 
subject x server 
organization elin ges . m . b . h . 
lines 12 
nntp posting host sun3 . eeam . elin . co . at . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

where can i get documentation about the x server internals 
btw , i'm also interested in documentation about tiga .  . 

any hints welcome. 

thanks , rainer .  . 


rainer hochreiter telephone 43 (1) 89100 3961 
elin telefax 43 (1) 89100 3387 
penzingerstr .  . 76 
a 1141 wien , austria europe e mail 

from  ( mark van overbeke ) 
subject multi line greeting 
organization university of minnesota morris 
lines 12 

is it possible to have xdm put up a multi line greeting if so , how do 
i specify such a thing in the xresources file i do n't have much 
 ( anything ) for x books , so i ca n't look it up. thanks. 



mark van systems software programmer 
computing services bitnet  ( vms ) 
university of minnesota , morris internet  ( vms ) 
morris , mn 1 612 589 6378  ( ultrix ) 

success is the progressive realization of your worthwhile goal or dream ! 

from  ( henry d. reynolds ) 
subject help w w sun 4 110 framebuffer 
nntp posting host 
organization ross technology , inc. austin , tx .  . 

distribution na 
lines 31 


xsun wo n't come up in color w this framebuffer ! i am trying to use xkernel on 
some of these 4 i have a freshly built statically copy of xsun 
that works just fine on , , bw2 type of framebuffers , but on the 4 110 
that have this type of frame buffer all i get is mono .  . 

at 0x400000 vec 
sun 3 color board , fast read 

here is what i 've tried. 

removing all the other dev cg , dev bw , and dev fb and then 
recreating dev  . xsun comes up mono .  . recreating dev fb , comes up mono , 

i 've tried xsun xsun dev dev  . 

ps will come up in color but it 's not statically linked , and the 
dynamically linked xsun comes up in mono also. 

pps xsun was compiled on w gcc 2.3.3 on a system running 4.1.3 and the 4 110 
is also running 4 . 1 . 3 .  . 

thanks n advance 


 .  .  . the highway is made out of and my honda 
is a oyster ! ! 

henry d. reynolds or 
fone  ( 512)892 ) 7802 ross technology , inc. 
fax  ( 512)892 ) 3036 5316 hwy 290 west suite 500 austin , tx 78735 

from (steven chase ) 
subject re uimx a motif application generator 
in reply to 's message of tue , 11 may 1993 15 28 07 gmt 
lines 29 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization mitre corp. mclean va. 
lines 29 

in article (paul thomas mahoney ) writes 

newsgroups comp . windows . x . 
path linus . mitre . org . ! linus ! agate ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! torn ! ! ! bnr . co . uk . ! ! warwick ! dcs ! ! demon ! xact . demon . co . uk . ! 
from (paul thomas mahoney ) 
organization x act solutions limited 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
date tue , 11 may 1993 15 28 07 gmt 
lines 8 

i am looking of information regarding uimx .  . i believe this is an application 
front end generator tool for motif  ( among others) .  . whould someone given me a 
contact i need to get hold of the programmers  guide , or something like it. 

paul , x act solutions limited 
smail 20 shipley lane , , on sea , east sussex , 
email ... 
phone 44 424 





i went to the convention in ny and talked to the people 
from bluestone who make uimx .  . they sent me a huge 3 ring binder 
of info and a demo tape. let me know what you need. 

steve chase 


from  ( derek c. richardson ) 
subject xview 3.0 window positioning problems 
nntp posting host ioas09 . ast . cam . ac . uk . 
reply to 
organization institute of astronomy , cambridge 
lines 28 

i do n't seem to be able to get window positions reliably through 
the xview xv  ( get( ) function 

x  ( int ) xv  ( get(my frame , xv x) 
y  ( int ) xv  ( get(my frame , xv y) 

for example , if i set xv x xv y to 50 , 50 the frame comes up 
in the correct position , with the top left corner (the size 
handle ) at 50 , 50. xv  ( get( ) returns 50 , 50 as well. but later on 
xv  ( get( ) returns 5 , 25 without any intervening xv  ( set(my frame , 
xv ) .  . my frame is fitted around a canvas , and it turns out 
(by measuring on the screen) that 5 , 25 is the position of the 
first pixel in my canvas relative to the frame 's origin .  . what 
gives any help most appreciated ! 

derek 

p.s. on a related subject , is there any way of the 
window manager as to the thickness of borders it puts around 
frames , etc. 


derek c. richardson tel  ( 0223 ) x 37501 
institute of astronomy fax  ( 0223 ) 
cambridge , u.k. 
e mail 



from  ( ladislas a . ) . 
subject faq 's 
organization ernst young 
lines 5 


could someone repost the faqs for this group , please 

thanks 
 . 

from  ( rui picas ) 
subject subscribe 
organization the internet 
lines 3 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

please subscribe me. 

e mail 

from  ( bill scott ) 
subject re online help motif widget 
organization tx communications services , dallas tx 
lines 28 

in article  ( je pelkey ) writes 

i am looking for online help motif widgets  ( public domain or otherwise) to 
run on a sun sparc .  . 

i 'd be especially interested in help widgets that can integrate hypertext 
help , graphics , etc. 

anybody know of any widgets like this 

text graphics 
bristol technologies has help clone of help 
frame  ( makers of framemaker ) has 

text only 
graphical software technology has xtra widgets  ( includes help) 

there are probably others  ( check out ics widget data book) 

i actually wrote one for the last company i worked for however it is 
locked in their internal reuse library. ( 
it was a good one too !  ( imho and totally unbiased view of things) ) 


 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
bill scott 
hi graphics consultant wk 817 967 3877 
american airlines 

from  ( greg ) 
subject piping tail f to a widget how , oh lord , how 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 12 

i 've spent the past week tearing my hair out , trying to get the output of 
a piped tail f to end up in a widget .  . i 've managed to make it work in 
some ugly ways , but either a) x blocks on the tail and wo n't allow user 
input , b) the tail f functions like just tail and does n't follow the 
expansion of the file , c) the tail f does n't die after i 've closed 
the pipe and the widget , or d )  ( pclose( ) blocks forever waiting 
for tail to die. 
i know this code has to exist. anybody have it a general 
 ( popen( ) case would be but at this point i 'll take anything .  .  .  . 
thanks. 

greg , dammit ! ! 

from  ( arjen broeze ) 
subject xwindows conversion 
nntp posting host cs . utwente . nl . 
organization university of twente , dept. of computer science 
lines 13 


hi all , 

i 've heard of a commercial package named , that could convert ms windows 
source code to xwindows source code (c) .  . the only problem is , the package 
is n't available in holland (at least , i ca n't find it anywhere ( ) 

is there another package  ( preferrably free or shareware) , that can do the 
same thing and if so , where can i find or buy it 

thanks in advance 

arjen 

from  ( eric dujardin ) 
subject re accented characters .  .  .  .  .  . how 
keywords x11r5 xterm 
organization inria 
lines 57 


i 've been able to configure xterm so that i can type in accented characters. 
i'm using x11r5 , with fonts , my shell is tcsh with the following 
definitions 
setenv lc ctype iso 8859 1 
stty 

then , i add the following in my  . xdefaults . file 

xterm true 
xterm true 

xterm vt100 . translations . override 
meta key '  ( keymap(aigu ) n 
meta key `  ( keymap(grave ) n 
meta key  ( keymap(circ ) n 
meta key ,  ( keymap(ced ) 
xterm vt100 . translations . 
shift key e  ( string(0xe9 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key e  ( string(0xc9 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
shift key c  ( string(0xe7 ) n 
key c  ( string(0xc7 ) 
xterm vt100 . translations . 
shift key e  ( string(0xe8 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key e  ( string(0xc8 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
shift key u  ( string(0xf9 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key u  ( string(0xd9 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
shift key a  ( string(0xe0 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key a  ( string(0xc0 )  ( keymap(none ) 
xterm vt100 . translations . 
shift key e  ( string(0xea )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key e  ( string(0xca )  ( keymap(none ) n 
shift key u  ( string(0xfb )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key u  ( string(0xdb )  ( keymap(none ) n 
shift key i  ( string(0xee )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key i  ( string(0xce )  ( keymap(none ) n 
shift key o  ( string(0xf4 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key o  ( string(0xd4 )  ( keymap(none ) 
xterm vt100 . translations . 
shift key c  ( string(0xe7 )  ( keymap(none ) n 
key c  ( string(0xc7 )  ( keymap(none ) 

this makes the meta ' , ` , keys behave as dead keys. 

of course , this only works for xterm .  . for emacs , my solution is to install the 
lucid version of 19 , and to load the x compose library. 


hope this helps , 


eric 

eric 
inria , rodin les font 
bp 105 , le cedex les 
tel  ( 33 1) 39 63 56 19  ( gotlib ) 

from  ( vadivelu elumalai ) 
subject x screen saver 
organization systems inc. 
lines 15 


hi ! 

i have a question which is not directly related to x screen saver .  . 

what x screen saver does is to blank the screen if it has been idle for 
some time. i do n't want my screen to go blank but to get locked or call 
xlock program. 

is there a parallel call to  ( xsetscreensaver( ) which locks my screen 
or call my lock program after certain amount of idle time or is there a 
way to find out how long the server has been idle 

thanks 


from (george lindholm ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization university computing services , ubc , canada 
lines 175 
distribution world 
nntp posting host swiss . ucs . ubc . ca . 

in article , (george lindholm ) writes 
in article (john bradley ) writes 
no , not another false alarm , not a it 'll certainly be done by next week 
message .  .  .  . no , this is the real thing. i repeat , this is not a drill ! 

batten down the hatches , hide the women , and lock up the cows , xv 3.00 has 
finally escaped .  . i was cleaning its cage this morning when it overpowered 
me , broke down the office door , and fled the lab. it was last seen heading 
in the general direction of export . lcs . mit . edu . at nearly 30k per second .  .  .  . 

if found , it answers to the name of  contrib xv 3 . 00 . tar . z' .  . 

have a blast. i'm off to the vacation capital of the u.s. waco , texas .  . 

and here is the first patch ) the following fixes some problems with the 
imakefile files and makes it possible to compile xv 3.00 under solaris without 
having to use the ucb stuff 

oops , i did n't get the signal processing right  ( thats what i get from doing 
the work on an ascii terminal) .  . here is the fixed patch 

1.1 1993 04 28 06 05 03 
imakefile 1993 04 28 08 20 35 

209 , 215 
o . 

programs xv 
! 

if  ( defined(havejpeg )  ( defined(havetiff ) 
ifdef 
209 , 218 
o . 

programs xv 
! all 
! @echo 
! @echo did you remember to  make depend  first 
! @echo 

if  ( defined(havejpeg )  ( defined(havetiff ) 
ifdef 

222 , 238 
subdirs tiff 
endif 
define 
 ( makesubdirs  ( subdirs ) 
 ( dependsubdirs  ( dubdirs ) 
endif 


all 
@echo 
@echo did you remember to  make depend  first 
@echo 

all 
@echo building xv ... 
@echo 

225 , 236 
subdirs tiff 
endif 
define 
define 
 ( makesubdirs  ( subdirs ) 
endif 


all 
@echo building xv ... 
@echo 


259 , 267 


 ( srcs1 )  ( srcs2 )  ( srcs3 )  ( srcs4 ) 
 ( dependtarget( ) 

 ( alltarget  ( programs ) 

 ( normalprogramtarget(xv ,  ( objs1 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
 ( normalprogramtarget(bggen ,  ( objs2 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
257 , 269 


 ( srcs1 )  ( srcs2 )  ( srcs3 )  ( srcs4 ) 


 ( alltarget  ( programs ) 
 ( dependtarget( ) 
ifdef 
 ( dependsubdirs  ( subdirs ) 
endif 

 ( normalprogramtarget(xv ,  ( objs1 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
 ( normalprogramtarget(bggen ,  ( objs2 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
1.1 1993 04 28 06 09 50 
c . 1993 04 28 07 09 03 

9 , 15 
9 , 19 

include files 
include stdio.h 
if  ( defined(sun )  ( defined(sysv ) 
include string.h 
else 
include strings . h . 
endif 
include ctype.h 

include x11 h . 
1.1 1993 04 28 08 33 13 
xv . h . 1993 04 28 17 47 38 

284 , 292 
284 , 298 


signal macros 
if  ( defined(sun )  ( defined(sysv ) 
define hold sig  ( sighold(sigalrm ) 
define release sig  ( sigrelse(sigalrm ) 
define pause sig  ( sigpause(sigalrm ) 
else 
define hold sig  ( sigblock(sigmask(sigalrm ) 
define release sig  ( sigblock(0 ) 
define pause sig  ( sigpause(0 ) 
endif 


default for most folks 

318 , 323 
324 , 333 
define random rand 
define srand 
endif 
if  ( defined(sun )  ( defined(sysv ) 
define  ( random( )  ( rand( ) 
define  ( srandom(x )  ( srand(x ) 
endif 



1.1 1993 04 28 06 17 41 
tiff imakefile 1993 04 28 08 53 34 

49 , 59 
49 , 69 

tif compress . o . imakefile 

if 
h . c . t4 . h . 
rm h . 
cc traditional o cflags c . 
. h . rm h . 
else 
h . c . t4 . h . 
rm h . 
cc o cflags c . 
. h . rm h . 
endif 

depend h . 

clean 
rm h . 

 ( dependtarget( ) 

from (ray stell ) 
subject public patch 0 
organization virginia tech , blacksburg , virginia 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host smyrna . cc . vt . edu . 




in the r5 file fix 01 there is the line that reads as the subject 
line here. i do n't see a file fix 00 .  . when i got a few hmmm .  .  .  . 
lines putting on fix 01 , it made me wonder if i has missed 00 .  . 
am i off the mark 

thank you. 

ray stell (703) 231 

they call stephen the first martyr .  . 
had n't lazarus the deal c. s. lewis 

from  ( daniel louis smith) 
subject windows mfc 2.0 motif tools sought 
summary looking for what products are available 
organization autodesk inc. , sausalito ca , usa 
lines 19 


i am looking for info on products that can take 
windows source on a unix box  ( such as sparc ) , and produce a 
motif executable .  . another requirement is that mfc 2.0 should 
be supported .  . i already know of 

wind u by bristol technologies 
hunter sdk 
by 

are there any others 

i will post a summary if it 's wanted. 

daniel 


daniel l smith , autodesk , sausalito , california , (415) 332 x 
disclaimer accuracy of statements somehow to caffeine intake 

from  ( han n. nguyen ) 
subject action translation table implementation 
organization naval ocean systems center , san diego , ca 
distribution usa 
lines 51 


hello , 


our application requires us to capture keypad presses for all windows 
in a number of applications. we are trying to use action translation 
tables to implement this. we have only succeeded by assigning the 
translation table to every individual widget in all windows in a single 
application. the xt calls we make are included below. 

it would be much more convenient if we could assign the translation 
table to a class of widgets rather than individual widget , 
and also accomplish it for multiple applications. if someone could 
describe how do this it would be greatly appreciated. 

platform sun sparc w x11r4 motif 1.1.4 



static 
up , do up , 
right , do right , 
middle , do middle , 
left , do left , 
down , do down , 
bye , quit , 


static char 
key kp 8  ( up( ) n 
key kp 6  ( right( ) n 
key kp 5  ( middle( ) n 
key kp 4  ( left( ) n 
key kp 2  ( down( ) n 
key kp 1  ( bye( ) 

trans table , trans 

( .  . .  . ) . 

 ( xtaddactions(actionstable ,  ( xtnumber(actionstable ) 
trans table  ( xtparsetranslationtable(defaulttranslations ) 

widget  ( xtcreatemanagedwidget msg , , 
form , wargs , n) 

 ( xtoverridetranslations(widget , trans table ) 





from  ( deeptendu majumder ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization la de karma 
lines 19 
reply to 
nntp posting host cad . gatech . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

julian g. self wrote 
was n't the shareware fee a suggestion by john 
is so then it 's up to the individual to make the choice whether or not to 
honour it and part with money. personally if i was in his position i would 
do exactly the same thing , john has obviously put in lot of time and effort 
into xv and why should n't he receive some money for it. 

just my pennies worth 

 ( keep up the good work john ) 

yeah i agree .  . i . am very impressed by the kind of effort that has gone into 
the lastest release .  .  . some . people are just looking for excuses to gripe .  .  . 
i personally feel that the work is worth much more that 25 .  .  . after . seeing 
the kind of things people get paid for .  .  . 

d. 



from edu .  ( dan ellison ) 
subject re scientific graphing looking for run time library 
organization southern illinois university , il  ( siu c) 
distribution usa 
lines 27 

in  ( je pelkey ) writes 


in article  ( art goldberg ) writes 
x gurus 
i am looking for a scientific graphing run time x library. i want my code 
to open a window , and plot a graph in the window. the library should 
manage plotting , scaling of axes , labeling , etc. 

can someone recommend a library to do this please respond via e mail. 

i would also be interested in this information. 

check into the and vogle libraries .  . i beleive that i still have 
them available on ftp . c . edu . but i'm not sure. i have n't seen 
any new announcements for the software but i'm sure it 's still around. 

i have used it to do real time data display and analysis as well as 
just for producing graphs after the fact. it works well and supports 
numerous graphics output formats  ( including x . ) . i tried it and liked 
it. you may as well. 



dan ellison , network spec computing affairs , c 
southern illinois university , il 
fax  ( 618 ) 453 phone  ( 618 ) 453 

from  ( gildas perrot ) 
subject installing v2 . 1 . 2 . on sgi 
originator 
organization ecole polytechnique , institut de genie biomedical 
lines 10 


did anyone install v2 . 1 . 2 . on sgi workstation 


thanks for your answer.  . 

, de recherche ecole polytechnique 
institut de genie biomedical c . p .  . 6079 ,  . a 
e mail montreal , canada 
tel (514) 340 fax (514) 340 

from  ( sadie hf ) 
subject looking for article 
article i.d. hippo . 
organization rhodes university , , south africa 
lines 17 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 


i am urgently looking for the following article , but i ca n't seem to 
find it anywhere here 

the multi threaded x server 
john allen smith 
the x resource 
issue 1 , pp. 73 89 , winter 1992 

if anyone can tell me where to find it , it will be much appreciated. 

h . f .  . 
departement of computer science 
university of stellenbosch 
south africa 

e mail 

from (john maddox ) 
subject color term emulation 
originator 
keywords xterm tek 4107 
nntp posting host oz 
organization bose corporation 
lines 5 


does anyone know of an x based terminal emulator which can 
emulate a color graphics terminal such as 
tek or tek 4107 , etc 


from  ( pramod mahadev ) 
subject problem with r4 release 
article i.d. news . 
distribution world 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 14 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

ld unidentified external symbol 
get 
get 

i use lxmu lx11 lxt not in this order but in a proper order 

i am wondering if there has to be some changes in my link libraries or should 
i include some more libraries .  . 

any help in this matter will be very useful and highly appreciated 

thanks 
pramod 
. 

from (ronald queloz ) 
subject integration of keyboard into sco odt 2.0 
organization swiss federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , zurich , ch 
lines 13 

sco odt allows to adapt the x server to any non standard  ( at ) keyboard 
using the configuration compiler  . sco provides some 
configuration files in usr lib x11  . kbd . , e.g. for 
siemens  . 

question 
is there anywhere a configuration file for the keyboard 
available 
i am especially interested in using the hp specific keys such as 
, menu . 

thanks ron .  . 


from (paul martz ) 
subject re seeking a simple wm 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 113 . 
reply to (paul martz ) 
organization evans sutherland computer corp. , salt lake city , ut 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( basile starynkevitch ) writes 
i'm seeking a simple window manager  ( icccm compliant ) with a minimal doc. 
i do n't want ol wm twm gwm twm .  . 

whatever happened to uwm is it still available in some form it 's 
been years since i used it or heard anyone talk about it. 


paul 
evans sutherland 

from  ( oliver jones ) 
subject re x design choice for color handling question 
keywords color 
organization software 
lines 20 

in article (joseph sirosh ) writes 

 .  .  . why . did x designers decide to not associate 
the color with the object being drawn , and instead associate it with the 
display it is being drawn on 

in x10 , the drawing attributes were bundled into drawing 
requests that is , the server 's drawing model was  . 

this caused problems with performance and network traffic , 
so the x11 redesign included the graphic context to codify 
the drawing state. most application designers who want to 
draw things in several different colors create a gc for 
each color during initialization , then pass the gc id in 
each drawing request. 

for more information see scheifler and 's article 
in the 1986 acm transactions on graphics. 



from  ( rui picas ) 
subject 
organization the internet 
lines 3 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

please subscribe me. 

e mail 

from  ( vidiot ) 
subject re compiling ghostview under sun openwindows 3 
reply to  ( vidiot ) 
organization vidiot 's other hangout 
lines 23 

in article (peter flynn ) writes 
due it seems to sun 's organisation of the x libraries and includes , 
most standard  ( gnu and other) software wo n't compile out of the box  ( well , tar 
file) .  . 

right now i'm trying to make ghostview .  . it complains it ca n't find x11 xaw ... 
so i just linked  ( ln s) the files from usr openwin share include x11 and 
now the thing still complains it ca n't find them. 

i still have n't been able to compile xdvi , not no way. 

has anyone ever managed to get anything normal to compile on a sun 
 ( sunos 4.1.3 and openwindows 3) what 's the trick i'm missing i 've even 
tried hard copying all the relevant files into the right places and 
every time , there 's some bit missing or it refuses to find it. 

sounds like you did n't load the support for those libraries when 0 . was 
loaded .  . the xaw support was missing from 0 . but added in 3 . 0 .  . 

harvard 
ucbvax ! ! ! ! brown or uu2 . psi . com . ! ! brown 
rutgers 
internet or ! brown 

from  ( chan yin mei ) 
subject help ! anything about x. 
originator 
organization charles sturt university , wagga wagga , nsw , australia 
lines 24 

from thu apr 29 16 36 43 1993 
date thu , 29 apr 1993 16 36 42 1000 
from  ( gavin fairlamb ) 
to 
status r 


hello , folks .  .  .  . 
i am doing a uni .  . project and was wondering if you could 
supply with some specific info. or references for info. regarding 
1) .  . considerations for installation of xwindows in 
a hp  ( 9000(unknown model) 
2) .  . motif , openlook , 
3) .  . x11 ,  .  .  .  . 
4) .  . glossary of any term on x 
we considering this software for the project which deals 
in image analysis .  .  .  . 

any info. would be greatly appreciated. 

please email to 




from 
subject x windows on ms dos pc where 's the faq 
lines 7 
nntp posting host ntu . ac . sg . 
organization nanyang technological university singapore 

i need to know where i can get a faq on xwindows for ms dos machines. 
the usual faq just gave me a name of a file called xservers nonunix . txt . z .  . 
which i cannot find anywhere. 

i need to do x windows programming on a msdos pc. does anyone know how to 
go about doing it 


from fr .  ( frederic pierre ) 
subject q xterm s 
lines 12 


hello . , 
i'm looking for a good explanation and example of the usefulness of the s 
option for xterm slave mode on file descriptor xxx .  . sure , but xterm 
does not seem to grab what arrives on my window. where is my 
ding tia .  . 
fred .  . 

frederic pierre .  . 7 rue de l universite f strasbourg france 
tel (33) 88 35 80 84 fax (33) 88 35 31 76 e mail fr . 
hamradio 


from  ( panguyen ) 
subject repost cose gui 
organization oakland university , rochester mi. 
lines 39 
distribution world 
nntp posting host vela . acs . oakland . edu . 



this is a repost .  .  .  . i like to find out more about this also .  .  .  . 

message part 2 text 
the cose announcement specifies that motif will become the common 
gui .  . but what does this mean exactly 

do they mean that all cose complient apps will have the motif 
look and feel 

do they mean that all cose complient apps will use the motif 
toolkit api 

do they mean both of the above 

is it possible that there will be a motif api complient toolkit with 
an openlook look feel 

how about an olit xview oi interviews api toolkit with a motif l f 
(i know oi already does this , but will this be considered cose complient ) 

will there be more than one standard toolkit api or l f supported 

how does using tooltalk fit in with motif 

this is my attempt to start a discussion in order to pull as much 
knowledge about these questions off the net .  .  .  . feel free to e mail 
or followup .  . 



gil tene some days it just does n't pay 
to go to sleep in the morning. 






from (george lindholm ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization university computing services , ubc , canada 
lines 176 
nntp posting host swiss . ucs . ubc . ca . 

in article (john bradley ) writes 
no , not another false alarm , not a it 'll certainly be done by next week 
message .  .  .  . no , this is the real thing. i repeat , this is not a drill ! 

batten down the hatches , hide the women , and lock up the cows , xv 3.00 has 
finally escaped .  . i was cleaning its cage this morning when it overpowered 
me , broke down the office door , and fled the lab. it was last seen heading 
in the general direction of export . lcs . mit . edu . at nearly 30k per second .  .  .  . 

if found , it answers to the name of  contrib xv 3 . 00 . tar . z' .  . 

have a blast. i'm off to the vacation capital of the u.s. waco , texas .  . 

and here is the first patch ) the following fixes some problems with the 
imakefile files and makes it possible to compile xv 3.00 under solaris without 
having to use the ucb stuff 

1.1 1993 04 28 06 05 03 
imakefile 1993 04 28 08 20 35 

209 , 215 
o . 

programs xv 
! 

if  ( defined(havejpeg )  ( defined(havetiff ) 
ifdef 
209 , 218 
o . 

programs xv 
! all 
! @echo 
! @echo did you remember to  make depend  first 
! @echo 

if  ( defined(havejpeg )  ( defined(havetiff ) 
ifdef 

222 , 238 
subdirs tiff 
endif 
define 
 ( makesubdirs  ( subdirs ) 
 ( dependsubdirs  ( dubdirs ) 
endif 


all 
@echo 
@echo did you remember to  make depend  first 
@echo 

all 
@echo building xv ... 
@echo 

225 , 236 
subdirs tiff 
endif 
define 
define 
 ( makesubdirs  ( subdirs ) 
endif 


all 
@echo building xv ... 
@echo 


259 , 267 


 ( srcs1 )  ( srcs2 )  ( srcs3 )  ( srcs4 ) 
 ( dependtarget( ) 

 ( alltarget  ( programs ) 

 ( normalprogramtarget(xv ,  ( objs1 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
 ( normalprogramtarget(bggen ,  ( objs2 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
257 , 269 


 ( srcs1 )  ( srcs2 )  ( srcs3 )  ( srcs4 ) 


 ( alltarget  ( programs ) 
 ( dependtarget( ) 
ifdef 
 ( dependsubdirs  ( subdirs ) 
endif 

 ( normalprogramtarget(xv ,  ( objs1 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
 ( normalprogramtarget(bggen ,  ( objs2 ) ,  ( deplibs ) ,  ( local libraries) , ) 
1.1 1993 04 28 08 33 13 
xv . h . 1993 04 28 08 19 31 

284 , 292 
284 , 298 


signal macros 
if  ( defined(sun )  ( defined(sysv ) 
define hold sig  ( sighold(sigalrm ) 
define release sig  ( sigrelse(0 ) 
define pause sig  ( sigpause(0 ) 
else 
define hold sig  ( sigblock(sigmask(sigalrm ) 
define release sig  ( sigblock(0 ) 
define pause sig  ( sigpause(0 ) 
endif 


default for most folks 

318 , 323 
324 , 333 
define random rand 
define srand 
endif 
if  ( defined(sun )  ( defined(sysv ) 
define  ( random( )  ( rand( ) 
define  ( srandom(x )  ( srand(x ) 
endif 



1.1 1993 04 28 06 09 50 
c . 1993 04 28 07 09 03 

9 , 15 
9 , 19 

include files 
include stdio.h 
if  ( defined(sun )  ( defined(sysv ) 
include string.h 
else 
include strings . h . 
endif 
include ctype.h 

include x11 h . 
1.1 1993 04 28 06 17 41 
tiff imakefile 1993 04 28 08 53 34 

49 , 59 
49 , 69 

tif compress . o . imakefile 

if 
h . c . t4 . h . 
rm h . 
cc traditional o cflags c . 
. h . rm h . 
else 
h . c . t4 . h . 
rm h . 
cc o cflags c . 
. h . rm h . 
endif 

depend h . 

clean 
rm h . 

 ( dependtarget( ) 

george phone (604) 822 4375 
university computing services , ubc fax (604) 822 
agricultural road , vancouver , b.c. , canada internet 
bitnet 

nntp posting host bones . et . byu . edu . 
lines 27 
from  ( robin kinzy ) 
distribution world 
organization brigham young university , provo ut usa 
subject resource listing for x11r5 
keywords x11r5 , resources 


does anyone know of a source  ( book , file , etc . ) . of all the standard 
resource names in x11r5 a small description of what the resource 
is would also be helpful , but not vital .  . any help in which direction 
to go would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks. 
robin 


office home 

brigham young university 
college of engineering technology robin r. 
270 clyde building 1080 e. 700 n. 
provo , ut 84602 provo , ut 

phone (801) 378 phone (801) 373 
email 




bruce owen lee we will pay the price 
brigham young university but we will not count the cost 
college of engineering technology 
email rush 

from  ( mark wilkinson ext 3443 ) 
subject looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to wilkinson 
organization gec plessey semiconductors 
lines 24 

hi all , 
this is the first time i 've posted to the net , so i hope this is 
going to the right people. 
i'm looking for software packages that run on an ibm pc clone that 
allows me to display openlook and motif windows on the pc. 
the idea is to use the pc as a cheap x windows terminal for use by 
process engineers at work. 

if anyone can e mail me any recommended packages horror stories etc 
i would be greatful .  . 

thanks in advance 

mark wilkinson 





mark wilkinson e mail wilkinson 
senior software engineer 
gec plessey semiconductors 
, plymouth , england 


from  ( shonkwiler r w) 
subject scrollbar in xterm 
keywords xterm , scrollbar 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 10 

is it possible to get an xterm scrollbar to come out on the right 
side instead of the left 

ron 


shonkwiler r w 
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332 
uucp ... ! allegra , amd , hplabs , seismo , ut ngp ! gatech ! prism ! 
arpa 

from  ( jim wight ) 
subject axe 5.0 is available 
organization computing laboratory , u of newcastle upon tyne , uk 
lines 89 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

i have placed a new release of my axe editor in axe 5 . 0 . tar . z . on 
export . lcs . mit . edu . (18 . 24 . 0 . 12) . and arjuna . ac . uk . (128 . 240 . 150 . 1) .  . 

the significant change this time , and the justification for the hike 
in the major version number , is 

o undo has been implemented .  . 

by default only the last change can be undone , but a resource is 
provided to allow the user to specify how many , including unlimited , 
levels of undo information should be kept .  . also , undo of undo is 
supported .  . 

there is no truth in the rumour that the next version will be 19 ) 



for those who have not encountered axe before here is a summary of 
what it is all about 

axe is a simple to use text editor for x that represents a significant 
improvement over  . also built around the athena text widget it 
features , amongst other things , 

o multiple windows 
o multiple buffers 
o default menu interface 
o optional button interface , with choice and layout of buttons 
under user control 
o for expert use and access to external filters 
o provision for defining a keyboard macro 
o geometry specification and resizing in terms of characters 
o file selection via a browser 
o knowledge of line numbers 
o parenthesis matching 
o regular expression searching 
o restricted or unlimited undo 
o ability to change font 
o easy entry of control codes 
o xterm like keymap feature 
o easy runtime setting of selected preferences  ( resources ) 
o both brief and comprehensive on line help 
o server mode with cooperating client programs 
o optional extension language using tcl 
o optional xaw3d widget set compatability 
o collection of reusable widgets that the functionality of axe 

i have personally built and run core axe , i.e. without the tcl and 
xaw3d options , on the following systems 

sun sparc sunos 4 . 1 . x . mit x11r5 
sun sparc sunos 5.1 mit x11r5 
encore 4.3 mit x11r5 
dec 5000 120 ultrix 4.2 mit x11r5 
hp 9000 710 hp ux 8.07 mit x11r5 
mac iici au x 3.0 mit x11r5 

but not all have been subject to the same level of testing. i have 
only tested the tcl and xaw3d options on the first. 

a number of ' ifdef sysv  isms that have been fed back to me have been 
incorporated into the code and a possible replacement is 
provided for those systems that do not have one. 

although axe will probably build under r4 run time problems have been 
encountered in the past. i have not bothered to try this version under 
r4 , and have not put any effort into solving previously known 
problems. therefore , if you are at r4 you very much take pot luck. if 
it does n't work the only alternative is to try the last release , 
2.1.1 , of version 2 which should still be around. it does n't have as 
many features and uses the widget creation library  . not only 
that , it requires an old version of wcl , 1.06 or 1 . 05 .  . version 3 of 
axe was nearing completion when version 2 of wcl came out so axe 2 
never got converted to make use of it. 

axe is available by anonymous ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . (18 . 24 . 0 . 12) . 
and arjuna . ac . uk . (128 . 240 . 150 . 1) . initially , and probably in due 
course from several other ftp sites. check your nearest using 
 . 

if you ca n't ftp , try sending email to with the 
word help alone in your message body. you will receive instructions 
on how to ftp via email. 

jim 


department of computing science , university of newcastle , tel 44 91 222 8238 
newcastle upon tyne , ne1 7ru , united kingdom .  . fax 44 91 222 

from  ( subbarao chitturi ) 
subject starting x windows 
organization cambridge technology partners 
lines 40 

as soon as i am logged into linux , i type 

xinit 

setting tcp so linger protocol not available 
no 
xfree86 version 1.2 x window system 
 ( protocol version 11 , revision 0 , vendor release 5000) 
configured drivers 
 ( vga256(256 svga ) 
et4000 , et 3000 , , , ati , , 
 ( using vt number 7) 
mouse type mouse systems , device dev mouse , baudrate 1200 
font path set to usr lib x11 fonts type1 , usr lib x11 fonts 75 dpi , 
usr lib x11 fonts speedo , usr lib x11 fonts , 
usr lib x11 fonts misc. 
vga 256 et4000 ( mem ok 16 ) 
vga 256 clocks 25 . 2 . 28.3 47 . 8 . 41.2 25 . 4 . 0.0 47.6 0.0 
vga 256 clocks 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 41 . 3 . 
vga 256 too little memory for virtual resolution 1024 1204 

a configured device found , but display modes could not be resolved .  . 

fatal server error 
no screens found 
giving up. 
xinit interrupted system  ( call(errno 4) unable to connect to x server 
xinit no such  ( process(errno 3) server error. 



why am i getting these messages when i type in xinit 
is there a configuration file for x  ( windows(like config.sys for msdos ) 
how do i start the x  ( session from shell ) 







from  ( callum downie ) 
subject re mac x and sun openwindows 3 
keywords mac x openwindows 3 x 
organization brunel university , west london , uk 
lines 48 

in article  ( stan kerr ) writes 
 ( benjamin jones ) writes 

i 've run into a bit of a snag while trying to get mac x up and running and would appreciate 

stuff deleted 

are not on my local net here , but the above problem holds true for non local suns as well. 

i tried to send this as private mail , but mail to was 
rejected , so here it is 

same here 


here is an extract from the readme file that comes with macx 

users of remote commands with sun machines may find that their remote commands 
appear to do nothing and there is no output from the sun machine. this is due 
to a feature of the sun network daemon which quietly disconnects from 
requesting machines that are not known to the sun s network address ( etc hosts 
or nis hosts ) database. to successfully use remote commands with a sunos based 
machine , there must be an entry in the network address database for the 
macintosh which is running macx .  . 


i received similar information advice about what appears to be the same problem 
benjamin has  ( and i still have) .  . 
nis has all the information about the macs 
(i even put explicit entries in etc hosts to no  . 
monitoring with  snoop  on my classic , the initial packet is sent to 
the the sun , which sends something to the correct mac , but nothing appears 
at the mac .  . 
  is number one suspect , but it 's more than the readme suggests and 
i have n't yet looked into it further. 



stan kerr 
computing communications services office , u of illinois urbana 
phone 217 333 5217 email 


faculty of technology , brunel university , uxbridge , 3ph , uk 
44 895 

4 . 003 . die und , ueber worden sind , sind nicht ,  . 
7 man nicht , man  . 

from (brian noble ) 
subject x server scanline padding question 
nntp posting host bach . coda . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 42 


i am almost done porting xfree86 1.2 to a new piece of display 
hardware , but have run into a snag i think may be somewhat 
commonplace , so i'm sending a net  . 

i have a display that is a non interlaced , memory mapped , 1 bit 
display. the server 's view of the world ,  ( obtained via xwd 
xwud ) , seems to be exactly what it should be. however , the displayed 
version of the framebuffer gives the impression that the server is 
using that are too long. after a bit of experimentation , it 
seems that the problem was that the server was padding the line out to 
a word , but the scanline size in the buffer is 90 bytes , which 
is n't exactly divisible by four. changing the following defines in 
mit server include h . 



define bitmap scanline pad 32 
define bitmap pad 5 
define bytes per scanline pad 2 



to 



define bitmap scanline pad 16 
define bitmap pad 4 
define bytes per scanline pad 2 



was not exactly the right solution. how do i tell the server either 
(a) do n't pad the scan lines at all  ( 'cause this server is only being 
built to run on this particular display) , or to pad only to byte 


i'm using a customized version of 2 . , under mach 3 . 0 .  . 

thanks 
brian 

from  ( gina bull ) 
subject need patches to use dev 
organization university of virginia computer science department 
lines 8 

the good news is we just got two 's .  . the bad news is 
that dev is apparently not supported in x11r4 or 
x11r5 .  . does anyone know of a patch  ( and how i can obtain it) 
to either x version that will enable us to use x11 on our 
's 


gina 

from (mike mcgary ) 
subject re keyboard mapping and window placement questions 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 1993 18 29 12 gmt 
organization , inc. 
lines 51 

in article  ( darcy mccallum ) writes 

these are two common subjects so i hope someone has had to deal with these 
specific questions. 

1.  .  .  .  . question . 1 deleted .  .  .  .  .  . 

2. i would like to place a popup so that it will be to the immediate right 
of my main window. i want it at the same y coord , and their right left 
sides touching .  . what i need to ask for is the x , y coord of the window 
manager 's border for the main window. this should ring a bell with anyone 
who has called  ( xtmovewidget( ) , immediately checking the x , y after the move 
and seeing that it is right , and in their next callback asking for the x , y 
and seeing that it is now offset by the wm border .  . 

any help would be most appreciated. 

darcy 
darcy 

i have done this before , but i'm not sure i used the best approach  ( although 
i tried several methods .  .  . ) .  . 

you have to run up the window heirarchy  ( using  ( xquerytree( ) until you get 
to the root window. now , this is not so simple because some window managers 
slap a window over the root window that is the same size as the root window , 
so be sure to take that into account for further calculations .  . 

calculate the position and width height offsets for each window using 
 . be sure to take the border width into consideration .  . 
remember a windows border width is on the outside of a window , so the 
windows x , y , width , height must be adjusted accordingly. 

all of this should give you pretty good numbers for how much space the 
window manager is using. 

now , to place the new window , you have to use the same numbers to calculate 
where you want to place it , because the window manager will re parent it on 
the outside of where you place your window  ( if i remember correctly) .  . 

disclaimer all of this is from memory , and i no longer have the code. but 
i did get it working under several window managers correctly. feel free to 
call or e mail for further info. 




mike d. voice (214) 620 2100 
fax (214) 484 
1603 lbj freeway , suite 780 arpa 
dallas , texas 75234 uucp com . ! 

from  ( mahendra m chheda ) 
subject print from within an application 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 27 
nntp posting host mackinac 

hi , 

i have an application which draws graphs , bar charts etc. i need to include 
print support for these from within my application i.e. a user can print 
the graphs from within the by clicking on a print button. i am 
not sure if i can invoke xwd xpr from within my application and specify 
the window id to get my window dump and then send this file for printing or 
if there are other ways of doing this. i would appreciate any help in this 
regard .  . thanx .  . 

mahendra .  . 

ps please mail your replies to me as i am not a regular reader of this 
news group. i will post a summary if there is sufficient interest. 




mahendra chheda 



office residence 
dept. of computer science 440 kimball drive 
rochester institute of tech. rochester , ny 14623 
tel. 716 475 2079 tel. 716 292 5726 


from  ( karsten spang ) 
subject re cannot create 24 plane window  ( summary ) 
organization niels bohr institute and , copenhagen 
lines 51 

in article ,  ( karsten spang ) writes 
i have a problem i am not able to create a window with 24 bit planes .  . 
... gave badmatch error on the request. 

as far as i can tell from the manual , the only attribute which may give 
a badmatch , is the colormap , if it belongs to a wrong visual .  . but the 
visual was correctly matched 

i got several answers , the most complete was from errol crary 

i have just looked at the r4 server listings ( .  .  .  . mit server dix window . c . ) 
and there are several ways in which you can get a badmatch error , even 
though my o'reilly book only says borderwidth is for . 

1 if  ( class inputonly )  ( bw ! 0)  ( depth ! 0 ) 


2 find out if the depth and visual are acceptable for this screen 


3 if  ( vmask  ( cwborderpixmap cwborderpixel ) 0) 
 ( class ! inputonly ) 
 ( depth ! drawable . 


4 if  ( vmask cwcolormap ) 0) 
 ( class ! inputonly ) 
 ( visual ! visual)  ( ancwopt colormap none ) 


so , 
case 1 is which is not your case it seems to be the 
o'reilly case. 
case 2 should not be the case since you got the visual for the screen. 
case 3 looks suspicious you are giving no  .  .  . in the attribute 
mask , and since the visual is not the parent depth , i would suspect you 
need to supply a border pixel from the new colormap you are going to use 
for this window. 
case 4 does not seem to be the problem since you do supply the 
in the attributes .  . 

thanks for your help 




internet spang 
phone 45 36 77 22 23 data 
fax 45 36 77 03 01 p.o. box 1142 
dk 2650 
denmark 

from bs . de .  ( thorsten sommer ) 
subject looking for a file manager under twm 
keywords file manager , twm 
nntp posting host ips . cs . tu . bs . de . 
organization inst. f. informatik , tu braunschweig , frg 
lines 24 

hi out there ! 

every command line shell user close your ears , , eyes .  .  .  . 

i'm looking for a x file manager which can be driven under twm .  . 
somebody told me last night , there is one under openwindows 
 ( and there certainly is one under ms windows ) .  . 

but i 'd like an x one , you know , with icon 's , click and drag , directory structures 
shown in a graphic layout , a paper basket etc. ... 

anybody got an idea 

please reply. 

thorsten sommer , better known as 
 ( denn nur ist ! ) 

e mail bs . de . 



transform ... and roll out !  ( bigtruck transformers ) 


from (peter flynn ) 
subject compiling ghostview under sun openwindows 3 
organization university college , cork 
lines 16 

due it seems to sun 's organisation of the x libraries and includes , 
most standard  ( gnu and other) software wo n't compile out of the box  ( well , tar 
file) .  . 

right now i'm trying to make ghostview .  . it complains it ca n't find x11 xaw ... 
so i just linked  ( ln s) the files from usr openwin share include x11 and 
now the thing still complains it ca n't find them. 

i still have n't been able to compile xdvi , not no way. 

has anyone ever managed to get anything normal to compile on a sun 
 ( sunos 4.1.3 and openwindows 3) what 's the trick i'm missing i 've even 
tried hard copying all the relevant files into the right places and 
every time , there 's some bit missing or it refuses to find it. 

peter 

from  ( ata etemadi ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
nntp posting host prawn . sp . ph . 
organization imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , london , england 
lines 23 

in article , (brian glendenning ) writes 

alas , we too will have to stop using it. 

brian 

brian glendenning national radio astronomy observatory 
charlottesville va. (804) 296 

it says in the licence that non profit organisations have the rights to 
copy , use , distribute etc .  .  . does that not cover nrao i sure hope it 
covers us. please someone let me know if i have to buy a licence .  . 

best regards 
ata ( ) . 

mail dr ata etemadi , laboratory , 
space and atmospheric physics group , 
imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , 
prince road , london sw7 , england 
internet arpanet earn bitnet or 
span or 
uucp usenet relay . ac . uk . 

from  ( allbery ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
reply to  ( allbery ) 
organization , public access uni site 
lines 13 

as quoted from by  ( bernward averwald ) 

back in the days of x11 . 1 . i did analyse the xterm code. the cursor 
was implemented by drawing a rectangle around the character. i does n't 
seem to be changed 'til now. 
but if you have the sources you could add a blinking cursor via 
or similar . 

the server overhead for this is mildly ridiculous , though  ( see also x , 
which does this in its dos windows) .  . do you really want xterm to wake up every 
half second and the server into doing a bitblt 

brandon 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject visualization 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 15 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


hi , 

is there any script program thelike already existing which could transform 
the output of (a huge table ) into a nice 3d ish diagram or 
graph by producing postscript output from input 

maybe someone has already written such beast ... 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( kelly murray ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
organization university of florida parallel reasearch lab. 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host prl . ufl . edu . 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 

in article ,  ( graeme gill ) writes 
in article ,  ( amancio hasty jr) writes 

but your performance will suck lemons running an xserver on a clone .  . 

i have a clone almost with no name generating on a 486 33mhz 
system. 


i can get 15 tektronix terminals for under 900 , and the performance 
is over 80000  .  .  .  .  . 

you will not come even close to the performance of an series , plus you 

excuse me , but with a 486 50 256k cache , s3 928 isa card , 8mb (x11r5) running 386bsd you can get 100k at 1024x768 which i doubt 

this is hardly apples to apples .  . try running the benchmark over a 
network to the clone and , and if you 're still getting 100k 
then you 've got a good machine. x terminals are n't just a server you know .  .  .  .  .  . 

graeme gill .  . 

i would further add that a 486 50 , s3 928 , 8mb , 15 , is going to cost 
way more than 900 , probably 3 , 000 .  . color makes it not apples apples too. 
provide better price performance than pcs. you can make a pc 
much cheaper , and perform much worse , and you can make pc 's perform great , and 
cost more. you pay extra for the additional and expandability 
of a pc. for home user , that extra functionality is worth the added cost. 

kelly murray 

from (edward j. gallant iii) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
organization college of computing , georgia tech 
lines 39 



in article ,  ( eric boutilier ) writes 
(peter j. mckinney ) writes 

price 
pc xview for dos 445 . 00 . for 1 1780 . 00 . for 5 


ncd just announced a new generation of pc xview .  . they 
changed the name a little though and i ca n't remember 
exactly .  .  .  . pc  . 

it now supports windows and their press release 
implies that since it 's still priced in the 500 range 
and it 's so feature full why buy anything else 
 ( disclaimer this is not a direct quote from the 
literature , but i think it sums it up. also , i have 
never used the product . ) . 


it 's called pc  . it is based on ncd ware , their x terminal 
software (which , imho , is  . pc will include 
x remote and be optimized for 32 bit machines. it 's x11r5 based .  . 
it will support remote management , etc. 


not an ncd employee , just a fan ) 




edward j. gallant iii 
georgia tech station 
atlanta , georgia 30332 

e mail 
phone (404) 853 


from  ( adrian nye ) 
subject re keyboard mapping and window placement questions 
reply to 
organization o'reilly and associates , inc. 
lines 18 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 


if i use xt , all 
o'reilly has to say is ' .  .  . is . automatically handled by xt .  .  . ' .  . if i use xlib , ala  ( xnextevent( ) , i get nothing. this all stems from problems with users of 
the sun 4 5 keyboard and the numlock plus various alt meta etc. modifier 
requirements. 

that 's not all it says. the coverage of modifiers is in chapter 8 
of volume four  ( or chap 7 in older athena editions ) , where there is about 
10 pages on how to specify translations to capture 
various combinations of keys or buttons. 

the xlib route uses xlookupstring and there is a lot of coverage 
of how that works in volume one , chapter 9. you should read this 
to understand how all the mappings work before trying to do anything 
complicated. 

adrian nye 
o'reilly and associates 

from  ( technical support) 
subject re x over tcp ip how reliable how is it implemented 
organization quarterdeck office systems , santa monica ca 
lines 46 

in article  ( ethan solomita ) writes 

three q 's 

1) is it reliable 

i use it all day every day  ( maintaining our ftp site and answering mail 
via , and i can honestly say that in the last few 
months i 've never had my machine go down due to any sort of tcpip network 
manager instability .  .  ( of course , i 've crashed my machine quite a few times 
on purpose , during beta testing and that sort of thing , but the tcpip 
portion is quite stable .  .  . ) . 

however , keep in mind that dvx and the network managers are only going 
to be as stable as the software they sit on top of (so if your underlying 
network kernel is , you ca n't expect dvx to be terribly stable .  .  . ) . 

2) how does it send the information from a ms windows app over 
the x11 protocol does it just draw everything as graphics into 
one window , or does it use multiple windows and essentially work 
more cleverly 

it just goes as a window that has graphics drawn into it.  ( to vastly 
over simplify what goes on , we just take the windows graphics api calls , 
and translate them directly to x protocol unfortunately , windows was 
not really written to be network aware , so sometimes we see a speed 
penalty when an app does something stupid , like sending a big white bitmap 
to erase something rather than just drawing a white box fortunately , 
that sort of thing is rare .  .  . ) . 

3) if i want to run ms word , for example , remotely , do i have to 
run a separate copy of ms windows remotely , and then start ms 
word from that , or can ms word be started remotely on its own 

you need to run ms windows , which word then runs inside. you could run 
multiple windows programs within the one window , and windows has 
ways to automagically start when you start windows , so in practice 
it 's not really a major problem. i have my system set up so that i can 
run , which automatically starts word full screen  ( for windows) , so 
i never see any part of windows but word .  .  . ) . 


quarterdeck office systems internet support tom 
pricing ordering tech questions 
bbs (310) 314 3227 fax (310) 314 3217 compuserve go quarterdeck 
anonymous ftp com . 17 . 8 . 10) . , leave your email address as password 

from  ( casper h.s. dik ) 
subject re problems with xdm ( ) under x11r5 solaris 
organization fwi , university of amsterdam 
lines 25 
nntp posting host adam . fwi . uva . nl . 

 ( danny backx ) writes 

yes , that is a bug in the x11r5 port of xterm .  . you sometimes get this when 
you start from xdm .  . i have reported this to casper but do n't know whether 
it made it into his set of patches yet. 

basically in mit clients xterm main . c . , there is a test at line which 
checks errno after attempting to open dev tty .  . add the errno 
case to it and you should be fine. 

it 's actually a bug in the solaris 2.1 kernel .  . we could add a workaround to 
xterm .  . open should never return , but it does ( 

i did n't have time to update the r5 . sunos5 . patch lately , but non 
of the existing problems seem to warrant a new set of patches .  . 

since  . xsession . is a bourne shell script anyway , you might as well add a line 
. etc timezone 
as it is done in etc profile. 

xdm coulda also keep the xdm environment variable .  . it should have inherited 
it from the environment. 


casper 

from 
subject re  makedepend  problem 
organization c o visual , inc. 
lines 11 
to , 


we have a problem with  makedepend  it does n't know how to correctly process 

i'm most of the way through adding a grammar for parsing the if expressions .  . 
i do n't know when i 'll be able to get back to it you 're welcome to what i 
have so far. i have n't looked at other versions of makedepend , which may solve 
the problem more elegantly .  . 


david b. lewis temporarily at but not speaking for visual , inc. 
day evening david 

from  ( greg hughes ) 
subject re hpgl to anything converter wanted 
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa 
lines 13 

in comp . windows . x . ,  ( doug hughes ) writes 


i 've found an hpgl viewer for x. and a converter from hpgl 
to postscript .  .  . does anybody have anything that allows you 
to convert from anything into hpgl i'm desperately in need 
of something like this. 

hpgl does not support raster primitives , so a formatter would have to 
punt on most popular image formats .  . this probably explains the lack of 
translators out there. what do you need to plot 

greg hughes (303) 229 

from ed hew 
subject biz . sco .  . newsgroups faq  ( periodic posting) 
organization consulting services , , on , canada 
summary how to subscribe  ( and why) 
keywords biz , sco , newsgroups , mailing lists 
lines 123 


evolution of sco newsgroups and mailing lists 


many readers enjoyed the opportunity to obtain and contribute useful 
information on sco open desktop since 1990 through the ancestral usenet 
newsgroup sco . or it 's companion mailing list. similarly , 
there was a demonstrated need for an information and discussion forum 
for sco products in general. 

with the increasing demand for accessibility and for additional sco 
newsgroups , many current contributors including those who have been 
active in circulating sco related newsgroups and mailing lists felt 
that the readership would be best served by creating a biz . sco .  . 
hierarchy to improve propagation  ( and hence availability ) worldwide .  . 

biz . sco .  . , general , announce were may 1 , 1991 in 
accordance with accepted procedure within biz . given the content , 
this change relocated the newsgroup to a more proper place 
within the established usenet news hierarchy and adds the new announce 
and general groups. on aug 1 , 1991 , the former sco 
became in keeping with established biz . sco .  . naming conventions .  . 

biz . sco . binaries . and biz . sco . sources . were on june 1 , 1992 
to respectively accommodate sco xenix , unix and specific 
binaries and source code. the binaries and sources news groups are 
moderated , with moderator and submissions information and policy 
outlined in the periodic postings in those newsgroups .  . 
respecting usenet , these newsgroups are not gated to 
mailing lists , but are archived on several and ftp hosts .  . 

biz . sco . magazine . was dec 14 , 1992 , to provide a discussion 
area for the readers , writers and publishers of sco magazine. 

subject to the usenet news hierarchies carried by your upstream feed , 
you are now able to subscribe to the following 

newsgroup mailing list subscription 

biz . sco . 
biz . sco . general . 
biz . sco . announce . 
biz . sco . sources . none 
biz . sco . binaries . none 
biz . sco . magazine . 

you are strongly encouraged to obtain these newsgroups via usenet 
news mechanisms mail. anyone having difficulty arranging a news 
feed for these newsgroups is welcome to email the and 
i 'll do my best to help. we also offer all required software in 
source code form via anonymous ftp and uucp , as do many archive sites. 
if , after having explored all options , you are still unable to receive 
biz . sco .  . as news , you may subscribe to the mailing lists. 

the 4 discussion newsgroups are bi gated to companion 
mailing lists , so anyone not having access to news but who does have a 
uucp or internet mail feed can still participate fully using email. 
mailing list subscribers should send their request to the appropriate 
mailing list subscription address above , including in the message body 

add subscriber address eg 
add your or 
add up ! stream ! ! your logname 

inclusion of an alternative working bang path relative to a well know 
major functional site might prove beneficial .  . deletions are handled 
the same way , simply substitute delete for add , ensuring that 
you use the exact same address you subscribed with. mailing list 
subscribers receive how to post to the article submission 
information when their request is processed .  . if you do n't receive 
an acknowledgement within a few days , check your routing and try a test 
message via on . ca . back to your host. in such cases , it 's likely 
that someone , somewhere , is bouncing mail replies to you  ( and would do 
the same with mailing list traffic) , and you 'll want to resolve your 
connectivity problem before trying to subscribe again. mailing list 
subscriptions are free , subject to whatever arrangements you may have 
with the  ( site(s ) feeding you. 

should you receive no response or experience a sudden and prolonged 
drop to zero volume on one of the mailing lists , this indicates that we 
are no longer able to find a working route to your site. we loose a 
handful of subscribers this way each month. if this happens to you , 
please email us your known working bang path relative to a major site. 

what 's in the newsgroups  ( and mailing lists where applicable ) 

biz . sco . technical questions and answers and informative 
postings relating to past , present , and future 
implementations of the sco operating 
environment and it 's various bundled components .  . 

biz . sco . general . questions , answers and comments on sco products 
in general , and of course resulting discussions .  . 

biz . sco . announce . sco and sco developer product announcements of 
interest to current and future users of sco products , 
and to sco developers , resellers and distributors .  . 
 ( moderated , followups directed to biz . sco . general) .  . 

biz . sco . sources . sysv or bsd source code for useful programs and 
utilities , modified to compile and run with various 
of sco xenix , unix , and or  . 

biz . sco . binaries . binary packages compiled from sco compatible source 
code , often from source posted in biz . sco . sources . 
and often using the sco custom utility .  . 

biz . sco . magazine . interaction between the sco magazine readers , 
writers and publishers .  . 

you should always endeavour to post your article to the most applicable 
newsgroup .  . for example , posting your odt question to the general 
newsgroup will preclude your question and answers to it from being 
saved in the public odt archives .  . appropriate crossposting is allowed. 

the is solely responsible for administration of the biz . sco . 
 . suggestions for additional biz . sco .  . newsgroups and or 
mailing lists should be emailed to the address below. 

ed. a. hew , .... ! uunet . ca . ! ! 
consulting services , on , canada 1 519 570 
training centres ltd. mississauga on canada 1 800 387 8649 
biz . sco .  . newsgroups and mailing lists godfather 

from (vincent smeets ) 
subject sun 3 80 with sunos 4.0.3 as x terminal 
organization competence center informatik gmbh , , germany 
lines 23 

at the moment , i am using a sun 3 80  ( cgfour bwtwo ) with sunos 4.0.3 
and openwindows 2 . 0 .  . 

this configuration is slow and i ca n't run all the programs on  . for 
example , when i start a from and display it on my 
display , i ca n't open the compose window. 

i want to install an x11r5 or x11r4 server on my sun and use xdm (yes , 
we have xdm already running for other x terminals ) to log in and start 
the x programs. 

is there a ready to go of the x11 server for my configuration 
(i have read something about xsun ) , or must i compile the x11 stuff by 
myself 

any help is welcome 

v. 


vincent competence center informatik gmbh 
software engineering ada 
whois , germany 

from  ( spencer greene ) 
subject how can i change sun fb writes to 
organization nimbus technology inc.  ( formerly c2 technology) 
distribution comp 
lines 14 

hello xperts out there. 
i 've just built x11r5 for sunos 4.1.1 sparc .  . 
i have gcc 2.2 and i 'd like to use its 64 bit capability 
to generate an x11 release which will render to the frame 
buffer using store double  ( 64 bit) machine code. 
can anyone tell me which directories source files 
compiler switches to begin with 

thanks in advance 

spencer greene 1 408 727 5445 
nimbus technology inc. 
santa clara , california usa , ub gate ! ! 
patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel .  . dr. samuel johnson 

from (g .  . lee owen ) 
subject xdm , xkernel , and olwm 
lines 33 
organization tufts university medford , ma 
distribution na 


greetings , 
we have a network of 20 sun workstations , running sunos 4.1.1 
and openwindows 3. 7 of these are sun 3 's that we have modified to 
run seth robertson 's xkernel image , effectively turning them into 
 . we use xdm  ( x11r4 ) to manage the displays .  . 

when we had 3 xkernel machines , things worked fine , but when 
we installed 4 more last weekend , we appear to have found a weakness .  . 
with 7 clients to 1 sparc 2 , the sparc 2 window manager is eventually 
getting  . 

let me try to be precise the user sitting at the machine 
that does all the actual processing for these is having 
control of his keyboard and screen yanked away.  ( when this was the 
department chair , it was kind of  . we poked at xdm for a few 
days and are satisfied that it is not at fault. our current theory is 
that olwm (the sun version) was not meant for running multiple copies 
on one machine (which is what happens the console user runs olwm , 
and every xterminal logged in has olwm running on the xterminal 
server) .  . 

has anyone had any prior experience with this sort of behavior 
can anyone shoot obvious holes in this theory 
how about obvious 
and , of course , any ideas on how to solve it 

any ideas are greatly appreciated. 

greg owen , 
systems programmer and ta , tufts university computer science dept. 
personal info gcs go d p c m m s g w w x 
email for explanation if interested .  .  .  . 

from  ( vidiot ) 
subject re program to display  . gif . files 
reply to  ( vidiot ) 
organization vidiot 's other hangout 
lines 19 

in article (john chambers ) writes 
it seems silly , but while i 've located things like tgif that can edit 
gif files , and various tools to convert to from gif format , i have n't 
been able to locate a program that just opens a window and displays a 
gif file in it. i 've looked thru various faq files , also to no avail. 
is there one lurking about in some archive nothing sophisticated 
just show the pretty picture 

alternatively , if i could locate the specs for gif , i do n't suppose it 
would be too hard to write it myself , but i have no idea where to even 
start looking for the spec.  ( well , actually , i do have an idea this 
newsgroup .  . ) 

get , xv , version 3 . 0 .  . it reads displays manipulates many different formats .  . 

harvard 
ucbvax ! ! ! ! brown or uu2 . psi . com . ! ! brown 
rutgers 
internet or ! brown 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject xdm 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host inf . tu . dresden . de . 


hi , 

i 've tried to get rid off xdm 's ugly login window by giving it a  cool  
 . as login is derived from core , this should be 
possible. anyway , setting a b c . xpm . did not 
produce any message of the form  cannot convert string to pixmap  and 
explicitely registering such converter lead to nothing , too. 

any way to do it 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( anthony thyssen ) 
subject re automatically configuring display variable 
keywords display , x windows ,  . cshrc . unix 
organization griffith university .  . 
lines 114 

(andrew douglas inman ) writes 
does anyone out there know of a way to have a unix machine automatically 
set it 's display variable to that of the xterm you 're using when it 's 
not the machine that 's serving you x 

the best i 've been able to come up with has been a rather convoluted 
script that extracts your ip from the whos command , and it 
frequently fails , not to mention that it requires having your user 
name added to it. 

andrew inman , consultant , itd consulting and support services 
university of michigan 


from my own notes on this subject .  .  .  .  . 

methods to automatically passwd authorization from one machine to another. 
this also includes the problem of the remote host of the current 
display that is being used. 

1 use rsh on .  .  .  . (the method in the xauth manual ) 
set up the your  . file in the home directory on the remote 
machine so that a password in not required to execute commands .  . 

xauth extract display rsh other xauth merge 

this method is also used by to pass authorization .  . my vampire 
program also uses a variation , however i wrap it as part of the remote 
command sequence (eg xauth add auth ) 

included in this method is the use of  and  to do 
this job for you. these programs (the newer ones that is) allow 
you to pass a list of environment variables which includes 
the  and or a copy of the authorization code required. 

the  program available  ( if enabled ) on sun machines will also 
pass environment variables , as well as the current directory. you will 
however be required to store the authority in such a variable for 
passing .  . unless you are also have shared home directories. 

warning environment variables and command line arguments are visible 
in  listing with the appropiate flags .  . as such passing authorization 
information in environment variables or as arguments is not recomended .  . 
the recommended method as given in the manual  ( shown above) is safe from 
the view of other users. 

2 wrap it as part of the term environment variable .  . 
this method uses the fact that most remote command do pass 
the term environment variable to the remote host. it is then a matter of 
an appropiate script in your remote  . login . file to extract the information 
from the term environment variable and set up things  . 
a version of the xrlogin script is available on the network which does 
this. basically you change the term environment variable before the 
actual call to rlogin is performed , to include your display and your 
authorization .  . 
on the remote machine you then extract this information and return the 
term environment variable to normal before you use it for reseting or 
stty ing your terminal .  . 

8 
script for launching rlogin 
! bin sh 
bin rl rlogin with display 
if n display then 
case display in 
) display display 
esac 
term term display 
export term 
fi 
rlogin 
8 
add to your  . cshrc . or  . login . 
if ( term ) then 
if ( term tr cd '  ` ! '' ) then 
echo term cut ' d ' f3 xauth 
setenv display term cut ' d ' 
setenv term term cut ' d ' 
endif 
endif 
8 
xterm command to use 
xterm t hostname e bin rl hostname 
8 

3 nfs .  . 
write it to a file on a shared nfs partition you have access to. 
note that if the home directories are nfs mounted , then authorization 
is automatically passed , hoever you will still have to pass your 
display environment variable via a file or other means. ie 

login host echo display  . 
remote host setenv display  . 

4 finger for the info in a  . plan . file 
this involves encrypting the information into your ` . or 
` . and having the remote machine finger for the information. 
this has the disadvantage of having the information to anyone fingering 
the user. thus requiring a encryption method that is uniq to each 
individual .  . ie the method of must not be shared or known 
by others , nor should it be easy to determine .  . 
a is to use the me  technique to only give 
the information only to your own remote accounts and not just to anyone 
who is asking. 
this last method was developed last year by a second year here , untill 
i explained to him the need for the encryption , at which point he gave 
up this method. it is however a valid method. it is easer than (2) but 
less secure .  . 


anthony  ( sysprog @ griffith university) 

magic is real unless declared an integer john p . melvin . 


from  ( amancio hasty jr) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
lines 42 

in article  ( mark a. davis ) writes 
(j .  . scott farrow ) writes 

 ( mark a. davis ) writes 

 ( mark wilkinson ext 3443 ) writes 

... 

but your performance will suck lemons running an xserver on a clone .  . 

i have a clone almost with no name generating on a 486 33mhz 
system. 


i can get 15 tektronix terminals for under 900 , and the performance 
is over 80000  .  .  .  .  . 



i'm running linux and xfree86 on a 33mhz with 4mb of ram  ( 8mb swap ) and 
it runs just fine. its a lot better than some of the crappy old 
in the labs at school anyway. 


you will not come even close to the performance of an series , plus you 

excuse me , but with a 486 50 256k cache , s3 928 isa card , 8mb (x11r5) running 386bsd you can get 100k at 1024x768 which i doubt 
that your series gets .  . commerical x servers for s3 928 cards 
can get  . so the performance is there and additionally since 
is running unix multiple users can use the system which i have done in 
my home setup. 

maintenance is minimal if you can read readme files for the x servers and 
for 386bsd .  . 

amancio hasty 

this message brought to you by the letters x and s and the number 3 
amancio hasty 
home (415) 495 3046 ftp site depository of all my work 
e mail sunvis . rtpnc . epa . gov . pub 386bsd incoming 

from  ( joe mcguckin ) 
subject experience 
organization island software 
lines 19 

i'm going to be purchasing one of these for my  . 

does anyone have any experience with this card 

positive or negative comments welcome ! 

please respond immediately. 

thanks , 

joe 



joe 
island software ! 
(415) 969 



from (peter brouwer ) 
subject re mysterious xdm files 
reply to (peter brouwer ) 
organization digital equipment enterprise b.v. , apeldoorn , the netherlands .  . 
lines 25 

x disclaimer all views are my own unless stated otherwise. 

in (matt wette ) writes 

i'm getting lots of files in usr lib x11 xdm of the form 
0 

i'm running xdm .  . anybody know what these are and , better yet , how to 
move them (i . e .  . , what resource can i change to make them appear 
somewhere else) 

that are the authorisation files for the server. 
depending on what type of key your x supports they contain magic cookies , 
des based authentication or sun des authentication .  . 

the place is defined with the displaymanager . 
other things like the file name can be changed as well see xdm manual pages. 




peter , digital equipment enterprise , 
net integration industry standard systems , 
phone ext 31 0 55 , dept systems enginering , v1 b7 
fax ext 31 0 55 p.o.box 245 , apeldoorn , the netherlands 

from  ( ramiro estrugo ) 
subject sources for vuewm gadgets 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 7 

does anyone know any sites resources where i can find gadgets for the vuewm 
window manager such as types , actions , icons for the file manager and 
event manager .  .  . etc .  .  .  .  . 


tanks , all input appreciated .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( vaughan clarkson ) 
subject connecting a to x  ( repost ) 
organization defence science and technology organisation , salisbury , south australia 
lines 32 
nntp posting host caesar . dsto . gov . au . 

hi there 

(i posted this to comp . windows . x . intrinsics . but got no response , so i'm posting 
here . ) . 

i'm wanting to connect a made for pcs into my workstation  ( an hp  . 
it is my understanding the x windows can understand a variety of input devices 
including tablets .  . however , this makes use of the serial 
port , so there would seem to be a need to have a special device driver. 

the hp manual pages say that the hp x server will accept x input from 
devices listed in the usr lib x11 x devices file ( display number) .  . 
i should n't think i would be able to simply insert dev as an input 
device in this file and expect a to work. but maybe i'm wrong. am i 

what i would like to know is does anybody out there have a connected 
to their workstation for use as a pointer for x  ( rather than just as input to a 
specific x application) if so , what were the steps required for installation 
did you need a special device driver did the manufacturer supply it are 
there generic public domain device drivers around (i understand that 
generally use only a couple of standard formats . ) . 

any help would be greatly appreciated. 

cheers 
vaughan 


vaughan clarkson email 
engineering ph.d. student phone 61 8 259 
glider pilot fax 61 8 259 5254 
( ) 

from 2 . uni . kl . de .  ( thomas malik ) 
subject re overriding default wm behaviour 
organization kaiserslautern 
lines 3 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ws 406 . uni . kl . de . 

specify  ( or ) 
in your  . tvtwmrc .  . this places the windows not interactively 
in pseudo random positions on your screens .  . 

from 
subject program wm protocols in open look toolkit .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization lab. 
lines 195 

hi , all 
i am studying the book unix desktop guide to open look . 
there is an example c . that demonstrate how to program 
wm protocols property in chapter 8. it can run , but only show the 
static text messages , no notice pop up. what is the problem 
thanks in advance for help ! ! 1 

file c . 

shows how to set properties on a window. 


include x11 xatom . h . for definition of xa atom 
include x11 intrinsic . h . 
include x11 stringdefs . h . 
include xol openlook . h . 
include xol h . 
include xol h . 
include xol notice . h . 
this file defines the atoms with ol prefix 
id of the top level and widget 
static widget top level , notice shell 
static widget make  ( notice( ) 
static char message clients use properties to communicate 
with the window manager. this example illustrates how an open 
look application requests notification from the window manager 
when certain events occur .  . the communication is in the form of 
a event that the application processes in an 
event handler .  . 
atoms used for inter client communication 
atom atom wm protocols , atom wm delete window , 
atom wm save yourself 
static void handle wm  ( messages( ) 
static void save and exit() 
static void save  ( yourself( ) 
static void pop  ( notice( ) 
static void do exit() 
string to hold line  ( for use in responding to 
the wm save yourself protocol message. 

char saved 128 

void  ( main(argc , argv ) 
int argc 
char argv 

widget w 
int i 
save the command line for use in responding to the 
wm save yourself protocol message. 

 ( sprintf(saved , s , argv 0 ) 
 ( if(argc 1) 
 ( for(i 1 i argc i ) 

 ( strcat(saved , argv i ) 
 ( strcat(saved , ) 

create and initialize the top level widget 
top level  ( olinitialize(argv 0 , ol main , null , 
0 , argc , argv ) 
create a widget 
w  ( xtvacreatemanagedwidget , 
, top level , 
, message , 
, 200 , 
null ) 
create a widget for later use 
make  ( notice(top level) 
intern the atoms 
atom wm protocols  ( xinternatom(xtdisplay(w ) , 
wm protocols , false) 
atom wm delete window  ( xinternatom(xtdisplay(w ) , 
wm delete window , false) 
atom wm save yourself  ( xinternatom(xtdisplay(w ) , 
wm save yourself , false) 
add an event handler to process events sent 
by the window manager 

 ( xtaddeventhandler(top level , , true , 
handle wm messages , null ) 
realize the widgets and start processing events 
xtrealizewidget(top level) 
append the properties wm delete window and wm save yourself 
to the definition of the wm protocols property. this step 
requires the window id of the top level widget .  . the window 
id is valid only after the widget is realized .  . 

 ( xchangeproperty(xtdisplay(top level) ,  ( xtwindow(top level) , 
atom wm protocols , xa atom , 32 , 
, 
atom wm delete window , 1) 
 ( xchangeproperty(xtdisplay(top level) ,  ( xtwindow(top level) , 
atom wm protocols , xa atom , 32 , 
, 
atom wm save yourself , 1) 
 ( xtmainloop( ) 


static void handle wm  ( messages(w , client data , p event ) 
widget w 
xtpointer client data 
p event 

 ( if(p event type 
p event message . type atom wm protocols ) 

 ( if(p event data . l . 0 atom wm delete window) 

save and exit() 

 ( if(p event data . l . 0 atom wm save yourself) 

save  ( yourself( ) 




static void save and exit() 

display a notice giving the user a chance to respond 
pop  ( notice(top level , notice shell) 


static void save  ( yourself( ) 

set the wm command property to the saved command line. 
 ( xchangeproperty(xtdisplay(top level) ,  ( xtwindow(top level) , 
xa wm command , xa string , 8 , 
, saved , 
 ( strlen(saved cmdline ) 1) 


static widget make  ( notice(parent ) 
widget parent 

widget w , n text , n control , n exit , n cancel 
create a button and provide a callback to pop up a notice 
w  ( xtvacreatemanagedwidget , 
, parent , 
, exit .  .  .  . , 
null ) 
 ( xtaddcallback(w , , pop notice , null ) 
create the widget .  . note that you have to use 
instead of the usual 
xtvacreatemanagedwidget .  . 

notice shell  ( xtvacreatepopupshell , 
, w , 
null ) 
get the id of the text and control area widgets of the 
 . 

 ( xtvagetvalues(notice shell , 
, n text , 
, n control , 
null ) 
place a message in the text area of the 
 ( xtvasetvalues(n text , 
, please confirm exit from program. , 
null ) 
add buttons to the control area of the  . 
each button has an appropriate callback .  . 

n exit  ( xtvacreatemanagedwidget , 
, n control , 
, exit , 
null ) 
 ( xtaddcallback(n exit , , do exit , null ) 
n cancel  ( xtvacreatemanagedwidget , 
, n control , 
, cancel , 
, true , 
null ) 
return w 


static void pop  ( notice(w emanate , w notice) 
widget w emanate , w notice 

 ( xtvasetvalues(w notice , , w emanate , null ) 
pop up the widget .  . the widget makes 
sure that the waits until the user selects from 
one of the buttons in the 's control area. 

 ( xtpopup(w notice , xtgrabexclusive ) 


static void do  ( exit(w , call data , client data) 
widget w 
xtpointer call data , client data 

 ( xclosedisplay(xtdisplay(w ) 
 ( exit(0 ) 


from (michael salmon ) 
subject re search for decent x based text editor 
nntp posting host eos6c02 . ericsson . se . 
reply to (michael salmon ) 
organization ericsson telecom ab 
lines 35 

in article 
 ( semir patel ) writes 
ok , i am looking for a decent x based text editor for the the following 
reasons 
o i hate emacs 
o i hate vi 
o i hate 

coming from a pc based environment having been brought up on 
borland 's excellent turbo c pascal environments , something with the 
following properties would fit the bill 

o pull down menus 
o accelerator keys 
o multiple windows 
o mouse aware 
o regular exp support 
o key bindings 
o easy to use 
o and most important of all .  .  .  . free . 

does such a beast exist 

sure sounds like axe to me. 



michael salmon 

include standard . disclaimer . 
include witty . saying . 
include fancy . pseudo . graphics . 

ericsson telecom ab 
stockholm 

from 
subject what is second best 
organization g . r . o . s . s .  . 
lines 25 

answers please by e mail , since not all groups in the header are carried here. 

hi ! 

personally , i like nextstep very much. even more when i realise how much a 
burden ordinary x or windows programming is. i also like objective c better 
than i like c . 

but , sometimes the restrictions are there. for instance it sometimes has to be 
ms windows or x. now i'm looking for pointers to tools on those environments 
that come close to nextstep , the etc. also , environs that support rapid 
prototyping  ( like with ib ) without producing spaghetti code as soon as you want 
to do real work. 

maybe with some windows version of a kit of ui objects interviews 
 ( what it is exactly , i do n't know. i kind of lost touch with that world when i 
started with nextstep . ) . 

thanks , 


nerd tel. ( 31) 35 
if you do n't know where you are going , any road will 
take you there. from the  ( talmud ) , rephrased in 
lewis carroll , alice in wonderland . 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re x design choice for color handling question 
keywords color 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 41 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


in article , (joseph sirosh ) writes 
most graphics systems i have seen have drawing routines that also specify 
a color for drawing , like 

 ( drawpoint(x , y , color) or  ( drawline(x1 , y1 , x2 , y2 , color) or 
 ( fillrectangle(x1 , y1 , x2 , y2 , color) 

with x , i have to do something like 
 ( xsetforeground(current color) 
 ( xdrawpoint(d , w , x , y) 

why split this into two functions why did x designers decide to not associate 
the color with the object being drawn , and instead associate it with the 
display it is being drawn on 

for flexibility .  . anyway , what you say is not really true. the color information 
is associated with a , not with a display , and the gc is 
a parameter to the drawing routines .  . 

so , if you need to fast switch between green dotted lines and blue ones of 
width 2 , you can make 2 gcs for those cases and then simply do 

 ( xdrawline(dpy , win , gc red , x1 , y1 , x2 , y2 ) 
 ( xdrawline(dpy , win , gc blue , x3 , y3 , x4 , y4 ) 

for this effect. 

this is eventually more complicated to do for the programmer , but also much 
more efficient and flexible .  . you would not include all the other parameters 
like line pattern , with , cap and , and so on in every 
drawing call , so why do it for color btw , stay away from  ( xdrawpoint( ) 
if you do n't really need it  ( to draw random points) , for image transfers 
there are image routines .  . 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( ji soonki ) 
subject  ( none ) 
organization the internet 
lines 1 

subscribe xpert 

from  ( rui picas ) 
subject 
organization the internet 
lines 3 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

please me. 



from  ( bruce trvalik ) 
subject gui tools 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 23 

we are making a transition from nextstep to x windows. i am trying to find the best gui tool for our needs. i have looked at several tools but they all seem basically the same  ( each salesman will beg to  . i realize that there are differences but i do n't have an amount of time to discover what they are. the tools i have looked at so far are uim x , x designer , tele use , tcl tk , interviews , and suit. 
so far i 've drawn the following conclusions 

1) the builder for interviews is not very mature , bad docs 
2) tele use is very expensive and uses a proprietary toolkit 
3) uim x x designer seem about the same , even though x designer does not have a interpreter (i 'll by centerline if i need one) 
4) tcl tk is a little buggy 
5) i know very little about the ics builder  ( just have the sales info) 
6) due to a corporate agreement x designer is much cheeper than any other comercial product. 
7) for the time i'm spending i could have bought all of them  ( well different money) 
8) we will have to live with any shortcomings and make it work 
9) this type of tool seems great , but noone seems to talk about them on the net. is there another news group for this 
10) suit cost too much for comercial development. 

i'm hoping someone out there has a strong opinion on at least one of these products. 

thanks 


bruce aoa 
 ( 617)864 ) check your mind at the door the band that time forgot 

aoa ! 

from  ( jim brandt ) 
subject multiple heads on sparc 2 
keywords 2 head server for r5 
article i.d. 
organization hughes network systems , inc. 
lines 38 

i have a sparc 2 with 2 cgsix cards in it. i 'd like 
to have the r5 server recognize the second card. 


i mknod created a dev device , but when i brought up the 
server , the second device was ignored .  . 

how do i setup the second card 


note if i borrow a card , and put a and 
a cgsix card in the same sparc 2 box , the r5 server finds 
the second card. i then set the display to the 
second card , and start a second window manager. 

worse case is i trade cards with someone , but maybe someone 
out there has seen this problem already .  .  .  . 


email is preferred .  .  .  . post if you must .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance .  .  .  .  . 


jim 


jim brandt 
hughes lan systems hughes network systems 
550 south winchester blvd 
suite 406 
san jose , ca 
email 
email 
voice (408) 246 5590 
fax (408) 246 2306 



from  ( gabi zodik ) 
subject wanted an interactive gui builder for x motif 
organization technion institute of technology 
lines 23 

hi there , 

i'm looking for tools that can make x programming easy. 
i would like to have a tool that will enable to create x motif 
gui  . currently i'm working on a sgi with forms. 
a package that enables to create gui with no coding at all 
 ( but the  . 
any help will be appreciated. 

thanks  . 



. . 
ee room 608 ph. 04 29 
.  ( o)(o ) . technion , haifa , israel 
() interest mapping problem 
(c ) e mail 






from  ( neal norwitz ) 
subject getting for motif 1.2 
organization the internet 
lines 9 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 
cc 

hello ! ! ! 

the title just about says it all. 

i need a list of the bugs for motif 1 . 2 .  . 

thanks , 
neal 


from  ( lennart benschop ) 
subject wanted diagram drawing program 
organization stack , eindhoven university of technology , the netherlands .  . 
lines 38 
nntp posting host blade . stack . urc . tue . nl . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 


i am looking for a program to draw various kinds of diagrams on my linux 
system. 

it must be free. 
it must run on standard  ( monochrome ) x with a small screen size  ( 800x600 ) 
no motif openlook etc. 
it must compile under linux with gcc g . most generic unix software 
works ok. 
it must produce postscript files that i can include into latex documents 
with  . or just tell me another free program that converts one 
of the supported formats to ps. 
it must produce drawings that are larger than the window size  . 

i know of several such programs , idraw , xfig .  . tgif .  . i have 
no experience with any of them. features i would like in the programs are. 

ability to draw circles , arcs , straight lines , boxes and arrows .  . 
support for both dashed and solid line styles for all of these objects .  . 
support for texts in any size. 
ability to move copy resize rotate any part of the drawing. 
ability to turn any part of the drawing into a library component 
(e . g .  . a transistor symbol composed of three lines , an arrow and a circle ) 
any aid  ( numeric coordinates , screen grid ) to align parts of the drawing. 
less essential , but in fact very handy preservation of connection. 
if i move one part of the drawing , the lines that connect that part to the 
rest of the drawing , stay connected .  . 

ideally i want the tool so general and flexible that it is comfortable to 
draw electronic schematics , flow charts , logic diagrams , data flow diagrams 
and block diagrams with it. 

i just want to know which of the programs offer which of the features on my 
and are there any other programs how demanding are the programs 
with respect to disk space , memory and cpu usage are any of the programs 
known to work on linux with monochrome x 

 . 

from (david barr ) 
subject re tn3270 support for xterm 
organization penn state population research institute 
lines 13 
nntp posting host bosnia . pop . psu . edu . 

in article writes 
is there a tn3270 program which support xterm i do n't like at all. you 
ca n't copy with other windows. thanks. 

the at export . lcs . mit . edu . supposedly does. i use another 
that was cleaned up by brian ward which adds better 
color support , and cleans up lots of bugs , as well as cut paste .  . 
i just put it on export . lcs . mit . edu . , as tar . z .  . 

dave 

system administrator , penn state population research institute 
end of article  ( of 2565 ) what next 

from (john chambers ) 
subject painting with increasing resolution 
lines 40 

some people working a few cubes over have come up with this need , and 
it seems that someone out there just might have done it already , and 
can point me to some tools that would help. what they 'd like to do is 
given a window that is taking a long time to draw  ( because either the 
data is arriving over a slow link , or the display is across a slow 
link ) , they would like to first paint a low resolution version of the 
picture , and then repaint it in higher resolution. thus , the picture 
might first be generated in 1 4 resolution , with each 4x4 square of 
pixels being filled in with a single color. next , each 4x4 square 
would be replaced by 4 2x2 squares finally the 1x1 version would be 
painted .  . 

since one of the scenarios is with the window being on the other side 
of a slow link , the low res version obviously would n't be transmitted 
as a bitmap that would n't help at all. instead , there would have to 
be a process on the far end that receives the low res picture as a 
small bitmap , and blows up each pixel into a square  ( sorta like the 
programs do) .  . this brings up the question of whether the x 
server can help. that is , when a window is opened , is there a way to 
ask that a filter program be run to process the pixels or is the 
only way to use something like rsh to start up a remote process 
( permission denied ) , and have it open a local window 

it seems the most likely scenario is a library routine that starts up 
such a program remotely , and then accepts bitmaps , compressing each 
one by some amount , and sending them to the remote program to expand .  . 
but if there is something that x itself can do to help , it 's be nice 
to hear about it. (i looked in several , but if it 's there , i 
obviously do n't know the keywords ) .  . if someone has a nifty tool 
available that packages it all , we might want to get a copy. 

oh , yes this is to run on some suns .  . part of the idea is to build 
demos that can show such things as if this were run across , say , a 
4800 bps link , this is how fast the pictures would appear .  . then the 
customer would get a feel for the speed that they need to pay for. 


if the auto industry were like the computer industry , a car would now 
cost 5 , would get 5000 miles to the gallon , and at random times would 
explode , killing all its passengers .  . 

from  ( gary rich ) 
subject re x on a pc and network traffic 
organization quarterdeck office systems , santa monica ca 
lines 119 

in article syd . tansu . com . au . writes 

in article ,  ( technical support) writes 
in article syd . tansu . com . au . writes 

what sort of traffic is generated with the x calls i am curious to find 
out the required bandwidth that a link must have if one machine running 
dv x is supporting multiple users  ( clients ) and we require adequate response 
time. anyone have any ideas 

i expect the limiting factor will be your server machine , not the network 
itself. to give you a real world example , here at quarterdeck we have 
roughly 100 people using dvx to talk to a bunch of unix boxes , novell 
file servers , and each other. it 's not too much of a load on our 
ethernet  ( with maybe 4 concentrators , so you have 20 30 people on each 
segment) .  . if you had a badly loaded net , or the apps you wanted to run 
were very network intensive , you could run into some slowdowns .  . 

but the biggest problem would be the machine itself. say you have a 486 
33 with plenty of ram and a fast hard disk and network card. if you have 
10 people running programs off it , you 're going to see some slowdowns 
because you 're now on (effectively) a 3.3 mhz 486 .  . of course , dvx will 
attempt to see if tasks are idle and make sure they give up their time 
slice , but if you have 10 working programs running , you 'll know it. 


well i can buy a bigger and more powerful server machine because of the 
significant drop in price year after year. the link i want to use 
though  ( isdn 64k) is costly and the bandwidth limited .  . that 's why my 
interest lies in seeing if such a link can be used and see what traffic 
goes through it. 

since i do n't think tom always gets time to read this group , i 'll take the 
liberty of responding to some of this. if you really want tom to reply 
you should send mail to 

a 64k line is certainly going to restrict you far more than the 
ethernet that we typically run. how restrictive it will be depends on 
what you run and how you run it. i would think that a couple of instances 
of some really nasty program like smoking clover would make the link 
useless for anyone else. on the other hand , probably 50 quietly 
updating every 10 seconds or so would n't impact it too much. in the real 
world , you will be somewhere in between these two extremes .  . 

going by the way i personally use x on a daily basis , i would n't want to have 
to share that 64k link with more than 3 4 other people. 

having said that , if you can tweak the programs being run (by adding 
in calls to give up time slices when idle and that sort of 
thing) , you could probably run 15 20 people on a given machine before 
you started seeing slowdowns again  ( this time from network bandwidth) .  . 

hmmm .  . has anyone at your centre monitored the traffic at all are you 
running any standard ms windows programs like word what sort of 
packets go blazing through what size link do you have  ( 2mb or 10mb ) .  . 
what is the average traffic flow going through your network or do you 
have few high peaks and then many low points 

our corporate wan is as unique as any other. the usage patterns are not very 
good predictors of how yours will behave .  . the only one of our low bandwidth 
links that normally get used in this way is a 56k link to ireland that they 
often use to run a dos text based client end of a client server database 
remotely from the dvx machine behind me. since the server end is  ( or was) always 
at this end  ( california ) it is faster to remotely run the client via 
x and have a short hop to the server than running the client locally and having 
a long hop to the server. as i warned you , this tells us very little about 
how you usage pattern will fill a 64k isdn link. 

running word for windows remotely is going to itself be very usage dependent .  . 
let 's break it into pieces and look at it. tracking the mouse pointer is easy 
and efficient to translate from windows calls into x. popping up a menu is a 
little more involved and will generate some traffic. restoring the screen 
that was covered by that menu may be easy and may not be. does the server 
that it 's displaying on have backing store if so and the server had enough 
memory the display can be updated locally and will generate little network 
traffic. if no backing store , then what was being covered up if it was a 
solid colored rectangle of space we can tell your xserver to draw that quite 
easily. if it was a full color backdrop of ren stimpy we may have to send 
it back to the x server bit by bit. dvx will do its level best to only redraw 
that small area , but in some unusual cases the entire screen may need to be 
repainted .  . a 1024x768 screen with 4 bits per pixel that 's bits 
that has to be sent. worst possible case you 're looking at about 50 seconds. 
in reality it would never be this bad since the screen will always have parts 
that will be into higher level x calls. 



it all really depends on what the programs are doing (ie .  . you 're going 
to see a slowdown from x bandwidth a lot sooner if your apps are all 
doing network things also .  .  . ) . 


what do you mean by network things i vision using ms windows and other 
windows applications over the network were the processes are running on 
the server and all i am getting are the displays .  . i am wondering how 
good is the x and subsequently dv x protocol in transferring these 
images with x calls and displaying them on a client 's machine. 

x was designed from the ground up to be efficient across a network. it 's 
pretty good for this. x programs are best , dos text programs are almost 
as good  ( since we them to x  . something like is a hybrid .  . 
we intercept the calls windows makes to it 's graphics driver mouse driver 
keyboard driver and convert them to x. the calls windows is making are in 
no way designed to be efficient on a packet switched network. we go to a 
lot of trouble to convert them to the level xlib calls we can , but 
we are somewhat limited because we only know what windows and its applications 
tell us. 


quarterdeck office systems 
gary rich problem resolution dept. 

anonymous ftp site com . 
for write to 
pricing ordering info 
technical questions 
quarterdeck bbs (310) 314 3227 



from army . mil .  ( brendan mckenna ) 
subject problems with characters above 127 
organization the internet 
lines 33 
to 


hi all , 

i 've read the faq , i 've fiddled around , but i am still having problems getting 
my poor old 300 to let me input display characters above 127 .  . i have 
the following in my  . xdefaults . 

xterm font adobe courier bold r normal 14 140 75 75 m 90 1 

so i believe that i have the correct font selected to use in xterm .  . i have not 
set my lc ctype environment variable because whatever i put it , it tells me that 
that locale is not supported  ( apparently we have no additional locales defined , 
or at least , lib locale does n't exist) .  . i can get some of the characters 
above 127 to print out , but they are not where i 'd expect them for example , 
alt v does not produce a u umlaut .  . this leads me to believe that the fault 
lies with the stty settings , which are as follows 

speed 9600 baud line 0 undef undef 
c quit erase h kill k @ 
eof d @ min 4 time 0 stop s start q 
crts 


echo 


anyway , i 've struggled with this off and on for a couple of weeks , and any help 
anyone could offer would be greatly appreciated. 


thanks ! 

brendan 

from  ( edmond l. meinfelder ) 
subject re fitting straight line  ( or curve) to data points 
organization national radio astronomy observatory 
lines 17 

in article (andrew ward ) writes 
i am looking for a graphing program that will fit my data to a straight 
line. any program that estimates a closest fit curve or gives any 
statistics would be helpful. 


many spreadsheets do regression analysis. the topic is also well covered 
in most undergraduate statistic books. cubic splines are usually well 
covered in any undergraduate computer science numerical analysis text. 
i am sure ge mm has a well stocked library. 

i have never used mathematica , but i would be surprised if it could not do a 
spline .  . 


l. programmer , virtual guy , 
my is bigger. anon. hack for hire .  . 

from 
subject re looking for drawing packages 
reply to () 
organization robins afb 
lines 46 
nntp posting host robins . af . mil . 


in article ,  ( gregory lehman ) writes 
path ! gatech ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! usc ! cs . utexas . edu . ! ! torn ! ! ! ! software . mitel . com . ! greg 
from  ( gregory lehman ) 
newsgroups comp . windows . x . , comp . windows . x . motif . 
subject looking for drawing packages 
message id 
date 27 apr 93 20 08 10 gmt 
organization mitel .  . kanata (ontario) .  . canada .  . 
lines 24 
xref comp . windows . x . comp . windows . x . motif . 

greetings .  . 

i am developing an application that allows a user to interactively 
create edit view a visual model (i . e .  . topology ) of their network , and 
i was wondering if anyone knew of any builder tools that exist to 
simplify this task. 

in the past i have used visual edge 's uim x product to develop other 
guis , so i am familiar with in general. 

the topology will support objects and connecting links. once the 
topology is created , i want to provide the user with capabilities to 
support grouping , zooming , etc. 

i am looking for some form of a higher abstraction other than x drawing 
routines to accomplish this. specifically , the zooming and grouping 
aspects may prove difficult , and certainly time consuming , if i have 
to roll my own . 

suggestions 

greg 





you do n't mention your platform but digital has a custom widget , , 
which does exactly what you want to do. cost is nominal 300 or so call your 
local office. the widget is supported on a variety of platforms and i heard 
rumblings of porting to sun , etc. so it may be worth the check. 

charlie gilley 
digital equipment corp. 

subject re resource widget toolkit required for x windows applications 
from 
distribution world 
organization california state polytechnic university , pomona 
nntp posting host 
nntp posting user 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( jamie scuglia ) writes 

does anyone know of any public domain toolkits for creating x windows 
applications i have used the xt toolkit , but i would like to 
create pop up windows dialog boxes , etc , using some sort of drawing editor 
instead of trying to specify what i want , sizes , positions , etc , 
within actual source code. basically , i am looking for something 
similar to borland 's whitewater resource toolkit for ms windows , 
expect i need one for x windows instead. 

any help would be much appreciated. 


i recently found an excellent source for x windows programs. i 've seen 
quite a few x windows toolkits up there. the place is 

export . lcs . mit . edu . 

go to the contrib directory. its full of x windows programs. 

hope this helps ! 



from main . de .  ( ruediger merz ) 
subject re preventing user from hitting ctrl alt to exit x 
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1 
lines 14 
content transfer encoding 8bit 
organization free software association of germany 
x newsreader version 0.1 

hi , 
hello , 

i am admin for an rs 6000 running aix 3.2 , x11r5 , motif , and  . 
i want to prevent the user from hitting alt to exit x. 

try in usr lib x11 xconfig 

cu 



free software association of germany 
great software should be free software 
phone data 

from  ( bruce kilgore ) 
subject re x server documentation 
organization honeywell industrial automation , phoenix , az 
distribution comp . windows . x . 
lines 47 



where can i get documentation about the x server internals 
btw , i'm also interested in documentation about tiga .  . 

any hints welcome. 

thanks , rainer .  . 


rainer hochreiter telephone 43 (1) 89100 3961 
elin telefax 43 (1) 89100 3387 
penzingerstr .  . 76 
a 1141 wien , austria europe e mail 


the only book i know of is 
the x window system server x version 11 , release 5 
by elias israel erik fortune 
digital press copyright 1992 
order number ey dp 
dp isbn 1 3 
ph isbn 0 13 1 

but if there are any more , please post email me the names. 









thus spake the master programmer 
after three days without programming , 
life becomes meaningless .  . 
geoffrey james the tao of programming 


disclaimer any and all opinions are mine ! 

william bruce kilgore 
email 
phone (602) 436 or (602) 436 
smail n black canyon hwy , phoenix az 


from  ( steinert d a) 
subject events multiple clients 
reply to  ( steinert d a) 
organization oak ridge national laboratory 
lines 14 

how can i capture events in multiple clients 
i want to know if the user is still at the display before locking the screen. 
i can get keypress and pointer motion events , but if the user 
is pressing the mouse button in the same location (the mouse does n't move ) 
i ca n't capture the events. 

the o'reilly xlib programming manual  . 1) says on page 252 
only one client can select button events on any one window at one time , 
due to the grab that automatically takes place. 

any help would be appreciated. 




from (paul thomas mahoney ) 
subject re uimx a motif application generator 
organization x act solutions limited 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 7 

thanks for all the responses. i 've made contact with the uk distributor ) 


paul , x act solutions limited 
smail 20 shipley lane , , on sea , east sussex , 
email ... 
phone 44 424 

from (david e. smyth ) 
subject re looking for david e. smyth 
organization jet propulsion laboratory  ( nasa ) 
lines 23 
nntp posting host pop 

writes 
 ( zvi guter ) writes 

the author of wcl  ( or the current care taker) .  . his is the only name i found 
in the dist tree. i have tried to mail him at , 
but the mail bounced back. 
any help in finding him will be greatly appreciated. 

try 

david 

nope , here i am devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 


david smyth devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 
senior software engineer ,  ( 818)306 )  ( do not use v mail yet ! ) 
, x and object guru .  . office 525 
jet propulsion lab , m s 525 3660 4800 oak grove drive , pasadena , ca 91109 

that sun windows thingy , what 's it called you know , its 
really awful. x motif that 's it motif ! yuck ! 


from  ( man lung li ) 
subject malloc problem 
organization computer science dept. , univ. of houston  ( main campus) 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rodin . cs . uh . edu . 

how do you solve the problem when the message cannot perform malloc 
shows for xtcreatemanagedwidget call 

i have the application written in x11r5 running on decstation using 
athena widgets .  . as soon as i added codes to do remote procedure call , 
the program refused to work. i also have my program working using 
just xlib calls with rpc .  . my executable code is about 1 . 4m . and i do n't 
have any idea how much memory is the decstation 3100 5100 .  . 

any help will be appreciated. thanks. 



man l. li 
dept. of computer science 
univ. of houston , houston , tx 

from  ( christophe muller ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization , france 
lines 16 


it is interesting to look at the  ( change(s ) of mind that john has had. 

very interested indeed ! this is against this kind of changes that the gnu 
copyleft is protecting us. 

anyway , at , we will abandon xv. we were using it mostly for slide 
shows because of its loop feature that display does not have  ( display 
from the wonderful imagemagick package ! d ) , but i think i will implement 
it myself  ( even a shell script should do the job) and forget xv. 

cheers , 
christophe .  . 


are you the police no ma'am , we 're musicians .  . 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re encapsulated postscript and x 
keywords eps 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 29 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


eps is plain postscript .  . it is only wrapped by some comments and stripped 
of any dubious commands for compatibility .  . you can simply do 

! 

save 
showpage def 

include eps file here 

restore 

showpage 

end of file 

and this way show it on it 's natural page position and size. 

programs may use the comment in the eps file to do 
arbitrary scale , rotate and translate to include it in more complicated 
ways than above. 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( susan walker ) 
subject with lang  ( bug ) 
organization bolt beranek and newman  ( bbn ) 
lines 42 
distribution world 
nntp posting host bbn . com . 

i have found a situation which i think is a bug in x or motif , but i'm hoping 
is really just a mistake on my part. does anyone know anything about 
this problem .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i am using an , and setting its to a hardcoded 
text string  ( ascii or kanji ) either via or  . 
the problem is that when the is displayed , the text is getting 
truncated , depending on the setting of the environment variables 
lang  ( more specifically lc all) .  . when they are set to japanese , 
the text gets truncated .  . when they are set to english , everything 
works fine. i am taking the default for  . 
(please note that of text is not done in my actual 
application , just in my sample code to make things easier ) 

i am running motif 1.2 , x11r5 via 01 .  . my test program is set up 
to handle 16 bit kanji characters. i have remembered to do 
 ( xtsetlanguageproc( ) prior to my and my font resources 
are set to japanese fonts .  . 

do n't know if this matters , but my dialog box and is initially 
created with uil .  . 


the problem does not happen with xmtext .  . unfortunately substituting 
with in my application is not an acceptable 
alternative  ( way too much code to be modified while in beta ! ) 

i have a small test program which illustrates the problem if anyone 
wants it. my best guess is that either the x code or motif is not 
properly allocating memory for japanese , but since i do n't have the 
source to look at it is just a guess. 

please let me know if this sounds familiar , or if you have a suggestion , 
or if you want the sample program. 

thanks ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

susan 


617 873 


from  ( jesse w. asher ) 
subject x windows extensions for perl 
organization buildings 
lines 9 

using the stuff in perl , you can incorporate things like curses for 
use in perl .  . i was wondering if anyone had done this with x  ( preferably 
motif ) , and if so , where i could get the source for it 


jesse w. asher  ( 901)762 ) 6000 
buildings 
6000 poplar ave. , suite 400 , memphis , tn 38119 
internet uucp ! 

from (brian dealy csc ) 
subject re encyclopedia directory of widgets 
organization nasa goddard space flight center 
lines 27 
distribution world 
nntp posting host narya . gsfc . nasa . gov . 
originator 


the only directory i know of that lists commercial and non commercial 
widgets is the ics widget data book. ics sells the widgets for various 
prices. there are also some public domain widgets in the delivery. 

the ics widget databook is a subscription kind of thing , where 
you pay some nominal fee , get a cd with the widgets and then you 
can use the public domain widgets freely , and selectively activate 
widgets which you want to purchase the right to use from them. 
the nice thing about this is that you can purchase whole sets of widgets 
such as those used in  . i dont know there pricing schemes 
but it is often better to buy than to the more complex 
widgets , especially if you only one customer to distribute to. 

this is the extent that i know about them except that i got their 
databook catalog and it looked impressive  ( lots o' widgets there) 

i dont work for ics or have any widgets being sold by them. 
hope this helps you. 

brian dealy 301 572 8267 it not knowing where it 's at 
that 's important , it 's knowing 
! uunet ! ! kong ! dealy where it 's not at .  .  .  . b . dylan . 

brian dealy 301 572 8267 it not knowing where it 's at 
that 's important , it 's knowing 
! uunet ! ! kong ! dealy where it 's not at .  .  .  . b . dylan . 

from  ( list , idv ) 
subject modal dialog 
organization the internet 
lines 37 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

hi , 
i have a lots of problems using xview  ( libraries release 3 . 2) . in order to 
do the following 
i want to create a modal dialog which block the program flow 
(a dialog , ala macintosh) , as the notice panel 
does , but with text item , list item , and other xview objects .  . 
the modal dialog also must allows the timer to be called  ( why 
notice does n't do that ) .  . 

the problems are 
using the xv window loop functions most xview objects dont work 
 ( as the list item ) , and the timers are n't called. 

with the notify dispatch explicit i have problem because 
 .  .  . never . attempt to do direct from within a callback 
routine .  .  .  . as say the xview programming manual  ( third edition) 
on page 486  .  .  . i know this number ! ! ! ) .  . 
but i need to do dispatching just inside a callback routine ! 

help me , please ! ! ! 

thanks in advance , 


p.s. please , send replay directly to my address (i have n't 
direct access to internet) .  . 


list s . p . a .  . p . za . dei , 10 
fax  ( 050 ) 

my email address is 
beware this address is shared by many users , 
so put the word at the start of subject 
field and follow it by the real subject. thanks. 



from (john main ) 
subject does it exist 
summary i need an od interface 
keywords x od 
organization nasa msfc 
lines 13 


hello , 

i was wondering if anyone knew of an interface to od ( octal dump ) , i assume 
it would be called  . actually , any viewer for a core file will do. 

i looked at export ( @ mit ) in the index of contrib , but did n't find anything 
relevant .  . 


thanks , 
i hate winter 


from dortmund . de .  ( rainer klute ) 
subject re imake tex looking for beta testers 
organization cs department , dortmund university , germany 
lines 59 
distribution world 
nntp posting host tommy . informatik . uni . dortmund . de . 

in article news . informatik . uni . dortmund . de . , 
dortmund . de .  ( rainer klute ) writes 
as i announced at the x technical conference in january , i would like 
to 
make imake tex , the imake support for using the tex typesetting system , 
publically available. currently imake tex is in beta test here at the 
computer science department of dortmund university , and i am looking 
for 
some more beta testers , preferably with different tex and imake 
installations .  . 

judging from the responses so far , i have not made clear enough in my 
article quoted above that imake tex is not for installing tex , but for 
using it. with imake tex , you will never again have to fiddle around with 
calling latex and its various utility programs  ( makeindex ,  . simply 
type make and your document 's dvi file will be up to date. all you have 
to do is to write a simple imakefile and let imake generate a suitable 
makefile for you. here is such an imakefile 

include tex . tmpl . 
 ( paperformata4( ) 
 ( simplelatextarget(document ) 

the generated makefile provides the following commands 

make depend searching the tex source files for like 
input 

make dvi generate an up to date dvi file 

make display it on your screen 

make ps generate a postscript version of your document 

make display it 

make clean remove unnecessary things 

make remove even the dvi file 

make makefiles generate makefiles in subdirectories 


if ... 

a)  .  .  . this . seems attractive to you , 
b)  .  .  . you . are willing to test imake tex and send me a short test report , 
c)  .  .  . you . are willing to cope with a rudimentary english documentation 
 ( however , the german version is completed and included) , 

then you are invited as a beta tester .  . i am looking forward to your e mail. 


dipl .  . inform .  . rainer klute i r b immer richtig beraten 
univ. dortmund , irb 
500500 ) tel. 49 231 755 4663 
d dortmund 50 fax 49 231 755 2386 

new address after june 30th univ. dortmund , d 44221 dortmund 

from  ( daniel mccoy ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization i net inc. 
x posted from krakatoa . jsc . nasa . gov . 
nntp posting host sol . ctr . columbia . edu . 
lines 15 

in article , (ray stell ) writes 

if i install x11r5 with backward compatibility for motif , will motif 
1.2 clients work on the x11r5 servers 

it works for me. i 've run motif 1.1.3 , 1.1.4 , 1.1.5 , 1.2 , 1.2.1 , and 1.2.2 on 
an x11r5 server with defined .  . 



daniel j. mccoy space i net , inc. 
nasa mail code pt4 is tel 713 483 0950 
nasa johnson space center our fax 713 244 5698 
houston , texas 77058 future 


from  ( tim bomgardner ) 
subject x professional organization 
organization harris csd , ft. lauderdale , fl 
lines 4 
distribution ssd 
nntp posting host rudolph . ssd . csd . harris . com . 

has anyone ever heard of the x professional organization is anyone a member 
is the membership worth the 100 or so that they charge 

tim 

subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
from  ( greg sands ) 
reply to 
organization university of auckland 
lines 13 

(john bradley ) writes 

if found , it answers to the name of  contrib xv 3 . 00 . tar . z' .  . 

before i even think about getting this , is it going to be posted to 
comp . sources . x . at any time in the near future 

greg .  . 


greg sands .  . department of engineering science 
university of auckland 
new zealand .  . 

from  ( neil golding ) 
subject cga for windows 3.1 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 11 
nntp posting host tartarus . uwa . edu . au . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

hi 

looking for some assistance in locating information on how to run 
win 3.1 on a cga monitor. the setup suggests you look at the manual , but 
the guy helping is part of a large office and computer assistance 
must be booked in advance , therefore he cant get windows onto his cga 
system. 

thanx in anticipation 

neil 

from (michael hung ) 
subject multi byte fonts 
organization the internet 
lines 16 
to 



i am wondering how to change the english fonts in an existed 
api to some multi bytes fonts  ( such as chinese , japanese .  .  . ) . 
someone told me x11r5 supports some internationalization 
features , but i cannot find any examples for my need. is there 
anybody has done some similar jobs 

by the way , all the english fonts should be replace by chinese or 
japanese fonts , that means in windows , menubar , button .  .  .  .  . 

that will be great if someone can share us what you have done. 
thanks in advance. 

m.c. hung 


from  ( mats larsson ) 
subject re summary virtual mouse in ol v wm 
reply to 
organization telecom systems labs , stockholm , sweden 
lines 27 
nntp posting host eua . ericsson . se . 
nntp posting user 

in article ,  ( larry w. virden ) writes 
in article derrick j. brashear writes 

i got the following today from gary and it worked fine 

excerpts from mail 29 apr 93 re ol v wm 3 virtual  .  . 
 ( 554 ) 


i have 
openwindows . keyboardcommands . full 
openwindows . false 

which seems to work. 


where can i find man pages about resource it does n't 
show up in my openwindows 3.0 man pages .  .  .  . 

is not an ow resource .  . it belongs to 
 . 


mats larsson email 
telecom systems labs phone 46 8 727 3658 
s 125 25 , sweden fax 46 8 727 


from  ( casper h.s. dik ) 
subject re xsun not finding default font (sol2 . 1) . 
nntp posting host adam . fwi . uva . nl . 
organization fwi , university of amsterdam 
lines 36 

code . com .  ( joel reymont ) writes 

hi , netters ! 

i 've just built x11r5 pl 21 under solaris 2 . 1 .  . i 've used the multi screen 
patch , as well as the r5 . sunos .  .  .  . patch and everything builds great , except 
for that error message xsun gives me upon startup .  . it says 
cannot set default font path ' stuff deleted ' and cannot set default font 
 fixed  . if i supply the fp option , it does n't complain about the font path 
but still complains about the font .  . i have symlinks from usr lib to the 
place where my distribution lives. 

try to run xsun under  . 

the best way to do this is by logging in over the network 
and typing 

truss t open xsun 

 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts misc fonts.dir , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts misc fonts . alias . , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts speedo fonts.dir , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts speedo fonts . alias . , o , 0666 ) err 2 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts 75dpi fonts.dir , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts 75dpi fonts . alias . , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts 100dpi fonts.dir , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts 100dpi fonts . alias . , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts misc pcf . , o , 0666 ) 8 
 ( open opt x11r5 lib x11 fonts misc cursor . pcf . , o , 0666 ) 8 

this will give you and idea of where xsun things the fonts should be. 

if you have defined a project root and done a make install , everything 
should have gone right by default , even without symbolic links. 

casper 

from  ( art mulder ) 
subject comp . windows . x . getting more performance out of x. faq 
summary this posting contains a list of suggestions about what you can do to get the best performance out of x on your workstation without buying more hardware. 
keywords faq speed x 
nntp posting host spirit riv . cs . ualberta . ca . 
reply to  ( art mulder ) 
organization university of alberta , edmonton , canada 
expires sun , 20 jun 1993 23 00 00 gmt 
lines 676 

archive name x faq speedups 
last modified 1993 4 20 


how to maximize the performance of x monthly posting 

compiled by art mulder 

more ram , faster cpu 's , more disk space , faster ethernet .  .  .  . these 
are the standard responses you hear when you ask how to improve the 
performance of your workstation .  . 

well , more hardware is n't always an option , and i wonder if more 
hardware is always even a necessity .  . 

this faq list is a collection of suggestions and ideas from different 
people on the net on how you can the best possible performance from x 
windows on your workstation , without purchasing more hardware. 

performance is a highly subjective issue. the individual user must 
balance  versus  in order to come to a personal 
decision. therefore this document can be be expected to contain many 
subjective opinions in and amongst the objective facts. 

this document is specifically concerned with x. there are of course 
many other factors that can affect the performance of a workstation .  . 
however , they are outside the scope of this document .  . 

people seriously interested in the whole area of system 
performance , might want to look at the o'reilly nutshell handbook 
system performance tuning by mike loukides .  . imho , it contains a 
well written , comprehensive treatment of system performance. i'm 
unaware of any other similar books. ed. 


table of contents 

0. introduction administrivia 
1. what about the other x faq 
2. window managers 
3. the x server 
which server 
locking the server into ram 
starting your server 
fonts 
about the resources file 
define your display properly 
4. clients 
a better clock for x 
a better terminal emulator for x 
tuning your client 
5. miscellaneous suggestions 
pretty pictures 
a quicker mouse 
programming thoughts 
say what ! 
6. other sources of information 
7. author notes 

! changed since last issue. 
new since last issue. 


introduction administrivia 


this document is posted each month , on or around the 15th , to the 
usenet news groups comp . windows . x . , news.answers , and comp . answers .  . 
if you are reading a copy of this faq which is more than a few 
months old  ( see the last modified date above) you should probably 
locate the latest edition , since the information may be outdated .  . 

if you do not know how to get those newsgroups and or your site does 
not receive them and or this article has already expired , you can 
retrieve this faq from an archive site. 

there exist several usenet faq archive sites. to find out more about 
them and how to access them , please see the introduction to the 
news.answers newsgroup posting in news . answers .  . 

the main faq archive is at rtfm.mit.edu 18 . 172 . 1 . 27 . . this document 
can be found there in pub usenet news.answers x faq speedups .  . if 
you do not have access to anonymous ftp , you can retrieve it by 
sending a mail message to mail with the 
command send usenet news.answers x faq speedups in the message body. 


what about the other x faq 


david b. lewis  ( faq maintains the informative and 
well written comp . windows . x . frequently asked questions document .  . 
its focus is on general x information , while this faq concentrates 
on performance. 

the comp . windows . x . faq does address the issue of speed , but only with 
regards to the x server. the gist of that topic seems to be 
use x11r5 , it is faster than r4 . 
(please see the x faq for complete details) .  . 


window managers 


there are a lot of window managers out there , with lots of different 
features and abilities .  . the choice of which to use is by necessity a 
balancing act between performance and useful features. at this 
point , most respondents have agreed upon twm as the best candidate 
for a speedy window manager. 

a couple of generic tricks you can try to soup up your window manger , 
is turning off unnecessary things like zooming and opaque move . 
also , if you lay out your windows in a tiled manner , you reduce the 
amount of cpu power spent in raising and lowering overlapping 
windows. joe english 

i 've found that a good font for tiling is 7x13  ( aka 
misc fixed medium r normal 13 100 100 100 c 70 1 ) .  . it is 
the biggest font i know of that i can use on my sun  ( 1152x900 screen) 
and still get two 80 column terminal windows side by side on the 
display with no overlap .  . other font suggestions will be accepted. 


the x server 


which server 

make sure that your server is a proper match for your hardware. 
if you have a monochrome monitor , use a monochrome x11 server. 

on my monochrome sun , i have n't noticed much difference between 
the xsun  ( colour ) server and , however it was pointed out to 
me that is about 800k smaller and therefore should contribute 
to less paging .  . 
thanks to jonny farringdon , 
michael salmon 

how your server was compiled can also make a difference. jeff law 
advises us that on a sun system , x should be 
compiled with gcc  ( version 2. ) or with the unbundled sun compiler .  . 
you can expect to get very large speedups in the server by not 
using the bundled sunos compiler .  . i assume that similar results 
would occur if you used one of the other high quality commercial 
compilers on the market. 

locking the server into ram 

has anyone tried hacking the x server so that it is locked into ram and 
does not get paged eg via a call to plock() .  . does this help 
performance at all i 've had one inquiry on this topic , and a few 
pointers to the plock() function call , but no hard evidence from someone 
who 's tried it. i am not in a position to give it a try. 
thanks to eric c , 
danny , 
juan d. martin 
starting your server 

joe english 
if you start up a lot of clients in your  . xsession . or whatever , sleep 
for a second or two after launching each one. after i changed my 
 . xclients . script to do this , logging in actually took less time .  .  .  . 
we have a heavily loaded system without much core , though. 

this sounds crazy , but i have confirmed that it works ! 

warner provided me with a good explanation of 
why this works , which i have summarized here 

when you start up an x server it takes a huge amount of time to 
start accepting connections .  . a lot of initialization is done by 
the server when it starts. this process touches a large number of 
pages. any other process running at the same time would fight the 
server for use of the cpu , and more importantly , memory. if you 
put a sleep in there , you give the server a chance to get itself 
sorted out before the clients start up. 

similarly , there is also a lot of initialization whenever an x 
client program starts toolkits registering widgets , resources 
being fetched , programs initializing state and databases and so 
forth. all this activity is typically memory intensive .  . once this 
initialization is done ( the process has reached a steady state ) , 
the memory usage typically settles down to using only a few pages. 
by using sleeps to stagger the launching of your clients in your 
 . xinitrc . , you avoid them fighting each other for your 
workstation 's limited resources 

this is most definitely a your mileage may vary situation , as there 
are so many variables to be considered available ram , local swap 
space , load average , number of users on your system , which clients 
you are starting , etc. 

currently in my  . xinitrc . i have a situation like 
 ( sleep 1 exec xclock ) 
 ( sleep 1 exec xbiff ) 
 ( sleep 1 exec xterm ) 
 ( sleep 1 exec xterm ) 

i 've experimented with 
 ( sleep 1 exec xclock ) 
 ( sleep 2 exec xbiff ) 
 ( sleep 3 exec xterm ) 
 ( sleep 4 exec xterm ) 

i 've even tried 
 ( sleep 2 exec start x clients script ) 
and then in start x clients script i had 
 ( sleep 1 exec xclock ) 
 ( sleep 1 exec xbiff ) 
 ( sleep 1 exec xterm ) 
 ( sleep 1 exec xterm ) 

the idea with this last one was to make sure that xinit had 
completely finished processing my  . xinitrc . , and had settled down 
into a steady state before the sleep expired and all my clients 
were launched .  . 

all of these yielded fairly comparable results , and so i just stuck with 
my current setup , for its simplicity .  . you will probably have to 
experiment a bit to find a setup which suits you. 

fonts 

loading fonts takes time and ram .  . if you minimize the number of fonts 
your applications use , you 'll get speed increases in load up time. 

one simple strategy is to choose a small number of fonts  ( one small , one 
large , one roman , whatever suits you) and configure all your clients or 
at least all your heavily used clients to use only those few fonts .  . 
client programs should start up quicker if their font is already loaded 
into the server. this will also conserve server resources , since fewer 
fonts will be loaded by the server. 
farrell mckay , 
joe english 

eg my main xterm font is 7x13 , so i also have twm set up to use 7x13 
in all it 's menus and icons etc. twm 's default font is 8x13 .  . since 
i do n't normally use 8x13 , i 've eliminated one font from my server. 

oliver jones 
keep fonts local to the workstation , rather than loading them over nfs .  . 
if you will make extensive use of r5 scalable fonts , use a font server. 

about the resources file 


keep your  . xresources .  . xdefaults . file small. saves ram and saves 
on server startup time. joe english 

one suggestion 

in your  . xdefaults . ( . xresources) . file , try putting only the minimum 
number of resources that you want to have available to all of your 
applications. for example true 

then , separate your resources into individual client specific 
resource files. for example home lib app defaults .  . in your 
 . login . file set the environment variable xuserfilesearchpath 

setenv xuserfilesearchpath home lib app defaults n 

the comp . windows . x . frequently asked questions faq contains 
an excellent explanation of how these environment variables work. 
ed. 

so , when xterm launches , it loads its resources from 
... app defaults xterm .  . xdvi finds them in ... app defaults xdvi , 
and so on and so forth. note that not all clients follow the same 
xxxxx resource file naming pattern. you can check in your system 
app defaults directory  ( often usr x11r5 lib x11 app defaults ) to 
find the proper name , and then name your personal resource files 
with the same name. 

this is all documented in the xt specification (pg 125 666) .  . 
thanks to kevin , 
michael urban , 
and mike long 
kevin is willing mail his setup files to inquirers .  . 

this method of organizing your personal resources has the following 
benefits 

easier to maintain more usable .  . 

fewer resources are stored in the x server in the resource manager 
property. as a side benefit your server may start fractionally 
quicker , since it have to load all your resources. 

applications only process their own resources , never have to sort 
through all of your resources to find the ones that affect them. 

it also has drawbacks 

the application that you are interested in has to load an 
additional file every time it starts up. this does n't seem to 
make that much of a performance difference , and you might 
consider this a huge boon to usability .  . if you are modifying an 
application 's resource database , you just need to re run the 
application without having to xrdb again. 

xrdb will by default run your  . xdefaults . file through cpp .  . when 
your resources are split out into multiple resource files and 
then loaded by the individual client programs , they will not. 
watch out for this ! ! 

i had c style comments in my  . xdefaults . file , which cpp stripped 
out. when i switched to this method of distributed resource 
files i spent several frustrating days trying to figure out why 
my clients were not finding their resources. xt did not 
provide any error message when it encountered the c style 
comments in the resource files , it simply , silently , aborted 
processing the resource file. 

the loss of preprocessing (which can be very handy , e.g. `` ifdef 
color    .  .  . ) . is enough to cause some people to dismiss this 
method of resource management. 

you may also run into some clients which break the rules. for 
example , neither emacs (18 . 58 . 3) . nor xvt (1 . 0) . will find their 
resources if they are anywhere other than in  . xdefaults .  . 

when starting up a client on a machine that does not share files 
with the machine where your resources are stored , your client 
will not find its resources. loading all your resources into the 
server will guarantee that all of your clients will always find 
their resources. casey 

a possible compromise suggestion that i have  ( and am planning on trying) 
is to put resources for all my heavily used clients (eg xterm ) into my 
 . xdefaults . file , and to use the separate resources files method for 
clients that i seldom use. 

define your display properly 


client programs are often executed on the same machine as the server. in 
that situation , rather than setting your display environment variable to 
hostname 0.0 , where hostname is the name of your workstation , you 
should set your display variable to unix 0.0 or 0.0 . by doing this 
you access optimized routines that know that the server is on the same 
machine and use a shared memory method of transferring requests. 
thanks to patrick j horgan 

see the display names section of the  ( x(1 ) man page for further 
explanation of how to properly set your display name. 

i do n't think it 's stock mit , but (at least) data general and hp have 
libraries that are smart enough to use local communication even when 
the display is n't set specially .  . 
rob sartin  ( 88opensi ! 

jody goldberg sent me an xlib patch to change 
stock r5 to use local communication even if display is not properly set. 
i do n't want to get in the business of distributing or trying to juggle 
non mit patches and so have elected not to include it here. hopefully mit 
will apply this minor ( 8 lines) patch themselves. in the meantime , if 
you want to try it yourself , email jody .  . ed. 


clients 


if you only have a few megabytes of ram then you should think 
carefully about the number of programs you are running. think also 
about the kind of programs you are running. for example is there 
a smaller clock program than xclock 

unfortunately , i have n't really noticed that programs advertise how large 
they are , so the onus is on us to do the research and spread the word. 

suggestions on better alternatives to the some of the standard clients 
(eg xclock , xterm , xbiff ) are welcome. ed. 

i 've received some contradictory advice from people , on the subject 
of x client programs. some advocate the use of programs that are 
strictly xlib based , since xt , xaw and other toolkits are rather 
large .  . others warn us that other applications which you are using 
may have already loaded up one or more of these shared libraries .  . in 
this case , using a non xt  ( for example) client program may actually 
increase the amount of ram consumed .  . 

the upshot of all this seems to be do n't mix toolkits .  . that is , try 
and use just athena clients , or just xview clients  ( or just motif 
clients , etc) .  . if you use more than one , then you 're dragging in 
more than one toolkit library. 

know your environment , and think carefully about which client 
programs would work best together in that environment. 

thanks to rob sartin  ( 88opensi ! , 
duncan sinclair 

a better clock for x 


1) 
suggested by duncan sinclair 
available on export . lcs . mit . edu . 

displays a clock in the title bar of another program. 
saves screen real estate .  . 

2) mclock 
suggested by der mouse 
available larry . mcrcim . mcgill . edu . (132 . 206 . 1 . 1) . in x mclock . shar . 

non xt based .  . extensively configurable .  . it can be made to look 
very much like mit oclock , or mostly like xclock purely by changing 
resources. 

of course , the ultimate clock one that consumes no resources , and 
takes up no screen real estate is the one that hangs on your wall. 
) 

a better terminal emulator for x 


from the readme file distributed with xterm 


abandon all hope , ye who enter here 

this is undoubtedly the most ugly program in the distribution .  . 
... 


ugly maybe , but at my site it 's still the most used. i suspect that 
xterm is one of the most used clients at many , if not most sites. 
laziness is n't there a better terminal emulator available see below. 

if you must use xterm , you can try reducing the number of 
to reduce memory usage .  . oliver jones , 
jonny farringdon 

1) xvt 
suggested by richard 
available export . lcs . mit . edu . in contrib xvt 1 . 0 . tar . z . 

 .  .  . if . you do n't need all the esoteric features of xterm , then get 
hold of xvt ... it was written here just to save swap space as 
xterm is rather a hog ! 

this was written as a partial  clone  of xterm .  . you do n't have to 
rename your resources , as xvt pretends to be xterm .  . in it 's current 
version , you cannot bind keys as you can in xterm .  . i 've heard that 
there are versions of xvt with this feature , but i 've not found any 
yet. 

update  ( march 1993) i recently had a few email conversations with 
brian regarding xvt .  . he 
questions whether xvt really is at all faster than xterm .  . for 
instance , xvt may initialize slightly faster , but compare scrolling 
speed  ( try this quickie benchmark bin time dd if etc termcap 
bs 40 ) and see which program can scroll faster. also , while xterm 
may be slightly larger in ram requirements  ( we do n't have any hard 
numbers here , does anyone else ) shared libraries and shared text 
segments mean that xterm 's paging requirements are not that major .  . 

as an experiment , he ripped out all the tek stuff from xterm , but it 
made little difference , since if you never use it , it never gets 
brought into memory. 

so here we stand with some conflicting reports on the validity of 
xvt over xterm .  . in summary caveat emptor , your mileage may vary .  . 
if you can provide some hard data , i 'd like to see it. 
specifically how much ram each occupies , how much swap each needs , 
relative speed of each 

2) mterm 
suggested by der mouse 
available larry . mcrcim . mcgill . edu . (132 . 206 . 1 . 1) . in 
x mterm . src . mterm . ball . o wax .  . 

i also have my own terminal emulator .  . its major lack is 
scrollback , but some people like it anyway. 


tuning your client 


suggestions on how you can tune your client programs to work faster. 

from scott barman comes a suggestion regarding motif 
text field widgets 

i noticed that during data entry into motif text field widgets , i 
was getting a slight lag in response to some keystrokes , 
particularly the initial one in the field. examining the what was 
going on with i found it. it seems that when the resource 
is non zero and the focus is on a text field widget 
 ( or even just a text widget) the i beam cursor will blink .  . 
every time the cursor appears or disappears in those widgets , the 
widget code is making a request to the server (copyarea) .  . the user 
can stop this by setting the resource to 0. it is not 
noticeable on a 40mhz sparc , but it does make a little difference 
on a slower system . 

this specific suggestion can probably be applied in general to lots 
of areas. consider your heavily used clients , are there any minor 
embellishments that can be turned off and thereby save on server 
requests 


miscellaneous suggestions 


pretty pictures 

do n't use large bitmaps  ( gif 's , etc) as root window backgrounds .  . 

the more complicated your root window bitmap , the slower the server 
is at redrawing your screen when you reposition windows  ( or redraw , etc) 

these take up ram , and cpu power. i work on a sun sparc and i'm 
conscious of performance issues , i ca n't comprehend it when i see 
people with a 4mb sun 3 60 running as their root window. 

i 'll let someone else figure out how much ram would be occupied by 
having a full screen root image on a colour workstation .  . 

if you 're anything like me , you need all the screen real estate 
that you can get for clients , and so rarely see the root window anyway. 

thanks to qiang alex zhao 
for reminding me of this one. ed. 

a quicker mouse 

using xset , you can adjust how fast your pointer moves on the screen 
when you move your mouse. i use xset m 3 10 in my  . xinitrc . file , 
which lets me send my pointer across the screen with just a flick of 
the wrist .  . see the xset man page for further ideas and information. 

hint sometimes you may want to slow down your mouse tracking for 
fine work. to cover my options , i have placed a number of different 
mouse setting commands into a menu in my window manager. 

e.g.  ( for twm ) 
menu mouse settings 
mouse settings f . title . 
very fast ! xset m 7 10 
normal  ( fast ) ! xset m 3 10 
system default  ( un accelerated ) ! xset m default 
glacial ! xset m 0 10 


programming thoughts 

joe english 
to speed up applications that you 're developing , there are tons of 
things you can do. some that stick out 

for motif programs , do n't set resources for individual 
buttons , labels , lists , et. al. use the or 
or whatever resource of the highest level manager 
widget .  . again , stick to as few fonts as possible. 

better yet , do n't use motif at all. it 's an absolute pig .  . 

do n't create and destroy widgets on the fly. try to reuse them. 
 ( this will avoid many problems with buggy toolkits , too . ) . 

use a line width of 0 in gcs .  . on some servers this makes a huge 
difference. 

compress and collapse multiple expose events. this can make the 
difference between a fast application and a completely unusable 
one. 

francois staes 
just a small remark i once heard that using a better malloc 
function would greatly increase performance of xt based 
applications since they use malloc heavily .  . they suggested trying 
out the malloc , but i did n't find the time yet. i did some 
tests on small programs just doing malloc and free , and the 
differences were indeed very noticeable ( somewhat 5 times faster) 

any confirmation on this from anyone ed. 

andre  beck  ( andre dresden . de) . 

unnecessary events. 

most people use as fastest blit routines , but 
they forget to reset graphics exposures in the gc used for the 
blits .  . this will cause a event every blit , that , in most 
cases , only puts load onto the connection and forces the client to 
run through it 's event loop again and again. 

thousands of requests. 

this gfx context switching is also seen in most handcoded x apps , 
where only one or few gcs are created and then heavily changed 
again and again. xt uses a definitely better mechanism , by caching 
and sharing a lot of gcs with all needed parameters .  . this will 
remove the load of subsequent requests from the 
connection (by moving it toward the client startup phase) .  . 

say what ! 

some contributors proposed ideas that seem right off the wall at first 

david b. lewis (by day , by night david 
how about this swap displays with someone else. run all your programs 
on the other machine and display locally the other user runs off your 
machine onto the other display. goal reduce context switches in the 
same operation between client and server. 

i'm not in a situation where i can easily try this , but i have received 
the following confirmation .  .  .  . 

michael salmon 
i regularly run programs on other machines and i notice a big 
difference. i try to run on a machine where i will reduce net usage 
and usually with nice to reduce the impact of my intrusion .  . this 
helps a lot on my poor little ss1 with only 16 mb , it was 
essential when i only had 8 mb .  . 

casey 
the x11 server and the client are competing for the same cpu as 
your server when you run it on the same machine. not really a 
major problem , except that the x11 client and the server are in 
absolute synchronicity and are context thrashing .  . 

timothy h panton 
firstly it relies on the fact that most cpu 's are mostly idle , x 's 
cpu usage is bursty .  . so the chances of you and your teammate 
doing something cpu intensive at the same time is small. if they 
are not then you get twice the cpu memory available for your 
action. 

the second factor is that context switches are expensive , using 2 
cpu 's halves them , you pay a price due to the overhead of going 
over the network , but this is offset in most cases by the improved 
buffering of a network  ( typically 20k vs 4k for a pipe) , allowing 
even fewer context switches .  . 


other sources of information 


volume 8 in o'reilly 's x window system series , window system 
administrator 's guide   is a book all x administrator 's should read. 

adrian nye 
a lot more tips on performance are in the paper improving x 
application performance by chris d. peterson and sharon chang , in 
issue 3 of the x resource .  . 

an earlier version of this paper appeared in the 1992 
conference proceedings .  . 

this paper is absolutely essential reading for x programmers .  . 


author notes 

this list is currently maintained by art mulder 

suggestions , corrections , or submission for inclusion in this list 
are gladly accepted. layout suggestions and comments  ( spelling 
mistak 's too ! ) are also welcome. 

currently i have listed all contributors of the various comments and 
suggestions. if you do not want to be credited , please tell me. 

speedup x faq is copyright (c) 1993 by arthur e. mulder 

you may copy this document in whole or in part as long as you do n't 
try to make money off it , or pretend that you wrote it. 



 .  .  . art . mulder ( ) do not be conformed to this world , 
department of computing science but be transformed by the renewal 
university of alberta , edmonton , canada of your mind , ... romans 12 2 

from (peter j. scott ) 
subject re did microsoft buy 
organization jet propulsion laboratory , nasa caltech 
lines 8 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host euclid . jpl . nasa . gov . 

well , i'm glad that there 's plenty of nt stuff at  . 
not because i want to use it instead of x , but because i want to 
find out what the chances are that some time in the future i may 
not have any choice. 


this is news. this is your peter scott , nasa jpl caltech 
brain on news. any questions 

from  ( gabriel c . ) . 
subject key event window 
originator 
nntp posting host dcc . uchile . cl . 
organization universidad de chile , depto .  . de de la 
lines 34 

hi there , 


do someone of you have a program for sending a key event 
to another window but it must appear in that window .  .  .  .  . 

i have used xsendevent . tar . package but it does not do that ! ! ! 

for example , if i get a program executing 


! bin sh 
read something 
.... 
.... 
echo something 
.... 
.... 


and if i send the key event keypress a , a 
to that window then i will get 

something a 


thanks in advance. 




gabriel ez c. 


from  ( mark a. davis ) 
subject re did microsoft buy 
organization lake taylor hospital computer services 
lines 39 

 ( aub harden ) writes 


in article ,  ( jesse w. asher ) writes 
i 've been getting mail from about the june conference and i was 
wondering if microsoft had bought the front says conference 
from microsoft windows nt developers . what 's the deal i thought 
x was for x windows 


jesse w. asher 

i was wondering this myself. 

and (not surprisingly when you look at the audience ) windows nt .  . 

with the bulk of the audience  ( and the unix community) developing 
applications for in house or custom use , a new 32 bit operating system from a 
player as large as microsoft needs to be evaluated .  . with ms windows on so many 
desktops , and the price of computing power dropping , its successor needs to be 
evaluated .  . as corporations begin to look at nt , so must their developers and 
suppliers .  . 

what you need. conference attendees will receive nt software development 
kits to bang on , evaluate , and generally to see for yourself. 

i hope this does n't sound like an nt commercial (it should sound like an 
commercial ) .  . 

unfortunately it does. i do n't agree with the logic of nt at an x windows 
conference. perhaps some good will come of it , but the two are so dissimilar 
and the nt marketing stuff is so large in the adds that i was 
coming to a similar conclusion as jesse .  .  .  . 



mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


from  ( kevin b. weinrich ) 
subject summary how to make a window 's input be all caps 
organization computer sciences corp. 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host helios . ath . epa . gov . 

thanks to bruce barnett , who recommended , and and 
liam quin , who recommended modifying  . xdefaults . to get the desired behavior 
for a class of xterms .  . 

in , simply create a key file that looks like 
a a 
b b 
c c 
... 
and specify said key file on the command line. this will translate 
any input into any other  ( in my case , lo case to up case) .  . works great , and 
you get a customizable button pad on the right or left side. 

to use an xterm solution , add to your  . xdefaults . 
vt100 . translations . override 
key a  ( string a ) n 
... 

or 
vt100 . translations . override n 
key a insert  ( string(a ) n 
key b insert  ( string(b ) n 
... 

and invoke as xterm name 

thanks loads ! 

kevin weinrich computer sciences corp. 


from  ( nadia  ( morgaine ) 
subject dump of login screen 
keywords dump 
reply to 
organization s . p . a .  . 
lines 23 
nntp posting host gea 


i'm running hp ux 8.07 with hp vue 2.01 and i need a hardcopy of 
the login window (the one asking for login and password) to 
include in a manual. 
i have tried 
xwd display hostname 0 root out login . xwd . 

from a login on a remote terminal , but it does n't work. 
xwd seems to wait for the window server , but the window 
server does n't answer. 

any suggestions i must use xwd because i do n't have access to 
ftp and i ca n't obtain another program to grab the screen. 

thanks in advance 




s . p . a .  . 
via g . b .  . , 93 milano italy 
e mail 

from  ( kevin b. weinrich ) 
subject how to make a window 's input be all caps without caps lock 
organization computer sciences corp. 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host helios . ath . epa . gov . 

an application we must use requires upper case input. i 'd like to be 
able to simply move my cursor into the window where that application is running 
 ( just a text window , xterm or some such) and have everything i type be entered 
as all caps .  . when the cursor is in any of my many other windows , i want to 
automatically return to normal functionality .  . i have point to type set. 

is there a way to do this in x  ( specifically ow 3.0 on sparcs ) is there a 
way to mess with  . xdefaults . to make a category of window do this any 
hints would be most appreciated. i program in c but not x , although i can 
pick up somthing that 's not too involved. 

thanks kindly .  . 

kevin weinrich computer sciences corp. 


from  ( vidiot ) 
subject re viewing postscript files under x windows 
reply to  ( vidiot ) 
organization vidiot 's other hangout 
lines 30 

in article  ( gordon sasamori ) writes 
in  ( vidiot ) writes 

ow 3.0 is the same. but , the definition of broken is relative .  . pageview 
requires dsc compliant postscript files , in order to stop at page breaks .  . 
i do n't consider that broken. i say that any program that puts out a 
postscript file that is n't dsc compliant is broken. 

well that may be true. however , the man page for pageview for ow 2.0 
does not mention about dsc compliance .  . in any event , the point here 
is that if you try to display some ps files using pageview you will 
find out that it 's not a practical tool. 

it is true that the man page for pageview does not say that the files need 
to be dsc compliant .  . that is the fault of the left hand not knowing what the 
right hand is doing at sun. i was informed by a sun employee that the pageview 
program does require dsc compliant postscript .  . there was the possibility that 
it was going to be changed so that if the file was n't dsc compliant that it 
would stop at each showpage .  . i believe that this method would preclude being 
able to go backwards and forwards through the file , i.e. , you could only go 
forward to the next showpage .  . this is n't in 0 . pageview , but maybe it is 
in the solaris 2 . x . version of ow  ( ow 3.1 ) .  . 

in any event , i find pageview extremely useful. since all of the postscript 
that i produce is dsc compliant , i do n't have any problems. 

harvard 
ucbvax ! ! ! ! brown or uu2 . psi . com . ! ! brown 
rutgers 
internet or ! brown 

from  ( timothy williams ) 
subject re viewing postscript files under x windows 
organization night vision labs , ft , va 
lines 97 
x disclaimer opinions expressed are not necessarily those of or 
nntp posting host snoopy 

in article  ( kin cho ) writes 

i wonder if anybody know of a x window based postscript file 
viewer that runs under sunos  ( prefered ) , hpux , or ibm aix .  . 
reason i'm looking for this utility is that i 've downloaded these 
large postscript documents and i 'd like to know how useful  ( and how 
long) they are before commiting them to the printer and potentially 
wasting 200 pages of paper and hogging the printer for 1 2 hour. 


get ghostscript and ghostview .  . ghostview is a postscript previewer 
that uses ghostscript .  . 

from the ghostview readme 



ghostview an x11 user interface for ghostscript .  . 

ghostview is full function user interface for ghostscript 2 . 4 .  . 

brief list of features 
ghostview parses any known version of adobe 's document structuring 
conventions .  . 
page size is automatically determined from the document structuring 
comments. the user is able to override the values from the comments. 
window size is set to the bounding box for encapsulated postscript figures. 
default page size is letter and can be changed via xresources or 
application defaults file to a4  ( or any other valid size) for our 
european friends. 
scrollbars appear when necessary. 
page orientation is automatically determined from the document structuring 
comments. the user is able to override the values from the comments. 
ability to view at 4 orientations portrait , landscape , upside down , 
and  ( for those who rotate landscape the other direction) .  . 
ability to preview in any supported visual .  .  ( can preview in gray scale 
or color on a color monitor . ) . 
ability to mark pages for printing , or saving .  .  ( good for people that 
printed a 100 page document and lost page 59 due to a printer jam . ) . 
can popup zoom windows at printer resolution 
(1 display dot 1 printer  . 

the ghostview distribution includes a ghostview widget that people 
are encouraged to use in other programs. 

ghostview 1.3 is available via anonymous ftp from 
prep . ai . mit . edu . pub gnu ghostview 1 . 3 . tar . z . 
cs . wisc . edu . pub ghostview 1 . 3 . tar . z . 


from the ghostscript readme 


this file describes version 2 . 4 . 1 . of ghostscript .  . 



an overview of ghostscript 


ghostscript is the name of a set of software that provides 

an interpreter for the ghostscript language , which very 
closely resembles the postscript (tm) language and 

a set of c procedures (the ghostscript library) that 
implement the graphics capabilities that appear as primitive 
operations in the ghostscript language. 

the ghostscript language interpreter and library are written entirely 
in c , with some assembly language accelerators for ms dos platforms .  . 
currently , ghostscript is known to run on the following platform 
families 

ibm pc and compatibles with ega , vga , supervga , or compatible 
graphics under ms dos 3.1 , 3.3 , or 5.0 

a wide variety of unix systems using x windows version 11 , 
release 3 , 4 , and 5 , including sun 3 , sun 4 , sun 386i , 
sun sparcstation 1 generic 80386 machines running 386 ix 
h p 9000 300 and 9000 800 decstation 2100 and 3100 vax 
running ultrix sequent symmetry convex c1 and c2 
tektronix 4300 sgi iris indigo 

sun workstations  ( sun 3 , sparc , sun 386i ) running sunview 

vax , vms with x11r3 4 5 , gcc and dec c compiler (dec c compiler 
version 3.1 or later is required) .  . 


 ( get ghostscript from the same ftp site you get ghostview . ) . 


tim williams com (703) 704 
night vision electronic sensors directorate dsn 654 
rd nv  ( williams ) fax (703) 704 
ft. , va e mail 

from (brian v. smith) 
subject re xfig 2 . on hp ux 9 . 01 . 
organization lbl 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 128 . 3 . 12 . 123 . 

in article , (michael p urban ) writes 
i have compiled xfig 2.1 patchlevel 7 with hp 's x11r5 from hp ux 9 . 01 . , 
augmented by the athena and mu libraries from an x11r5 distribution 
from iworks . ecn . uiowa . edu .  . it compiles nicely  ( although for one file 
the preprocessor macro definition table size needed to be  . 
but when executed , nothing happens at all except for ever growing 
memory requirements  ( eventually in a core  . the binary 
of the identical program , compiled on 8.07 with x11r4 , has no 
problems. other programs like xtpanel compile , link , and run just 
fine with the same libraries .  . 

does this sound familiar , or am i going to have to figure this one out 
on my own .  .  .  . 

please see the post i made yesterday  ( may 10) which fixes the problem. 
this was posted to comp . windows . x . apps .  . 


brian v. smith 
lawrence berkeley laboratory 
i do n't speak for lbl they do n't pay me enough for that. 

from  ( lei shao ) 
subject error building x11r5 xdm 
keywords x11r5 xdm 
nntp posting host cunixa . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( lei shao ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 15 


hi , there , 
i'm trying to build x11r5 mit core distribution on a sparcstation running 
sunos 4 . 1 . 1 .  . the only thing i change is the in site . def .  . when the 
make world process goes to cc o xdm ... , i get the following error 

ld undefined symbol 

error code 2 

and the process continues to finish. does anybody know what 's wrong thanx for 
any info. 

lei shao 


from (joseph sirosh ) 
subject x design choice for color handling question 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 16 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
keywords color 

most graphics systems i have seen have drawing routines that also specify 
a color for drawing , like 

 ( drawpoint(x , y , color) or  ( drawline(x1 , y1 , x2 , y2 , color) or 
 ( fillrectangle(x1 , y1 , x2 , y2 , color) 

with x , i have to do something like 
 ( xsetforeground(current color) 
 ( xdrawpoint(d , w , x , y) 

why split this into two functions why did x designers decide to not associate 
the color with the object being drawn , and instead associate it with the 
display it is being drawn on 

joseph 


from bonn . de .  ( juergen schietke ) 
subject extension to damaged chars of big fonts 
organization research institute for discrete mathematics , bonn 
lines 16 

sorry about the garbage code , the following is used of course 

 ( xsetforeground(disp , , backgroundcolor ) 
 ( xfillrectangle(disp , , , 0 , 0 , scr width , scr height) 
 ( xsetforeground(disp , , foregroundcolor ) 
line string rectangle  ( disp , , ,  .  .  . ) . 
 ( xcopyarea(disp , , win , , 0 , 0 , win width , win height , 0 , 0) 

juergen schietke 
research insitute for discrete mathematics 
university of bonn 
nassestr .  . 2 
5300 bonn 1 

tel ( 49 ) 0228 
e mail bonn . de . 

from  ( ernie coskrey ) 
subject re xterm fonts 
nntp posting host columbiasc . ncr . com . 
organization ncr corporation e m columbia 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( mark a. davis ) writes 
i have a problem which many of you might have run into. we use lots of 
ascii terminals and use them to the max. meaning lots of attributes , line 
draw , etc. now what i need to do is come up with a working xterm which 
will emulate our advanced ascii terminals as closely as possible. 

this means needing all attributes to work , including bold and line drawing. 
the only fonts which seem to meet these criteria are a pairs of fonts in 
which one is bold and the other normal , while both have , fixed 
spacing , and several sizes. 

the only standard fonts which work are the fonts like and under 
misc . they work great , except i need a font one size larger , 10x20 .  . now 
10x20 works well , but there is no bold counterpart ! 

to make matters worse , i need the fonts in some form i can use for tektronix 
 . it seems they like  . pcf . format , although i should be able to 
convert a  . bdf . format. 

anyone have any suggestions 


mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


this would be tedious , but if you have the time you could get the  . bdf . 
file (i can email it to you if you do n't have it or do n't have easy access 
to the x source) , and could make your own bold font from this. since each 
glyph is just a bitmap , you could write a program to convert each 
glyph to a bitmap readable file , use bitmap to make each glyph bold , and 
convert the results back to  . bdf . format. then , use to create 
the  . pcf . file. then , stick the  . pcf . in usr lib x11 fonts misc  ( or wherever ) 
and include it in fonts.dir and , voila , you 'll have what you need ! 


ernie (803) 926 2071 ncr corporation columbia 
3325 platt springs road 
west columbia , sc 29170 
i'm out there busting my buns every night. tell your old man to drag walton 
and lanier up and down the court for 48 minutes. roger murdoch , co pilot 

from  ( anthony thyssen ) 
subject colors and x windows  ( aicons ) 
organization griffith university .  . 
lines 42 

extract from the color readme file for anthony 's icon library. 
for network discussion .  .  .  . 

color coordination .  .  .  . 

i tried to start a discussion in windows . x' . at the start of the 
year about some sort of color table  that icons should follow 
 ( say 16 to 32 colors including 5 colors for a small grey  . but no 
one responded at all. 

the problem is that if the colors for icons are just used willy 
you will soon find that the workstations color table , devotes itself 
solely the window manager , icons and other tasks  instead 
of applications that actually require the colors for proper working. 
applications   such as picture and graphic , 
animation , real time video , raytracers , etc .  .  .  . . 

the following is a suggested color table for icons , and general use. 
icons , window managers , and general applications , should follow this 
table or something like it , unless the application is  . 

for each primary color  ( red , green , blue) three colors 
eg values 0 , 128 and 255 .  . 
this results in 3 3 colors (27) representing most of the 
standard colors for use in icons .  . 

two extra shades of grey 
eg  ( black ) 0 , 64 , 128 , 196 and 255  ( white , red ,  .  .  . ) . 

3 other colors probably of some primary color to provide shading 
a and 3 d look to buttons and in the window manager. 

this table represents 32 colors and represents a large range of 
for the above services   of the 
workstation .  . 


anthony  ( sysprog @ griffith university) 

a gods idea of amusement is a snakes ladders game , with  . 
terry pratchett wyrd sisters 


from  ( jim wight ) 
subject re athena help ! ! ! 
nntp posting host 
organization university of newcastle upon tyne , uk , ne1 7ru 
lines 15 

 ( vidya c kayar ) writes 
i am currently programming on athena toolkit .  . i am having problems 
creating a text widget .  . any or help will be greatly 
appreciated. 

i assume that you are literally trying to create a widget of type 
 . use the widget instead. 

jim 


department of computing science , university of newcastle , tel 44 91 222 8238 
newcastle upon tyne , ne1 7ru , united kingdom .  . fax 44 91 222 



from  ( ethan solomita ) 
subject x over tcp ip how reliable how is it implemented 
organization columbia university department of computer science 
lines 18 


three q 's 

1) is it reliable 

2) how does it send the information from a ms windows app over 
the x11 protocol does it just draw everything as graphics into 
one window , or does it use multiple windows and essentially work 
more cleverly 

3) if i want to run ms word , for example , remotely , do i have to 
run a separate copy of ms windows remotely , and then start ms 
word from that , or can ms word be started remotely on its own 

thanks a lot ! 
ethan 



from (david koblas ) 
subject button 3 popup menus with athena widgets 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 15 

ok , i'm being driven batty .  . 


trying to create popup menus (ie .  . press , and a menu 
 . i would really like to use the standard athena 
classes to achieve this goal , but for my best attempts 
i cannot get the menus to come up without using a menubutton 
as the parent of the widget tree. i know this should be 
possible to to with an  ( xtpopupspringloaded( ) and a 
little twiddling , but something is escaping me. 


name david domain 
affiliation extra mile consulting phone 47  ( 83 ) 
quote time has little to do with infinity and jelly donuts .  . 

from  ( sadie hf ) 
subject looking for article 
organization rhodes university , , south africa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 19 


i am urgently looking for the following article , can i cannot find it 
anywhere in our local libraries 

john allen smith 
the multi threaded x server 
the x resource 
issue 1 , pp. 73 89 , winter 1992 

if anyone can tell me where i can find it , i will much appreciate it ! ! 

h . f .  . 
departement of computer science 
university of stellenbosch 
south africa 

e mail 



from  ( carl sandland ) 
subject re c motif , gcc , silly messages 
organization bain company 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 9 

thanks to everyone who mailed help , unfortunately the end problem was a really 
stupid  on my behalf .  . the code was 100 perfect , but it might 
help to add control . c . to my makefile .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

anyway the mangled name was telling me it could nt locate the control 
constructor .  .  .  . 

i just want to reaffirm what a valuable book this one is , i'm enjoying 
evry page ) 

from offshore . no .  ( jan olav eide ) 
subject ics widget data book 
organization nos 
lines 23 

does anyone know how i can obtain information about the ics widget data book 
i only have their email address , and they do n't seem to be reading  ( or 
replying ) to their mail. 



! jan olav , software engineer systems administrator ! 
! snail mail ! email ! 
! nordic offshore systems ! offshore . no . ! 
! drilling information services ! voice ! 
! 3 , box 185 ! ( 47) ext. 211 ! 
! 1321 ! fax ! 
! norway ! ( 47) ! 
! i do n't believe in astrology .  . but then i'm a , and ! 
! do n't believe in astrology ! 





! jan olav , software engineer systems administrator ! 
! snail mail ! email ! 
! nordic offshore systems ! offshore . no . ! 

from  ( gonzalo perez c . ) . 
subject re compiling mh 6.8  ( and xmh ) on sco 3 . 2 . 4 .  . 
nntp posting host cipres . cec . uchile . cl . 
organization centro de (cec) , universidad de chile 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 21 

jesse w. asher wrote 
i'm trying to get mh compiled  ( and then xmh ) and i'm having some problems. 
i 've got mh 6.8 , using gcc on sco 3 . 2 . 4 .  . my mh file is listed below. does 
anyone have any suggestions on what i can add to get it to compile 



bin usr local bin 
 .  .  . 
cc gcc 
o ansi d 0 d 

i think the traditional option to gcc would help. 
personally i used traditional o2 loops to compile it 
on sun4 . 1 . 1 .  . 

hope this helps .  .  .  . 




from  ( mark a. davis ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization lake taylor hospital computer services 
lines 25 

 ( barry margolin ) writes 

in article  ( mark a. davis ) writes 
you are stuck in a distributed system feedback loop ! what if you are on an 
xterminal or running xterm over the net to another machine that is when the 
load problems occur .  . if you had a machine with 20 attached and 
they all had blinking cursors in xterm 's , this could represent a considerable 
ethernet bandwidth waste. 

ethernet certainly has enough bandwidth for a few blinking cursors .  . my 
lisp machine blinks the cursor twice a second and updates the time in the 
status line every second. this uses under 1k bytes second , or about .1 of 
the bandwidth of ethernet .  . a hundred of them on a single ethernet might be 
a problem , but a couple dozen should be fine. 

granted it 's nothing to loose sleep over , but this is ethernet 's tragic flaw 
the more activity  ( especially lots of tiny activity ) , the more collisions 
happen and the performance gets exponentially worse .  .  .  . i am just now 
opposing any kind of waste of bandwidth under ethernet .  . although in a polling 
system it would not be so bad. 


mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


from (brian glendenning ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization national radio astronomy observatory 
lines 7 
in reply to 's message of thu , 29 apr 1993 07 29 39 gmt 


alas , we too will have to stop using it. 

brian 

brian glendenning national radio astronomy observatory 
charlottesville va. (804) 296 

from  ( guy singh ) 
subject re x and motif config file for hp ux 8.0 
in reply to paderborn . de . 's message of 12 may 93 12 46 17 
x disclaimer this is not the view of ixi ltd unless explicitly stated .  . 
lines 29 
nntp posting host yorks . x . co . uk . 
organization not a lot 
x copyright the author asserts the right of paternity in this message. 

on 12 may 93 12 46 17 , paderborn . de .  ( markus koch ) said 
markus nntp posting host uni . paderborn . de . 


markus hello everybody out there ! 

markus i'm trying to compile and motif 1.2.1 on a hp running 
markus hp ux 8 . 05 .  . but it' seems to be not very succesful , because 
markus i have only hp . cf . config files for hp ux 7 . 0 .  . 

markus i tried standard cc and x was compiled with a lot of warnings .  . 
markus the motif applications are compiled quite well , but they wo n't run. 
markus i receive the error which is reported in faq , but 
markus i cannot fix it. the file is at the right location and it 
markus works fine under sunos .  . 
markus probably i have started the compilation only with a wrong 
markus config file. 

markus please help me ! 
markus 
markus thanx in advance 
markus markus 

if you installed x lib xt by redefining , you will find that 
during the install it one of the files in x lib that does the 
search for and the search path for the file based on whatever 
was defined .  . to confirm this what happened , because i'm 
guessing , go to mit lib x and do 
strings o . egrep 

guy singh , ixi internet 
vision park uucp 
cambridge bang ... ! uunet ! ixi ! guy 
cb4 , uk tel 44 223 236 555 

from  ( aub harden ) 
subject re did microsoft buy 
summary no. 
nntp posting host skate . ics . com . 
organization integrated computer solutions , inc. 
lines 74 


in article ,  ( jesse w. asher ) writes 
i 've been getting mail from about the june conference and i was 
wondering if microsoft had bought the front says conference 
from microsoft windows nt developers . what 's the deal i thought 
x was for x windows 


jesse w. asher 

yes , is for the x window system. the x window system conference 
remains the largest and most complete conference devoted to x. nineteen full 
and half day tutorials and thirty six technical sessions over three days 
provide huge amounts of information for x application developers .  . add vendor 
exhibits and a product presentation track to provide information on what 
folks can purchase today , and you have a complete show focused on x11 .  . 

speakers at 93 include 

bob , lu abel , mark , paul , doug , 
donna converse , jim fulton , oliver jones , keith packard , ralph swick , 
doug young , and many others. 

is growing  ( fortunately for us ) and we have added some additional 
conferences .  . surveys that we have given have indicated additional topics of 
interest. these include object oriented technologies such as the object 
management group 's orb and corba c as it applies to x client server 
technologies such as dce threads databases object oriented and relational 
and (not surprisingly when you look at the audience ) windows nt .  . 

with the bulk of the audience  ( and the unix community) developing 
applications for in house or custom use , a new 32 bit operating system from a 
player as large as microsoft needs to be evaluated .  . with ms windows on so many 
desktops , and the price of computing power dropping , its successor needs to be 
evaluated .  . as corporations begin to look at nt , so must their developers and 
suppliers .  . 

the mission of the technical conferences is to provide information 
to the application developer and to the technology planner .  . the nt conference 
at is designed to do just that. we worked with microsoft to provide 
the only conference this year specifically designed to show x and unix 
developers the capabilities of windows and nt .  . if you are n't sure that nt has 
what you need for your application development or systems deployment , this is 
the place to find out. ask the folks from microsoft , get them to show you 
what you need. conference attendees will receive nt software development 
kits to bang on , evaluate , and generally to see for yourself. 

i hope this does n't sound like an nt commercial (it should sound like an 
commercial ) .  . i just want to reiterate that the audience 
is growing and is growing along with it. the industry is a 
confusing place at the moment with unix , cose , nt , dce , corba , and all of 
the other acronyms up. can help sort out the confusion. 


harden 
technical program manager 



x h i b i t i o n the conference and trade 
show for corporate 
software development 

201 broadway 
cambridge , ma 02139 

windows on distributed computing 

june 7 11 , san jose , ca 

uunet ! ics . com . ! 
voice (617) 621 0060 fax (617) 621 9555 

presented by integrated computer solutions , inc. 

from (john chambers ) 
subject program to display  . gif . files 
lines 17 

it seems silly , but while i 've located things like tgif that can edit 
gif files , and various tools to convert to from gif format , i have n't 
been able to locate a program that just opens a window and displays a 
gif file in it. i 've looked thru various faq files , also to no avail. 
is there one lurking about in some archive nothing sophisticated 
just show the pretty picture 

alternatively , if i could locate the specs for gif , i do n't suppose it 
would be too hard to write it myself , but i have no idea where to even 
start looking for the spec.  ( well , actually , i do have an idea this 
newsgroup .  . ) 



if the auto industry were like the computer industry , a car would now 
cost 5 , would get 5000 miles to the gallon , and at random times would 
explode , killing all its passengers .  . 

from  ( mickey boyd) 
subject xkernel on sun 3 80 
organization florida state university department of mathematics 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
reply to 
lines 11 

has anyone built xkernel for 3 80 's it works great on our 3 50s , and i 
would just as soon kiss the entire sun 3 goodbye  ( and reclaim 
a bunch of disk space) .  . email me direct , i 'll post a summary .  . 



mickey boyd 
systems administrator 
florida state university mathematics department 
email office (904) 644 pager (904) 657 6425 


from  ( gordon sasamori ) 
subject re viewing postscript files under x windows 
organization nippon motorola ltd. , tokyo , japan 
lines 19 

in (george snyder ) writes 

in article  ( kin cho ) writes 

i wonder if anybody know of a x window based postscript file 
viewer that runs under sunos  ( prefered ) , hpux , or ibm aix .  . 

if you are running sun openwindows , you can use pageview . this is an 
x window postscript previewer like ghostview , but displays much nicer 

yes , but it 's broken on ow 2 . 0 .  . it does not handle multiple pages 
well. if you do n't have the proper postscript commands it will 
draw the entire document on the same page instead of pausing after 
each page. i have n't tried ow 3.0 yet , though. 

 .  .  . v .  .  .  . 1 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 2 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 3 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 4 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 5 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 6 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 7 .  .  . 
gordon t. 
mcu design  ( email , 
nippon motorola ltd. voice  ( 81(3)3280 ) , fax  ( 81(3)3440 ) 0033 ) 

from (patrick l. mahan ) 
subject re remote x across tcpip decnet 
organization the internet 
lines 23 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to , 


does anyone know if the following is possible , and if so how do i go about 
doing it. 

i want to be able to display remote x11 applications on a 2000 off 
of an internet node .  . here is where the problem comes up , the is n't 
connected directly to the internet but is connected via decnet to a node that 
does have a connection to the internet. does anyone know if it is possible to 
get the display to use tcpip from the remote internet node down to my local 
internet node and then send it via decnet down to the 2000 


for the machine that is connected to the internet , what is it running if it 
is running vms , then if you obtain for it , comes with a 
tcp ip to decnet gateway for x11 .  . 

patrick l. mahan 

tgv window washer 

waking a person unnecessarily should not be considered lazarus long 
a capital crime .  . for a first offense , that is from the notebooks of 
lazarus long 

from (michael turok ) 
subject  makedepend  problem 
organization information resources inc. 
lines 46 

hi , netters 

we have a problem with  makedepend  it does n't know how to correctly process 
if clause in c preprocessor statements .  . it evaluates everything to 
true no matter what the are. 
for example , makedepend chokes on one of x11 include files  ( as distributed 
by sun) namely h . 

if !  ( defined(sunos41 )  ( defined ) 
include string.h 
define index strchr 
define rindex 
else bsd ! 
include strings . h . 
endif ! 

here  makedepend  evaluates both if and corresponding else statements 
to 'true' and tries to open the file strings . h . which does n't exist 
under solaris2 .  . 
we also have a lot of if statements in some of our legacy code. 
we got and built  makedepend  off the net it did n't fix the problem. 

in all fairness it should be noted that   man page  ( sun 's 
distribution ) mentions this problem 

bugs 
if you do not have the source for cpp , the berkeley c 
preprocessor , then makedepend will be compiled in such a way 
that all if directives will evaluate to true regardless 
of their actual value. this may cause the wrong include 
directives to be evaluated .  . makedepend should simply have 
its own parser written for if expressions .  . 

has anybody come up with some solution fix to   other than 
 .  .  . and willing to share it with us 

since we often experience delays in our newsfeed please reply 
directly to my e mail address i 'll post a summary .  . 

thanks in advance. 

michael 
information resources , inc. e mail 
200 fifth avenue voice (617) 890 1100 ext . 
waltham , ma 02154 , usa fax (617) 890 


from  ( conrad kimball ) 
subject re problem with r4 release 
organization boeing computer services , seattle , wa 
lines 48 
nntp posting host zulu 

in article , (mike mcgary ) writes 
in article  ( pramod mahadev ) writes 

ld unidentified external symbol 
get 
get 

i use lxmu lx11 lxt not in this order but in a proper order 

i am wondering if there has to be some changes in my link libraries or should 
i include some more libraries .  . 

any help in this matter will be very useful and highly appreciated 


we get this too. if you put into your options it goes away. 
things seem to run ok without it .  .  . must . not be called very often. 

from the faq 

subject 96 ) ! what is this link problem with libxmu on sunos 4 . 1 .  . 23 

in sunos 4.1.2 sun fixed a shared library bug in ld which conflicts 
with the way x builds the shared xmu library , causing these symbols , notably , 
to be undefined when building some x11 clients 
get 
get 
compiling lxmu appears to work. 

to solve the problem if you are using openwindows 3.0  ( x11r4 based xt) , please 
contact your local sun office and request the following patches 

patch i.d. description 
02 4 . 1 . x . openwindows 3.0 libxt jumbo patch 
03 4 . 1 . x . openwindows 3.0 undefined symbols when using 
shared libxmu 

greg earle , 7 92 

a source patch for use with the mit x11r4 libraries was developed by conrad 
kimball it retrofits into r4 some fixes made in r5 to 
get around this problem. the patch is on export in 1 93 
contrib x11r4 sunos4 . 1 . 2 . patch version3 . z . 


conrad kimball client server tech services , boeing computer services 
p.o. box , ms 7a 35 
(206) 865 seattle , wa 98124 0346 

from  ( steve kotsopoulos ) 
subject x on intel based unix frequently asked questions faq 
summary x options for intel based unix  ( sysv 386 , 386bsd , linux , mach ) 
reply to 
organization university of toronto , engineering computing facility 
expires tue , 1 jun 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
lines 530 

archive name intel unix x faq 
last modified 30 mar 1993 

note this is a major re organization  ( and replacement ) of my 
frequently asked questions about x386 faq list. 

this article includes answers to 

i) what options do i have for x software on my intel based unix system 
1. free options 
2. commercial options 
ii ) what is xfree86 and where do i get it 
3. what is xfree86 
4. what oss are supported 
5. what video hardware is supported 
6. what about accelerated boards 
7. why does n't xfree86 support 16 color vga modes 
8. what other hardware or software requirements are there 
9. where can i get source for xfree86 
10. where can i get binaries for xfree86 
iv ) what general things should i know about running xfree86 
11. installation directories 
12. configuration files 
13. determining vga dot clocks and monitor modes 
14. rebuilding reconfiguring the server from the link kit 
v ) what os specific things should i know about running xfree86 
15. svr4 
16. svr3 
17. 386bsd 
18. linux 
19. mach 
vi ) what things should i know for building xfree86 from source 
vii ) is there anything special about building clients with xfree86 
20. bsd compatibility library 
21. 

this article does not include answers to general x questions , since these 
are already covered by the x faq that is regularly posted by david b. lewis 
faq . 

if you have anything to add or change on the faq just let me know. 
 ( especially if you had a problem that someone else was able to help you with) 
send changes to , please put  faq  somewhere 
in the subject line so that my mail filter will put it in the correct 
mail folder. 

please do not ask me questions that are not answered in the faq .  . i do not 
have time to respond to these individually .  . instead , post your question 
to the net , and send me the question and answer together when you get it. 

frequently asked questions about x on intel based unix  ( with answers) 


i) what options do i have for x software on my intel based unix system 

1. free options 
the best option is xfree86 , which is an enhanced version of x386 1 . 2 .  . 
any other version of x386 will have slower performance , and will 
be more difficult to compile .  . information on how to obtain xfree86 
is listed below. 

x386 is the port of the x11 server to system v 386 that was 
done by thomas roell 
it supports a wide variety of svga boards. 
there are 2 major free versions x386 1.1 is based on x11r4 , 
x386 1.2 is included in mit 's x11r5 distribution (ie .  . you 
do n't need to patch it into the mit source any more) .  . 
x386 1.3 is the current commercial offering from  ( see below) .  . 

2. commercial options 

1) metro link 
2213 w. mcnab road 
pompano beach , fl 33069 
(305) 970 7353 
fax (305) 970 7351 
email 

summary os qnx , svr3 , svr4 .  . 012 , sco , unixware , , 
x , , isc , solaris , pyramid , sunos 
hw ega , vga , svga , tiga , targa , 8514 a , mach , 
s3 , wd , , matrox , graphics , 
other motif , openlook xview , xie imaging extension , 
xv video extension , audio drivers , multi media 

2)  ( snitily graphics consulting services) 
894 lane 
cupertino , ca 95014 
(800) 645 5501 , (408) 255 9665 
fax (408) 255 9740 
email or ... ! mips ! zok ! info 

summary os svr3 . 2 . , svr4 
hw 8514 a  ( ati ultra ) , s3  ( diamond stealth ) , svga 
other motif , dual headed server 

3) corporation 
1301 pat booker rd. 
universal city , tx 78148 
phone 1 800 388 1896 
fax 1 416 940 2903 
email 

summary os v4 . 2 . ,  version of 
unix system v release 4.2 
hw x11r4 server support for vga , svga 
other , motif , x11r5 clients 

4) the santa cruz operation , inc. 
p.o. box 1900 
santa cruz , california 95061 
(408) 425 7222 , (800) sco unix , 
fax (408) 458 4227 
email 

summary os odt 1.1 , odt 2.0 , sco unix 3 . 2v4 . 
hw x11r4 server support for svga , 8514 a , s3 , , 
, , assorted local bus  ( see sco hardware 
compatabilty guide for actual card vendors) .  . 
other motif 

5) answer software consulting 
p.o. box 14171 
columbus , ohio 43214 
614 263 xlab 
email 

summary os coherent 4 . 0 . 1r72 . or greater 
hw works with any vesa compliant video 

note other commercial vendors  ( including os vendors describing 
bundled software) are welcome to submit summary information 
summary information such as the above. 

ii ) what is xfree86 and where do i get it 

3. what is xfree86 

xfree86 is an enhanced version of x386 1.2 , which was distributed with 
x11r5 .  . this release consists of many bug fixes , speed improvements , and 
other enhancements .  . here are the highlights of the enhancements 

1) the speedup package from glenn lai is an integral part of xfree86 , 
selectable at run time via the xconfig file. some speedups require 
an et4000 based svga , and others require a virtual screen width of 
1024 .  . the speedups suitable to the configuration are selected by 
default. with a high quality et4000 board  ( vram ) , this can yield 
up to 40 improvement of the benchmark over x386 1 . 2 .  . 
2) the packages from jim are included as the default 
operating mode if speedup is not selected .  . this mode is now 
equivalent in performance to x386 1 . 1b .  ( x11r4 ) , and approximately 
20 faster than x386 1 . 2 .  . 
3) support for , compile time selectable for server , clients , 
or both. this support is for both svr3 . 2 . and svr4 .  . for svr4 . 0 . 4 . 
with the  advanced compatibility package  , local connections from 
sco odt clients are supported .  . 
4) drivers for ati and trident and svga chipsets .  . 
refer to the files readme . ati . and readme . trident . for details about 
the ati and trident drivers. 
5) support for compressed bitmap fonts has been added  ( thomas 's 
code from the contrib directory on export . lcs . mit . edu) .  . 
6) type1 font code from mit contrib tape has been included , and is 
compile time selectable .  . there are contributed type1 fonts in the 
contrib directory on export . lcs . mit . edu .  . 
7) new configuration method which allows the server 's drivers and font 
renderers to be reconfigured from both source and binary 
distributions .  . 
8) integrated support for 386bsd , mach , and linux .  . 
9) a monochrome version of the server which will run on generic vga 
cards is now included. 

the following key features were added with the release of xfree86 1.2 
 ( they were not in xfree86 1 . 1) . 

1) the monochrome server has been enhanced to do bank switching of 
available svga memory to allow virtual screens up to 1600x1200 
 ( see the  ( x386(1 ) manual page for more information) .  . 
2) support for the hercules mono card has been added to the 
monochrome server , and with it the ability to support a two 
headed server one vga , and one hercules .  . so far this has only 
been tested on svr4 (it is also reported to work under linux) .  . 
3) svr3 shared libraries , tested under isc svr3 2.2 and 3 . 0 . 1 .  . 
4) support for svr4 . 2 .  ( there are some special considerations to 
consider , due to new usl bugs see the readme . svr4 . file for 
more information . ) . 
5) support for ps 2 mice , and logitech trackman (some 
versions of these devices were not previously compatible) .  . 
6) a new tutorial on how to develop correct video card and monitor 
timing data , written by eric raymond  ( derived from previous 
documentation and a lot of experimentation) .  . 
7) greatly improved support for international keyboards , including 
implementation of the compose key functionality found on many 
vendor servers  ( see the  ( x386keybd(1 ) manual page for more 
information) .  . 
8) the accuracy with which the server detects svga pixel clocks has 
been improved , and the timings are now stored at accuracies of 
0.1 mhz .  . users may want to consider removing an existing clocks 
line from their xconfig file and re probing using the new server. 
9) many enhancements in error handling and parsing of the xconfig 
configuration file. error messages are much more informative 
and intuitive , and more validation is done. there are many new 
options that can be enabled in the xconfig file  ( see the  ( x386(1 ) 
manual page for more information on the format of this file) .  . 

plus a number of other small things. refer to the changelog file 
in the source distribution for full details. 

also included are a tutorial on monitor timing by eric raymond , and the 
current x386 mode database and a sample xdm configuration by david wexelblat .  . 

4. what oss are supported 

xfree86 supports 
svr4 . 2 . v4 . 2 . 
svr4 . 0 . , dell , , isc , at t , mst , , uhc 
svr3 isc 2.2 3.0 , at t 2.2 
linux , mach 386 , 386bsd 0.1 

bsd 386 is not supported , but it should work. the most active 
bsd 386 person is greg . 

note that 3 . 2d . and sco are not supported yet , 
but anyone should feel free to submit patches .  . 
if you are interested in tackling this , send mail to 


5. what video hardware is supported 

at this time , xfree86 1.2 supports the following svga chipsets 

tseng et4000 
tseng 
paradise 
western digital , ,  ( these are supersets of 
the , and use its driver ) 
genoa 
trident , 
ati 18800 , 28800 

all of the above are supported in both 256 color and monochrome modes , 
with the exception of the ati chipsets , which are only supported in 
256 color mode. 

the monochrome server also supports generic vga cards , using 64k of 
video memory in a single bank , and the hercules card. on the 
, only 64k of video memory is supported for the monochrome 
server , and the has not been tested with more than 64k .  . 

it appears that some of the svga card manufacturers are going to 
non traditional mechanisms for selecting pixel clock frequencies .  . to 
avoid having to modify the server to accommodate these schemes xfree86 
1.2 adds support for using an external program to select the pixel 
clock. this allows programs to be written as new mechanisms are 
discovered .  . refer to the readme . clkprog . file for information on how 
these programs work , if you need to write one. if you do develop such 
a program , the xfree86 team would be interested in including it with 
future xfree86 releases .  . 

if you are purchasing new hardware for the purpose of using xfree86 , 
it is suggested that you purchase an et4000 based board such as the 
orchid iis .  . avoid recent diamond boards xfree86 will not 
work with them , because diamond wo n't provide programming details. 
in fact , the xfree86 project is actively not supporting new diamond 
products , as long as such policies remain in effect. contributions 
of code will not be accepted  ( because of the potential liabilities) .  . 
if you would like to see this change , tell diamond about it. 

some people have asked if xfree86 would work with local bus or eisa 
video cards. theoretically , the means of communication between the 
cpu and the video card is irrelevant to xfree86 compatibility .  . it 
could be isa , eisa , or local bus. what should matter is the chipset 
on the video card. unfortunately , the developers do n't have a lot 
of access to eisa or vlb machines , so this is largely an untested 
theory. however , we have yet to see any reports of things not 
working on one of these buses and we have several reports of xfree86 
working fine on them. 

6. what about accelerated boards 

at this time , there is no support in xfree86 for accelerated boards 
like the s3 , ati ultra  ( 8514 a) , tiga , etc. this support is available 
in commercial products from and metrolink  ( for svr3 and svr4) .  . 

an s3 server is available for 386bsd and linux .  . contact 
for 386bsd or for linux .  . 

a beta 8514 a server is available for linux .  . contact 
or . note these servers are not part of xfree86 .  . 

7. why does n't xfree86 support 16 color vga modes 

the reason that this is not supported is the way vga implements the 
16 color modes .  . in 256 color modes , each byte of frame buffer memory 
contains 1 pixel .  . but the 16 color modes are implemented as bit 
planes .  . each byte of frame buffer memory contains 1 bit from each 
of each of 8 pixels , and there are four such planes .  . the mit frame 
buffer code is not designed to deal with this. if vga handled 
16 color modes by packing 2 4 bit pixels into each byte , the mit code 
could be modified to support this  ( or it already may i'm not sure) .  . 
but for the vga way of doing things , a complete new frame buffer 
implementation is required. some beta testers are looking into this , 
but nothing is yet available from the project. 

8. what other hardware or software requirements are there 

obviously , a supported svga board and os are required. to run 
x efficiently , 12 16mb of memory should be considered a minimum. 
the various binary releases take 10 40mb of disk space , depending 
on the os (e . g .  . whether or not it supports shared libraries) .  . 
to build from sources , at least 80mb of free disk space will 
be required , although 120mb should be considered a comfortable 
lower bound .  . 

9. where can i get source for xfree86 

source patches for the current version (1 . 2 . , based on x11r5 
from mit ) , are available via anonymous ftp from 
export . lcs . mit . edu .  ( under contrib xfree86 ) 
ftp . physics . su . oz . au .  ( under xfree86 ) 
ftp . win . tue . nl .  ( under pub xfree86 ) 
 ( for the rest of this faq , these 3 location will be called ftp ) 

refer to the readme file under the specified directory for information 
on which files you need to get to build your distribution .  . 

10. where can i get binaries for xfree86 

binaries are available via anonymous ftp from 
ftp . physics . su . oz . au . svr4 binaries 
under xfree86 svr4 
ftp . win . tue . nl . svr4 binaries 
under pub xfree86 svr4 
ferkel . ucsb . edu . svr4 binaries 
under pub svr4 xfree86 
stasi . bradley . edu . svr4 binaries 
under pub xfree86 svr4 
blancmange . ma . utexas . edu . svr3  ( isc ) binaries 
under pub isc 
ftp . prz . tu . berlin.de svr3  ( isc ) binaries 
under pub pc isc xfree86 
tsx 11 . mit . edu . linux binaries 
under pub linux packages x11 
agate . berkeley . edu . 386bsd binaries 
under pub 386bsd 0.1 ports xfree86 
ftp . cs . uwm . edu . mach binaries 
under i386 

ensure that you are getting xfree86 1.2 some of these sites may 
archive older releases as well. each binary distribution will 
contain a readme file that describes what files you need to take 
from the archive , and which compile time option selections were 
made when building the distribution .  . 

iv ) what general things should i know about running xfree86 

11. installation directories 

the top level installation directory is specified by the 
( usr x386 , by default ) variable in config site . def .  . binaries , include 
files , and libraries are installed in bin , include , lib . 

this can be changed when rebuilding from sources , and can be modified 
via symbolic links for those oss that support them. this directory is 
nonstandard , and was chosen this way to allow xfree86 to be installed 
alongside a commercial vendor supplied x implementation .  . 

12. configuration files 

the xfree86 server reads a configuration file ( xconfig ) on startup .  . 
the search path , contents and syntax for this file are documented in 
the server manpage , which should be consulted before asking questions. 

13. determining vga dot clocks and monitor modes 

david e wexelblat maintains a database of known 
clock settings for vga cards and monitor settings. 
the database is installed in usr x386 lib x11 etc modedb . txt . , and 
is in the source tree under mit server ddx x386 etc. this database is 
also available from him  ( for the latest copy ) , and is kept on 
export . lcs . mit . edu . in contrib x386 . modedb . z . , which is updated 
occasionally .  . obtain a copy of this database. it just might have the 
settings you need. if you create new settings , please send them to 
david for inclusion in the database. 

if this does n't help you , the videomodes . doc . (by eric raymond ) file 
with xfree86 contains tutorials on how to come up with these timings .  . 
it may be helpful to start with settings that almost work , and use 
this description to get them right. when you do , send the information 
to david wexelblat for inclusion in the database. 

note the old 'clock . exe' . program is not supported any more , and 
is completely unnecessary .  . if you need to determine dot 
clock values for a new board , remove the  clocks  line from 
your xconfig file  ( if present) , and start the server. the 
server will probe for clocks itself and print them out. 
you can use these values to put a  clocks  line into your 
xconfig file , which is not necessary , but will speed up 
starting the server in the future. 

14. rebuilding reconfiguring the server from the link kit 

if you have installed the server binary link kit , it is possible to 
reconfigure the drivers and font renderers in the server. this is 
fully explained in the readme file that is available with the link kit. 

v ) what os specific things should i know about running xfree86 

first of all , the server must be installed suid root  ( mode 4755) .  . 

15. svr4 
why wo n't my xterm run properly 

if your kernel is not built with the module , you should define 
no in you environment. otherwise xterm wo n't run. 
csh users should use  setenv no' 

the console driver patch is known to cause keymapping 
problems with xfree86 .  . it recommended that this patch not be 
installed. alternatively they keymap can be fixed with xmodmap .  . 

16. svr3 

make sure you look at ftp readme . isc . , if that 's what you are running. 

17. 386bsd 

make sure you look at ftp readme . 386bsd .  . 

also , a separate 386bsd faq is maintained by richard murphey 
. the latest version should be available in the 
file xfree86 1.2 386bsd faq at the following ftp sites 

agate . berkeley . edu . pub 386bsd 0.1 ports xfree86 1.2 
wuarchive . wustl . edu . 386bsd 0.1 ports xfree86 1.2 
grasp1 . univ . lyon1 . fr . pub 386bsd 0.1 ports xfree86 1.2 

18. linux 

you must be running linux 0 . 97pl4 . or greater , and have the 4.1 gcc 
jump libraries installed. 

make sure the binaries x386 , , xload and xterm are setuid root .  . 

if your kernel does n't have tcp support compiled in , you 'll have to 
run the server as x pn . the default startup configuration assumes 
that tcp is not available. if it is , change the two files 
usr x386 bin startx and usr x386 lib x11 xdm xservers , removing the 
pn argument to x386 .  . 

make sure dev console is either a link to dev tty0 or has the major 
number 4 , minor number 0. also note that if dev console is not 
owned by the user running x , then and xterm will not permit 
console output redirection .  . xdm will properly change the owner , but 
startx wo n't .  . 

when running xdm from rc.local , you will need to provide it with 
a tty , for example xdm dev console . 

for more detailed information , please read the file readme present 
with the distribution on tsx 11 . mit . edu .  . 

19. mach 

make sure you look at ftp readme . mach .  . 

vi ) what things should i know for building xfree86 from source 

this section has been removed from the faq , since it is 
fully explained in ftp readme and the os specific readmes .  . 
please look at those files for information on building xfree86 .  . 

vii ) is there anything special about building clients with xfree86 

20. bsd compatibility library 

a lot of clients make use of bsd functions like  ( bcopy( ) , etc. 
the default configuration files are set up to link with libxbsd . a . 
which contains emulation for  ( bcopy( ) ,  ( bzero( ) ,  ( bcmp( ) ,  ( ffs( ) ,  ( random( ) , 
seed() .  . a better way of providing the  b  functions is to include 
x11 xfuncs . h . in source files that call them. xfuncs . h . provides macro 
definitions for these in terms of the sysv  mem  functions. if you are 
linking with a vendor supplied library which calls some of these 
functions , then you should link with libxbsd . a . 

21. 

this is something that was added to allow a developer to get rid of the 
ansi ness defined in the default without having to rewrite 
the entire line. for example , with stock mit , you 'd see 
something like 
ansi o2 strings 
and to get rid of the ansi ness , the developer would have to put 
o2 strings 
in his imakefile .  . with this change , you would see a default of 
ansi 
o2 strings 
and all the developer would have to put in the imakefile is 

to get rid of the ansi ness  ( many x clients will die a horrible death 
with ansi) .  . the effect is even more dramatic in practice , because 
is actually quite complex .  . the other issue is that one must 
add   ( ansiccoptions)' ) to a definition .  . 

xfree86 contact information 

ongoing development planning and support is coordinated by the xfree86 
core team. at this time the core team consists of 

the original gang of four 
david dawes 
glenn lai 
jim 
david wexelblat 

those supporting non sysv operating systems 
robert baron mach 
rich murphey 386bsd 
orest zborowski linux 

e mail sent to will reach all of the core team. 



thanks to all the people who already sent me corrections or additions , 
especially david wexelblat  ( one of the major contributors of updates) .  . 

steve kotsopoulos p . eng .  . mail 
systems analyst bitnet 
engineering computing facility uucp uunet ! ! ecf ! steve 
university of toronto phone (416) 978 5898 

from  ( julian anigbogu ) 
subject x11r5 on 
organization crin inria lorraine 
lines 14 

hi netters , 
having inherited a (s 4000 sun 4 compatible) , i was wondering 
if somebody has ported x11r5 to this beast. since computer inc. folded 
up i do n't know where i can get the kernel to move from r4 .  . since they never 
joined the mit consortium , the regular distribution does n't work. any pointers 
will be highly appreciated. 

julian 


) 
o 
( ( ( ( ( ( 


from  ( karsten spang ) 
subject cannot create 24 plane window 
organization niels bohr institute and , copenhagen 
lines 59 

hello x ers 

i have a problem i am not able to create a window with 24 bit planes .  . the 
following code illustrates the problem 

include stdio.h 
include x11 xlib . h . 
include x11 xutil . h . 

 ( main( ) 

display display 
window win 
vinfo 
colormap colormap 
attributes 
event 
status status 

display  ( xopendisplay(null ) 
status  ( xmatchvisualinfo(display ,  ( defaultscreen(display ) , 24 , truecolor , 
vinfo ) 
if ( ! status ) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , visual not found n ) 
 ( exit(1 ) 

colormap  ( xcreatecolormap(display ,  ( defaultrootwindow(display ) , 
vinfo . visual . , allocnone ) 

attributes . colormap . colormap 

win  ( xcreatewindow(display ,  ( defaultrootwindow(display ) , 0 , 0 , 100 , 100 , 
0 , 24 , , vinfo . visual . , , attributes ) 
 ( xmapwindow(display , win) 
for ( ) 
 ( xnextevent(display , event ) 



i tried this with an sgi with 24 plane truecolor server , and with an hp 
9000 700 24 plane directcolor server  ( with the obviously neccessary change) , 
both running x11r4 .  . on the client side , i have tried with x11r4 xlib on 
hp 9000 700 and decstation , and with x11r3 xlib on decstation .  . all the 
combinations gave badmatch error on the request. 

as far as i can tell from the manual , the only attribute which may give 
a badmatch , is the colormap , if it belongs to a wrong visual .  . but the 
visual was correctly matched , as i did not get the error message. what 
am i doing wrong for information i can tell that xwud aborts with the 
same error. 




internet spang 
phone 45 36 77 22 23 data 
fax 45 36 77 03 01 p.o. box 1142 
dk 2650 
denmark 

from (david barr ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization penn state population research institute 
lines 17 
nntp posting host bosnia . pop . psu . edu . 

in article tgl  ( tom lane ) writes 
commercial there 's a big difference between a polite request 
for a voluntary donation and commercial , it 's illegal to copy this 
and we 'll sic our lawyers on you software. 

there is then why does the documentation say 

commercial , government , and institutional users must register their 
copies of xv , for the exceedingly reasonable price of just 25 per 
workstation x terminal .  . 

it does n't sound like a voluntary donation to me. 

dave 

system administrator , penn state population research institute 
define 25 not a typewriter 

from  ( joe pannon ) 
subject geometry in font units in place of pixels 
organization project boeing computer services , seattle , wa 
lines 13 

i am planning to convert my motif 1.2 app from pixel to font units 
which would all be set in the app 's resource file instead of hard coded 
in the program. 

however , the word here is from people who tried this already that for 
some unknown reason xmform offsets placed in the resource file are still 
interpreted in pixel units forcing people to code those offset font units into the program. 

can somebody confirm this 

thanks , 
joe pannon 


from  ( kathy saint ) 
subject callback parameter problem after x11r5 upgrade 
organization hughes aircraft company 
lines 24 


we 've just recently upgraded our x11 to r5 and are now running into problems 
with some of our applications that use motif 1 . 1 .  . it appears that pointer to 
the widget being passed to the callback function (i . e .  . , the w of 
(w , client , call) ) is nil .  . the client and call pointers are okay in some 
instances , but bogus in other instances .  . 

we are running sunos 4.1.2 on a sun 4. after compiling x11r5 and all 23 
patches  ( with the flag set) , we recompiled motif and then we 
recompiled the application. 

did we skip a step or leave something out is there a flag that we should 
have used should we have left motif alone 

any answers or suggestions would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks 
kathy 


kathy saint she 's a witch ! ! she 's a witch ! ! . 
i'm not dead yet. how can you tell she 's a witch 
she looks like one ! ! 
python the holy grail 

from  ( jeffrey s. weber ) 
subject xview , sun , performance problem 
organization hrb systems , inc. 
lines 16 


i 've written an application for sparcstation 2 gx , under openwindows 3 . 0 .  . 

the application uses xview stuff to create my window , and the sun 
graphics library for rendering into the canvas .  . 

the application does real time 2 d animation , but it does not update the 
the display fast enough. 
i'm using notify set  ( xview call) to periodically kick off my 
update routine , and it 's not happening fast enough. i want it to 
update 25 times second. it 's only doing about 11. also , it appears to 
be compute bound , because if i run anything else while my is 
up , the update rate slows down even more. 

any ideas 
thanks. 

from  ( park ho ) 
subject x11r5 on ibm rs6000 
lines 18 

how are you , everybody 

i installed x11r5 on our ibm rs6000 workstation .  . os version is aix 3 . 2 . 3 .  . 
there was no problem in installation. 
but there was a problem in invoking  . 
when i invoke  xinit  , there is a error message as follows 

giving up. 
xinit unable to connect to x server 
xinit no such process  ( errno 3) server error. 

i'm a  . so i do n't know the reason why i get this message. 
please help me. i am waiting for your help. 

thanks for reading this mail. 

park ho 

from  ( vivek khera ) 
subject re  makedepend  problem 
organization duke university cs dept. , durham , nc 
lines 21 
nntp posting host cs . duke . edu . 
to (michael turok ) 
in reply to 's message of 17 may 93 20 59 30 gmt 
x md4 signature 

in article (michael turok ) writes 

we have a problem with  makedepend  it does n't know how to correctly process 
if clause in c preprocessor statements .  . it evaluates everything to 
true no matter what the are. 

... 

has anybody come up with some solution fix to   other than 
 .  .  . and willing to share it with us 

rewrite  makedepend  to use  cc m' or  gcc m' or  gcc mm  (which is 
the one i prefer , since system headers do n't change that often ) for 
generating the actual  . you 'll still need to write the 
parts that edit the actual makefile .  . i think there 's a program in the 
berkeley distributions called that will do essentially this. 


vivek khera , gradual student systems guy department of computer science 
internet box 
 ( mime mail accepted ) durham , nc  ( 919)660 ) 

from (michael doob ) 
subject re compiling ghostview under sun openwindows 3 
nntp posting host ccu . umanitoba . ca . 
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada 
lines 31 

in  ( vidiot ) writes 

in article (peter flynn ) writes 
due it seems to sun 's organisation of the x libraries and includes , 
most standard  ( gnu and other) software wo n't compile out of the box  ( well , tar 
file) .  . 

right now i'm trying to make ghostview .  . it complains it ca n't find x11 xaw ... 
so i just linked  ( ln s) the files from usr openwin share include x11 and 
now the thing still complains it ca n't find them. 

i still have n't been able to compile xdvi , not no way. 

has anyone ever managed to get anything normal to compile on a sun 
 ( sunos 4.1.3 and openwindows 3) what 's the trick i'm missing i 've even 
tried hard copying all the relevant files into the right places and 
every time , there 's some bit missing or it refuses to find it. 

sounds like you did n't load the support for those libraries when 0 . was 
loaded .  . the xaw support was missing from 0 . but added in 3 . 0 .  . 

harvard 
ucbvax ! ! ! ! brown or uu2 . psi . com . ! ! brown 
rutgers 
internet or ! brown 

or the library might be there but not pointed to by ld library path. 

michael 



from  ( saad mufti ) 
subject tool to convert a gif file to xpm pixmap format 
organization personal library software inc. , rockville md 
lines 12 


i need the tool described in the subject line. is there such a 
tool available via ftp if so , i 'd appreciate it if someone could 
e mail me the location and pathname .  . 

thanks. 


saad mufti 
personal library software 

e mail 

from (john d. irish ) 
subject button sensitivity problem motif app under openwindows 
nntp posting host network . com . 
organization network systems corporation 
lines 25 

the motif application consists of multiple transient shells as children 
of a single toplevel shell 










while a transient shell is popped up , my application modifies the 
sensitivity of a button in the toplevel shell which is hidden by the 
transient shell window. when the transient shell is popped down , the 
button sensitivity is correct but the button text remains unchanged 
(i . e .  . , solid  . subsequent selection of the button causes the 
text to revert to the correct visual state. 

when tracing event messages sent to the application , many of the events 
seen under mwm are not present under openwindows .  . 

if anyone has any suggestions or solutions please post or send me mail. 
thanks ! 


subject gui builders for vms 
from  ( mark d. collier ) 
organization southwest research institute 
lines 15 

i am looking for gui builders 's which run in a vms openvms 
environment. i am interested in both motif tools and gui independent 
tools such as xvt .  . my client also requires that the tool has been 
in production for at least 6 months in the vms environment. note 
that i have the list of tools from the faq , but not the info on 
vms availability .  . 

thanks 


mark d. collier southwest research institute 
senior research analyst automation and data systems division 
voice (512) 522 3437 data systems department 
fax (512) 522 5499 software engineering section 


from (ed posnak ) 
subject what is a client 's display variable set to 
keywords display , environment 
organization nasa 
lines 22 


is there an easy (ie via shell commands) way to tell what the display 
environment variable is for any given client process sometimes i can 
get what i want by typing ps axe if 
a. the client was invoked with a display argument 
or 
b. display is one of the first few variables defined in the environment 
 ( actually i 've never seen b. but it 's there to illustrate the type 
of thing i'm looking for) 

ultimately i wish to determine the number of displays that are simultaneously 
running a given x application. 

my system sunos 4.1.2 

thanks for any help , 



ed 
harris space systems corporation 


from  ( marcel  ( aio ) 
subject resources and cpp help ! 
organization fwi , university of amsterdam 
lines 35 
nntp posting host ic . fwi . uva . nl . 

hi , 

i am running x11r4 on an ibm rs 6000  ( aix 3 . 2) . and x11r5 on a sun4  ( sunos 4 . 1) .  . 

since i run x on both colour and black white displays , i need different 
values for the same resource , so i want to use ifdef color in my 
application defaults files. however , cpp is only invoked by xrdb , and 
not when the resources are loaded on demand .  . 

is there a proper solution to this 

so far , the only proper solution i 've come to think of , is to create 2 
different files in my app defaults , say xterm and xterm color , and 
set my to either home t n or home t n color. 
but that does not always seem to work (e . g .  . executing a remote shell 
command without reading the  . cshrc . does not set  . 

furthermore , i thought of using include xterm in xterm color. 
however , for resources in xterm that i want to override in xterm color , 
things are different on both machines. on a sun , the first found resource 
is used (i . e .  . the one from xterm , the b w one) , while on an rs 6000 , the 
last found value is used (i . e .  . the one from xterm color) .  . what can i do 
about it 

i have one last question for the specification of , i 
can use t , n , c and s. t stands for app defaults , n for the 
resource class , but what do c and s stand for 

thanks in advance for replying , 
marcel .  . 

x drs. marcel  ( aio visualization ) 
x faculty of mathematics and computer science ph 31 20 525 7522 
x university of amsterdam the netherlands fx 31 20 525 
life stinks .  . fortunately , i 've got a cold. 

from  ( mark a. davis ) 
subject re blinking cursor in xterm 
organization lake taylor hospital computer services 
lines 38 

(michael elbel ) writes 

in  ( allbery ) writes 

as quoted from by  ( bernward averwald ) 

back in the days of x11 . 1 . i did analyse the xterm code. the cursor 
was implemented by drawing a rectangle around the character. i does n't 
seem to be changed 'til now. 
but if you have the sources you could add a blinking cursor via 
or similar . 

the server overhead for this is mildly ridiculous , though  ( see also x , 
which does this in its dos windows) .  . do you really want xterm to wake up every 
half second and the server into doing a bitblt 

so what i'm running emu on a 25 mhz 68020 box. i cannot make out any 
difference in performance whether the cursor is set to blinking or 
not  ( if you think about it a bit , a cycle of 400 ms is a hell a lot of 
time for even the slowest pc) .  . since you would of course only enable 
the blinking text cursor when your xterm has the input focus , this 
application is active anyway. to repeat it , a blinking text cursor 
costs almost nothing in performance , it just needs some thought when 
designing the xterm software. 

you are stuck in a distributed system feedback loop ! what if you are on an 
xterminal or running xterm over the net to another machine that is when the 
load problems occur .  . if you had a machine with 20 attached and 
they all had blinking cursors in xterm 's , this could represent a considerable 
ethernet bandwidth waste. 

i'm not picking on you , just people keep forgetting that there is a lot of life 
out there besides distributed or workstations ! 


mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


from  ( barry margolin ) 
subject re twm 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 21 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article  ( sergei naoumov ) writes 
i run twm and would like to execute some program before leaving twm .  . in other 
words i would like to run some program before i do f . quit .  . is it possible 
to make a menu section which would contain these two parts 

in your menu definition , put 

quit twm f . function . execute and quit 

then define 

function execute and quit 
! some program 
f . quit . 



barry margolin 
system manager , thinking machines corp. 

uunet , harvard ! think ! 

from  ( skip montanaro ) 
subject re drawing networks , graphs 
in reply to 's message of mon , 17 may 1993 13 43 38 gmt 
nntp posting host spyder . crd . ge . com . 
reply to  ( skip montanaro ) 
organization ge corporate research development , schenectady , ny 

lines 27 


in article  ( jorgen eriksson ) writes 

are there any widgets , function 
librarys for drawing networks , 
graphs etc (not tree views ) 
freeware , shareware , comercial .  .  .  . 
like this , for instance 

pretty picture deleted 

just by giving the associations 
between the nodes .  . automatic 
layout generation. 

it would be nice if any node 
symbols could be used. maybe 
even to insert widgets as nodes .  . 

using different line styles etc. 
for describing associations .  . 

check out the xmgraph library in the following location 

iworks . ecn . uiowa . edu . comp . hp . gui classic xmgraph . tar . z .  . 

skip 

from 
subject looking for converters for xpm 
organization financial software 
lines 7 


i am looking for utilities for converting gifs jpegs ps etc to xpm format any 
information appreciated. 

thanks , 

michael  . 

from  ( vidiot ) 
subject re viewing postscript files under x windows 
reply to  ( vidiot ) 
organization vidiot 's other hangout 
lines 25 

in article  ( gordon sasamori ) writes 
in (george snyder ) writes 

in article  ( kin cho ) writes 

i wonder if anybody know of a x window based postscript file 
viewer that runs under sunos  ( prefered ) , hpux , or ibm aix .  . 

if you are running sun openwindows , you can use pageview . this is an 
x window postscript previewer like ghostview , but displays much nicer 

yes , but it 's broken on ow 2 . 0 .  . it does not handle multiple pages 
well. if you do n't have the proper postscript commands it will 
draw the entire document on the same page instead of pausing after 
each page. i have n't tried ow 3.0 yet , though. 

ow 3.0 is the same. but , the definition of broken is relative .  . pageview 
requires dsc compliant postscript files , in order to stop at page breaks .  . 
i do n't consider that broken. i say that any program that puts out a 
postscript file that is n't dsc compliant is broken. 

harvard 
ucbvax ! ! ! ! brown or uu2 . psi . com . ! ! brown 
rutgers 
internet or ! brown 

from  ( eric boutilier ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group 
lines 16 

(peter j. mckinney ) writes 

price 
pc xview for dos 445 . 00 . for 1 1780 . 00 . for 5 


ncd just announced a new generation of pc xview .  . they 
changed the name a little though and i ca n't remember 
exactly .  .  .  . pc  . 

it now supports windows and their press release 
implies that since it 's still priced in the 500 range 
and it 's so feature full why buy anything else 
 ( disclaimer this is not a direct quote from the 
literature , but i think it sums it up. also , i have 
never used the product . ) . 

from (stephen kelley ) 
subject x11r5 vs x11r4 configure event handling 
organization , university of maryland , college park , md 20742 
lines 31 

repost 

i have two questions  ( well probably more .  .  . ) . about how expose configure 
events are handled .  . 

i have an appl. which uses 1 window to draw in. since i give the user the 
capability of scaling and zooming as well as allowing the window to be 
resized , i made a translation table for the expose configure events. 
the expose event calls my redraw method while the configure event 
calls my rescale method. the rescale method invokes a fake expose 
event  ( actually just calls the redraw w an appropriate expose struct ) 
to draw the data. 

quest 1. 
when the appl. is compiled linked w r4  ( running in either r4 or r5 env . ) . 
i get multiple ( 4) redraws when the window gets uncovered or the size 
is changed. i assume i'm getting cascading events. is that right 
any suggestions as to how to handle trap events in a better way 

quest 2. 
when the appl. is compiled linked w r5 i get no expose events 
whatsoever. do events and or translation tables act differently in r5 

thanks in advance 





steve kelley cs captain , i protest ! 
i am not a merry man ! worf 

from  ( charles blair ) 
subject xdm 
organization university of chicago computing organizations 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 25 

i am using as the screensaver for a pc based x server. however , 
after an interval of no activity , my x session ends. this does not 
happen when i use  . 

my command is fired up from my  . xsession . like this 

time 1 locker corners 1 

my hypothesis is that xdm (i use xdmcp to start my x session ) detects 
a period of inactivity from the server , then terminates the session. 
however , for some reason , this does not happen with  . is 
there a workaround 

i 'd prefer responses via e mail. 

thanks. 






economics is not for those who are to real world problems 
which have simple and clear solutions. for these individuals , i 
recommend astrology .  . hugo 

from (brian noble ) 
subject re x server scanline padding question 
nntp posting host bach . coda . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 4 


figured it out. the answer lies in mit server ddx h .  . 

brian 

from  ( evan smyth ) 
subject re how to mask the left button 
article i.d. 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization harvard university , cambridge , ma 
lines 21 
nntp posting host harvard . edu . 

one way to mask the left button check the contents of the that the 
send to your event handling function  ( in your case , it is the 
show mouse position function. 

if the arrive in this function as 

p event 

then , the value of p event xbutton . button . is the button that was pressed .  . so , 
you just do a switch on that value in order to distinguish between them. in case 
it was not clear p event button . is an int. 

by the way , you mentioned the and if anyone can help me with 
these i would be grateful. i can not figure out how do distinguish 
between motions by which button is pressed as the motion is occurring .  . in 
essence i would like an seperate event handler for motion with each button. 
unfortunately , the sent by a does not seem to contain the 
value of the pressed button. 

any ideas , 
eps 

from (david e. smyth ) 
subject re r5 table widget causing trouble with xtquerygeometry 
nntp posting host pop 
organization jet propulsion laboratory  ( nasa ) 
lines 102 

i just got a bug report and a fix for this exact problem from 
 ( greg fisher ) 

... the most serious problem i have identified has not 
been incorporated .  . this problem occurs when the table widget 's 
is invoked by a child. this will work correctly if 
the table widgets parent complies with the xt protocols .  . however , if 
they do not , as is the case for some motif widgets , and they ignore 
, then the sizing will be incorrect .  . 
in order to see this problem , the following events must 
happen 
1. a child of the table widget must request a new size. 
2. the table widget must query its parent for a new size having set 
 . 
3. the parent must ignore the bit and resize the table 
widget .  . as part of the resize , is 
called. this will set tw table . current . cols and 
tw table . current . rows to zero .  . 
4. the table will continue setting up the new size , working under the 
assumption that it is working with a proposed and not actual 
layout. at the end , it will call  . this 
will save tw table . cols . and tw table . rows . and restore their 
values from tw table . current . cols and tw table . current . rows .  . 
however , these have already been set to zero .  . 
5. since the table widget has already been resized , it will not need a 
second resize .  . 
6. next , another widget managed by some ancestor of the table is 
resized .  . this results in the parent of the table requesting the 
tables preferred size. since tw table . cols . and tw table . rows . are 
zero , this will return 0x0 as the preferred size. 
7. the parent is very likely to grant this request , resulting in a 
loss of the whole table from the display. 


he isolated the problem a proposed a workaround which seems precisely 
correct. here is the new implementation of 
which will be released with the next update in 5 weeks 

table . c . 

void  ( xmptablenewproposedlayout tw ) 
tw 

 ( xmptableconsidersamesize tw ) 
 ( xmptableproposedcolsandrows tw ) 
 ( xmptablequeryparentforresize tw ) query only , no resize 


since we only made a query , we should still need to continue. 
however , motif is broken so that we actually may already have 
been resized .  . in that case , the proposed layout is already 
forgotten , so we should just quietly exit .  . 

if ( tw table . resize . status ) 

 ( xmptablemakecolsfitquerywidth tw ) 
 ( xmptablemakerowsfitqueryheight tw ) 
 ( xmptablegetproposedchildsize tw ) 
 ( xmptablesaveproposedlayout tw ) 

else the resize has already been done. our proposed layout would 
have been forgotten in the process. 



the the fix is identical , except of course for the names 

xp table . c . 

void  ( xptablenewproposedlayout tw ) 
tw 

 ( xptableconsidersamesize tw ) 
 ( xptableproposedcolsandrows tw ) 
 ( xptablequeryparentforresize tw ) query only , no resize 

since we only made a query , we should still need to continue. 
however , some manager widgets are broken so that we actually may 
already have been resized .  . in that case , the proposed layout 
is already forgotten , so we should just quietly exit .  . 

if ( tw table . resize . status ) 

 ( xptablemakecolsfitquerywidth tw ) 
 ( xptablemakerowsfitqueryheight tw ) 
 ( xptablegetproposedchildsize tw ) 
 ( xptablesaveproposedlayout tw ) 

else the resize has already been done. our proposed layout would 
have been forgotten in the process. 




david smyth devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 
senior software engineer ,  ( 818)306 )  ( do not use v mail yet ! ) 
, x and object guru .  . office 525 
jet propulsion lab , m s 525 3660 4800 oak grove drive , pasadena , ca 91109 

that sun windows thingy , what 's it called you know , its 
really awful. x motif that 's it motif ! yuck ! 


from  ( derek c. richardson ) 
subject 1.0 part 2 2 
keywords animation xview raster 
nntp posting host ioas09 . ast . cam . ac . uk . 
reply to 
organization institute of astronomy , cambridge 
lines 738 

from  ( pierre verpeaux ) 
subject re xdm configuration 
nntp posting host cea . fr . 
organization a l energie france 
lines 27 

in article bielefeld . de . , bielefeld . de .  ( lars , d0 231 258 , , 0526189607 ) writes 

hello ! 

we want to configure our x11r5 sytem  ( i486 33mhz running bsd like unix) 
comming up with a chooser menu with different machines on it (works) an then 
connect to them. but the only connection works is localhost ! 
an  x indirect machine ' works very well ! 
the configuration 

starting the  xdm  at boot time with no servers specified 
in xservers 
starting the x server at boot time with x indirect localhost 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . more deleted 


you need to start the x server with indirect its name. 

if you start it with indirect localhost , it use the loopback adress as 
it 's adress .  . so when it try to contact another host , this one try to answer 
on its loopback adress .  . not good. 

remember that every machine has the adress 127.0.0.1 on the loopback network. 


pierre 08 . 65 . 42 . 

from (michael hung ) 
subject internationalization .  .  .  . 
organization the internet 
lines 9 
to 



hi , is there anybody has some example programs about using 
the internationalization features in x11r5 such as a small 
x program just to show chinese texts in , menu bar or 
icons .  .  .  . thanks in advance. 

michael c. hung 


from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 22 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 



will there be no chance to get the author of this really superb program 
to remove the  institutional  point in his license statement 
or at least to say  except educational ones' at this 

i understand that use of this software by either commercial or governmental 
users should be result in a donation to its creator , but the everytime 
rare on money universities , schools or whatever else institutions should 
not be restricted .  . 

if the situation stays as is and the author explicitely states that 
he treats universities and schools as institutions in this context , 
i 'll have to fallback to xv 2.21 here. maybe our disk capacity will 
soon be dead , when every user has a copy of xv 3.00 in his home dir .  .  .  . 


o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) andre dresden . de . o 
o o 

from  ( bernhard strassl ) 
subject announce xm ui development sys 
organization vienna university computer center , austria 
lines 157 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

xm another user interface development system 


if you would like to implement x toolkit applications with c in a style 
like this .  .  .  . 

mini sample application 

class test public 
void  ( cmd(char ) 
void  ( quit(void ) 
public 
 ( test( )  ( xmwindow xm test window ) 

void  ( initialize( ) 


void test  ( initialize( ) 
menu  ( createdropdownmenu( ) 

menu  ( addlabel file ) 
menu  ( additems entry( menu item one ,  ( cb(test cmd ) , 
entry( menu item two ,  ( cb(test cmd ) , 
nullentry ) 
menu  ( addseparator( ) 
menu  ( additem entry( e ,  ( cb(test quit ) 

 ( addsubpane(edit , ) 
 ( edit )  ( settext hello world. ) 


void test  ( cmd(char n) 
 ( edit )  ( settext(n ) 


void test  ( quit(void ) 
 ( exit(0 ) 


void  ( initialize( ) 
 ( new test)  ( initialize( ) 




 .  .  . then . continue reading  ( contents of the current release 's readme ) 

xm is a user interface framework for the c language built upon x11 
and the x toolkit .  . it is designed to be a simple and intuitive programming 
interface to access the functionality of commonly used widgets .  . 
xm was initially created for the motif widget set , now support for the 
athena widgets was added. applications created with xm run in both 
environments without changes , although many nice features are only 
available when using motif .  . 
in some situations xm extends the underlying toolkit (i . e .  . providing 
a combobox borrowed from ms windows) , but never tries to replace it 
data of user interface objects is left to the widgets and only duplicated 
in rare cases. 

xm has nothing common with motif besides the general idea to 
encapsulate motif widgets in c objects and the ' ' in it 's name. many 
ideas for the xm architecture came from 's smalltalk version , 
which provides an easy to use framework for windows pm mac applications 
 ( in the very first time of development i used the windows dialog editor and 
a simple parser to create similar smalltalk and xm dialogs ) .  . 

top level objects in xm 
 windows  ,   and   which use the automatic layout 
feature of various composite widgets in motif and xaw 
  which can be individually laid out with a user interface 
builder (a first version of such a dialog editor is included in this 
distribution ) 

controls  ( children of top level objects ) 
  ,   ,  pushbutton  ,  checkbox  ,   , 
 edit  ,  listbox  ,  combobox  ,   ,   ,  drawing  ,   

the and all the button classes can display b w  ( x bitmap 
format) or color  ( gif format) pictures as an alternative to a label text. 

event handling is done by a simple but powerful mechanism which 
xt callbacks to member functions of xm objects .  . 


 ( commoninteract(ii ) is built upon the xm drawing class and provides 
components for building direct manipulative applications. is is a very 
simplified implementation of some features from the system 
 ( research project of our institute in 1991) , an approach to define a 
software for implementing direct manipulative applications 
with multiple interaction media (i . e .  . sound , alternative input devices) .  . 
if you are interrested , look into the june 1993 issue of the joop  ( sigs 
publications journal of object oriented programming) there should be 
our paper about  ( but be aware , that it is our  state of 
the art  from 1991) .  . 
 ( commoninteract(ii ) is still undocumented and is included because it was 
used to implement the dialog editor. it currently supports only drawing 
primitives  ( lines , rectangles , circles .  .  . ) . , but we plan to extend it to 
support bitmaps and some controls also. 
known problem the xm drawing class has no redrawing strategy  ( always 
redraws the whole window , even after minimal changes like selecting an 
object) , this looks very ugly on slow displays and should be fixed. 


about this first release 

xm is still incomplete and has a lot of bugs but we are using it here 
for smaller applications which are running without problems. so i think 
i can call it a  beta release  which can be used to develop applications 
for any non critical purposes. 
may be called a  pre alpha  . it 's development will 
be continued this year because we plan to use it for another research 
project here. besides incompleteness and the redrawing problem it seems 
to be stable and can be used for experimental applications. 

platforms this release was compiled and tested on 
720 running hp ux 8.07 
sun sparc running sunos release 4.1.1 
pc running linux v0 . 

caution although the whole stuff was initially developed using an at t 
standard c compiler this release is tested only with gnu g 2.3.3 or 
above (the next release will be tested with both compilers) .  . 

where to get it 


i have uploaded it on export . lcs . mit . edu . as contrib xm  . 0 . 5 . tar . z . 

 ( send a mail , if you cannot find it there , e mail addr .  . below) 

where to find more information 


the ... doc directory contains 
install how to build the libraries and examples 
readme . gnu . problems and limitations when using gnu g  ( read ! ! ) 
txt . a tutorial how to use xm 
reference . txt . a first try of a xm class reference manual 

the readme files in the ... samples gives a brief description of 
each of the seven samples .  . 


xm is free software for any non profit purposes , 
see the file ... lib copyright for details. 

send any comments , bug reports and donations ) to the author 

bernhard 
vienna user interface group 
institute for applied computer science and information systems 
university of vienna 
2 8 , a 1080 wien , austria 

e mail 



from  ( rick miller) 
subject how to make your own x face in easy steps ! 
summary how 's this 
organization just me. 
lines 46 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 2 . 33 . 
x face a bo  e ,  ( eeqgbn7qy(en7as5u k g 6  ( pd 
0g w , `x r. zs o 

will someone who can  see  the x face included in this header please reply 
and tell me if it turned out okay 

i'm not all too sure about my viewing software. i hand converted this 
thing in vi from a sun rasterfile .  .  .  . what a pain ! 

for folks who have n't the slightest , it went like this 



how to make your own x face 
in easy steps ! 

1. scan my drivers  license into a  . pcx . file. 
2. use wingif to  trim  my face out of the license , 
 reduce  it by half , and 
convert it to  . bmp .  . 
3. use paintbrush to touch up manually .  . 
4. use wingif to  reduce  it by half again. 
5. use paintbrush to touch up again. 
6. use wingif to  reduce  it by half again 
and convert it to  . gif .  . 

now over to the unix side .  .  .  . 

7. use snapshot to convert the  . gif . to a sun rasterfile .  . 
8. use to touch it up and 
convert it to an x bitmap .  . 
9. use vi (yes , a text editor ) to manually convert 
the rasterfile into the uncompressed x face format. 
 ( lots of global ed commands , and by the time you 're 
done you 'll mirror hex in your sleep ! ! ) 

now over to the linux side .  .  .  . 

a. use to convert it to what you see here 

a bo  e ,  ( eeqgbn7qy(en7as5u k g 6  ( pd 
0g w , `x r. zs o 

b. try viewing it by whatever means you have available. 
c. go back to step 9 , but do it right this time. 

rick miller 
send a postcard , get one back ! kaj vi ! 
rick miller 16203 woods muskego , wis. 53150 usa 

from  ( rui picas ) 
subject 
organization the internet 
lines 3 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

please me. 



from  ( william cheng ) 
subject re wanted diagram drawing program 
nntp posting host lanai . cs . ucla . edu . 
organization ucla , computer science department 
lines 51 

in article  ( lennart benschop ) writes 

i am looking for a program to draw various kinds of diagrams on my linux 
system. 

it must be free. 
it must run on standard  ( monochrome ) x with a small screen size  ( 800x600 ) 
no motif openlook etc. 
it must compile under linux with gcc g . most generic unix software 
works ok. 
it must produce postscript files that i can include into latex documents 
with  . or just tell me another free program that converts one 
of the supported formats to ps. 
it must produce drawings that are larger than the window size  . 

i know of several such programs , idraw , xfig .  . tgif .  . i have 
no experience with any of them. features i would like in the programs are. 

ability to draw circles , arcs , straight lines , boxes and arrows .  . 
support for both dashed and solid line styles for all of these objects .  . 
support for texts in any size. 
ability to move copy resize rotate any part of the drawing. 
ability to turn any part of the drawing into a library component 
(e . g .  . a transistor symbol composed of three lines , an arrow and a circle ) 
any aid  ( numeric coordinates , screen grid ) to align parts of the drawing. 
less essential , but in fact very handy preservation of connection. 
if i move one part of the drawing , the lines that connect that part to the 
rest of the drawing , stay connected .  . 

ideally i want the tool so general and flexible that it is comfortable to 
draw electronic schematics , flow charts , logic diagrams , data flow diagrams 
and block diagrams with it. 

i just want to know which of the programs offer which of the features on my 
and are there any other programs how demanding are the programs 
with respect to disk space , memory and cpu usage are any of the programs 
known to work on linux with monochrome x 

in the list you mentioned , tgif handles everything except rotation and 
any size text. it only supports 90 degrees rotation .  . currently , it 
supports 11  ( x11r4 standard ) font sizes. however , it allows arbitrary 
scaling of the entire drawing. effectively , it allows any font sizes , but 
you can only have 11 different sizes per drawing. 

tgif takes up  ( compiled with o option) on a sparcstation .  . i was told 
that it compiles under linux , but i have n't tried it yet. it works with 
both color and monochrome x. 

bill cheng ucla computer science department (310) 645 
c hall los angeles , california 90024 usa 
... ! uunet ucbvax ! cs . ucla . edu . ! william 

from (mike mcgary ) 
subject re ics widget data book 
in reply to offshore . no . 's message of thu , 13 may 93 07 53 28 gmt 
organization , inc. 
lines 25 

in article offshore . no . offshore . no .  ( jan olav eide ) writes 

does anyone know how i can obtain information about the ics widget data book 
i only have their email address , and they do n't seem to be reading  ( or 
replying ) to their mail. 

ics integrated computer solutions incorporated 
201 broadway 
cambridge , ma 02139 
vox (617) 621 0060 
fax (617) 621 9555 
email 

circle 9 on reader service card 



mike 

, inc. 
dallas , texas 
vox (214) 620 2100 
fax (214) 484 



from  ( casper h.s. dik ) 
subject re imake . rules . problem under solaris 2 
organization fwi , university of amsterdam 
lines 29 
nntp posting host adam . fwi . uva . nl . 
keywords imake make solaris2 

(david levine ) writes 

hey folks , 
i'm attempting to use imake to manage makefiles for a development effort and was curious 
to find out if anybody else is experiencing problems with any target that 
has subdirs generated by imake on solaris 2 platforms .  . 

for example ,  make makefiles  chokes in the very first subdirectory .  . 

i.e. target not found 

you do n't give the precise error message , but i assume that 
the making of the target fails , because make ca n't find the rules. 

we 've seen this happen with sunos 5 . x . make as well and this 
point i'm not sure why it happens. it seems to happen 
with large makefiles .  . the entries near the end get lost. 
small changes in the makefile will remedy this problem , 
as it does in your example. 

in the mit r5 distribution r5 . sunos5 . patch . this can happen with 
the target   in one of the doc directories. 

at first i thought this was a bug with make on my sun , but i built and used with the 
same results. attached you 'll find the first makefiles target rule from the generated makefile 

this is really weird. are your really sure that you were using gnu make 

casper 

from  ( jack strangio ) 
subject svr4 xclients wo n't work under svr4 . 2 .  ( repost ) 
organization prospect , australia 
lines 17 

when i changed from svr4 to svr4 . 2 . on my intel box i discovered that 
some of my svr4 xclients such as xload , etc would no longer work. 


they bomb out with the message 

error ca n't open display unix 0.0 

is this because they ca n't find the correct shared libraries , they need 
to be recompiled , or have i not used the correct options 

both systems use x11r5 .  . 

thanks. 

jack .  . 


from  ( chan yin mei ) 
subject help ! anything about x. 
originator 
organization charles sturt university , wagga wagga , nsw , australia 
lines 24 

from thu apr 29 16 36 43 1993 
date thu , 29 apr 1993 16 36 42 1000 
from  ( gavin fairlamb ) 
to 
status r 


hello , folks .  .  .  . 
i am doing a uni .  . project and was wondering if you could 
supply with some specific info. or references for info. regarding 
1) .  . considerations for installation of xwindows in 
a hp  ( 9000(unknown model) 
2) .  . motif , openlook , , linux 
3) .  . x11 ,  .  .  .  . 
4) .  . glossary of any term on x 
we considering this software for the project which deals 
in image analysis .  .  .  . 

any info. would be greatly appreciated. 

please email to 




from  ( joerg mainzer ) 
subject 
reply to  ( joerg mainzer ) 
organization german national research center for information technology  ( gmd ) 
lines 26 


hello everybody ! 

does anybody know how to implement with use of 
the problem is that i do n't know how many characters can be drawn in 
a region. have i to calculate character for character the width of the drawn 
text 

thank you in advance. 

, , , 
(o o) 
ooo ( ) ooo 
joerg internet 
german nat .  . research center x . 
for information technology voice 49 6151 
15 fax 49 6151 
w 6100 darmstadt , germany 


symptom bar moving. 
fault you are being carried out. 
solution find out if you are being taken to another bar if not complain 
loudly that you are being hi jacked .  . 



from  ( walt daniels ) 
subject x , shared libraries , and replacing modules in them 
organization the internet 
lines 5 
to 
cc 

i know nothing about sun 's but replacing pieces of libraries , shared 
or not , is straight forward on rs 6000 's  ( all  . extract the 
appropriate pierce with ar rebind the  . o . and replace with ar .  . 
see info for details. 


from (g .  . lee owen ) 
subject re encapsulated postscript and x 
in reply to 's message of 30 apr 1993 03 26 21 0500 
lines 18 
organization tufts university medford , ma 


how do i view  . eps . files on x i have an image in color encapsulated 
postscript , and need to view it on my screen. 

several ways are available pageview (which i think came 
with our system , so i ca n't point) , ghostview  ( with ghostscript ) , and 
the new xv 3.00 package all do so. i recommend the latter two , 
especially xv if you want to do any conversion .  . 

are there any utilities that will let me convert between encapsulated 
postscript and plain postscript 
i'm not sure offhand , but i will attempt to mail you the 
comp . lang . postscript . faq , which has a list of utilities .  . 

greg owen , 
systems programmer and ta , tufts university computer science dept. 
personal info gcs go d p c m m s g w w x 
email for explanation if interested .  .  .  . 

organization queen 's university at kingston 
from 
subject tn3270 support for xterm 
lines 2 

is there a tn3270 program which support xterm i do n't like at all. you 
ca n't copy with other windows. thanks. 

from  ( deepak mulchandani ) 
subject redirecting stdout stderr of a program 
organization purdue university computing center 
lines 13 


hi , 

does anyone know how to redirect the stdout and stderr of a program to 
a callback function in x the program does not  ( fork( ) a child process 
so i guess i ca n't use pipes .  . 

can anyone help 

thanks , 

deepak 


from 
subject including color pixmap  . xpm . files in my application 
organization personal library software , inc. 
lines 10 

is there a portable and convenient way to use color picture files in 
the  . xpm . format to define an x pixmap in a motif application any 
functions , pointers , tips etc. would be most welcome. 


saad mufti 
personal library software 

e mail 


from (scott frost ) 
subject how to draw in invert mode with color 
organization chemical abstracts service 
lines 21 

how can i draw an object of a specified color over objects of varying colors 
and then erase it without having to redraw everything else 

what 's happening is this , 

if i draw it using gxcopy , it is drawn in the specified color. if i erase 
it using gxcopy with foreground and background reversed , it erases 
whatever it  . i then need to redraw 
all of the items it crossed .  .  . 

if i draw it using it is drawn in a random color nothing 
resembling what i requested .  . it properly restores the color of 
underlying objects in erase mode. 

what 's the solution 



scott k. frost uucp osu cis ! ! scott . frost . 
same bitnet inet 
personal shrewsbury rd , upper arlington oh 

from  ( tim gentry ) 
subject xio fatal io error 22 problem 
reply to 
organization boeing computer services 
lines 29 

posted for a friend without posting access  ( but with e mail access .  .  . ) . 


help , anyone ! 

i have a x client that is abnormally terminated with the following message 

xio fatal io error 22  ( invalid argument ) on x server xxxxx 0.0 
after requests  ( 10057 known processed ) with 78 events remaining .  . 

it has been known to occur when displaying on the xsun  ( x11r4 ) server. it 
occurs with a higher frequency when the client displays on the 
 ( x11r4 ) server running on 10 . 3 . 5 . on an apollo .  . 

anybody know why this may be happening any suggestions would be greatly 
appreciated. 

reply to has been set to me. i 'll summarize to the net. 

doug leary 
software development 
boeing computer services 




tim gentry boeing computer services 
this posting in no way officially represents the opinions of boeing , boeing 
computer services or possibly even the poster , for that matter. 

from (joseph sirosh ) 
subject encapsulated postscript and x 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
keywords eps 

how do i view  . eps . files on x i have an image in color encapsulated 
postscript , and need to view it on my screen. 

are there any utilities that will let me convert between encapsulated 
postscript and plain postscript 

joseph 

from (brian dealy csc ) 
subject re encyclopedia directory of widgets 
organization nasa goddard space flight center 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host narya . gsfc . nasa . gov . 
originator 


i to mention the free widget foundation which maintains a freely 
available set of widgets .  . info on this group can be gotten from 
free widgets this list is maintained by volunteers 
and you may subscribe to a mailing list which discusses various 
aspects of using and abusing these widgets 

brian 

brian dealy 301 572 8267 it not knowing where it 's at 
that 's important , it 's knowing 
! uunet ! ! kong ! dealy where it 's not at .  .  .  . b . dylan . 

from  ( thanh ma) 
subject re online help motif widget 
organization encore computer corporation 
nntp posting host edison . encore . com . 
lines 21 

 ( je pelkey ) writes 




i am looking for online help motif widgets  ( public domain or otherwise) to 
run on a sun sparc .  . 

i 'd be especially interested in help widgets that can integrate hypertext 
help , graphics , etc. 

i know that some of the gui builders like galaxy come with online 
help widgets , but i need to check into stand alone help widgets as 
well , seeing as how we have not picked a gui tool yet. 

anybody know of any widgets like this 

x resource , issue 6 

thanh ma 


from  ( paolini p) 
subject xdm x error 
organization the internet 
lines 26 
to 

when attempting to connect to an sgi indigo from a pc clone using 
a commercial x windows emulation package , the x package hangs in 
a pre login x screen mode. the login box wo n't display. using 
the package in  telnet  mode , i can to the sgi , and run any 
none graphic type things. on the pc i get an error 
read error 0 on socket 1  ( raw socket error ) 

on the sgi , in xdm errors 
i get a termination error when i kill the stalled screen on the pc 

on the sgi , in 
date time sgi xdm hung in  ( xopendisplay remote 0 , 
server open failed for remote 0 , giving up 

i have all access control disabled (i believe , message confirms 
this when i login on the  . i believe i have the sgi set up properly 
as described in the x adm .  . book by o'rielly .  .  .  .  . 

the x package tech support has n't been able to solve the problem. 

so what i'm looking for is some suggestions on where to look for problems , 
and possible tests to run to narrow down the questions. 
thanks 




from muenchen . de . 
subject german keyboard alt gr 
keywords alt gr german keyboard 
organization leibniz , muenchen  ( germany ) 
lines 25 


hi ppl , 

i am running under linux 0 . and am trying to get the german 
keyboard working. i have already recompiled my kernel and the german 
keyboard in the works just fine. 
i have found out , that there is a german keymap for x 
called xmodmap . gr . in usr lib x11 , so i ran xmodmap usr lib x11 xmodmap . gr .  . 
my first impression was very good , i was able to get z and y straight ) 
there 's still a little problem i ca n't solve however 
i cannot get at the , bar , brackets and curly brackets .  . 
the alt gr key does n't seem to work. 
i tried xev to find out whether it produces an event at all and it does. 
looking up its keycode  ( 113 ) in the xmodmap i found the entry mode switch 
which does n't ring any bell .  . the entries for the keys i cannot use seem 
to be correct. example keycode xx 
the first 2 entries i can even get at. the first one is the unmodified 
key and the second is the key with shift , but what is the 3rd 
my guess is that it should be the key with alt gr but it is n't .  . 
if anybody has run into similar problems and knows how to solve them , 
help would be appreciated. 

cu 



from  ( duncan sinclair ) 
subject glasgow rx remote execution of x programs , part01 01 
summary nice program to do remote xterms .  . 
keywords perl x remote execution 
organization glasgow university computing science dept. 
lines 976 

i posted this a few weeks back , but all i got back was an error 
message dev null permission denied . yep , dev null 
had a mode of 600 .  .  ( arrghhh ! ! ) 

with renewed interest in setting the display variable , etc .  .  . i 
thought i would post my contribution .  . 

this perl script is my solution. it trys to be intelligent about 
what it 's doing so that you should be able to type rx host . domain . etc . , 
and get a xterm running on host . domain . etc . , with all the difficult 
stuff taken care of. 

in theory , this program can do everything you ever wanted to do 
when you wanted to run a remote command in the background it 
does n't even need to be an x program. try a rx big machine make 
for instance , for a make on the remote big machine . 

for more details and a full list of features read the readme file , 
about 20 lines below .  .  .  . all comments welcome. 

duncan .  . 



! bin sh 
this is a shell archive .  . remove anything before this line , then unpack 
it by saving it into a file and typing sh file . to overwrite existing 
files , type sh file c . you can also feed this as standard input via 
, or by typing sh file , e . g .  .  . if this archive is complete , you 
will see the following message at the end 
end of archive 1  ( of 1) .  . 
contents readme imakefile manifest makefile rx . man . rx . pl . 
wrapped by on thu apr 8 18 47 48 1993 
path bin usr bin usr ucb export path 
if test f  readme  a 1 ! c then 
echo shar will not existing file  readme  
else 
echo shar extracting  readme   ( 1442 characters ) 
sed s x  readme   end of file  
x 
x glasgow rx remote execution of x programs. version 3 . 1 . 7 . 
x 
1992 duncan sinclair 
x 
to install , but there 's an imakefile to make it even more trivial .  . 
x 
perl script needs some before it is installed , just 
the rx . pl . file , and read the comments. once you 've done 
you can , then make install install . man . . 
x 

x 
x ) does the right thing for off site remote execution .  . including 
x setting up display to include domain names , and passing 
x magic cookies , or doing the xhost stuff. 
x 
x ) allow different remote user name.  ( rx l user host  .  .  . ) . 
x 
x ) smart quoting of arguments makes passing wild cards easy. 
x 
x ) custom command execution link it to to get a remote 
x emacs command. 
x 
x ) automatic xterm options names the xterm according to hostname , 
x and turns on login shell . 
x 
x ) default command is xterm .  . 
x 
x ) propagates x ish env .  . variables to remote session user may 
x extend the list of variables to pass. 
x 
x ) special handling for bourne shell users. 
x 
x ) tries to do remote execution from same directory as local .  . 
x that is , it propagates pwd , in an intelligent manner. 
x 
x ) logs errors in a file. 
x 
x ) overall intelligence (tm) makes reasoned decisions about what 
x you are trying to do , and tries to do the right thing . 
x 
x ) written in perl , for portability and  . 
x 
more info , read the man page or the source. 
x 
end of file 
if test ne c  readme ` then 
echo shar  readme  unpacked with wrong size ! 
fi 
end of  readme  
fi 
if test f  imakefile  a 1 ! c then 
echo shar will not existing file  imakefile  
else 
echo shar extracting  imakefile   ( 370 characters ) 
sed s x  imakefile   end of file  
x glasgow rx imakefile .  . 
x 
x programs rx 
x 
 ( programs ) 
x 
safe 
x 
pl . , rx ,  ( bindir ) 
 ( xinstallmanpage(rx ,  ( mandir ) 
x 

x  ( rm )  ( bindir ) 
x  ( ln )  ( bindir ) rx  ( bindir ) 
x 

x s  debug 0' rx . pl . false 
x 
safe 
x m p 
x @ perl pi e s part 
x 
end of file 
if test 370 ne c  imakefile ` then 
echo shar  imakefile  unpacked with wrong size ! 
fi 
end of  imakefile  
fi 
if test f  manifest  a 1 ! c then 
echo shar will not existing file  manifest  
else 
echo shar extracting  manifest   ( 313 characters ) 
sed s x  manifest   end of file  
x file name archive description 
x 
x readme 1 read me first 
x imakefile 1 
x manifest 1 this shipping list 
x makefile 1 
x rx . man . 1 
x rx . pl . 1 
end of file 
if test 313 ne c  manifest ` then 
echo shar  manifest  unpacked with wrong size ! 
fi 
end of  manifest  
fi 
if test f  makefile  a 1 ! c then 
echo shar will not existing file  makefile  
else 
echo shar extracting  makefile   ( 10172 characters ) 
sed s x  makefile   end of file  
x makefile generated by imake do not edit ! 
x imake . c . , v 1.65 91 07 25 17 50 17 exp 
x 
x the cpp used on this machine replaces all and multiple tabs and 
x spaces in a macro expansion with a single space. imake tries to compensate 
x for this , but is not always successful. 
x 
x 
x 
x makefile generated from imake . tmpl . and tmp 
x imake . tmpl . , v 1 . 139 . 91 09 16 08 52 48 exp 
x 
x platform specific parameters may be set in the appropriate vendor  . cf . 
x configuration files. site specific parameters should be set in the file 
x site . def .  . full rebuilds are recommended if any parameters are changed. 
x 
x if your c preprocessor does not define any unique symbols , you will need 
x to set when rebuilding imake  ( usually when doing 
x make world the first time) .  . 
x 
x 
x 
x site specific configuration parameters that need to come before 
x the platform specific parameters edit site . def . to change 
x 
x site site . def . , v 1.2 91 07 30 20 26 44 exp 
x 
x 
x platform specific configuration parameters edit sun . cf . to change 
x 
x platform sun . cf . , v 1 . 72 . 1 . 1 . 92 03 18 13 13 37 exp 
x 
x operating system sunos 4.1.3 
x 
x rules . , v 1.7 91 12 20 11 19 47 exp 
x 
x 
x site specific configuration parameters that go after 
x the platform specific parameters edit site . def . to change 
x 
x site site . def . , v 1.2 91 07 30 20 26 44 exp 
x 
x shell bin sh 
x 
x top . 
x current dir . 
x 
x ar ar cq 
x 
x cc gcc struct return 
x as as 
x 
x compress compress 
x cpp lib cpp  ( std cpp defines ) 
x gcc struct return e  ( std cpp defines ) 
x install install 
x ld ld 
x lint lint 
x c 
x 
x ln ln s 
x make make 
x mv mv 
x cp cp 
x 
x ranlib ranlib 
x 
x 
x rm rm f 
x troff 
x ms 
x tbl tbl 
x eqn eqn 
x std includes 
x std cpp defines 
x std defines 
x extra load flags 
x extra libraries 
x ctags 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x proto defines 
x 
x 
x 
x m 
x m 
x m 
x m 0444 
x m 0444 
x m 0444 
x g kmem m 
x 
x usr x11 
x 
x top includes i  ( incroot ) 
x 
x o2 
x 
x 
x  ( includes )  ( extra includes )  ( top includes )  ( std includes ) 
x  ( allincludes )  ( std defines )  ( extra defines )  ( proto defines )  ( defines ) 
x cflags  ( cdebugflags )  ( ccoptions )  ( alldefines ) 
x  ( lintopts )  ( alldefines ) 
x 
x  ( sys libraries)  ( extra libraries) 
x 
x  ( cdebugflags )  ( ccoptions )  ( local ldflags ) l  ( usrlibdir ) 
x 
x x r 
x 
x 
x sun . cf . 
x rm cmd  ( rm )  .  . ln .  .  .  . o . core errs ,  . a .  . emacs . make . log . 
x 
x imake defines 
x 
x  ( configdir ) 
x imake cmd  ( imake ) i  ( irulesrc )  ( imake defines ) 
x 
x  ( irulesrc ) imake . tmpl .  ( irulesrc ) imake . rules . 
x  ( irulesrc ) project . tmpl .  ( irulesrc ) site . def . 
x  ( irulesrc )  ( macrofile )  ( extra iconfigfiles ) 
x 
x 
x x window system build parameters 
x project . tmpl . , v 1 . 138 . 1 . 1 . 92 11 11 09 49 19 exp 
x 
x 
x x window system make variables this need to be coordinated with rules 
x 
x 
x usr x11 lib 
x usr x11 local bin 
x usr x11 include 
x  ( top ) 
x  ( buildincroot ) x11 
x  .  .  . 
x  ( incroot ) x11 
x usr adm 
x  ( usrlibdir ) x11 
x  ( libdir ) config 
x  ( usrlibdir ) lint 
x 
x  ( libdir ) fonts 
x  ( libdir ) xinit 
x  ( libdir ) xdm 
x  ( libdir ) twm 
x usr x11 man 
x  ( manpath ) man 
x n 
x 3 
x  ( mansourcepath )  ( mansuffix ) 
x  ( mansourcepath )  ( libmansuffix ) 
x  ( libdir ) nls 
x  ( libdir ) pex 
x  ( libdir ) app defaults 
x t 
x 
x  ( instdatflags ) 
x 
x imake imake 
x depend makedepend 
x rgb rgb 
x 
x 
x 
x mkfontdir mkfontdir 
x bin sh  ( bindir ) 
x 
x  ( top ) config 
x  ( top ) doc util 
x  ( top ) clients 
x  ( top ) demos 
x  ( top ) lib 
x  ( top ) fonts 
x  ( top ) x11 
x  ( top ) server 
x  ( top ) util 
x  ( utilsrc ) scripts 
x  ( top ) examples 
x  ( top )  .  .  . contrib 
x  ( top ) doc 
x  ( top ) rgb 
x  ( utilsrc ) makedepend 
x  ( configsrc ) 
x  ( libsrc ) 
x  ( libsrc ) x 
x xmusrc  ( libsrc ) xmu 
x  ( libsrc ) xt 
x  ( libsrc ) xaw 
x  ( libsrc ) 
x  ( libsrc ) xdmcp 
x  ( fontsrc ) 
x  ( fontsrc ) clients 
x  ( fontsrc ) clients 
x  ( fontsrc ) clients mkfontdir 
x  ( fontsrc ) lib fs 
x  ( fontsrc ) server 
x  ( top ) extensions 
x  ( extensionsrc ) lib 
x  ( extensionsrc ) lib pexlib 
x  ( extensionsrc ) lib pex 
x 
x tmpl . , v 1 . 14 . 1 . 2 . 92 11 11 09 55 02 exp 
x 
assert pure text 

x 
x 
x 
x 
x  ( depextensionlib ) 
x xlib  ( extensionlib ) lx11 
x 
x  ( usrlibdir ) libxmu . sa .  .  ( soxmurev ) 
x lxmu 
x lxmu 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x  ( usrlibdir ) libxt . sa .  .  ( soxtrev ) 
x lxt 
x 
x  ( usrlibdir ) libxaw . sa .  .  ( soxawrev ) 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x pexlib 
x 
x 4.10 
x 4.10 
x 5.0 
x 4.10 
x 4.10 
x 4.10 
x 4.10 
x 1.0 
x 
x  ( usrlibdir ) a . 
x 
x  ( usrlibdir ) a . 
x 
x 
x  ( usrlibdir ) a . 
x 
x 
x  ( usrlibdir ) libxbsd . a . 
x 
x 
x  ( lintlibdir ) ln . 
x  ( lintlibdir ) lx11 . ln . 
x  ( lintlibdir ) lxmu . ln . 
x  ( lintlibdir ) lxt . ln . 
x  ( lintlibdir ) ln . 
x  ( lintlibdir ) ln . 
x  ( lintlibdir ) ln . 
x  ( lintlibdir ) ln . 
x 
x  ( depxawlib )  ( depxmulib )  ( depxtoollib )  ( depxlib ) 
x 
x  ( deplibs ) 
x  ( deplibs ) 
x  ( deplibs ) 
x 
x 
x imake rules for building libraries , programs , scripts , and data files 
x rules imake . rules . , v 1 . 123 . 91 09 16 20 12 16 exp 
x 
x 
x start of imakefile 
x 
x glasgow rx imakefile .  . 
x 
x programs rx 
x 
 ( programs ) 
x 
safe 
x 
rx . pl . 
x d  ( destdir )  ( bindir ) then set x 
x else  ( set x  ( mkdirhier )  ( destdir )  ( bindir ) fi 
x  ( install ) c  ( instbinflags ) rx . pl .  ( destdir )  ( bindir ) rx 
x 
man . rx . man . 
x d  ( destdir )  ( mandir ) then set x 
x else  ( set x  ( mkdirhier )  ( destdir )  ( mandir ) fi 
x  ( install ) c  ( instmanflags ) rx . man .  ( destdir )  ( mandir ) rx .  .  ( mansuffix ) 
x 

x  ( rm )  ( bindir ) 
x  ( ln )  ( bindir ) rx  ( bindir ) 
x 

x s  debug 0' rx . pl . false 
x 
safe 
x m p 
x @ perl pi e s part 
x 
x 
x common rules for all makefiles do not edit 
x 

x 

x  ( rm cmd ) 
x 

x f makefile then set x 
x  ( rm ) makefile .  ( mv ) makefile makefile . 
x else exit 0 fi 
x  ( imake cmd )  ( top )  ( current dir ) 
x 

x  ( tags ) w . ch 
x  ( tags ) xw . ch 
x 

x load  ( alldefines )  ( srcs ) 
x 

x load  ( alldefines )  ( objs ) 
x 
x 
x empty rules for directories that do not have subdirs do not edit 
x 

x @echo install in  ( current dir ) done 
x 
man . 
x @echo install . man . in  ( current dir ) done 
x 

x 

x 
x 
x generated by makedepend 
x 
end of file 
if test ne c  makefile ` then 
echo shar  makefile  unpacked with wrong size ! 
fi 
end of  makefile  
fi 
if test f man' . a 1 ! c then 
echo shar will not existing file man' . 
else 
echo shar extracting man' .  ( 3551 characters ) 
sed s x man' .  end of file  
x . th . rx 1 4 march 1993 x version 11 
x . sh . name 
, , r remote command , xterm , anything execution 
x . sh . synopsis 
x . b . rx 
x 
x . b . l 
x . i . username 
x 
x . i . host 
x 
x . i . command 
x 
x . br . 
x . b . 
x 
x . b . l 
x . i . username 
x 
x . i . host 
x 
x . ir . args . . . 
x 
x . sh . description 

x . b . rx 
connect to the specified 
x . i . host 
xand executes the specified 
x . i . command 
xin the background , returning immediately. to allow the execution 
x programs , it copies a number of environmental variables to 
remote session. if you omit 
x . ir . command , 
rx will start an xterm on the remote host. the 
x . b . 
starts a remote xterm on a host , and also passes 
x . i . args 
the remote xterm as arguments .  . 
x . pp . 
metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted on the local 
, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on the remote 
 . 
x . pp . 
the name of the file from which 
x . b . rx 
xis executed is anything other than , '' 
x . b . rx 
this name , stripped on a leading   as the command 
run on the remote host , using any 
x . i . command 
as arguments for the remote command. 
x . pp . 

x . b . rx 
you are using 
x . b . xauth 
x authorisation , and you are calling to a off site host , or 
a different username , it will attempt to copy an authorization 
to the remote account. otherwise it will try to use 
x . b .  ( xhost(1 ) 
grant access to the remote host. 
x . sh . options 
x . tp . 
x . bi . l username 

x . i . username 
xas the remote username instead of your local username .  . in the absence 
this option , the remote username is the same as your local username .  . 
x 
x . sh . environment 
set , the values of path , display , , xapplresdir , 
, xuserfilesearchpath , , ld library path , 
xand xauthority are exported to the remote program , unless the 
xremote username is different , or the remote host is off site , in which 
only display is exported , with in all cases any variables named in the 
 . 
x . pp . 
display variable is tweaked as appropriate , to contain as qualified 
xa hostname as is needed. 
x . sh . diagnostics 
x . tp . 
x . ib . command do n't recognise my name. 
x . b . rx 
decode the name it has been called under .  . in this case 
prints a warning message , and continues , as normal. 
x . tp . 
x . b . rx usage rx l username hostname args .  .  .  . 
means it could not decode the arguments given to it. 
x . sh . author 
sinclair , july 1992 
x . br . 
based on a program with the same name from the 
x . b . gwm 
 . to distinguish this rx from other programs 
similar names , you should refer to this program as the 
x . b . glasgow 
x . br . rx . 
x . sh . see also 
 ( xx(1 ) ,  ( rsh(1 ) ,  ( xterm(1 ) ,  ( xauth(1 ) ,  ( xhost(1 ) ,  ( gwm(1 ) 
x . sh . bugs 
x . b . rx 
a number of assumptions about the relationship between the 
user , and the remote one , depending on whether the remote 
xhost is or not , and whether an alternative username was used 
xor not. 
x . pp . 
xin particular , if either the locally used shell , or the remotely 
shell is the standard bourne shell , 
x . b .  ( sh(1 ) 
strange things are more likely to happen. especially when 
's only one of them. 
x . pp . 
quoting can get messed up. 
x . pp . 
's too easy to fool the smarts in 
x . b . rx 
make it believe something that is not true , and fail because of it. 
x . pp . 

x . b . rx 

x . b . xhost 
grant access , the 
x . b . xhost 
may fail silently .  . 
x . pp . 

x . b . rx 
to send to large a command to the remote machine , it will 
fail with a parse error from csh .  . if this happens , you 
probably have to reduce the size of the exported environment. 
end of file 
if test ne c then 
echo shar man' . unpacked with wrong size ! 
fi 
end of man' . 
fi 
if test f a 1 ! c then 
echo shar will not existing file 
else 
echo shar extracting  ( 9028 characters ) 
sed s x  end of file  
x ! usr local bin perl 
x config change the line above to point to your copy of perl .  . 
x 
x glasgow rx version 3 . 1 . 7 . 
x 
x copyright 1992 duncan sinclair 
x 
x last modified early april 1993. 
x 
x distribution limited , as per the usual mit copyright .  . 
x 
x remote execution of x programs. based on a script in an old version of gwm .  . 
x 
x to install , put rx in your bin and make a link to it. 
x some configuration will be necessary , see config comments .  .  .  . 
x 
x more and more this is less and less like the original .  .  .  .  . 
x 
x major hacked to work for  ( our(my ) set up , and also partly 
x re written to work with sh , rather than ksh .  . 
x 
x maybe i 'll turn this into our first script ! 
x 
x looks like it turned into a perl script at some point big improvement. 
x 
x this code tries to be intelligent in the way it works. this means there 
x are tons of implicit assumptions about the environment it is run in. 
x these assumptions are all valid on the machines i use , and in my 
x environment. at the same time , i try to make as few assumptions as possible 
x about the remote machine. here 's a list of all the more tricky ones .  .  .  . 
x ) that the remote machine has csh .  .  ( linux ) 
x ) that bin  ( k ) sh remote shell bin  ( k ) sh .  .  ( make same . ) . 
x ) if remote shell sh , that path is compatible .  .  ( use csh , etc .  . ) . 
x ) i pass a cookie to the remote machine if need be , but does it 
x know what to do with a cookie .  .  ( eat it ) 
x ) there must be others .  .  .  . 
x 
x why am i using csh to run the remote commands simply because it does n't 
x interact badly with rsh , and hang waiting for a file descriptor to 
x be closed. i 'd rather use , or bash , or even perl , but they are not 
x as universal as csh .  . 
x 
x 
stat . pl . 
x 
x what we called 
x 
x 0 
x s . 
x 
x config 
x change these variables to be your domain name , and a pattern that 
x will match all variations on your domain name. you must include 
x those leading dots ! ! ! if your hostname includes your domain , see 
x the code further down , marked xxx 
x 
x dom  . dcs . ac . uk . 
x  .  . (  . ac .  . uk) . ) 
x 
x config 
x change this to your value of , or set the variable to if 
x you think your users are smarter than that. 
x 
x usr x11 bin 
x 
x config 
x make this the name of your remote shell command. 
x 
x rsh rsh 
x 
x end of config 
x 
x some variables we 'll no doubt use sometime .  .  .  . 
x 
x usage usage l username hostname args .  .  .  . n 
x  ( getpwuid )) 8 bin sh 
x home env home  ( getpwuid )) 7 
x xauth env xauthority home .  . xauthority . 
x  . rx . log . 
() 
x debug 0 
x 
x before anything else , close stdin .  . this might stop rx hanging 
x due to rsh weirdness .  . 
x 
 ( xclose(stdin ) 
x 
x do a l flag .  .  .  . 
x 
( argv 0 eq l ) 
x shift 
x user argv 0 die usage 
x ( l , user ) 
x shift 
x 
x 
x pick a host , any host .  .  .  . 
x 
x mach argv 0 die usage 

x 
x things to think about for the remote machine. 
x 
x mach s 
x mach . 
x 
x where am i seems we ca n't trust the dumb user to set hostname right ! 
x 
x hostname env hostname current host 
x hostname current host 
x hostname s n 
x 
x if all your hostnames include your domain , comment out the next line. 
x 
( ) hostname hostname . dom xxx 
x 
x now we know where we are , and they are , are they different 
x 
x diff hostname ne mach 
x 
x what is the display going to be 
x ! ! danger ! ! heavy regular expressions follow .  .  .  . 
x this needs to be re written to be modular and can so be extended to 
x support host to unix , as required. 
x 
x display env display 0.0 
x display s 
x display s (unix) ( d( . d ) ) hostname 2 if ( diff ) 
x display s ( .  (  ) d( . d ) ) 1 dom 2 if ( offsite ) 
x env display display 
x 
x here comes the hard bit in sh .  . quote our args .  . 
x also have to quote quotes. to cope with csh , 
x quotes are quoted thus ' ' '' 
x so for an arg foo bar , we get  foo    bar  . 
x 
 ( @argv ) 
x s ' ' ' ' g 
x s ( .  . ) ' 1 ' 
x 
x 
x so what we doing 
x 

x if ( eq rx ) last prog 
x if ( eq ) 
x  ( unshift(@argv , ls ) if ( diff ) 
x  ( unshift(@argv , xterm , ls , n , mach ) 
x last prog 
x 
x if ( r( .  . ) )  ( unshift(@argv , 1) last prog 
x warn do n't recognise my name. 
x 
x 
x if nothing else , become an  . 
x 
 ( @argv 0) 
x  ( unshift(@argv , ls ) if ( diff ) 
x  ( unshift(@argv , xterm , ls , n , mach ) 
x 
x 
x some special considerations if we are not ourselves on the other side. 
x 
( user ) 
x 
x we want to pass a cookie here. 
x 
x if ( e xauth ) 
x 
x this is going to be unsecure , as the cookie will appear in a number 
x of command line args .  . but at least it 'll work. 
x this will need enhanced if we ever fix the code above to 
x set display to 0.0 , when we return to the server. 
x 
x cookie path xauth list 
x  ( chop cookie ) 
x  ( split(' ' , cookie ) 
x  ( shift(@cooks ) 
x  ( unshift(@stuff , xauth , add , display , , ) if  ( @cooks 2) 
x else 
x 
x yuk .  . what a crock .  . i hate doing this. 
x 
x  ( system xhost mach dev null 2 dev null ) if ( diff ) 
x 
x 
x we really only want to pass a value for display. 
x 
x ( display ,  ( split(' ' , env )) 
x else 
x 
x some variables we wish to export 
x 
x ( 
x display , 
x , 
x , 
x xuserfilesearchpath , 
x xapplresdir , 
x , 
x ld library path , 
x , for , and bourne shell users. 
x xauthority , 
x  ( split(' ' , env ) , 
x ) 
x 
x braindead bourne shell , needs to be given a path .  .  .  . 
x we would rather not pass the current path , because it might not work 
x on the destination machine. i 'd rather it was set by the user 's 
x remote shell during the rsh .  . 
x fortunately , all my x programs are in an arch independant place , and 
x so it should n't cos a problem , locally .  . 
x we check against , because they might be running another shell , 
x from their login shell .  . i know , sounds weird , but it 's too 
x common round here. 
x i 've also included ksh in the brain damage , cos i ca n't see an easy way 
x to pass throught env env without it being too late.  ( we only have 
x one person who has ksh as a login shell anyway .  .  . ) . 
x oh , yeah .  .  . we are assuming that if it 's bourne shell here , then it 's 
x bourne shell there. much more important than this is that it it isnt 
x bourne shell here , it better not be bourne shell there. 
x 
x if ( m  ( k ) sh )  ( push(@vars , path ) 
x 
x 
x validate pwd routine .  .  .  . 
x 
validate pwd 
x  ( local(@pwdstats , @dotstats ) 
x  ( local pwd ) 0 
x 
x unless  ( defined pwd ) return undef 
x unless  ( @dotstats  ( stat . )) return undef 
x unless  ( @pwdstats  ( stat pwd ) return undef 
x if  (  st dev ! st dev ) 
x ( st ! st )) return undef 
x pwd 
x 
x 
x try and find a nice , valid , pwd .  . 
x 

x if ( pwd env pwd ) 
x pwd 
x s ( tmp export) ( .  . ) 2 
x pwd validate  ( pwd foopwd ) validate  ( pwd pwd ) 
x 
x unless ( pwd ) 
x  ( chop pwd `pwd` ) 
x pwd 
x s ( tmp export) ( .  . ) 2 
x pwd validate  ( pwd foopwd ) validate  ( pwd pwd ) home 
x 
x 
x pwd s ( .  . ) ' 1 ' 
x 
x try to find somewhere nice to live on the other side. 
x 
( offsite ) 
x  ( unshift(@stuff , test , d , pwd , , cd , pwd , ) 
x 
x 
x start building the full command. 
x 
var  ( @vars ) 
x ( val env var ) 
x  ( unshift(@stuff , setenv , var , ' . val . ' , ) 
x 
x 
x some commands to do on the other side .  .  .  . 
x 
 ( xunshift(@stuff , set , , ) only if we are using csh .  . 
x 
x build the remote command. 
x 
x remote (  ( umask 077  (   . , , ) dev null )) ) 
x remote s g 
x remote . remote . 
x 
x build the arg list for the exec .  . 
x 
( rsh , , mach , csh , fc , remote ) 
x 
x do it ! 
x 
( debug ) 
x print n 
x else 
x exec 
x 
x 
x rsh does n't return any indication of how it went over 
x on the other side , but that 's ok , cos we aint going to 
x wait around to see what happened. 
x 
0 
x 
x the end 
end of file 
if test 9028 ne c then 
echo shar unpacked with wrong size ! 
fi 
chmod x 
end of 
fi 
echo shar end of archive 1  ( of 1 ) .  . 
cp dev null 
missing 
for i in 1 do 
if test ! f ark i then 
missing missing i 
fi 
done 
if test missing then 
echo you have the archive .  . 
rm f ark 1 9 
else 
echo you still need to unpack the following archives 
echo missing 
fi 
end of shell archive .  . 
exit 0 



duncan sinclair 
would the real unix operating system please stand up. 

from  ( hansye s. dulimarta ) 
subject geometry option. 
organization dept. of computer science , michigan state university 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cps . msu . edu . 


greetings , 
i need some help with the detail of geometry specification .  . i have a 
program that uses xlib to create a simple window. i tried to hard code 
the x , y location in xcreatewindow but it did n't work. i also tried 
xsetstandardproperties , xsetwmhints with no luck. could somebody 
enlighten me on this subject. 

hans .  . 

hans 
pattern recognition image processing laboratory 
department of computer science 
michigan state university 


organization university of central florida computer services 
from jim ennis 
subject hummingbird software query 
lines 11 

hello , 

i am considering buying the hummingbird x windows software for a ms windows 
3.1 pc  ( 386 40mhz , ethernet  . would anyone tell me if they 
are using this package in a similar environment and if they are happy with 
it i will be connecting to sun sparcstation 10 running sun os 4 . 1 . 3 .  . 

thanks very much , 

jim ennis 
university of central florida 

from  ( saad mufti ) 
subject problem with xterm , no access to tty 
organization personal library software , inc. 
lines 19 


i'm running xterm under x11r5 , motif 1.1 , mwm and unix svr4 on a unisys 
386 based machine. my default shell is bin csh or the c shell .  . whenever 
i run xterm , i get the following message before the first c shell prompt 

warning no access to tty thus no job control in this shell .  .  .  . 

after this , i ca n't run any job control commands like fg , bg etc. also , 
i ca n't run another xterm from the command line of this xterm (i can only 
launch additional xterms from a  . menu) .  . 

i 'd appreciate some help with this problem , or pointers to where i can get 
some help. by the way , my environment variable term is set to xterm .  . 


saad mufti 
personal library software 

e mail 

from  ( dave lewis ) 
subject unsubscribe 
organization the internet 
lines 3 
to 

unsubscribe 



from derrick j. brashear 
subject summary virtual mouse in ol v wm 
organization sophomore , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

i got the following today from gary and it worked fine 

excerpts from mail 29 apr 93 re ol v wm 3 virtual  .  . 
 ( 554 ) 

hi , 

with regard to 
i have the following lines in my  . xresources . 
olwm . keyboardcommands . full 
olvwm . keyboardcommands . full 
olwm . true 
olvwm . true 

i have 
openwindows . keyboardcommands . full 
openwindows . false 

which seems to work. 

cheers ! 

gary phone 61 2 563 



from (c .  . thewalt ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization dept. of civil engineering , university of california , berkeley 
lines 41 


nntp posting host canuck . ce . berkeley . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 29 apr 1993 11 32 15 0500 

the copyright notices themselves seem to be making 
restrictions .  . i do not know how to reconcile 

copyright notice 

copyright 1989 , 1990 , 1991 , 1992 , 1993 by john bradley 

permission to use , copy , and distribute xv in its entirety , for 
non commercial purposes , is hereby granted without fee , provided that 
this license information and copyright notice appear in all copies .  . 


... with 


xv is shareware for personal use only. you may use xv for your own 
amusement , and if you find it nifty , useful , generally cool , or of 
some value to you , your non donation would be greatly 
appreciated. 25 is the suggested donation , though , of course , 
larger donations are quite welcome. folks who donate 25 or more 
can receive a real nice bound copy of the xv manual for no extra 
charge. 

commercial , government , and institutional users must register their 
copies of xv , for the exceedingly reasonable price of just 25 per 
workstation x terminal .  . site licenses are available for those who 
wish to run xv on a large number of machines. contact the author 
for more details. 
... 

it strikes me that the first part gives you the right to use , without 
fee , the program for noncommercial purposes if the info appears in all 
copies .  . this seems to cover educational institutions despite what the 
rest of the notice says. and the first part does n't say subject to 
the conditions outlined below .  .  .  . 

chris 

christopher robin 
dept. of civil engineering these opinions are not necessarily 
university of california , berkeley shared by my employer .  .  .  . 

from  ( kevin b. weinrich ) 
subject does n't read my file. 
organization computer sciences corp. 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host helios . ath . epa . gov . 

any for sun users out there i pulled down the pre compiled 
executables made for sun for , but i'm getting a whole slew of the 
following types of error messages when i try to start it up 
warning translation table syntax error unknown keysym name 
warning ... found while parsing ' key managerparentactivate()' 
warning translation table syntax error unknown keysym name 
warning ... found while parsing ' key managerparentcancel()' 
warning translation table syntax error unknown keysym name 
warning ... found while parsing ' key managergadgetselect()' 
... 
but i know i have those in my keysym 
egrep lib 
yields 




and , if i take out the osf lines from said , my copy of wscrawl 
 ( another motif compiled for sun program) gives the same type of complaints 
as listed above. 

any tips i'm mystified .  . 

kevin weinrich computer sciences corp. 


from  ( arshad mahmood ) 
subject monitor freq .  . for xfree86  ( repost ) 
organization siemens nixdorf information systems ltd. 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 23 

i need some advice regarding monitor to use with xfree86 .  . i have an et4000 
based graphic card with 1 meg of memory. i know this card is supported in 
xfree86 because a friend of mine has one of these in his pc. his monitor is 
17 colour capable of displaying 1280x1024 resolution. i cant afford this kind 
of expensive monitor. i heard from somewhere that xfree86 requires multisync 
monitor with minimum horizontal scan frequency of  . is this true 
i would only like to use xfree86 at resolution of 800x600 in 256 colours and 
so was thinking of buying a cheap 14 svga monitor. interlaced  ( cheap)14 ) svga 
monitors only have have maximum horizontal scan frequency of about  . 
will this kind of monitor work with xfree86 

please reply by email. 

in advance. 



tel 
siemens nixdorf information systems limited fax 
siemens nixdorf house email 
, bracknell 
berkshire 
england .  . 

from dortmund . de .  ( rainer klute ) 
subject imake tex looking for beta testers 
organization cs department , dortmund university , germany 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host tommy . informatik . uni . dortmund . de . 

as i announced at the x technical conference in january , i would like to 
make imake tex , the imake support for using the tex typesetting system , 
publically available. currently imake tex is in beta test here at the 
computer science department of dortmund university , and i am looking for 
some more beta testers , preferably with different tex and imake 
installations .  . 


dipl .  . inform .  . rainer klute i r b immer richtig beraten 
univ. dortmund , irb 
500500 ) tel. 49 231 755 4663 
d dortmund 50 fax 49 231 755 2386 

new address after june 30th univ. dortmund , d 44221 dortmund 

from bielefeld . de .  ( lars , d0 231 258 , , 0526189607 ) 
subject xdm configuration 
reply to bielefeld . de . 
nntp posting host uni . bielefeld . de . 
organization chaos unlimited 
lines 38 


hello ! 

we want to configure our x11r5 sytem  ( i486 33mhz running bsd like unix) 
comming up with a chooser menu with different machines on it (works) an then 
connect to them. but the only connection works is localhost ! 
an  x indirect machine ' works very well ! 
the configuration 

starting the  xdm  at boot time with no servers specified 
in xservers 
starting the x server at boot time with x indirect localhost 

the chooser menu appears with the machines named in 
bye 
' chooser ... broadcast 
the number of users on this machines and the load is 
displayed correct 

selecting an other machine than my own host the x server 
starts and nothing happens , after a time out the chooser menu 
appears again. 

i know the xdm bug in x11r4 , but all machines running x11r5 

please help 
lars 




lars e mail bielefeld . de . 
bielefeld  ( germany ) bielefeld . de . 
fuer physik d0 231 phone 49 521 106 
 . 25 fax 49 521 106 
4800 bielefeld 1 telex 932 362 



from (roberto togneri ) 
subject xdm to manage a remote display how under linux xfree86 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 16 
nntp posting host rama . ee . uwa . oz . au . 

we have suns running sunos 4.1.3 and openwindows 3.0  . we have 
used on a pc , setup to broadcast query to the unix xdm servers and 
allow a user to choose a unix client in which to login xdm will then 
manage that display. i would like to do the same thing with xfree86 
running under linux , but i do n't know how. i do n't want to the unix 
xdm to manage the pc displays as the pc 's are not always running linux 
 ( let alone  . i would like the same setup as provided by  . 

can anybody help 
thanks , 

dr. roberto phone 61 9 380 
centre for intelligent information processing systems 
dept. of electrical electronic engineering . . 
the university of western australia fax 61 9 380 1101 v 
wa 6009 australia email 

from  ( alan richardson ) 
subject xvertext version 5.0 released 
organization university of sussex 
lines 31 

now available xvertext 5.0 


another day , another xvertext release .  .  .  . 

summary 

xvertext provides you with several functions to draw strings at any angle in 
an x window  ( previous versions were limited to vertical text) .  . 

what 's new since 4.0 

o existing bitmap fonts can be magnified to give reasonable fonts at large 
sizes. 
o bounding boxes can be obtained .  . 
o the gc 's stipple bitmap is honoured .  . 
o font ids can be cached when font names are unavailable .  . 
o an imakefile is present. 
o the demos are better  ( including a ransom note like the 
comp . sources . postscript . one) 

where can i get it 

comp . sources . x . (soon .  .  . ) . 
export . lcs . mit . edu . contrib xvertext . 5 . 0 . shar . z .  ( now ) 


alan richardson , you do n't have to be 
school of maths physical sciences , old to be wise 
univ. of sussex , brighton , england judas priest 
uk elsewhere 

from  ( chuck strickland ) 
subject x11r5 on aix 3 . 2 . 2 . using cc .  . 
reply to 
organization martin marietta 
lines 17 

i have gotten x11r5 pl 23 to compile on aix 3 . 2 . 2 . using cc .  . 
but the server will not run. it starts and a couple seconds 
later exits .  . no error are displayed .  . 
my defines for compile are 
wait 0 returns null 


could somewhere share some light , or maybe the ibm . cf . file. 

thanks. 


malcolm c. martin marietta missile systems 
chuck mail point 170 
phone 407 356 pobox 
fax 407 356 orlando florida 


from (brian dealy csc ) 
subject re how works 
organization nasa goddard space flight center 
lines 87 
distribution world 
nntp posting host narya . gsfc . nasa . gov . 
keywords xlib , 
originator 


in article ,  ( leonidas nikidis ) writes 

hi , 



could someone explain to me what exactly the xlib functions 

, , do , or to 

suggest a ftp site where i can find programs using these functions. 


ps the man pages does not explain much  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


thank you , 
leo .  . 








leonidas imperial college , london , uk 
dept. of computing 

i use those routines in a widget which only redraws exposed areas. 
here 's a small piece of code that uses those routines 

static void  ( redisplay(pw , ev , region ) 
pw 
ev 
region region 

pp exposure region is an 
pp pw plotter 
pp exposure region  ( xcreateregion( ) 
region is passed via an expose event 
 ( if(region null ) 

if  ( ev send event ) synthetic event sent by widget it wants a full redraw 

x . pw core . x . 
y . pw core . y . 
width . pw core . width . 
height . pw core . height . 

else 

x . ev x 
y . ev y 
width . ev width 
height . ev height 


stuff deleted 

region now contains the exposure region 
 ( xunionrectwithregion , pp exposure region , pp exposure region ) 

else 
( region , pp exposure region , pp exposure region ) 
stuff deleted 
we need to clip on expose region for redrawing the grid 
 ( xsetregion(xtdisplayofobject(pw ) , pp gc , pp exposure region ) 
stuff deleted 
check to see if child is exposed 
if  ( xrectinregion  ( pw plotter . exposure . region , 
child core . x . , 
child core . y . , 
child core . width . , 
child core . height . )) 

so , i build up a region of exposures so that when i service my container 
widget redraw of children , i only redraw what need to be redrawn .  . 

it works for me , hope this helps you. 
brian 


brian dealy 301 572 8267 it not knowing where it 's at 
that 's important , it 's knowing 
! uunet ! ! kong ! dealy where it 's not at .  .  .  . b . dylan . 

from (michael hung ) 
subject multi bytes fonts 
organization the internet 
lines 14 
to 


i am wondering how to change the english fonts in an existed 
api to some multi bytes fonts  ( such as chinese , japanese .  .  . ) . 
someone told me x11r5 supports some internationalization 
features , but i cannot find any examples for my need. is there 
anybody has done some similar jobs 

by the way , all the english fonts should be replace by chinese or 
japanese fonts , that means in windows , menubar , button .  .  .  .  . 

that will be great if someone can share us what you have done. 
thanks in advance. 

m.c. hung 

from  ( barry margolin ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article  ( julian g. self ) writes 
was n't the shareware fee a suggestion by john 

it 's a request to personal users it 's a requirement for commercial , 
government , and institutional users. 

someone else asked whether the authors of the jpeg and tiff software had 
given permission to incorporate their code into a commercial product. i 
found the following in jpeg readme 

we specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the 
basis of commercial products , provided that all warranty or liability 
claims are assumed by the product vendor .  . 

and the following in tiff copyright 

permission to use , copy , modify , distribute , and sell this software and 
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee , ... 

looks like he 's ok on that account. 

barry margolin 
system manager , thinking machines corp. 

uunet , harvard ! think ! 

from sean michael 
subject porting athena widgets to xview 
organization senior , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 12 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 

i checked the faq on this first , and no luck .  .  . 


i need to convert the r5 tree widget for use with xview v3 . 0 .  . the 
problem is the fact that xview uses their own event loop system , and i 
was wondering if anyone had any tips  ( or converted source) on converting 
these  . 


thanks , 
sean .  .  ( wipeout 


from  ( tai yuan hou ) 
subject how to a window 
keywords icon , window 
nntp posting host orion . siemens . com . 
organization siemens corporate research , princeton  ( plainsboro ) , nj 
lines 7 

i have an application running in one window. in this application , 
i 'd like to this window , and later back to window. 
how could i do it your help would be appreciated. 

tai 



from  ( bob campbell ) 
subject motif 1.2 and ow 3.0 compiling 
reply to 
organization high altitude observatory , boulder co 
lines 24 

i 've built on my system  ( sunos 4.1.3 , x11r5 , motif 1.2 , ow 3 . 0) . 
and it builds fine , but when i run it , any child windows that 
opens , 
1) locks the mouse into the window area 
2) does n't accept any input from the mouse. 

needless to say , this is a pain in the ass , as i have to go find an 
empty terminal to login and kill  . 

is this a problem with openwindows or motif is there a patch 


bob campbell crayons can take you where no 
system manager starship can go. 
hao , 


disclaimer my views are in no way connected to my employer .  . 

a closed mouth gathers no feet. unknown 
it only requires a little thought and a little work. don hicks 
managing editor 
amazing computing 


from  ( kartik chandrasekhar ) 
subject  ( multiple(not simultaneous ) server connections 
organization the internet 
lines 13 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

hi , 

we have a requirement for dynamically closing and opening 
different display servers within an x application in a manner such 
that at any time there is only one display associated with the client. 

assumming a proper cleanup is done during the transition should 
we anticipate any problems. 






from  ( larry roger nittler ) 
subject x on amiga 4000 
nntp posting host howdy 
organization washington u. physics dept 
lines 7 

hi , there were a couple of articles posted to this group the other 
day with the above subject heading .  . unfortunately , they expired 
before i could read them. i could really use an xterm like thing 
on my amiga 4000 could give me any information. 
thanks , 
larry r. 


from  ( stan kerr ) 
subject re mac x and sun openwindows 3 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 33 
nntp posting host ux1 . cso . uiuc . edu . 
keywords mac x openwindows 3 x 

 ( benjamin jones ) writes 

i 've run into a bit of a snag while trying to get mac x up and running and would appreciate 
any responses from anyone who may have seen this problem. 

on my local network , i have a number of macs , suns and sgi machines. 

i have installed macx on all of the and can run xclients on the sgi machines 
all the live long day. the problem is when i try to run an on any sun , i setup 
the command in macx , then execute it. nothing happens , i do n't even get any command output .  . 

now , i thought it might be a routing issue , but i can run remote xclients on the suns from my sgi 
machines , as well as vice versa .  . i can also run remote xclients on sgi machines that 
are not on my local net here , but the above problem holds true for non local suns as well. 

i tried to send this as private mail , but mail to was 
rejected , so here it is 

here is an extract from the readme file that comes with macx 

users of remote commands with sun machines may find that their remote commands 
appear to do nothing and there is no output from the sun machine. this is due 
to a feature of the sun network daemon which quietly disconnects from 
requesting machines that are not known to the sun s network address ( etc hosts 
or nis hosts ) database. to successfully use remote commands with a sunos based 
machine , there must be an entry in the network address database for the 
macintosh which is running macx .  . 



stan kerr 
computing communications services office , u of illinois urbana 
phone 217 333 5217 email 

from (r lundstrom ) 
subject request unsubscribe 
organization the internet 
lines 11 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

please remove me from this mailing list we finally 
got our news feed ! 

ron l. 



ron collaborative research inc. 617 487 
main street 617 891 (fax) 
waltham , ma .  . 02154 


from (richard caley ) 
subject re overriding default wm behaviour 
organization human communication research center 
lines 18 
in reply to 's message of 27 apr 93 18 30 48 gmt 


just create the window in the place you want it and set the program 
position field in the wm normal hints property , then map it. 

then , assuming they have a non brain dead window manager , the user can 
say whether they want to us program specified positions or not. for 
tvtwm the command in the  . tvtwmrc . will do this. 

now , i'm sure that by the time this message gets out of our local news 
someone will have advised you to set the user position bit in 
the wm normal hints .  . do not do this. it 's evil. it 's a disservice to 
your users. the crocodile god will come in the night and 
remove your vital organs with a blunt spoon if you even contemplate 
it. 


o 


from bielefeld . de .  ( soenke voss ) 
subject help needed callbacks , actions and events 
nntp posting host uni . bielefeld . de . 
organization bielefeld 
lines 34 


i understood that there are two methods to connect application code to widgets 

callbacks and actions 

the problem i face now is that i have a quite long piece of application code 
that performs a lot of drawing into a window. i want to connect this to a 
widget .  . no problem so far. i could use a callback function or an action to do this , processing any events afterwards. 

but because the drawing takes some while , i want the application code sequence 
to be able to be interrupted by events. then i want to handle the events 
and resume with processing the application code at the point it was 
interrupted .  . 
it seems to me that this is n't possible , but how can i give the user the 
impression that his inputs are immediately processed 

has anybody an idea 

please answer via e mail. 

thanks in advance. 




faculty of economics 
bielefeld . de . university of bielefeld 
w 4800 bielefeld 1 
germany 

the only difference between me and a madman is 
that i am not mad !  ( salvador dali ) 



from () 
subject x on dos or windows 
organization , portland oregon , us 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 22 



i'm posting this request again since the last one had no title. 

i'm looking for x server software on dos or windows. 

i 've already seen x and but would like to be aware 
of other solutions , namely public domain or shareware implementations .  . 

i 'd also like to know , in the commercial case , about possible problems , 
incompatibilities , available window managers and libraries , etc. 

if you have any experiences in this area please let me know. 


c u ! 

 ( by(e ) 

mario 



from (david warren ) 
subject re viewing postscript files under x windows 
article i.d. dry . warren . 
organization dept. of atmospheric sciences , university of washington 
lines 9 
nntp posting host dry . atmos . washington . edu . 
in reply to 's message of wed , 12 may 1993 20 28 40 gmt 

on the subject of ghostscript , it will also solve the earlier request 
of converting postscript to hpgl to filter into interleaf .  . 

david warren internet 
(206) 543 uucp uw beaver ! atmos . washington . edu . ! warren 
dept of atmospheric sciences , ak 40 
university of washington 
e pubs library committee representative 
vice chair 

from 
subject congruent corporation .  . x motif more info ! 
organization laser scan ltd. , cambridge 
lines 61 

here follows a headerless  ( my editing ) email message in full (except for the 
header) sent to me by congruent corporation today. i received it about 5 
minutes ago , and still have n't read it. 

have fun. 


product overview 
allows existing unix x applications to be hosted on windows nt 
includes common x support clients 
supports x terminals 
provides multiuser nt 
facilitates porting unix x applications to window nt 
bsd behavior 
x programming libraries 

target market 
customers with unix x applications who want to standardize on windows nt 
allows hosting on windows nt with minimal effort 
permits x clients on single windows nt system to support multiple users 
x servers can be x terminals , unix based , nt based , windows based 

bsd library behavior 
minimize unix porting effort 
layered above standard c libraries winsock 
nt registry path drive replacement 
bsd include file layout 
true berkeley sockets 
supplies common bsd functions missing from nt 

x programming libraries 
complete x . v11r5 . libraries 
motif widget libraries 
motif uil 
registry based x configuration 
direct to windows gdi via local socket winnt 0 

x support applications 
includes full set of x client applications 
motif window manager  ( mwm ) 

multiuser nt capabilities 
special adaptation of xterm 
special nt hosted command shell 
provides logname , home facilities 
multiple users on multiple x servers can simultaneously access single nt system 

x terminal support 
to boot x terminals 
for font loading 
font server for scaled x fonts 
xremote for serial slip x 

 ( congruent information) 



washing one 's hands of the conflict between the powerful and the powerless 
means to side with the powerful , not to be neutral .  . 
quote by freire .  . 
poster by oxfam .  . 

from  ( stuart marks ) 
subject re xt intrinsics slow popups 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 37 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host 

in article , (bryan boreham ) writes 

the shell is waiting for the window manager to respond to its 
positioning request. the window manager is not responding because 
it thinks the window is already in the right place. 

exactly why the two components get into this sulk is unclear to 
me all information greatly received. 

this problem is caused by a bad interaction between the way olwm 
windows , a of the x protocol , and a bug in the xt intrinsics .  . 

the intrinsics bug is that it ignores the  ( x , y) position given in 
events. olwm is structured in such a way that , when a window 
is popped down , the last event the client receives is a event. 
at this point , the intrinsics  notion of the shell 's location is out of date. 

if a is done using the same  ( x , y) position , the intrinsics thinks it 
needs to move the shell , so it issues a request to move it 
there. however , a  ( mis)feature ) of the x protocol is that a 
request that has no effect will generate no event. the 
intrinsics thus waits for an event that will never arrive , and times out after 
has expired .  .  ( actually , things are somewhat more complex because 
the request is redirected to the window manager , but the net result is the 
same . ) . 

the solution is for the intrinsics to note the  ( x , y) positioning information 
in events. this has been implemented and is available in x11r5 
public fix 20. this is for those of you who are interested in 
details. 

s marks 


stuart w. marks 
window systems technology 2550 garcia ave. m s 21 228 
sunsoft , inc. mountain view , ca 94043 

from (d .  . lemoine ) 
subject colormap problem 
organization 
lines 24 

i am saving an image on one machine and the image on 
another machine  ( both are hp 9000 model  . the image is created 
using xcreateimage and and displayed with xputimage .  . the 
image is correctly except that the colors are wrong because 
the server on the other machine is using a different colormap .  . 

i tried saving the colormap  ( pixel and rgb values ) and on the , 
performed a table lookup against the new colormap .  . this did n't work 
because some rgb do n't exist in the new colormap .  . 

is there a way to force the server to load colors into set pixel values , or 
is there a simpler way to solve this problem i tried using 
but could n't get that to work either. 

any help would be appreciated. 


don 
naval surface warfare center 
dahlgren division 
dahlgren , va 
 ( 703)663 ) 



from  ( herb hasler ) 
subject x11r5 on ibm rs6000 
organization , , austria 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 23 

yes we have the same problem with xinit .  . the problems seems to come from the 
fact that the  ( xopendisplay 0 ) fails .  . if we try  ( on our machine 
named godzilla ) 

setenv display godzilla 0.0 

xterm 


it works fine , but the following will not work 

setenv display unix 0.0 

xterm 

did we set a configuration option incorrectly thank you for any assistance 
you can offer. 


herb 
international institute for applied systems  ( iiasa ) 
a , austria 43 715 21 ext 548 


from  ( leslie r. henne ) 
subject re ideas on xterm paste irritation 
organization the internet 
lines 20 
to 
cc 

in , writes 

moving the mouse out of the xterm window before 
clicking up will not abort the paste .  . in fact , once that middle 
button is pressed down , the paste is inevitable .  . 

so , the obvious questions. is there some way around this and , do 
others feel that moving the mouse out of an xterm window before 
release should abort the paste i would have thought this would have 
been a common enough problem that someone would have changed xterm by 
now , but maybe it 's just me. 

michael 

it is not just you. i have been aggravated many times by the mouse making 
hay of my , and would be ever grateful to everyone who would 
make keyboard alternatives for all mouse actions .  . 




from  ( mvalente ) 
subject none  ( mail relay ) 
lines 33 





hi people ! 


i'm looking for x servers for dos or windows. 

i 've already seen x and but i 'd like to be 
aware of other choices. 

is there anything on the public domain or shareware 

and in the commercial area is there anything with aggressive 
pricing 

what about incompatibilities window managers 

any info is welcome. 



thanx in advance. 


c u ! 

 ( by(e ) 

mario 



from (mike hoswell ) 
subject any way to stop and application from re 
nntp posting host alumni . cs . colorado . edu . 
organization climate and global dynamics , boulder co 
lines 17 


i'm quite familiar with a variety of window title setting methods. 

my question is .  .  .  . is there any way  ( via resources , etc) to stop an 
application 's ability to re name it 's own name properties 

 .  .  . who . cares if it 's not  nice  to the application 

i want control ! ) 

mike 


mike never stop ! toasted 
climate and global dynamics disclaimer i represent myself only 
, po box 3000 , boulder co , 80307 
 .  .  . so . i 've got that going for me which is nice. think clearly .  . 

from  ( randy paries ) 
subject help with xcleararea 
keywords , xcleararea 
organization intergraph 
lines 30 

hi , 
could some please tell me the errors of my ways. 
i am trying to update a drawable .  . this drawable 
happens to be a pixmap on a button. 

the problem is that after i do the 
 ( xcleararea(xtdisplay(m usr 0 ) ,  ( xtwindow(m usr 0 ) , 80 , 8 , 40 , 40 , true) 

this appears to work. i then do 

 ( sprintf(tmp str , r d , fun ) 
 ( xdrawstring(xtdisplay(m usr 0 ) , 0 , my gc , 78 , 10 , tmp str ,  ( strlen(tmp str ) ) 

the problem is that the new info is drawn but the old info is 
still there. even if i pass xcleararea a false and see it clear 
when it redraws the new info , the old info is still there. 


help please ! ! ! 
thanks 


randy paries 
intergraph , huntsville alabama 







from  ( dave probert ) 
subject image data format question 
organization university of california , santa barbara 
lines 63 

i am posting this for a friend 
please respond to vaughn 

i'm working on an application where we are creating a dither pattern 
and rendering it in a window by applying it to the stipple pattern 
of the gc .  . the following code segment almost works if the window width 
is an even multiple of 8. if it is not an even multiple it skews the 
pattern towards the right. another problem , whether it is an even 
multiple of 8 or not , is a series of vertical lines spaced 8 pixels 
apart. 


extern display dpy 
extern window xid 
extern gc gc 

extern int max x , max y set in resize handler 

 ( dither(pixels ) 

char pixels dither pattern data 


char bm bitmap data 
char bmp 
long i , 


max x max y 

bm  ( char  ( malloc(arraymax ) 
bmp bm 

for (i j 0 i i ) 

if  ( pixels i dither bit) 
bmp 2 j pixel on 
else 
bmp (2 j ) pixel off 

if ( j 7) 

bmp 
j 0 



stipple  ( xcreatebitmapfromdata(dpy , xid , bm , max x , max y) 
 ( free(bm ) 

 ( xclearwindow(dpy , xid ) 

 ( xsetstipple(dpy , gc , stipple ) 
 ( xsetfillstyle(dpy , gc , fillstippled ) 
 ( xfillrectangle(dpy , xid , gc , 0 , 0 , max x , max y) 
 ( xsetfillstyle(dpy , gc , fillsolid ) 


i suspect the answer is to pad the data. 


mike vaughn 


from  ( mark a. davis ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
organization lake taylor hospital computer services 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
lines 29 

 ( mark wilkinson ext 3443 ) writes 

hi all , 
this is the first time i 've posted to the net , so i hope this is 
going to the right people. 
i'm looking for software packages that run on an ibm pc clone that 
allows me to display openlook and motif windows on the pc. 
the idea is to use the pc as a cheap x windows terminal for use by 
process engineers at work. 

if you already own all the clone equipment then there are lots of such 
programs  ( see a current copy of unix world  . 

but your performance will suck lemons running an xserver on a clone .  . 
(from experience) .  . you would be much better off with an xterminal if this 
is a new install. the performance will be at least four times better. 
in addition it would be much easier to install and use. on top of that 
they will cost about the same  ( price a clone with 4mb ram , ethernet card , 
very high performance graphics card , good monitor , server software , tcp ip 
for clone software , mouse , keyboard , etc , etc , etc .  .  .  .  . you spend a whole 
lot of ) .  . 

i can get 15 tektronix terminals for under 900 , and the performance 
is over 80000  .  .  .  .  . 


mark a. davis lake taylor hospital norfolk , va (804) 461 
sys . administrator . computer services 


from  ( rainer hochreiter ) 
subject moving with keyboard 
organization elin ges . m . b . h . 
lines 13 
nntp posting host sun3 . eeam . elin . co . at . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

hi xperts ! 

how can i move the cursor with the keyboard (i . e .  . cursor keys) , 
if no mouse is available 

any hints welcome. 

thanks. 

rainer hochreiter telephone 43 (1) 89100 3961 
elin telefax 43 (1) 89100 3387 
penzingerstr .  . 76 
a 1141 wien , austria europe e mail 

from (erik wilde ) 
subject x audio extension 
reply to 
organization swiss federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , zurich , ch 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 10 

is there an official extension to x which allows the use of audio most 
of the x audio programs use system specific ways to access the audio 
capabilities of the computer they run on. is there a hardware independent 
way to do this  ( like the video extension xv ) thanks for any help. 

erik 
swiss federal institute of technology  ( eth zuerich ) 
laboratory of computer engineering and networks  ( tik ) 
eth zentrum , g61 . 2 . , ch zuerich 
phone 41 1 254 fax 41 1 251 

from  ( kevin j. jarnot ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
organization university of pennsylvania , language analysis center 
lines 19 
nntp posting host kin . lap . upenn . edu . 

in article wilkinson writes 
hi all , 
this is the first time i 've posted to the net , so i hope this is 
going to the right people. 
i'm looking for software packages that run on an ibm pc clone that 
allows me to display openlook and motif windows on the pc. 


i highly recommend 's micro x. they have versions for dos and windows , 
with support for pc tcp , or the clarkson packet drivers. i have used it 
successfully with twm , mwm , and olwm , over both ethernet and slip .  . 
and their tech support is top notch .  . they really impressed me. 

kevin 

kevin j. the monkey boys are evil 
lead programmer analyst lord is supreme .  .  .  . 
univ. of pennsylvania language analysis center 
3700 market st , suite 202 phila , pa 19104 non jerk 

from  ( gordon sasamori ) 
subject re viewing postscript files under x windows 
organization nippon motorola ltd. , tokyo , japan 
lines 16 

in  ( vidiot ) writes 

ow 3.0 is the same. but , the definition of broken is relative .  . pageview 
requires dsc compliant postscript files , in order to stop at page breaks .  . 
i do n't consider that broken. i say that any program that puts out a 
postscript file that is n't dsc compliant is broken. 

well that may be true. however , the man page for pageview for ow 2.0 
does not mention about dsc compliance .  . in any event , the point here 
is that if you try to display some ps files using pageview you will 
find out that it 's not a practical tool. 

 .  .  . v .  .  .  . 1 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 2 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 3 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 4 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 5 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 6 .  .  .  . v .  .  .  . 7 .  .  . 
gordon t. 
mcu design  ( email , 
nippon motorola ltd. voice  ( 81(3)3280 ) , fax  ( 81(3)3440 ) 0033 ) 

from 
subject how to program about wm protocols wm delete window in olit .  .  .  . 
organization lab. 
lines 8 

hi , all 
i study about wm delete window atom in open look. i study the book 
unix desktop guide to open look , i run the example of chapter 8 , but it 
is not the result described as book 's figure 8 . 1 .  . dose anyone read the book 
or run the example c) . what is the problem 
i am curious about wm delete window programming .  .  .  . anyone help me 
thanks in advance for any help ! ! ! 


from  ( tom mcfarland ) 
subject re with lang  ( bug ) 
nntp posting host hpcvusj . cv . hp . com . 
reply to 
organization hewlett packard utd corvallis 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( susan walker ) writes 
i have found a situation which i think is a bug in x or motif , but i'm hoping 
is really just a mistake on my part. does anyone know anything about 
this problem .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i am using an , and setting its to a hardcoded 
text string  ( ascii or kanji ) either via or  . 
the problem is that when the is displayed , the text is getting 
truncated , depending on the setting of the environment variables 
lang  ( more specifically lc all) .  . when they are set to japanese , 
the text gets truncated .  . when they are set to english , everything 
works fine. i am taking the default for  . 
(please note that of text is not done in my actual 
application , just in my sample code to make things easier ) 

i am running motif 1.2 , x11r5 via 01 .  . my test program is set up 
to handle 16 bit kanji characters. i have remembered to do 
 ( xtsetlanguageproc( ) prior to my and my font resources 
are set to japanese fonts .  . 

do n't know if this matters , but my dialog box and is initially 
created with uil .  . 


the problem does not happen with xmtext .  . unfortunately substituting 
with in my application is not an acceptable 
alternative  ( way too much code to be modified while in beta ! ) 

i have a small test program which illustrates the problem if anyone 
wants it. my best guess is that either the x code or motif is not 
properly allocating memory for japanese , but since i do n't have the 
source to look at it is just a guess. 

the problem was that was improperly walking the string it used 
the character count instead of the byte count .  .  .  . a oops . 
the problem has been fixed and the patch is included in the latest periodic 
patch from hp support services. 

tom mcfarland 


from  ( rainer hochreiter ) 
subject gc plane mask 
organization elin ges . m . b . h . 
lines 14 
nntp posting host sun3 . eeam . elin . co . at . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

hi xperts ! 

where can i get a good example in which plane . mask is used , or 
who can explain how is it for and how to use it. 

any hints welcome. 

thanks. 


rainer hochreiter telephone 43 (1) 89100 3961 
elin telefax 43 (1) 89100 3387 
penzingerstr .  . 76 
a 1141 wien , austria europe e mail 

from (andrew justin caird ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mlb . engin . umich . edu . 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
originator 


in article ,  ( mark wilkinson ext 3443 ) writes 
hi all , 
this is the first time i 've posted to the net , so i hope this is 
going to the right people. 
i'm looking for software packages that run on an ibm pc clone that 
allows me to display openlook and motif windows on the pc. 
the idea is to use the pc as a cheap x windows terminal for use by 
process engineers at work. 

if anyone can e mail me any recommended packages horror stories etc 
i would be greatful .  . 

thanks in advance 

mark wilkinson 





mark wilkinson e mail wilkinson 
senior software engineer 
gec plessey semiconductors 
, plymouth , england 


from age software has proven good by me. runs under ms windows and is relatively stable .  . 

could probably help you out more. 
andy 


andrew justin jobs 1) nuclear engineering student 
university of michigan 2) ring compton camera project 
dept. of nuclear engineering 3) parallel computing code work 



from  ( mickey boyd) 
subject re dump x window screen 
organization florida state university department of mathematics 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
reply to 
lines 16 

h. j. hong wrote 

hi ! i'm looking for a tool to dump a x window screen image 
any one can help me 

see xwd , xpr .  . even better , grab from ftp . cs . uwm . edu .  . it makes use 
of these programs as well , but has a much nicer interface  ( and can do more) .  . 
you can dump to postscript , bitmaps , etc. 



mickey boyd 
systems administrator 
florida state university mathematics department 
email office (904) 644 pager (904) 657 6425 


from (richard bingle ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 

organization purdue university 
lines 89 
nntp posting host cs . purdue . edu . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 29 apr 1993 10 23 41 gmt 

in article  ( julian g. self ) writes 

was n't the shareware fee a suggestion by john 
is so then it 's up to the individual to make the choice whether or not to 
honour it and part with money. personally if i was in his position i would 
do exactly the same thing , john has obviously put in lot of time and effort 
into xv and why should n't he receive some money for it. 

it is interesting to look at the  ( change(s ) of mind that john has had. 

the author file for  ( an early incarnation of xv ) reads  ( in part) 
as follows .  .  .  . 

do whatever you want with this program , though it would be nice if my name 
remained on it somewhere .  .  .  . other than that , it may be freely modified , 
distributed , and used to fill up disk space. 

the readme file for xv 1.00 ( ) reads  ( in part) as follows .  .  .  . 

note if you like the program and decide to use it , please send me a short 
email message to that effect. be sure to mention the full name of your 
organization. when our sponsors ask us  what have you been doing  , it would 
be most handy to be able to come up with a nice long list of organizations 
that are using code developed in the grasp lab. points , as 
it were. 

the copyright notices as it appeared then was .  .  .  . 


copyright 1989 , 1990 by the university of pennsylvania 

permission to use , copy , and distribute for non commercial purposes , 
is hereby granted without fee , providing that the above copyright 
notice appear in all copies and that both the copyright notice and this 
permission notice appear in supporting documentation .  . 

the software may be modified for your own purposes , but modified versions 
may not be distributed .  . 

this software is provided as is without any express or implied warranty. 


the readme file for xv 2.00 reads  ( in part) as follows .  .  .  . 

also , if you find xv to be nifty , useful , generally  cool  , and of 
some value to you , your donation (not tax deductable ) would be greatly 
appreciated. 10 (u . s . ) . is probably a fine amount to donate .  . 
folks who donate 25 and up will receive a nice , bound copy of the xv manual 
printed on a 600 dpi laser printer .  . it 'll look lovely mounted over 
your fireplace .  . 

which looks to me as a suggestion  ( see julian 's comment above) .  . 

the copyright notices as it appeared then was .  .  .  . 

copyright 1989 , 1990 , 1991 , 1992 by john bradley and 
the university of pennsylvania 

the readme for xv 3.00 reads  ( in part) as follows .  .  .  . 

xv is shareware for personal use only. you may use xv for your own 
amusement , and if you find it nifty , useful , generally cool , or of 
some value to you , your non donation would be greatly 
appreciated. 25 is the suggested donation , though , of course , 
larger donations are quite welcome. folks who donate 25 or more 
can receive a printed , bound copy of the xv manual for no extra 
charge. if you want one , just ask. be sure to specify the version 
of xv that you are using ! 

commercial , government , and institutional users must register their 
copies of xv , for the exceedingly reasonable price of just 25 per 
workstation x terminal .  . site licenses are available for those who 
wish to run xv on a large number of machines. contact the author 
for more details. 

the second paragraph to me says that universities must register and 
pay (a potentially ) large sum of money. 

the copyright notices now read .  .  .  . 

copyright 1989 , 1990 , 1991 , 1992 , 1993 by john bradley 

was this developed on upenn 's time equipment what do they , and the 
grasp lab mentioned above , have to say about all this 

richard 
dept. of computer sciences backbone ! purdue ! 
purdue university (317) 494 
west lafayette , in 47907 1398 

from  ( phil ngai ) 
subject re looking for x windows on a pc 
keywords ibm pc , x windows , windows 
organization adobe systems incorporated 
lines 8 

in article  ( technical support) writes 
may i humbly suggest x  ( of course , i'm biased .  .  . ) . 

i have a weird , oddball , one of a kind video card. it 's an 
orchid fahrenheit .  . i get to run it in 640x480 with dvx .  . at 
least i do n't have to worry about straining my eyes with that 
super vga stuff. 


from  ( douglas scott ) 
subject help with porting screensaver function 
organization center for computer music research and composition , u . c . s . b .  . 
lines 49 

this is a question aimed at those who have done some server code hacking 



i am attempting to add a working function to a new 
server. i have been able to get the screen to blank out properly , and through 
debugging i can see that my function is being called with on 0 , 
which  ( for some arcane reason ) means to blank the screen. 

my problem is that this function is never being called again with on 1 , even 
after i have moved the mouse and or typed some keys. my question is what am 
i likely to be missing that would cause this problem i copied the basic 
design of my function from the existing versions 

static next  ( savescreen(scr , on) 
scr 
on 


this was copied from the server code is it the right way 
if  ( on ! screen saver on) 
 ( nextsetlasteventtime( ) 


if  ( on screen saver on) save user 's current setting 
next save screen brightness  ( nxscreenbrightness(my eventhandle ) 
 ( nxsetscreenbrightness my , 0 . 0) . blank the screen 

else the screen 
 ( nxsetscreenbrightness my , next save screen brightness ) 


return true 


i can see in the server os code where the screensaver is called to turn on the 
saver , but i cannot find where it up the server and the 
screen. 

any tips help would be appreciated. 

thanks. 



douglas scott  ( 805)893 ) 
center for computer music research and composition 
university of california , santa barbara 
internet  ( nextmail ok) 

from  ( colin mcfadyen ) 
subject x11r5 support for 386i gx 
organization carleton university 
lines 9 

does x11r5 support the graphics accelerator board 
in the sun 386i 

thanks in advance. 

colin .  . 


from  ( julian g. self ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization department of computing at lancaster university , uk .  . 
lines 19 

was n't the shareware fee a suggestion by john 
is so then it 's up to the individual to make the choice whether or not to 
honour it and part with money. personally if i was in his position i would 
do exactly the same thing , john has obviously put in lot of time and effort 
into xv and why should n't he receive some money for it. 

just my pennies worth 

 ( keep up the good work john ) 


julian 



name julian g. self phone 44 524 65201 ext 3141 
email fax 44 524 
post university of lancaster , department of computing , engineering building , 
, lancaster , , , united kingdom .  . 

from  ( chris sherman ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
organization ncsu 
lines 45 

in (john bradley ) writes 

batten down the hatches , hide the women , and lock up the cows , xv 3.00 has 
finally escaped .  . 

it really bums me out that xv went shareware .  . 

xv is shareware for personal use only. you may use xv for your own 

what does this mean anyway can i sit in a company 
and look at pictures off the net in my spare time 

amusement , and if you find it nifty , useful , generally cool , or of 
some value to you , your non donation would be greatly 
appreciated. 25 is the suggested donation , though , of course , 
larger donations are quite welcome. folks who donate 25 or more 
can receive a real nice bound copy of the xv manual for no extra 
charge. 

commercial , government , and institutional users must register their 
copies of xv , for the exceedingly reasonable price of just 25 per 
workstation x terminal .  . site licenses are available for those who 
wish to run xv on a large number of machines. contact the author 
for more details. 

now since universities are institutions  ( right ) , does n't this mean that 
most everyone in the world is affected by this (i do n't believe there 
are that many running x windows at home yet , relatively speaking) .  . 

can the author legally sell xv xv uses tiff and jpeg code developed 
by others. did the author get permission to sell these works did 
the author also get permission from all the people who contributed to 
xv to sell their work as well 

my guess is that now nobody is going to want to help the author 
maintain the code anymore now that xv has become a commercial product , 
and support for xv will begin to slide downhill .  . 

if this is the case , then that 's a bummer .  . i really liked xv. 



chris sherman 



from  ( joe hildebrand ) 
subject re help needed callbacks , actions and events 
organization the internet 
lines 47 
to bielefeld . de .  ( soenke voss ) 
cc 



i understood that there are two methods to connect application code 
to widgets 

callbacks and actions 

the problem i face now is that i have a quite long piece of 
application code 
that performs a lot of drawing into a window. i want to connect this 
to a 
widget .  . no problem so far. i could use a callback function or an 
action to do this , processing any events afterwards. 

but because the drawing takes some while , i want the application code 
sequence 
to be able to be interrupted by events. then i want to handle the 
events 
and resume with processing the application code at the point it was 
interrupted .  . 
it seems to me that this is n't possible , but how can i give the user 
the 
impression that his inputs are immediately processed 

use a  . see  . 

you should split your drawing up into small chunks  ( this 
is the hard part) .  . then , in the callback that starts the drawing , 
you call  ( xtappaddworkproc( ) to call your the first time. 
your should be a function that returns a boolean .  .  .  . 
true when you are finished , and false when you want to keep 
processing. if you return false , the is automatically 
re installed. 

note that this method is better that using a time out loop , since 
events get processed in a more precedence oriented manner. if you 
are using the same ada bindings i am , however , you are hosed , and 
should look into  . 


joe hildebrand 

software engineer 
systems concepts 
 ( 703)273 ) 1447 

standard disclaimers apply 

from  ( samir k patel ) 
subject background processing in x applications 
organization computer science department , texas a m university 
lines 31 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cs . tamu . edu . 

i have written a server program which makes socket connections to many nodes 
and collects data from that nodes periodically .  . i need to display this data on 
my x application. i tried 
to invoke this server using which works ok. but the 
problem here is some time there is delay in collecting data. so i does n't 
returns to during that time and my application remains busy and 
it does n't respond to users input. i button press events are and 
after server finished its task. now i am going to try 
call. so that it reads pipe only when there is something to read in pipe .  . 

i am thinking of creating one pipe in which server will write and client 
which is my x application will read. now i have some doubts which you may 
be able to clarify .  . 

1) when i fork a process. it will create to copy of my process. right ! ! 
now what does this two copies mean two shells .  . where should i fork 
my application. what are the responsibilities of this processes .  . how 
should i call this processes .  . 

2) can i fork more than one processes .  . so that i can read from more 
than one servers input. 

thanks 

patel 







from 
subject  ( none ) 
organization the internet 
lines 7 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 




please subscribe me. 

e mail 


from  ( jesse w. asher ) 
subject compiling mh 6.8  ( and xmh ) on sco 3 . 2 . 4 .  . 
organization buildings 
lines 47 

i'm trying to get mh compiled  ( and then xmh ) and i'm having some problems. 
i 've got mh 6.8 , using gcc on sco 3 . 2 . 4 .  . my mh file is listed below. does 
anyone have any suggestions on what i can add to get it to compile 



bin usr local bin 
debug off 
etc usr local lib mh 
mail usr mail 
mail 
usr man 
manuals gen 
chown bin chown 
editor 
remove bin mv f 
if no tcp ip sendmail is available change mts entry to sendmail 
mts sendmail smtp 
off 
off 
usr spool 
mf off 
pop off 
options see below 
cc gcc 
o ansi d 0 d 
curses 
s 

lex lex 
sprintf int 
off 
usr local lib 
off 
ranlib off 

define bind only of the 3 . named  ( tcp ip) is used 
define sockets only if the system has 3 . sockets  ( tcp ip) 
options bind dumb more ' usr bin more ' 
options overhead shadow sockets sys5 
options 


jesse w. asher  ( 901)762 ) 6000 
buildings 
6000 poplar ave. , suite 400 , memphis , tn 38119 
internet uucp ! 

from 
subject creating your own colormap , i.e. lookup table in x11 r4 
lines 99 

hello , 

below i have the copy of some source i am using to setup a user specified color 
map for x r11 v4 .  . i am attempting to create user defined colors in terms of 
rgb color ranges .  . the calls to prove ineffective .  . 

variables are defined are as follows 

int i , j , k , lut index 
color type min image , max image 
color type image pixel value range , last image , start , end , jump , 
lut 512 
unsigned long pixel 
double red , green , blue 


data structure used by color operations 

typedef struct 
unsigned long pixel 
unsigned short red , green , blue 
char flags do red , do green , do blue 
char pad 
xcolor 

xcolor , 


with color type defined as double red , double green , double blue . 

what i need to know is how to set is it possible the values in 
to work within the call to 

start . red .  ( int ) 255 min image . red . 0 .  . 255 . 
end . red .  ( int ) 255 max image . red . 0 .  . 255 . 
jump . red .  ( int )  (  end . red . start . red . ) 7) 

start . green .  ( int ) 255 min image . green . 0 .  . 255 . 
end . green .  ( int ) 255 max image . green . 0 .  . 255 . 
jump . green .  ( int )  (  end . green . start . green . ) 7) 

start . blue .  ( int ) 255 min image . blue . 0 .  . 255 . 
end . blue .  ( int ) 255 max image . blue . 0 .  . 255 . 
jump . blue .  ( int )  (  end . blue . start . blue . ) 7) 

lut index 0 
for (i 0 i 8 i ) 
for (j 0 j 8 j ) 
for (k 0 k 8 k ) 

if ( i 0 jump . red . 1 ) 
lut lut index  . red . start . red . 
else 
lut lut index  . red . jump . red . i 1 

if ( j 0 jump . green . 1 ) 
lut lut index  . green . start . green . 
else 
lut lut index  . green . jump . green . j 1 

if ( k 0 jump . blue . 1 ) 
lut lut index  . blue . start . blue . 
else 
lut lut index  . blue . jump . blue . k 1 

red .  ( short ) lut lut index  . red . 
green .  ( short ) lut lut index  . green . 
blue .  ( short ) lut lut index  . blue . 
pixel . lut index 

printf( i d d d d pixel d n , lut index , red . , 
green . , blue . , pixel . ) 

status ( dpy , colormap , ) 
printf( i d d d d pixel d n , lut index , red . , 
green . , blue . , pixel . ) 
if ( status ! 0 ) 

xsetforeground ( dpy , gc , pixel . ) 
xfillrectangle ( dpy , win , gc , 1 , 1 , , ) 
xflush ( dpy ) 
sleep (10) 
printf( d f f f at d n , lut index , lut lut index  . re . 
lut lut index  . green . , lut lut index  . blue . , 
pixel . ) 

lut index lut index 1 


thanks in advance to anyone who can help me with this problem. 

sincerely , 

john f. duggan 


john f. duggan alias genghis khan 
engineering computer services , internet 
univ. of massachusetts , amherst , ma 01003 bitnet 

from 
subject aix3 . 2 . version of andrew 5.1 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 97 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

the andrew consortium 
of the school of computer science at carnegie mellon 
is pleased to announce 

5 . 1 . 1 . for aix3 . 2 . 
4 26 93 

the andrew user interface system version 5.1  ( our cdrom version) was 
developed for aix version 3.1 on the ibm rs 6000 and many other 
platforms .  . to accomodate aix version 3.2 , we have created a patch to 
the sources. the patch and accompanying instructions for its 
application can be retrieved at no charge via anonymous ftp from the 
internet host emsworth . andrew . cmu . edu . (128 . 2 . 45 . in the directory 
.  . for those without internet access , a 3.5 diskette can be 
ordered for 10 by sending , or faxing , a purchase order to the address 
below. 

the base 5.1 system can be ordered from us as a cdrom or ftp'ed from the 
same host. 

note that this patch adds no additional functionality but simply allows 
to compile under aix3 . 2 .  . 



the andrew user interface system  ( auis ) is a comprehensive environment 
on top of x11 windows in which you can create , use , and mail multi media 
applications and documents .  . a major advantage of is the 
capability to recursively embed objects .  . thus , one can edit text that 
not only contains multiple fonts , , and other typography , but 
also contains embedded raster images , spreadsheets , drawing editors , 
equations , simple animations , and so on. these embedded objects can 
themselves contain other objects , including text. 

has three components 

the andrew user environment is an integrated and extensible set 
of applications beginning with the ez text editor , a help 
system , a system monitoring tool , an editor based shell 
interface , and other editors corresponding to the various 
available types of objects .  . 

the andrew toolkit  ( atk ) is a portable , object oriented 
user interface toolkit that provides the architecture wherein 
objects can be embedded in one another. with the toolkit , 
programmers can create new objects that can be embedded as 
easily as those that come with the system. 

the andrew message system  ( ams ) provides a multi media interface 
to mail and bulletin boards. ams supports several mail 
management strategies and implements many advanced features 
including authentication , return receipts , automatic sorting of 
mail , vote collection and , enclosures , audit trails 
of related messages , and subscription management. it also 
provides a variety of interfaces that support and 
low function personal computers in addition to high function 
workstations .  . 

the current public release of andrew , version 5.1 , includes support for 
the new internet mime  ( multipurpose internet mail extensions ) standards 
for multipart , multimedia mail. a newer release , 5.2 , for members of 
the andrew consortium has numerous additional features including new 
editors for drawings , images , fonts , and user preferences .  . 


remote andrew demo service 

you can try out andrew from your own work station via the remote andrew 
demo service. you need a host machine on the internet running the x11 
window system. you 'll be able to compose multimedia documents , navigate 
through the interactive andrew tour , and use the andrew message system 
to browse through a few of cmu 's four thousand bulletin boards and 
newsgroups .  . 

to get started with the remote andrew demo service , simply run the 
following command on your machine 

finger 

the service will give you further instructions. 


more information about andrew is available from 

information requests 
andrew consortium 
carnegie mellon university 
smith hall 106 
5000 forbes avenue 
pittsburgh , pa 15213 3890 
usa 
phone 1 412 268 6710 
fax 1 412 682 
info andrew 

contact info andrew for additional information. 


from  ( derek c. richardson ) 
subject 1.0 part 1 2 
keywords animation xview raster 
nntp posting host ioas09 . ast . cam . ac . uk . 
reply to 
organization institute of astronomy , cambridge 
lines 699 

well , thanks largely to subscribers of this group , here 's 1.0 , 
the animation package i started just over 3 weeks ago. a number of the 
solutions provided through discussions here have been incorporated in 
the code , so have a look ! the full blurb has been posted to 
comp . windows . x . announce .  . 

this post is in two parts. to unpack the source code , extract the 
articles into and  ( for example) .  . use a text editor to 
remove leading and trailing text at the cut here markers 
 ( including the markers themselves) .  . next type cat 
file , then uudecode file and zcat 0 . tar . z . tar xvf . 
read the readme file for instructions on how to proceed from there. 
enjoy ! 

derek 

p.s. the source is also available for anon ftp from export . lcs . mit . edu . 
in the contrib directory. if there is enough demand , a static binary 
will be provided for those without the xview libraries or include 
files. 


derek c. richardson tel  ( 0223 ) x 37501 
institute of astronomy fax  ( 0223 ) 
cambridge , u.k. 
e mail 




from  ( larry w. virden ) 
subject re summary virtual mouse in ol v wm 
reply to  ( larry w. virden ) 
organization software and shoe , uninc .  . 
lines 21 

in article derrick j. brashear writes 

i got the following today from gary and it worked fine 

excerpts from mail 29 apr 93 re ol v wm 3 virtual  .  . 
 ( 554 ) 


i have 
openwindows . keyboardcommands . full 
openwindows . false 

which seems to work. 


where can i find man pages about resource it does n't 
show up in my openwindows 3.0 man pages .  .  .  . 

s 
s larry w. inet 
s personal 674 falls place , , oh 

from  ( kaleb keithley ) 
subject re seeking a simple wm 
organization x consortium , mit laboratory for computer science 
lines 17 

(paul martz ) writes 

in article  ( basile starynkevitch ) writes 
i'm seeking a simple window manager  ( icccm compliant ) with a minimal doc. 
i do n't want ol wm twm gwm twm .  . 

whatever happened to uwm is it still available in some form it 's 
been years since i used it or heard anyone talk about it. 

i'm 99 44 100 positive that uwm is n't icccm compliant .  . if you want it , 
the r4 sources are still available on export . lcs . mit . edu . (18 . 24 . 0 . 12) . 
in pub r4 .  . 



kaleb 


from  ( sandiway fong ) 
subject sun 4.1.3 , openwindows 3.0 problem static linking and x libraries 
originator 
reply to 
organization nec research institute 
lines 66 


i build two executables for the same application. 
let 's call them  ( uses shared libs ) and  ( statically  . 

the problem is that i get problems when trying to build the static one , 
but not the dynamic one. see the trace below. 

btw , the static one runs fine despite the ominous error message. 
can someone clue me in as to why the static one bombs at link time 

thanks very much , 




dr. fong 
nec research institute inc. 
4 independence way 
princeton nj 08540 

(609) 951 
(609) 951 (fax) 

here is the linking stage .  .  .  . 

quintus 1 . 1 . sun4 4.1 ld e start o . 
quintus generic 1 . 1 . library sun4 4 a . 
quintus generic 1 . 1 . library sun4 4 a . 
quintus 1 . 1 . sun4 4.1 a . 
lm l usr local guide lib 
lx11 lc o 
undefined 












error code 1 
make fatal error command failed for target  


statically linked 

the shared lib version is linked in exactly the same way save for the omission 
of  . 


1 . usr local lib so . 1 . 0 . 
2 . usr local lib so . 2 . 7 . 
0 . usr openwin lib so . 0 . 2 . 
3 . usr openwin lib so . 3 . 1 . 
3 . usr openwin lib so . 3 . 1 . 
lx11 . 4 . usr openwin lib libx11 . so . 4 . 3 . 
1 . usr openwin lib so . 1 . 0 . 
lc . 1 . usr lib libc . so . 1 . 8 . 
2 . usr lib so . 2 . 14 . 
ldl . 1 . usr lib libdl . so . 1 . 0 . 



from  ( sylvain meunier ) 
subject re xv 3.00 has escaped ! 
reply to 
organization telecom paris  ( enst ) , france 
lines 16 

in article , (brian glendenning ) writes 

alas , we too will have to stop using it. 

brian 
we where following version of xv and i have been very surprise to discover that 
the new version is a shareware what a pitty ! ! ! ( . 
what i found on the was the freeware .  . i make myself a freeware and 
i spent long time on it but i do n't plain to make paid to use it. i think 
if spent some time to make freeware , will be paid by the use 
of other freeware .  . 

here we will stay with xv 2 and drop xv 3. 


s. e mail 

from (david schlotzhauer ) 
subject or question 
originator 
nntp posting host kestrel . unx . sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 15 


i want to do something like this 

date s 0 

to get the output of the date command put into the selection. 
unfortunately , is an interactive little bugger and there is n't a 
command argument to tell it to just do it and not put up its little 
window. so , is there some other command that i can use like this or , 
is there an analog to that will put stuff in instead of cut 
buffer 0 


david phone (919) 677 8000 
sas institute inc. e mail 

from 
subject printing xbm files 
organization the internet 
lines 20 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 
to 

hi 

does anyone know of a direct way to print an image of an  . xbm . file. 

please reply directly and i 'll post a summary .  . 


any opinion presented here is my own , and does not reflect the policy 
of my employer , nasa , or the ames research center. 

roger smith 
sterling software at 
nasa ames research center 


if change is inevitable predictable beneficial 
does n't logic demand that you be a part of it 
one man cannot summon the future. but one man can change the present ! 
kirk and the alternate spock , mirror , mirror , unknown 


subject re x on dos or windows 
from (c .  . lee ) 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization cal state university , los angeles 
nntp posting host mars . calstatela . edu . 
lines 29 

in article , () writes 


i'm posting this request again since the last one had no title. 

i'm looking for x server software on dos or windows. 

i 've already seen x and but would like to be aware 
of other solutions , namely public domain or shareware implementations .  . 

i 'd also like to know , in the commercial case , about possible problems , 
incompatibilities , available window managers and libraries , etc. 

if you have any experiences in this area please let me know. 


c u ! 

 ( by(e ) 

mario 





try linux .  . available on the internet. 



from  ( steve alexander ) 
subject re compiling mh 6.8  ( and xmh ) on sco 3 . 2 . 4 .  . 
nntp posting host i88 . isc . com . 
organization lachman technology , inc. , naperville , il 
lines 62 

in article  ( jesse w. asher ) writes 
i'm trying to get mh compiled  ( and then xmh ) and i'm having some problems. 
i 've got mh 6.8 , using gcc on sco 3 . 2 . 4 .  . my mh file is listed below. does 
anyone have any suggestions on what i can add to get it to compile 

here 's the one that i used 

 ( @ ) id mh , v 1.7 90 04 06 09 44 31 sources exp 
sco 3 . 2 . 
bin usr local bin 
on 
etc usr local lib mh 
mail usr spool mail 
mail 
lsocket i 
usr man 
cc gcc 
traditional 
manuals none 
chown bin chown 
mts sendmail smtp 
pop on 
debug off 
off 
signal void 
sprintf int 
options bind dumb rename sockets sys5 mime more ' usr bin more ' ' ' ' 700 ' ' 600 ' ' ' shadow 
curses 
ranlib off 

you may want to use a different locking style my mailbox is mounted over nfs 
so i use style locking .  . 

i also applied the following tweak to c . 

src public mh 6.8 c . tue dec 15 10 55 22 1992 
c . tue apr 13 14 02 04 1993 

24 , 30 
include sys types.h 
include sys stat . h . 
endif 
! if  ( defined(svr4 )  ( defined(ncr ) 
include h . 
endif 

24 , 31 
include sys types.h 
include sys stat . h . 
endif 
! if  ( defined(svr4 )  ( defined(ncr )  ( defined(sys5 ) 
! define 1024 
include h . 
endif 

that took care of everything but the man pages , which i installed by hand. 

good luck , 
steve 

steve alexander , lachman technology , inc. 
(708) 505 9555 fax (708) 505 9574 ... ! sun , ico ! ! 

from  ( oliver jones ) 
subject re xlib timeouts 
keywords xlib timeouts 
organization software 
lines 12 

in article  ( dave wilson ) writes 
i am in the process of modifying an x application that uses xlib .  . i 'd 
like to include a timer driven facility  ( for network polling ) 

you have to do the same sorts of things that xt does with its main loop. 
that is , you have to rig up a timer queue , and you have to put a 
 ( select(2 ) or  ( poll(2 ) call in your main loop. you can obtain the 
file descriptor of the x display connection using 
fd  ( display ) 

the functionality of the main loop dispatcher in xt is quite useful. 
the good news is , you can get the source and ! 

from  ( sakari aaltonen ) 
subject axe hp ux problem 
nntp posting host vipunen . hut . fi . 
reply to  ( sakari aaltonen ) 
organization helsinki university of technology 
lines 14 

been happy with axe under linux .  . now i wanted to use it under hp ux , 
too. however , my attempts have ended in core dumps this far  ( bus  . 

has anybody else been more successful jim install file does 
say there have been problems with  .  .  . 

data axe 5.0 hp ux 9 . 01 . x11r4 or x11r5 seem to matter  ( shared 
libs ) hp 9000 720 .  . 

thanks in advance , 


linux is an ftp able unix clone for 386 486 pc 's .  . 
my mind , it does. 

from dresden . de .  ( andre beck ) 
subject re postscript viewer , icons 
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany .  . 
lines 45 
distribution world 
reply to andre dresden . de . 
nntp posting host irzr17 . inf . tu . dresden . de . 


in article , (r ross holder jr) writes 

ever since i started to use xwindows (which is to say recently) i 've 
accumulated a few questions about x applications. three examples follow 

1) it was recently mentioned on comp.os.linux that there exists a post 
script viewer .  . i am interested in this and any x editor that is an 
improvement on (which i find  . 

try to get axe it 's a wonderful x based editor and much simpler to use than 
emacs what is a overkill .  . of course , emacs is no editor but a religion. 

2) at one point i was the proud owner of an amiga  ( and have since upgraded 
to a  386  . workbench (the point and click interface) used  . info . 
files to store the data for icons associated with applications on a given 
volume. i have noticed no such architecture anywhere under linux how 
does xwindows associate icons with applications can one edit icons or 
generate new ones for applications somehow  ( if it makes a difference 
i'm running ) . 

1) do n't call going from an amiga to a ibm  upgrade  
2) the amiga workbench did the job of a desktop manager , and there is no 
really amazing good x desktop manager in the public domain .  . 
 ( i'm currently writing one .  .  .  . but it 's in very early stage) 
3) may be a medium good replacement .  . 
4) x associates icons with nothing. a number of x window managers associate 
icons with windows , in a way to ease window management. 
but this has nothing to do with icons of a desktop manager application. 
5) the tool bitmap is there for simple icon drawing. 

3) i 've noticed some people have somehow discovered a way to display  . gif . 
 ( or some kind of picture files) in the background , either replacing or 
overlapping some the usual grey background employed by xwindows .  . i heard 
this was done using some application , but i do n't recall what it was. 

xv root max quit whatever image file 



o o 
o brain inside o 
o o 
o andre  beck  ( abpsoft ) dresden . de . o 
o o 

from hannover . de .  ( yonglong xu 5556 ) 
subject help wanted display stereo images with a gt accelerator 
reply to hannover . de . 
organization , university of hannover 
lines 18 



hi , friends , 

our sparc workstation is now with a gt accelerator .  . we want to use 
it to display stereo images. the accelerator has double buffers .  . how can we 
access the buffers and switch between them with which functions can we do 
that with functions from , phigs , xlib or xlib extension 

your help will be highly appreciated. 


xu 

uni .  . of hannover 

10 . 5 . 93 . 


from  ( morris hirsch ) 
subject  ( none ) 
organization the internet 
lines 30 
nntp posting host enterpoop . mit . edu . 

we are adding a motif wrapper to a family of data display programs. 

these programs are each written as a  main loop  with these steps 
use to check a and if true access new data 
otherwise block  ( new data comes quite often ) 
use to check for messages and if true read them 
otherwise continue  ( messages are user commands and not often ) 
update the display according to latest data and messages. 

we typically have several of these running in windows , 
plus a data producer serving some device and setting the flag. 
everyone blocking makes sure the device server gets to run. 

xt and xm also have a  main loop  model that we must fit into. 
o'reilly vol iv ch 9 discusses adding a file watcher and also 
how to add that are run during idle time. 

we can  open up' our existing main loop and call it as a  . 
the problem is our blocking until new data is no longer appropriate. 
neither is letting the program free run because others are hurt. 

the unix select call lets you block until any of several i o are ready. 
we want that for the x main loop except not file i o. 
any suggestions or examples most welcome ! 

we run sgi personal iris and indigo systems. 

morris hirsch aka or 401 841 7800 



from muenchen . de .  ( stefan weiss ) 
subject 23) . and sun386i  ( works but not on the screen) 
keywords sun x11 sun386i sunos device 
organization technische muenchen , germany 
lines 21 


hello , 

i have a problem with x11r5 on a sun386i an i hope that someone can help 
me with it. 
i 've built x from the mit sources after applying all patches i have got (i 
think 23) .  . building was easy. after installing everything i started x but 
nothing happened but the screen and the keyboard , the machine seemed 
to hang .  . i in from another machine an found the sun386i running well. 
 ps  told me that there 's a x server and a xterm running. and with some 
experimenting with the mouse and repeatedly pressing d i blindly hit the 
xterm , the session and got my prompt back. 
i guess it 's a device problem but i did not find the correct device yet. 
i 've got a sun386i with a b w framebuffer  ( ace 6 0688 0 , rev 53 ) 
sunos 4.0.2 and rom 4 . 4 .  . 
please help me. i'm able to run clients on the sun and send the output to 
other machines but that 's not what i did it for. 

thanks in advance , 
stefan 


from  ( jesse w. asher ) 
subject xw widget set ported to x11r5 
organization buildings 
lines 14 

i'm trying to compile which uses the xw widget set and i'm having 
problems. we 're using motif and x11r5 and it seems that my version of the 
xw stuff was only ported to r3 .  . are there patches out to port this to r5 
 ( or a newer port altogether ) 

or perhaps a newer port of for use with r5 
thanks in advance. 



jesse w. asher  ( 901)762 ) 6000 
buildings 
6000 poplar ave. , suite 400 , memphis , tn 38119 
internet uucp ! 

from  ( ken mandelberg ) 
subject graphics text with x 
organization emory university , dept of math and cs 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host km sl . cc . emory . edu . 

are there any graphics texts with examples demos projects directly in 
x 

the last time i taught the course , i used a popular graphics text that 
uses its own graphics package , with implementations available for 
x mac pc. the problem was that after the course the students were good 
at programming in the artificial package , but frustrated that they 
could n't really use their skill for other work. 



ken preferred 
emory university rutgers , gatech ! emory ! km uucp 
dept of math and cs non domain bitnet 
atlanta , ga phone voice (404) 727 , fax 727 5611 



from  ( gabi zodik ) 
subject wanted an interactive gui builder for x motif 
organization technion institute of technology 
lines 11 

hi there , 

i'm looking for tools that can make x programming easy. 
i would like to have a tool that will enable to create x motif 
gui  . currently i'm working on a sgi with forms. 
a package that enables to create gui with no coding at all 
 ( but the  . 
any help will be appreciated. 

thanks  . 


from  ( bernward averwald ) 
subject re xdm and env .  . vars 
organization home 
lines 33 

in article sun writes 
hi , 

i am using xdm on x11r5 with and xview3 on and running 
sunos 4 . 1 . 1 .  . prior to using xdm , i used to set path and other environment 
variables  ( like , , arch , etc) in my  . login . file. with xdm , 
the  . login . file does n't get executed and therefore neither the olwm 
root window nor my applications know about these variables .  . 

i always use the following in my . t cshrc 

... 
f ( login 0 ) then 
source home  . login . 
endif 
... 

and in  . login . 

... 
setenv login 1 
... 

so i do n't need to set all environment variables in my  . cshrc . , but they get 
set if i login via xdm or xon rx and so on. 

hope this helps , 



,  . 42 , d 4600 dortmund 1 , voice 49 231 
fax 49 231 , e mail 
i think i need a lear jet 

from  ( rob naccarato ) 
subject somebody please help me ! 
nntp posting host eclipse . on . ca . 
organization college , ontario , canada 
lines 15 

hello , i hope this is the right group to post this in. 
i 've got a little problem. i finally managed to get a real operating 
system  ( linux , as opposed to ms dos) and i like it alot. but , when i 
try to run  startx  , i get a strange response my monitor goes into 
graphics mode and i get this big white rectangle on the screen that 's 
all ! nothing else ! now , i 've collected almost every faq in the world to 
help me but either it 's too confusing or i must be missing something. 
my setup 
386dx  ( about 20mhz ) 
trident 8900c svga (w 1 meg ) 
4 mb ram 
plenty of hd space 
any help is appreciated. 
thanx .  . 


from peter 
subject any free x servers for pcs 
organization the internet 
lines 5 
to 

does anyone know of any free x servers for pcs , preferably that run under 
ms windows thanks. 

peter , university of alberta , edmonton , canada 
e mail 

from (paul thomas mahoney ) 
subject uimx a motif application generator 
organization x act solutions limited 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 8 

i am looking of information regarding uimx .  . i believe this is an application 
front end generator tool for motif  ( among others) .  . whould someone given me a 
contact i need to get hold of the programmers  guide , or something like it. 

paul , x act solutions limited 
smail 20 shipley lane , , on sea , east sussex , 
email ... 
phone 44 424 
