from  ( chris emerson ) 
subject those nasty insurance people 
keywords insurance 
distribution usa 
organization university of pittsburgh medical center , 
lines 24 

hello everyone , 
i have an insurance question. 

allstate insurance 

situation person wrecks car. car is drivable to dealer .  . person 
reports accident (no other cars  . driver estimates damage cost 
cost of car. insurance people claim car is totalled because of 
exceeding repair costs. 
person says ! ! ! ! but i drove the car here ! and takes it to 
another place. other place estimates 2 , 101 . 00 . in damage. 2 , 000 less than the 
dealer .  . 
one more hitch .  .  .  . the car is registered in florida but the accident occurred 
in  . 

question should the insurance recognize and pay for the damages of this , 
now fixable , car even though they declared totalled 

please respond via e mail if you think you know anything about this sort of 
thing. 



thanks .  .  .  . 

from  ( jim chott ) 
subject re toyota land cruiser worth it 
nntp posting host 222 . 18 . 80 . 28 . 
organization major semiconductor company 
lines 25 

in article col . col . hp . com . ,  ( tom 
vervaeke ) wrote 

my wife and i looked at , and drove one last fall. this was a 1992 model. 
it was wayyyyyyyyy underpowered .  . i could not imagine driving it in the 
mountains here in colorado at anything approaching highway speeds .  . i 
have read that the new 1993 models have a newer , improved hp engine. 

i'm quite serious that i laughed in the salesman face when he said once 
it 's broken in it will feel more powerful . i had been used to driving a 
jeep 4 . 0l . 190hp engine. i believe the 92 's land cruisers  ( land yachts ) 
were 3 . 0l . , the sames as the 4runner , which is also underpowered  ( in my 

the 91 and 92 cruisers run the 4 . 0l . straight 6 which only has about 
and ft of torque .  . plenty off highway , marginal on the highway .  . 
the 93 has a much improved 4 . 2l . straight 6 with 200hp and lb torque .  . 

they are big cars , very roomy , but nothing spectacular .  . 

if you take them on rough trails , you 'll see the difference. the cruiser 
is an order of magnitude better in off highway ability .  . 

jim 85 toyota 4wd pickup 
72 lemans sport convertible 
tempe , arizona 

from  ( eric overton ) 
subject shifting without clutch while .  .  .  . 
organization nasa lewis research center 
lines 8 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ariel . lerc . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

is it ok to take the car out of gear without using the clutch 
 ( while the car is turned off) 

thanks in advance. 

please reply by mail. 

eric 

from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject nissan  ( was re manual shift bigots wanted) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 18 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( shazad barlas ) says 

the best auto shifters on the street  ( and not the track) are those from 
porsche .  .  .  . they wont change if you floor the gas during a turn .  .  .  .  . a few 
years back a was in a 200sx auto  ( you guys call it a 240sx without turbo ) 
and was going round a corner .  .  .  .  . i floored it and next thing i know i was 
pointing backwards ! the other drivers seemed quite amused ) 

 .  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  .  . 


you are sure that what you call a 200sx we call a 240 just curious .  .  . 
we also have a nissan (sp) to the 240 called a 200 , which 
came in turbo and  . but i do n't think we 've ever had a 240 
turbo .  .  . just . curious .  .  . , i'm in the us , if that matters .  . ) . 

drew 

from  ( eric alter ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host sultan . rchland . ibm . com . 
organization ibm rochester mn 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 
in article ( the blade runner ) writes 
i just have got to remind all of you that this is it ! yes , 
that 's right , somtime this fall , ford (the of cars) 
will be introducing an all new , mega cool 
way too fast for accord drivers mustang .  . it 's supposed to be 
100 streamlined , looking similar to the mach iii concept car 
ford came out with around january .  . i ca n't wait. anyone out 
there hear anything about it recently 


if everything i 've read is correct , ford is doing nothing but re 
the existing mustang , with minor suspension modifications .  . 
and the pictures i 've seen indicate they did n't do a very good job 
of it. 

the new mustang , is nothing but a re cycle of a 20 year old car. 

jeff 





what i heard there was a new engine slated for the mustang .  .  . something . 
like  ( ok , it was from one of their other lines .  .  . ) .  .  .  . 



eric alter 

from  ( sammy ) 
subject car s 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 17 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

hello again. 

anyone here done any work. what are the best brands out there 
how about applications .  .  . i . heard there was a water based brand that s 
you can move around , till it 's just right , and you then let it dry like that. 

also i would consider having it professionally done , how much around 
wisconsin or area , that does a decent job , fairly cheap.  ( college kid) 

thanks for all the info .  .  .  . 

ps. what is the maximum legal tint limit. 






from  ( derek chan ) 
subject service indicator of a bmw 
organization cisco 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host lager . cisco . com . 
originator 


does anyone know how to reset the service indicator of a bmw after changing 
the oil yourself 

also , i have about 3 , 000 miles on my and so far only one of the five 
yellow service indicators went out. that means i do n't need oil service until 
it reach 15 , 000 miles which does n't make sense to me. any idea 

ps of cause i did my first oil change at 1 , 200 miles 


derek 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject radar detectors in the uk 
organization university of westminster 
distribution autos 
lines 3 

did guys know that it is legal to own a radar detector but is illegal 
to use it ! is n't that a bit like owning a gun but not being allowed to use it 
my mate just switches his off whenever the cops are around. 

from  ( dave gauge ) 
subject choice of gauges 
organization gauges r us 
lines 22 

if you had free reign to design your own instrument cluster , which 
gauges would you choose to have beyond the basic set 

i consider the basic set to be 

tach 

coolant temp  ( or cylinder head temp for air cooled engines ) 
oil pressure 
amps 

speedo 
fuel 

others that are nice to have 

volts  ( maybe this should be in the basic set) 
vacuum boost 

i can think of a few others , but what are your ideas and why 

dave 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re best radar detector valentine 1 

lines 21 

i 've had a valentine for about 9 months now and i agree that it is the best det 
available. the point here is trust and reliability .  . i 've been able to tr 
the valentine more than any other detector i 've  . if the valentine sa 
that there is a moderate to strong radar source in front of me , then it 's mo 
re than likely to be a speed trap .  . with my other detectors , i 've gotten so many 
that i 've begun to ignore of the warnings because i did n't want t 
o drive like i had one foot on the brake and one on the gas pedal .  . 

that directional indicator really , really helps. plus , more info is almost 
better than less info. no matter how smart radar detectors get , the human br 
is usually smarter .  . so , if i'm going to make a based on information 
at hand , i want all the info i can get. plus , if you divide the overall 
th of the radar signal by the number of reported , you 'll find that each 
is pretty weak and therefore not a radar threat .  . with other detectors , yo 
u 'll just get one strong warning. my logic may be faulty on this , but i think i 
t works okay. 

although , i must admit that i have n't really noticed the reflection problem of 
one radar  . 

thomas 

from  ( parminder bhandari ) 
subject new integra for '94 
organization toronto stock exchange 
distribution rec 
lines 10 

i 've heard unconfirmed rumours that there is a new integra being released 
for '94 .  . 

does anybody have any info on this 

the local sales people know as much as i can throw them. 

 . 

 ( still no sig) .  . 

organization european space operations centre 
from 
subject re nissan  ( was re manual shift bigots wanted) 

lines 11 

the european version is called 200 sx and have a 1.8 liter engine with 
turbo and have more power than the us version ( 169 hp ) it goes from 
0 to 100 km h in 7.5 sec and have a top speed of 225 km h ( 140 miles h ) .  . 
i just purchased one ( new ) and i am looking for a repair book. i could 
not find one in france and germany does anybody knows where to find one 
is there one in the uk 
no use to look in the us as the 240 sx have here a different motor .  . 
i am very pleased with the car and have no problem with it but like to have 
good technical documentation about the car i own. 

regards 

from  ( jay cadiz ) 
subject gts headlight covers 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group 
distribution usa 
lines 15 

i have a 90 eagle talon and i wanted a pair of gts 
headlight covers .  . actually , they are turning signal 
covers since the talons that year had pop up lights. 
i went to a auto shop and bought the tail light 
for 45 , but they did not have the turning 
signal covers in stock. i asked how much it would be 
and he told me it would cost me another 40. i thought 
this was a bit high for two small pieces of plastic. 
can anyone find me a cheaper pair or even a used one 


jay 

motorola , inc. 
arlington heights , il 

from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization delco electronics corp. 
lines 17 

in article  ( aaron lung ) writes 
v8 's , 's , and v12 's .  .  .  .  . man .  .  . can . you imagine doing 
a valve adjustment on one that has multiple non hydraulic 
valves in each cylinder ! ! 

aaron 

i was at the indianapolis motor speedway museum the other day and one of 
their very early winners was 4 valves per cylinder  ( and either front 
wheel drive or all wheel drive , i think front wheel drive) and that 
was in 1914 ! 

spiros 

spiros triantafyllopoulos 
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815 
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in i post , therefore i 

from  ( kevinh ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  . (please . read) .  .  .  . 
originator 
reply to 
organization ag 
lines 33 


in article ,  ( tom mackey ) writes 

you do have the power steve .  . you can do it. why do n't you why do n't you 
go shoot some kids who are tossing rocks onto cars make sure you do a good 
job though do n't miss 'cause like they have big rocks and take it from 
me those kids are mean. 

that is absolutely correct. they have a streak of meanness that runs much 
deeper and stronger than anything i ever experienced even during the height 
of the 60 's racial struggles .  . i am absolutely convinced that there are 
kids out there today that have no concept of right and wrong , but have the 
human intelligence which is turning them into the greatest predators that 
have ever walked the earth. they will prevail unless the rest of humanity 
decides that it is in their best interest to stand up against these feral 
humans , and for individuals to start taking some responsibility for their 
own protection. in a state in which the individuals turn to the authorities 
and police for protection , the police and government is soon composed of 
the very feral humans that they originally sought protection from. 

and i thought the were the ones throwing the bricks from the 
bridge .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

gee , i guess you touched my hot button. i 'd better go cool off somewhere. 

an institution 


tom mackey (206) 865 6575 
boeing computer services  .  .  .  . uunet . ! bcstec ! voodoo ! tomm 
m s 7k 20 , p.o. box , seattle , wa 98124 0346 



subject re information needed .  .  .  . 
from 
organization the old frog 's almanac , nanaimo , b.c. 
keywords mazda mx 6 
lines 16 

 ( youjip won ) writes 

hi ! this is my first time to post on this news group. now a days , i have stu 
there is a engine warning signal on the dash board. while driving , this si 
i wanna know how the engine warning signal comes. is anybody out there who 


low oil pressure , usually .  . could be your oil pump , or .  .  .  . 
checked your oil lately 

mc 

 ( mark chase ) 
the old frog 's almanac  ( home of the almanac unix users group ) 
(604) 245 3205  ( v32 ) public access usenet (604) 245 4366  ( 2400x4 ) 
vancouver island , british columbia waffle xenix 1.64 

from a  ( roland horwell ) 
subject re what car is this ! 
reply to 
organization boeing computer services 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( markus strobl 98121 ) writes 
in article news . ctron . com . ,  ( lawrence c smith) writes 
in article , (robert seymour ) writes 
in article (where 's my thing) writes 
it was called a bricklin .  . 

were manufactured in the 70s with engines from ford .  . 

, did n't the bricklin have an six cylinder or am i 
confusing it with the i was sure the had a v8 .  . 


the had the yucky v6 engine. a joint venture between 
 ( note spelling) , renault and volvo .  .  . this engine is a mighty boring 


markus 

markus , what is that we are noting about the spelling that you are n't good at it ) 
that peugeot is out of n. america what does this mean 

roland , an intrigued peugeot admirer 



from (robert j. wade ) 
subject re thoughts on the vw corrado vr6 
keywords vw corrado 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 18 

in article  ( outatime ) writes 

i was curious as to what people thought of the vw corrado vr6 
that 's about it .  .  .  . 


it butt , handles nice , but is junk .  . i drove a brand new one for a day 
as a loaner .  . the key was already rusting .  .  . seems . they stamp their keys out 
of pot metal. all the controls seemed really junk .  .  . clutch . was heavy .  . 
door locks , power buttons , sunroof controls etc. seemed really cheap. 
no way i would pay 24k for this baby. no airbag either. i also drove a svx 
for a day .  .  . at 30k , but going out the door for 21k .  .  . a . much better 
buy , imo. although it is more of a sports touring coupe .  .  . roomy . etc. 
the corrado is more of a small sports car. the ergonomics and leather in the 
svx was twice as nice as the corrado 's .  . both had smooth strong engines. 




from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization delco electronics corp. 
lines 19 

in article  ( joe staudt ) writes 
in article (the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
because there is no such thing. 

a friend had a ford  ( era early 60 's) that did have a v4 in it. 

i lost a bet on it. i find it hard to believe there are no recent cars 
with a v4 in them. any recent ones 

spiros 

spiros triantafyllopoulos 
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815 
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in i post , therefore i 

from  ( robbie felix ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  . (please . read) .  .  .  . 
keywords brick , rock , danger , gun , violent , teenagers 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
lines 49 

in article  ( bob pitas ) writes 
in article (brian harvey ) writes 
 ( robbie felix ) writes 
how about the thousands of kind teenagers who volunteer at local 
agencies to help children , seniors , the homeless 

hear , hear ! thanks , robbie .  . 

you also do n't read that much about violence against teenagers , such as 
george bush burying alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year olds , 
who were trying to surrender , with bulldozers .  . 


on the other hand , i think it is true , without singling out teenagers 
for blame , that violence is more socially acceptable than it used to be. 
those of us who 'd like to discourage violence have plenty of work to do 
with people of all ages. 

well , this is n't the right group for this , but i have to say that i do n't 
think violence is any more socially acceptable now , by any means. how 
can you say that when we used to have of pistol toting as 
heros , or even thugs being considered romantic .  . do you think 
our great got yelled at by their parents for playing cowboys 
and indians i do n't think so. that behavior was somewhat encouraged 
back then , in fact. 
i think the only difference between now and then is that nowadays , when 
some teenager kills another one in a classroom in california , we here 
about it in ma the same day. back in the old days , they 'd never hear 
about something like that , period. 

yeah , people act really shocked about violence , as though it were new 
to our species .  .  .  . 

what about the holocaust the crusades the salem witch trials the 
religious persecutions of the middle ages 

what about violent acts carried out in the name of religion all over 
the world what about the early christians put to death by the romans 
the jews persecuted by christians 

there are a lot more humans today than there have ever been. i do not 
know the stats , but there are far more people on the planet than there 
were 2 or 3 hundred years ago ! the per capita acts of violence are 
probably not significantly different than they were a hundred or a 
thousand years ago ! 

there is nothing new about violence .  . 

rf 

from (brian gordon) 
subject re legal car buying problems 
organization sunsoft , a sun microsystems company 
lines 22 
distribution ca 
nntp posting host bari 

in article (john oswalt ) writes 
... 
however , if you agree some terms , and then , when about to sign , the 
dealer slips you a contract with different terms , and leads you to 
believe that it embodies the terms you verbally agreed to , that 
is fraud .  . there is no 3 day limit on restitution for fraud .  . 

you may have to sue  ( and win) to get out of this. you will almost 
certainly have to threaten to sue .  . 


on the other hand , remember the old adage that a verbal agreement is n't worth 
the paper it 's printed on. once you sign , you are going to have one hell of a 
time proving fraud based on a comparison to what you thought you were going to 
sign ... 

being in the right is one thing , proving it is another. 


brian g. gordon 
b . on genie , on compuserve on aol 


from (robert j. wade ) 
subject re saturn extended warranty 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 26 

in article writes 
i agree with gaia .  . even though the saturn has proved to be a very reliable car 
so far , a little money spent now is worth the peace of mind. 

this is an interesting point. some people are not really buying the coverage , 
they are buying  peace of mind  , marketing folks love selling that. i suggest 
that people choose to not engage their minds in worry rather than 
buying that  peace of  . 

in my opinion , getting the warranty is enough. in my case , that 's be 
cause anything that needed repairing in the interior  ( sunroof , windows , doors , 
etc . ) . i could do myself. i just did n't want to mess with the engine and such. 

you 'd be surprised how much the little knack stuff can cost what if 
your a c goes out steering rack do n't get me wrong .  .  . i'm . against all 
extended warranties .  .  . they . are a ripoff .  . 

plus i think the extra 3 years of 24 hour assistance must be so 
 . i opted for the 5 year plan for 375 .  . 
extra 3 yrs you realize the first 3yr 36k is free warranty that comes with 
the car. 

thomas 




from  ( dan everhart ) 
subject honda headrest stuck ! advice please ! 
reply to 
organization dynamic data electronics 
distribution rec 
lines 18 

an has a 87 accord .  . the driver 's side headrest was 
accidentally put in backwards and has jammed .  . according to the 
dealer , the only way to get it out is to spend several hours 
the seat. this is the second time i have heard of this 
happening , and i wonder whether there 's an easier way to get the 
headrest back out. has anyone else ever dealt with this problem 
your advice would be appreciated ! 

please email , and i will summarize if there is interest. 



dan uunet ! camco , fluke ! ! dan 
206 743 , 742 (fax) 
st sw 
dynamic data electronics edmonds , wa , usa 

,  .  .  . astro cocaine 

from (james p. callison ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  . (please . read) .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 44 

in article  ( franklinkl ) writes 
in article , (james p. callison ) writes 

i normally have an unloaded colt delta in my glove box with a loaded 
magazine handy (which is perfectly legal in oklahoma) .  . for those 
times that i'm travelling inter state , i keep an unloaded 
s w .44 magnum revolver in the glove box , with a speed loader 

in my pocket (which is legal everywhere , under federal law , illinois 
state police be hanged) .  . 

carrying a pistol , loaded or unloaded , in the glove compartment , is 
considered carrying a concealed weapon in colorado and is illegal without 
a concealed weapons permit .  . unless the law has been changed recently , 
carrying a weapon openly is legal in colorado but concealing it is illegal .  . 
i read a newspaper account last year where police stopped a car on a 
traffic infraction and observed a .357 magnum revolver sitting on the 
seat. the driver could not be cited for possessing or carrying the weapon 
because it was not concealed .  . the article stated that if the gun had 
been discovered in the glove box , it would have been considered a crime .  . 

carrying in the glove box is not covered .  .  . i'm . not sure what i was 
thinking there. it is legal in oklahoma .  . 

on inter state travel , as long as it is legal for you to own 
at your point of origination and destination , the gun is carried 
in a locked compartment box  ( glove box specifically excluded ) separate 
from the ammo , it is legal under title 19 , chapter 44 , section  ( 94(9 i 
forget , and my copy of the regs is at home) of the us code. this , 
unfortunately , has not prevented the theft by state troopers of a 
certain state (which shall remain nameless to protect the hopelessly 
stupid ) under that state 's law. 

gee , and i thought federal law state law .  .  .  . 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

from (michael chmilar ) 
subject re 300 series , vw passat 
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , california 
lines 39 
nntp posting host apple.com 

sl . cc . emory . edu .  ( jeremy corry ) writes 

new 300 series mercedes benz wagon .  .  .  . 
particularly , i would like to hear about power  ( manual t. only) .  .  .  . 
any comparisons between the saab 9000 line and the mercedes would be helpful. 

if a manual transmission is a must have , then the m b is not in 
the running. you cannot get a manual transmission in that car in north 
america .  . it seems that buyers here  ( or , maybe more accurately , the 
distributors ) are not interested in manual  . 

the '93 300 line comes with a 217 hp engine. all earlier years are 177 hp. 
i have an '87 300e , with a mere 177 hp and auto tranny , and i find that 
it has sufficient power for any normal driving situation. more is always 
nice , but i ca n't complain. 

i test drove a saab 900 cse last fall. here are my impressions 

1) awesome power , especially over , when the turbo really comes on. 
2) if you get on the power really hard in a tight corner , the front wheel 
drive causes it to understeer heavily , and then viciously hook into 
the corner. not a desirable handling trait , but common in powerful 
front drive cars. (the cse is 200hp .  . mercedes is rear drive , so it 
does not have this problem . ) . 
3) huge interior and cargo space. 
4) the most shifter i have ever encountered .  . i drove a 5spd .  . it 
was absolutely numb .  . you might be able to get used to it i do n't know. 
i also did n't like its location , which was too far down , and too far right. 
from the shifter 's position , i got the impression that saab really designed 
the car for an automatic .  . 
5) it was rather noisy engine buzz , rattles , and  .  ( mercedes does 
not exhibit these characteristics . ) . 

you should also check out the new bmw 525 touring . this is a wagon version 
of the  . it fits into the class with the and saabs .  . 


michael 


from  ( derek j. wojciech ) 
subject question to nissan 300zx owners gurus (esp 87 89 models) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 19 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


i purchased a used 1988 nissan 300zx  ( non turbo ) last year. i had a 
question on gear rpm ratios .  . right now in 5th i'm at 
2600 2700 rpms .  . i'm at about  . is this about the 
norm i'm an auto so i'm just wondering if these are 
the proper ranges somehow the rpm figures seem high. a friend of mine 
just told me he can hit 60mph in 3rd on his 88 chevy beretta (2 . 8l . v6 . ) . 
also , anyone know the top speed  ( @redline ) for this model z 
(not that i would try it but it would be an interesting factoid .  . ) 

thanx ! 
derek 



 fire and love , the two extremes . 
that we live between , fire and ' 
love , there 's more to life than surfing or 
the eye can see . ' . guardian  the wave .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( henry robertson ) 
subject re market access 
organization u. c. berkeley open computing facility 
lines 48 
distribution na 
nntp posting host lightning . berkeley . edu . 

in article  ( dwight joe ) writes 
in article 
(andrew sung kim) writes 
... 
what about the rice import issue of course , it is not closed up 
like a shell , but how open is it compared to to us 

japan is much more open than korea .  . 

yes. a pontiac grand am suffers a factor of 2 increase in price 
when it is exported to japan .  . 

however , a dodge vehicle (the one that congressman mentioned ) 
suffers a factor of 4 increase in price when it is exported to korea .  . 
a ford taurus suffers the same problem. a honda accord costs i am 
not making this up 48 , 000 in korea .  . 

just how many people would want to buy a honda accord for 48 , 000 

solution all ships carrying korean made vehicles should be returned 
to seoul .  . pronto .  . until as such time as korea decides 
that it wants to abide by the rules of free and fair trade 
with the usa and japan .  . 

now , now , before we get too carried away here .  .  .  .  . 

keep in mind that owning any car in korea is a luxury that only the ruling 
class can afford .  . every government agency worth its salt finds some reason 
to levy a tax on car ownership last i heard , there were seven different 
fees to pay to own a car. i believe this is the sort of petty bureaucratic 
that new president kim young sam wants to eradicate .  . basically , 
i think the rules came into place as bureaucrats from backgrounds 
wanted to wreak revenge on the ruling class. in exchange , 's like 
hyundai screwed over smaller companies , perpetuating a vicious cycle. 
i have faith that korean people can potentially build cars as well as anyone 
else , but for now hyundai cars seem to reflect the tensions within society , 
of screwy components that wo n't work together. stubborn like a mule , the 
car either wo n't go forward or wo n't stop at all. 











from (kenneth warren ) 
subject re wife wants convertible 
organization net access bbs network 
lines 18 
nntp posting host access . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

and here 's my two cents 

the best convertible for the money , imo , is the miata .  . yes , it 's small , but 
you 're buying it as a second car , i hope , so you do n't need the cargo room 
of a big car. it 's got enough power for fun , it 's rwd like a sports car 
ought to be  ( i'm gonna regret that ) and the top , while manual , operates 
like a dream. 30 seconds and one hand to lower , and not much longer to raise .  . 

the targa type cars are nice , but they 're not real convertibles .  . 




ken warren the secrets of a good life are early nights , good 
food , excercise , and clean living .  .  .  . 
e mail but the secrets of a happy life are late nights , 
wild parties , kinky sex , and junk food ! 


from  ( alois m. himsl ) 
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time 
organization lehigh university 
lines 15 

in article devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . ,  ( nancy 
feagans ) writes 
ashtrays and cigarette lighters .  . these should be an option . 



nancy j. feagans (818) 306 
jet propulsion lab devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 
not a shred of evidence exists in favor of the idea that life is serious. 


you forget that the cigarette lighter plug is essential for plugging in radar 
detectors and lights. the ashtrays are also essential because they are great 
places to keep change and tokens .  . 
al h. 

from  ( mark walker ) 
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host warlock . eece . unm . edu . 

in article , writes 
i have , they showed the foot cam and telemetry for rusty wallace shifting at at 
last year and he never touched the clutch except very slightly when down 
shifting 700 hp is pretty powerful to me 

i doubt his trans uses standard  . there are several mechanisms for 
coupling a gear with the transmission output shaft , some of which are fine 
for racing and unsuitable for street use. 


mark walker my old man always said 
too much is just right ! 
505 277 3688  ( home 899 0644 ) guess that applies to my preferences 
albuquerque , nm in performance cars. 

from  ( franklinkl ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
summary ferrari not a true boxer 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( eliot ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu . (brian j queiser ) writes 
examples 

ferrari 's is a flat 12 boxer .  . 
porsche 's 911 is a flat 6. 
subaru 's impreza is a flat 4. 

i think you got it the other way round the ferrari flat 12 is a 180 
degree v12 and not a true boxer , while the subaru and porsche are 
true  . do n't know about the vw bug though , but i suspect that 
it is also a true boxer .  . 

eliot 

are you serious the auto that had a lot to do with bringing the term 
boxer to the popular forefront was the ferrari 512 boxer 
or the  . had a 5 liter , opposed 12 cylinder engine. 


ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait 
ama and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't 
i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints 
dod 0126 the sinners are lots more fun , y'know only the good die young 

from state . edu . (scott j costanzo ) 
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting 
nntp posting host magnusug . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 7 

i used to drive a truck a few years back. i once rode with an old 
that had been driving for about 30 yrs .  . the only time he would use the clutch 
was to get the truck moving. he could shift that 13 speed lightning quick , up 
or down , without the slightest rake of a gear. he was as smooth as silk .  . it was 
the most amazing shifting demonstration i 've ever seen ! having said all that i 
still do n't know why anyone would want to shift a synchronized tranny without a 
clutch why do it 

from  ( jerry bowman ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host fred . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado boulder , ocs 
lines 8 

in article  ( eliot ) writes 

the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 

a 180 degree v ya gotta love it ! 
eliot 



from tom 
subject re old corvettes low insurance 
nntp posting host ucs . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 

lines 25 

in article richard newton ii , writes 
on a related note , does this seem a sane price for a '67 convertible 
corvette in good condition how does one determine these things my cr 
used car magazine does n't list '67 corvettes ) any net wisdom on what 
to look for what to avoid thanks in advance ! 

rich , 
first of all you might want to join the 
 . com) . during your search acquisition of the 67 .  . 20k sounds about 
right for a wrong engine , condition 3 car. this means that the car may 
not have significant investment value but could be an excellent driver 
and or hobby car. you will also want to get a copy of the corvette 
black book immediately. do n't leave home  ( to look at vettes ) without it. 
since you are contemplating spending 20k , you might want to invest a 
few hours in reading the corvette buyer 's guide and purchase 
adams  tape how to buy a corvette .  . the tape shows you how to check 
for damage , etc .  .  . there are many many factors that will affect the 
value , road worthiness , and repair expense of your proposed 67 .  . the 
list is much too long to go into here. join the where 
there are over 100 current corvette owners  ( many with 60s vintage 
vettes ) that are available to help you. the pubs i mentioned above 
are available from mid america designs (800) 637 and several 
other corvette parts sources. good luck ! ! ! 

tom  ( '68 327 '79 cruiser ) 

from  ( jerry sy ) 
subject are ford shop manuals good 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 14 
reply to  ( jerry sy ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


i am planning on buying a repair manual for my ford taurus .  .  . 
is the 53 ford shop manual comprehensive enough , covering repairs 
in all aspects of the car 



how about the haynes manual for tarus 

please email replies if possible. 

thanks in advance. 
jerry 


from  ( jarmo ahonen ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
nntp posting host cc . lut . fi . 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 13 

(john g. kissane ) writes 

as a matter of interest does anyone know why autos are so popular in the us while 
here in europe they are rare just wondering .  .  .  .  .  . 


many cars sold here in finland are small and cheap cars (at least when 
compared to other cars note that we have over 120 car tax) .  . 

and you could n't expect a good auto to a 1.3 l engine 

most of the bigger cars are , however , sold with autos .  . 


from (george louie ) 
subject pennsylvania insurance , limited option 
reply to (george louie ) 
distribution usa 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 18 

hey all , 


i'm looking at buying a new car , but i'm confused about the insurance 
coverage. this also applies to my existing car insurance policy. does 
anyone understand what the limited option means. will it lower 
my rates if i opt to have it , or will it be more expensive if i opt 
to have it what does it do for me  ( in layman 's terms please) is 
it a good deal or should i ignore it i'm not the type to sue anyone 
at a drop of the hat nor am i the type to report every little ding to 
the insurance company as a vandalism claim .  . please help. 



thanks in advance. 


george 

from (mike harker ) 
subject re what car is this ! 
organization national capital freenet , ottawa , canada 
lines 17 


you guys are correct. the bricklin was produced in canada .  . 
the national museum of science and technology here in ottawa 
has one , and sometimes they put it on display. most of the time , 
it stays in storage because the museum does n't have much room. 
it 's a big deal for a car to be canadian and that 's why they 
have it. if anybody 's a fan , they also have a nice green '73 
riviera that looks like it just came out of the showroom .  . 

mike 
ottawa , ontario , canada 
voice 613 823 

from (james bruder ) 
subject re changing brake fluid .  . is . it necessary .  .  . 
organization hp information networks , cupertino , ca 
lines 10 

i agree with jeff 's reply. i 've never changed the brake fluid except when 
having a brake job , which is usually at around 80 , 000 miles  ( alot of 
freeway  . however , i will start to do this as preventative 
maintenance on my new car. also , there are brake system flushing agents 
that can be used but the problem is that if any of the agent is left in the 
system , it can cause problems , so it 's been recommended not to use them unless 
you are 100 certain that you can remove all of the flushing agent .  . just for 
your info , i was quoted a price of labor 29.95 and fluid 9.95 for 
flushing the brake system this in conjunction with a break job so i do n't 
know if it was more without the brake job. this is in the s.f bay area. 

from ulm . de . m . )) . 
subject marten  ( problems ) 
organization  ( research institute for applied knowledge processing) 
lines 29 


hi everybody ... 

well i do n't know if this is a known problem 
to you in the big state but over here in europe 
it is in some places ... 
it just happened to me and i payed a lot to get my 
new honda civic repaired .  . 
a marten choose my car to stay one night in and this 
damn little animal damaged almost everything which 
was plastic rubber  .  .  . 
i never thought that these little @ @ could do that 
much damage. 

so to all you car owners out there 

is there a good known method of  rid of this animal 
except for waiting all night long beneath my car with a gun 

help in any form would be appreciated very very much ! ! ! ! 



e mail ulm . de . 



y'all 


from  ( jim knoll ) 
subject thanks '86 nova advice 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization cray research , inc. 

i want to thank all the people that responded to my post 
a few weeks ago about buying an '86 chev nova with over 
100 , 000 mi. 

i decided to buy the car and have had it for about a month. 
i replaced the front brake pads and changed the oil. so far 
no problems have surfaced .  . 

i received many suggestions and encouragement on this 
purchase and figured a late thank you was better than none. 

thanks to all ! 

jim 

from  ( jerry bowman ) 
subject re replacement custom seats , where to get 
organization university of colorado boulder , ocs 
lines 20 
nntp posting host fred . colorado . edu . 

in article tom writes 
in article jerry bowman , 
writes 
what car are we talking about if its camaro , chevelle , gto , 
nova , etc. there are a bunch of places to get them. 

a 68 corvette but , i do n't want to put corvette seats in it. the original 
seats are in  . shape but they are uncomfortable as hell. i'm going to 
store those and find a set to drive in. i have all the vette catalogs but 
i'm looking for a more generic type seat. i can modify the brackets but 
cushion height and overall width are a concern. i 've looked through some 
local without success. i would just like to find a pair of 
cheapo 's to use this summer. 

tom 

call around to some wrecking yards in your area and , if they have 
any , look at fiero seats .  . they are right down on the floor like a vette 
and not too wide . if . you ca n't find any let me know and i 'll call around 
here for you. i'm sure these yards ship stuff all the time. 

subject lexus and infiniti 
from 
reply to 
organization st. cloud state university , st. cloud , mn 
nntp posting host tigger . msus . edu . 
lines 22 

first off , the correct spelling of nissan 's luxury automobile division 
is infiniti not infinity .  . i would also like to clear up the question 
of what kind of engines power lexus and infiniti automobiles , since a 
person had remarked in earlier posts that most lexus and infiniti models 
had v6 engines , while at the same time saying that several of each 
manufacturer used v8 engines. 

lexus 
v8 
gs300 v6 
es300 v6 
v8 
sc300 v6 

infiniti 
v8 
v6 
g20 inline 4 (i must admit that i cannot remeber for sure here) 

i hope this helps. 



from arbor . mi . us . (david hwang ) 
subject re best radar detector valentine 1 
organization d.j. services 
lines 68 

in article  ( allen tobias ) writes 
in article  ( troy wecker ) writes 


each valentine 1 is hand tuned to maximum performance is all the radar bands 
of coverage , this of course , adds to the labor cost and in turn the cost of the 
unit. 

i live in the backyard of the folks who make the stalker radar system. the 
valentine 1 has saved me many , many , many times from the stealth revenue 
enhancement traps of the local area. i have had all the major brand detectors , 
and , imho , nothing else even comes close to the v1 ! 

i do n't work for valentine , i am just a satisfied user of their unit ! 

if you really want the nitty gritty details on all this , call the nice folks 
at valentine research. they will be more than happy to explain their 
perspective on radar detection and analysis methods. 
the calls free 1 800 331  . 

at 

it seems that there are more and more bands available for 
police radar each month. i have recently purchased  ( within 
the last 8 months) the bel  . while it is not a perfect 
detector by any means , it does do the job fairly well. 

now , however , i pick up a car magazine at the airport and 
read about this super ka which is a superset of 
the ka that this latest generation of detectors 
was touted as covering .  . 

so now bel has a new series of detectors out that cover all 
the usual bands  ( x , k , ka photo , ka wideband ) as well as the 
new super ka  . 

just as there comes a point of diminishing returns when chasing 
increased pc computing power with faster and faster cpus  ( for 
the average home consumer , at least) , it seems that there is 
now the same concern with radar detectors .  . does it make sense 
to upgrade just 8 months after purchasing my new detector 
is valentine upgrading their equipment if so , it might be 
worth it for me to upgrade to the valentine .  . i was in the 
market for a valentine when i purchased the bel but the 
3 4 month waiting time was just too much for me since i had 
inadequate protection with my passport .  . life was much simpler 
when there was just x and k band and escort has the best 
equipment on the market and there was no need to continuously 
shop for a new detector .  . i hope that the flood of new radar 
bands ceases with this new super business. 




0 0 


( ) allen tobias technical email ( ) 
( ) convex computer corp. marketing ( ) 
( ) 3000 parkway ( ) 
( ) richardson , tx ( ) 

no one cares how much you know until they know how much you care ! 




david w. hwang , m.d. arbor . mi . us . 

from  ( sean reifschneider ) 
subject re too fast 
organization observatory software 
lines 9 

this whole discussion is just a religous war. i 'd rather have a '93 rx 7 
than the mustang 5 . 0l . for 3 times the price. that 's how you explain 
porsches selling .  . some folks would rather have the stang .  .  .  . 

shrug 

sean 

test signature 

from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 


organization ibm toronto lab 
lines 41 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 17 28 24 gmt 

in article  ( joe staudt ) writes 


newsgroups rec . autos . 
path eclipse ! yktnews . watson . ibm . com . ! newsgate . watson . ibm . com . ! news . ans . net . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! newsserver . jvnc . net . ! louie ! udel ! news . intercon . com . ! ! mis . com . ! 
from  ( joe staudt ) 
organization corporation 
references 
date fri , 23 apr 1993 17 28 24 gmt 
lines 30 

in article (andrew a. 
spencer ) writes 

in a previous article , () says 

in article 
 ( eliot ) writes 

the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 


eliot 

would n't that make them an i4 or would they 
really be an 4  ( henceforth referred to as 
underscore 4 ) 

i think that it is known as a 180 degree vee configuration .  . 
 ( could be wrong .  .  .  . this . is how i 've seen them referred to) 
drew 

i 've always heard them referred to horizontally opposed ... 

joe 


kinda dull i 've always liked  boxer  subarus can use this , as does 
911 and bmw twins  ( that 's a motorcycle for you with 2 too many 
 . 
jeff goss 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re ford probe , import car of the year 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in  ( timothy s newman ) writes 


okay , okay , i know the ford probe is made in the us , in fact it 's 
made in michigan , at a mazda plant. my question are most of the parts 
from american or japanese sources i have been told that most of the us 
assembly plants for japanese import almost all of the parts used in 
the vehicles .  . 

any information anyone has on this will be appreciated ! 

ford aimed for 75 us content when they designed the new probe .  . in actual 
practice it came out to 77 us content. if my '89 is any example the 23 
that is imported may be the engine and brakes , at least the '89 had 
brakes .  . 

tim newman 


bob 



from  ( vlasis theodore ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization cybernet bbs , boca raton , florida 
lines 63 

you know , i'm a ford fan , i must say , so i'm looking forward to the next 
mustang .  . i have faith that it will be a fine product , more desireable 
than the camaro is now. you know , that 's mho .  . 

true .  .  . thats . your opinion. 

they beat ford to the market with the camaro firebird , but really only 
in words. production of these vehicles will be limited until the 
end of the year , keeping selling prices above msrp for the most part 
since there are so many twitching camaro fans out there. i would n't 
press ford to hurry the mustang since the final wait could be worth it. 
besides , no bow tie fanatic is gonna buy the mustang anyway. 

true again .  .  . i would n't take a free mustang .  .  . honest .  . 

the next mustang will be ford 's highest profile car. it attracts 
way more attention than the camaro firebird because it 's heritage 
is more embedded in the general public. do n't lie to yourself and 
believe ford will forfeit that. 

fyi they already did. 
too bad that the current mustang ca n't even compete with the new 
camaro without using an active imagination. 
right now few cars can compare with the '93 camaro , think about it .  .  . 
20 , 000 for a car that will out perform all but a few exotics .  . 
if you are now swearing at me look at the stats .  .  . they . do n't lie. 
there are no comparable cars in it 's class , not for its price. 

you know , intelligent , critical spews like , the mustang bites , man ! 
some of you are already beginning. i predict that the mustang and camaro 
will be comparable , as usual. 

i also agree , this subject is one that will never be  .  .  .  . 
except maybe at the track ) 

unless the ford gets the 32v , 300hp romeo .  . you do n't seriously believe 
that it was designed for the mark viii only , do you 

hey , can you imagine the potential of a modified lt 1 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
folks in a few years we will surpass the levels of performance 
achieved in the late '60 's , thats scary. 

you ford vs chevy people must live in the planet of detroit or droid .  . 

like they say in the airforce , with enough horsepower anything will fly. 

i can put a v 8 with twin garret 4s on yugo and get 7 . qm .  . 
thats useless ... its still a yugo that will loose any race on a track , 
or on the street. 

have you detroit beings compared the ultra long throw stick shifts of 
the 5.0 with the 93 mr2 turbo or 93 rx7 (i ll buy it in 6 mos ) 

or the differential of the rx7 compared to the differential of 
the 5.0 that sounds in every turn 

and way 5.0 and camaro both have drums on the rear breaks ... 
hello , this is the 90 's 

vlasis theodore 
software engineer 

just say no to signatures 

from george . howell . (george howell ) 
subject some taurus misc.  . 
distribution world 
organization goucher college , towson , md 
reply to george . howell . (george howell ) 
lines 15 

4) are there any fairly cheap ( 150 or so) ways to increase the 
performance on this car unfortunately , a taurus is not exactly a 
muscle car , so i'm looking for ways to increase the performance. 

there is a company in florida that sells computer chips that supposedly 
get a few hp and torque out of the 3 . 0 .  . do n't have the address , but saw 
the ad in hot rod and some other car magazines .  . also , you could open up 
the exhaust  ( get an exhaust with a larger i . d . ) . 

hope this helps. if you find anything else , let me know. i 've got a 1990 
taurus l. 

george howell 
george . howell . 


from (robert colello ) 
subject houston auto insurance. 
organization occidental college , los angeles , ca 90041 usa .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 17 

hello , 
i am moving to houston to go to rice university for graduate school. 
i will be living on the corner of s. mian and university blvd. i was 
wondering what kind of liability rates to expect. here is the relevent 
info. 
sex male 
age 23 
status single 
none , walking .  . 
car 1982 ford crown victoria , 4 door 

if anyone can check the above info , or is in a similar situation please 
e mail me the rates they find out or pay. thanks for your help in advance. 





from (john kennedy) 
subject diatribe on us sold opels  ( was re opel owners ) 
reply to (john kennedy) 
organization second source , inc. , annapolis , md 
lines 53 

 ( darren gibbons ) writes 

i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater , 
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my 
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 

that would be the opel gt , sold in this country from '69 to '73 .  . it originally 
had a 1100 cc engine , which was later replaced by the 1900 cc .  . it was based 
on the old kadett drive train and suspension , with leaf springs in the rear 
and a single leaf spring in the front. it looked good , but was 
limited as a performer .  . 

there has also been some discussion in this thread about the manta and other 
models. in 1971 opel introduced a new line of models , the 1900 series , that 
were also known as model numbers 51 , 57 , etc. these cars had the newer 
engine and were available as two and four door coupes , a station wagon , 
and a sport coupe , known in europe as the manta .  . at the same time , there 
were two 30 series cars , which sold very few numbers , that also had the 1900 
engine but the kadett suspension .  . the sport coupe ,  ( model 57 ) was also 
available as the ,  ( 57r ) , with a blacked out hood , tach , and fog lights , 
but was mechanically the same except for a numerically higher rear end ratio .  . 

in 1973 the sport coupe was also named the manta in the us. 1973 was the last 
year for the gt in any country , both because of the us bumper height regulations 
and the fact that fiat exercised an option on the factory that opel was leasing 
to build the gts .  . 

the 1900 series continued in 1974 with minor body differences .  . in 1975 , the 
manta , 1900 sedan  ( also called the ascona ) and the wagon were available with 
bosch electronic fuel injection .  . these cars also had larger brakes and 
wider wheels. these cars were starting to compete with the 1975 buick century 
low price leader of the time , and were the last opels imported into the us. 

from 1976 to 1979 , cars that buick opel badges were still sold by 
the buick dealers , but were isuzu i marks .  . the idea was to call them 
opels instead of changing the dealers  neon signs. 

various models of the 50 series cars dominated the showroom stock racing of the 
70 's in their class , and were known as serious 2002 competition. 

parts are still available from a number of sources. 

(i still have a '73 manta and two '75 sedans and all the trick parts i could 
collect in 20 years) .  . 

john kennedy uunet ! opel ! 
second source , inc. 
annapolis , md 

from  ( derek chan ) 
subject re service indicator of a bmw 
organization cisco 
lines 7 
distribution world 
nntp posting host lager . cisco . com . 
originator 


thanks for all the recommendations .  . i have decide to ignore the service 
indicators and do oil change myself every 3000 miles. 

thanks again for all the responses. 

derek 

from  ( fred w. bach ) 
subject re dirty diesels 
organization triumf tri university meson facility 
lines 57 
distribution na 
nntp posting host erich . triumf . ca . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , ( erik ) writes .  .  .  . 
writes 
i heard the diesels are considered cleaner burning than 
gas engines because the emit less of carbon monoxide , 
hydrocarbons , and oxides of nitrogen .  .  ( co , hc , nox) .  . 

but they can put out a lot of particulate matter. i heard 
something about legislation being discussed to clean up 
diesel emissions . is there anything in the works to 
install scrubbers for diesels how about the feasibility 
of installing them on trucks and cars would it be any 
different than a converter i 'd assume easier , 
since we 're removing particulate matter instead of converting 
gasses .  . let 's hear people 's opinions .  .  .  . 


vw and mercedes have with particulate traps .  . also , vw 
uses a kind of turbocharger on their jetta that helps 
reduce particulates as well , although i do n't know the 
mechanics of it. 

many diesel cars , busses , and trucks in europe are now being 
equipped with and traps in an effort to clean up 
diesel emissions , already well below legal limits anyway. 

it 's a shame gm had to soil the diesel 's reputation in 
passenger cars and prevent further resource devotion to 
research into making this efficient engine even 
further ahead of gas engines in emissions .  . 

erik 

i sure do n't know what and how they measure in regards to diesel 
motors in cars , trucks , and busses , but i think they are probably 
measuring the wrong pollutants , or at the wrong time , or both. 

i certainly find it offensive to drive behind a diesel bus or 
diesel truck and some diesel cars. they stink ! and it 's always 
roll up the windows panic time when one comes by or ducks in front 
of me when i am driving with my family. 

i do n't think the combustion mixture is kept under very good 
control in diesel engines , and that 's why they stink .  . so the 
invisible , pollutants are reduced in diesels .  . yeah , 
well so what ! someone forgot about the visible , stinky kind , and , 
as far as i am concerned , those kind are just as bad. 

i am all for de stinking the diesel vehicles .  . it 'll keep the 
traffic signs cleaner , too. 

fred w. bach , operations group internet 
triumf  ( tri university meson facility ) voice 604 222 1047 loc 327 278 
4004 mall , ubc campus fax 604 222 1074 
university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada 2a3 

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question. 
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers .  . 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re geico 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 50 

 ( mark goldberg ) writes 

in rec . autos . ,  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 
my suggestion , stay where you are , or shop around but stay away from geico ! 

i strongly agree with jeff .  . here 's my horror story. many years back , 
i switched to geico from state farm to save some . i have a relatively 
new sports car , for which we covered with liability , collision , and 
comprehensive .  . with this make of car , new models came out in january , 
not september like other makes .  . the car was purchased in august of 
that year. 

we also had a much older clunker for which we only wanted liability .  . 
low and behold , a vandal slashed the roof of the sports car and we put 
in a claim .  . this was in october still the current model year for 
the car. a new top , with installation was 135 .  . we had 50 deductible 
so we should have gotten 85 .  . you had to go to geico 's local office 
to have an see the car , unlike state farm that sent the adjusters 
to the shop or your place. he said , since the car is now one year 
old , we 'll depreciate the top by 50 , so you 'll get 35 on the claim .  . 
this will also count as an accident against you , so your rate may increase .  . 

the hassle continued .  . then we got a letter from geico , saying claim 
denied your policy on this car does n't cover this. i then learned 
that their records had the full coverage  ( collision , etc . ) . on our old 
clunker , and only had liability for this new car ! ! ! ! they mixed up 
our cars in their records. i fixed the top myself with some carpet 
thread and dropped my claim .  . they still charged me with an accident ! 
i cancelled my policy and switched to another company. 

the coup de gras came when they sent me a bill for an additional balance 
due for the difference in collision comprehensive cost between my sports 
car and my clunker ! ! ! i returned the bill unpaid with a nastygram , 
plus explicity directions to perform cranial insertion ! ! ! ! 
have n't heard from them since. 

) ) ) everyone 's entitled to my opinion. 
) 
imagination is more important than knowledge. albert einstein 


good for you. i am convinced that someone should start a boycott 
against geico .  . any takers 





chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( alex miller) 
subject re choice of gauges 
reply to  ( alex miller) 
organization ibm almaden research center 
lines 53 
nntp posting host allez . almaden . ibm . com . 


if i'm going to drive on a public road then i need a 
speedometer , and an odometer helps for navigation .  . 

my 1965 chevy has a bare minimum engine temp and 
oil press warning lights and a fuel gauge .  . 

my 1983 vw has tach , water temp , voltmeter 
and oil temp gauges .  . 

if i had a turbo car , i 'd want a vacuum manifold boost 
gauge .  . an oil pressure gauge is a nice , reassuring 
gauge to look at. if my car was air cooled , then i 
would substitute a cyl head temp gauge for the water temp 
gauge .  . 

a few years ago , i looked at the audi quattro si coupe 
that bobby used to win the 1986 peak hill climb .  . 
the gauge layout , from left to right , top to bottom was 



speedometer 



fuel tranny 
press temp 



differential water 
temp temp 



big orange tach 
oil press 
warning light 



oil temp boost 



oil press 



alex 



from  ( vicki newton ) 
subject seeking recommendations for new car purchase 
nntp posting host concave . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 18 

folks , 

i am going to be purchasing a new vehicle in the next few months. i 
am trying to hold out until the fall since i have heard that i can 
be in a better negotiating position to purchase a '93 right when the 
 are coming out. i need something that can comfortably carry 
2 adults , 2 kids in car seats , and 2 60 pound dogs. i can probably 
afford something in the 14k 16k range. i am interested in the suv 's 
but am not sure there are any that are decent which i can afford .  . 
i think the ford explorer got good reviews from consumer reports but 
is above my range. the isuzu is probably in my price range 
but i think consumer reports gave it a big thumbs down. can anyone 
offer any suggestions i am hoping for something a little more hip 
than the traditional wagon , and the suvs look like fun  ( we do a lot of 
camping too) .  . 




from  ( chan ) 
subject radial t a touring t a tires 
summary comments on bf goodrich radial t a tires 
keywords tire 
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science 
distribution na 

hi 

i am looking for tires. i would like to hear your experience on the 
bf goodrich radial t a tires and or the touring t a especially for 
size  . 

for radial t a how do they do in snow , and wet weather are they quiet tires 

for touring t a how many miles can they last i believe they are in 
every way equal better than radial t a. am i right 

chan .  . 

from  ( bill heiser ) 
subject re water in trunk of 89 probe 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 25 

in article  ( po sum chung acf ) writes 
 ( tommy szeto ) writes 
water gradually builds up in the trunk of my friend 's 89 ford probe .  . every 
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and scoop out the water 
under the plywood carpet cover on the trunk .  . i would guess this usually 
i noticed this is my '89 probe also , when recently cleaning out the back. i 
think the water is coming up through some rubber stoppered holes beneath the 
spare .  . mine looked slightly worn , and there was no water or water damage 
i have the same problem with my '90 probe .  . the water is definitely not comming 
up from the rubber stoppered hole beneath the spare .  . i have to remove the 
rubber stopper to drain the water. seems like a common problem with probe .  . 

there is a known problem with the seals on the taillights of 93 probes .  . 
complain loudly to your dealer and get them to install new seals .  . it is 
a known problem , present on most  ( if not all) pre 93 probes , so you 
should n't have to pay them to fix it. in my case , they fixed it on 
my extended warranty (i just had to pay a 50 deductable ) (the 
work was valued at something like 185 with labor and parts) .  . having 
removed the tail lamps myself on other occasions , i think their estimate 
was fair. 



bill heiser , 
boston university , boston ma 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re changing oil by self. 
keywords n 
distribution usa 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 54 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article  ( brent woody moss ) writes 
in article state . edu . , state . edu . (steven j orlin ) writes 

in article 
(ronald . j . deblock .  . jr) . writes 

you can avoid these problems entirely by installing an oil drain valve in 
place of the bolt .  . i have one on both of my cars. there have been no 
leaks in 210 , 000 miles  ( combined miles on both cars) .  . 

yes , but then someone would have no problem draining your oil in a parking lot. 

all they have to do is reach underneath , turn a valve , and forget the trip 
home. 
but there is less likelyhood they have a wrench with them. 

i personally recommend , installing a  special  locking drain plug to keep 
vandals away. ) 

steve 

i was worried about someone stealing my oil once also. i finally 
decided to just have my drain plug welded shut .  . it works great ! 
i figure that when i add three or four quarts when the oil light 
comes on every month or so that it 's just as good or better than 
the old wives tale of changing the oil and filter every 3000 miles. 
works for me , i must say. 


either i 've just fallen for this , or you guys 
are really paranoid ! 

you 're actually worried about somebody stealing 
your oil 

c'mon , you think a vandal 'll do that ! 

that 's absolutely ridiculous ! 

besides , how hard is it to get under the car to 
change the oil 

i can say from experience on the cars that i 've driven and 
changed the oil on , my mazda 323 is pretty much a pain , but 
once you 've done it once , you do n't forget how , and it 
gets easier. 

i ca n't imagine any other cars are much worse than mine. 


andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from (craig boyle ) 
subject re is car saftey important 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 33 

in article  ( gerrit conradie ) writes 

much discussion about economics of safety deleted 

safety is an important criterium for me when buying a car. i wo n't buy a 
small car like a civic or whatever. 

great safety handling speed for me 

seems to me that you would be more dead in a small car than a large car 
after an accident. 

this is a very simplistic view of safety. assuming that you are in a collision 
 ( less likely with a more smaller car) , then the important factor 
is how well does the car sacrifice itself to save you. this is why a thousand 
pound f1 car can hit a wall at 200 and the driver walks out and why 
everybody dies when a suburban hits a wall at 35  ( as i recall for the last 
generation suburban hic numbers) .  . 

as an aside , just what is the point of an airbag it seems to me that 
seatbelts with  ( audi et al ) , or a good tight 5 point belt 
will prevent you every moving far enough to hit the airbag .  . you might be 

saved from some glass or is an airbag just a lowest common denominator 
safety device that is of some use in a head on collision when you are 
wearing no seat belt 

craig 

gerrit 




from  ( allen tobias ) 
subject re auto air conditioning without freon 
nntp posting host hydra . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
distribution usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 16 

in article  ( tim romulan ) writes 
in article  ( max lu ) writes 
we are working on gas solid adsorption air con system for auto applications. 
in this kind of system , the energy for regenerating the adsorbent is from 
the exhaust gas. anyone interested in this mail email me or follow up this 
thread , we may have a discussion on prospects of this technology. 

ok , i 'll bite. how is this supposed to work 

tim .  . 

better still , years ago they demonstrated a cold air system which only used 
air . it was called a  . the unit worked very well , the short coming 
was the seal technology. where is it today 

at 

from george . howell . (george howell ) 
subject re impala ss going into 
distribution world 
organization goucher college , towson , md 
reply to george . howell . (george howell ) 
lines 23 

gm has always screwed the rest of the divisions in favor of the 
corvette .  . the current platform is no exception. the camaro and 
firebird is a load of crap to keep people from realizing that they can 
buy one of these instead of a corvette and save about 10 , 000 .  . 

i like the idea of an impala ss , but if they really wanted to impress 
me , they would throw in a big 454 .  . imagine the cops in their taurus 
police package 3.0 and 3.8 as they stare at your taillights .  .  .  . 

george howell 


m m ooo ppp aaa 
mm mm o o p p a a r r 
m m m o o ppp 
m m o o p a a r r 
m m ooo p a a r r 

ford  better living through american horsepower  
george howell 
george . howell . 



from (paul heuer ) 
subject re lemon law does anyone know the law 
organization defence science and technology organisation 
lines 19 
nntp posting host albatross . dsto . gov . au . 

 ( kevin chupp ) writes 


my father is have lots of problems with a 2 year old van .  . what is the 
lemon law what should he do if he qualifies 

talk to philip  . he took ford to court recently and , despite much 
and trickery on ford 's part , he won ! well , actually i think 
ford settled out of court on the provision he shut his mouth and stopped 
causing them trouble. i love it when the little guy wins. i do n't have 
philip 's address anymore , but a philip , where are you call may bring him 
out of hiding .  . 

cheers , 
paul .  . 

paul phone 61 8 259 avionics technology dsto 
fax 61 8 259 po box 1500 , salisbury 
south australia , 5108 

from tom 
subject re replacement custom seats , where to get 
nntp posting host ucs . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 
lines 14 

in article jerry bowman , 
writes 
what car are we talking about if its camaro , chevelle , gto , 
nova , etc. there are a bunch of places to get them. 

a 68 corvette but , i do n't want to put corvette seats in it. the original 
seats are in  . shape but they are uncomfortable as hell. i'm going to 
store those and find a set to drive in. i have all the vette catalogs but 
i'm looking for a more generic type seat. i can modify the brackets but 
cushion height and overall width are a concern. i 've looked through some 
local without success. i would just like to find a pair of 
cheapo 's to use this summer. 

tom 

from  ( rick kirchhof ) 
subject re a c service rip off 
organization department of redundancy dept. 
summary that 's the law in austin 
lines 28 

in article  ( albert wu ) writes 
i went to a place called american car care centers to check my car for a c 
leak .  . after checking , i was told that there is a leak in the compressor 
seal .  . at the end , in addition to the labor for the check , i was charged 12 
dollars for a pound of freon , although they evacuated my a c afterwards 
because of the leak .  . first , is it fair for him to charge me for a pound of 
freon ( 12 plus tax) second , what can i do about this if this is unfair 

albert wu .  . 

for the information of those not lucky enough to live in the city of 
austin , tx , if an auto a c system is checked and found to have leaks , 
it must be repaired at that time , or evacuated .  . this is an ordinance 
unique (i think) to the city of austin .  . 

freon is subject to increasing taxes , but 12 is about 2x cost here. 
recovered freon is not required to be purchased from the car it is 
withdrawn from. as a matter of practice , some shops here are charging 
a recycling fee that is less than the cost of the freon removed if it 
is to the system. 

just another quality service from an conscious city. 


rick austin , texas experience is what you 
domain get when you do n't 
bang path ..... ! org . ! ! rick get what you want. 


from  ( charlie preston ) 
subject re is car saftey important 
organization illinois state university 
lines 25 

in article  ( trevor corkum ) writes 
i was recently thumbing through the 1993 lemon aid new 
car guide. what i found was a car would be given a  recommended  
under the picture while a few sentences later noting how a 
driver and passenger were virtually guaranteed to be killed 
in a front end collision .  . the most highly recommended small 
car (the civic) has the worst crash rating of all of the small 
cars listed. there were many such cases of  great  vehicles 
where you would n't survive an accident. is it only me , or is 
safety not one of the most important factors when buying a car 
imho the 
best way to reduce risk when operating a vehicle is being able to avoid 
hazards and , for that reason my preferred vehicle is a motorcycle .  . when i do 
use a four wheeler my primary reasons are it will keep me dry , it will keep 
me warm , or it will carry more cargo .  . if the four wheeler has as much 
collision protection as the average motorcycle , then it has enough form me. 

how do you define safe one definition of safe is without risk. is 



chas dod 

oh , how can you be in two places at once when you 're not anywhere at all 
theatre 

from  ( rhonda gaines ) 
subject '93 hyundai sonata .  .  . opinions . info wanted 
distribution usa 
organization , inc. , roanoke , virginia 
lines 26 
nntp posting host rtp 


i 'd like to hear stories on experiences with the hyundai sonata .  . i 
know consumer reports has trashed them but the people i know that 
have them swear by them. they also have n't had the problems with 
them that consumer reports claims .  . i have n't driven one yet. i 
have driven a '93 hyundai (which consumer reports also 
trashed ) and was very impressed with it. the local hyundai 
dealership ( no haggle policy) is offering an w power 
moonroof for  . they also have a sonata base , w sunroof for 
 . i know my preference is for a sonata w sunroof and 
4 spd automatic .  . i 'll decide which engine i prefer after test 
driving both the 4 cyl and the v6 .  . the sonata is also offering a 
1500 rebate .  . hmmm , that 's another question. is the following 
scenario the appropriate manner to handle negotiation 

1. make offer 
2. subtract rebate from offer 
3. talk trade 
4. subtract trade from offer to get final price 



rhonda gaines , systems network administrator internet 
, inc. , p.o. box , uucp ... ! uunet ! ! gaines 
roanoke , va 1966 fax 703 342 
phone 703 342 6700 or 800 423 1183 

from  ( antonio l. balsamo  ( save the wails ) 
subject re warped brake discs on '91 taurus l 
lines 30 
nntp posting host 
reply to  ( antonio l. balsamo  ( save the wails ) 
organization digital equipment corporation 


from  ( bruce s. winters ) 
subject re warped brake discs on '91 taurus l 

in the past few years i have owned 3 mustang gts and now own a 91 t bird 
sc .  . they all have had this problem. there was a recall on the t bird for 
the brake problem. the ford dealer replaced the rotors and pads but the 
rotors warp after about 10k miles. between this problem and the fit and 
finish problems on the t bird i 'll never buy a ford again. 

i just had my rotors on my '92 taurus gl changed less than 500 miles 
ago and .  .  . you . guessed it , i'm noticing slight in the left rotor .  . 
( i had a mechanic friend of mine look at it and he said that there is a 
high spot on the rotor that is causing the problem. this is a brand new 
rotor bought from a ford dealership .  . ca n't they even produce a brand new 
rotor that is not warped i'm currently negotiating with them to swap it 
out for a new rotor .  . 

this is my first american build car and i'm not overly impressed. 

tony 



name antonio l. balsamo 
company digital equipment corp. 
shrewsbury , mass. 
work (508) 841 2039 
e mail 


from  ( tony zugates ) 
subject last of the v 8 interceptors 
organization the hp mtn . view . resp. cntr .  . 
lines 9 

does anyone know what kind of car mad max used in road warrior 

they called it the last of the v 8 interceptors .  .  .  . 

i couldnt tell what it was , it was so chopped up. 

thanks 



from  ( jim struglia ) 
subject michelin trx tires info needed 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 14 

hi all , 
i have available to me a set of metric wheels  ( came off a mustang or t bird ) 
which are wearing nearly bald michelin trx 220 tires. the only place 
i have found these tires is the tire rack mailorder place for 121 a pop. 
is there a cheaper source , or another manufacturer of this size tire thanks 
for any info .  .  . please . e mail responses and i will post a summary if there is 
any interest. 

jas 

jim 




agate ! holonet . net . ! ! ! ! ! 
subject re  ( waz geico annoyance ) 
from  ( aaron lung ) 
distribution rec . autos . 
organization corporation 
lines 21 

in article (robert j. wade ) writes 
if you want to annoy geico , call them up .  .  . give . fake name .  .  . but . real car 
specs .  . get . a quote and then tell them they are more expensive than your 
current state farm allstate insurance. they will still send you quote etc. 
then you can tear up their quote and stuff it in the prepaid return 
envelope and mail it back to them. actually they were 12 more than my current 
state farm rates. 


actually , i 've had a bad habit of stuffing a whole bunch of other garbage 
junk mail in along with whatever else into anybody 's prepaid envelopes 
until they almost burst .  . i believe they pay postage by weight. 
heh , heh , heh .  .  .  . 

anyways , do n't tear up the quotes just yet .  .  . i . sometimes use their 
quotes or other insurance quotations as leverage to haggle for a 
lower rate elsewhere. usually it works to your advantage if 
they are lower .  . 

aaron 


from  ( albion h. bowers ) 
subject re is car saftey important s 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 61 
reply to  ( albion h. bowers ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( jim frost ) says 

state . edu . (john f nielsen ) writes 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
 ( trevor corkum ) writes 
i figure that 30mph collisions into brick walls are n't common enough 
for me to spend that much extra money for protection , but there are 
lots of low speed collisions that do worry me. 

get into an 30 mph accident and you may reconsider .  . i 've been in one 
and it is really scarey .  . my life is something i value more 
than a car 's looks or handeling .  . consider it insurance , it may not 
happen often but when it does , you 'll sure be glad you got a safe car. 

granted the tests are n't perfect but i 'd much rather be in a car that 
did well in the test than a car that did horribly .  . 

you raise a valid point , but again it 's a tradeoff how much money 
do you want to spend for that kind of protection you could buy a 
volvo , saab , or  benz and get really good crash protection  ( and other 
luxuries ) but you 'll pay significantly more for it. in my case it 's 
out of the question because all of those cars are beyond my budget. 

i 've been in two major auto accidents , both were multiple car. the worst 
was a head on three car collision (t intersection and one person ran a stop 
sign) .  . in both cases i was stopped and had no place to go  ( and i saw it 
coming both times) .  . 

even in high speed head on collisions the most beneficial item you can 
have is a good old 3 point seatbelt .  . nowadays , at least in the us , 
you get an airbag if you get a 3 point belt so  ( presumably ) you get an 
added safety benefit there as well. that 's something i certainly look 
for and which can be had in inexpensive cars. 

if you really want to add safety to any car , simply add a cage to the 
car. they are available and cheap  ( about 500 in the usa) .  . add to that 
four or five or six point belts and you will walk away from collisions that 
were otherwise not  . but instead of people spending a little 
extra money , we get legislation that says the gov't must mandate a minimal 
level of protection for everyone. 

one other significant factor in improving one 's own safety is to get some 
training. this will improve your safety more than any other single 
investment will. drive ride defensively  ( and that does not mean you have 
to be a old stick in the  . people here tend to about 
autos more than the average  ( probably in the top 15th in driving 
ability) , but still we sometimes overlook the obvious. i 've been to two 
driving schools , and three riding schools for my motorcycle .  . a very 
worthwhile investment  ( and besides , it was a lot of fun too ) .  . 

safety is what you make of it , just because a does n't provide you 
with an adequate level of protection does n't mean you have to leave it go at 
that. 



al bowers dod 900 alfa ducati hobie kottke  iaido nasa 
well goodness sakes .  .  . do . n't you know that girls ca n't play guitar 
mary chapin carpenter 

from  ( barry frishberg ) 
subject re best radar detector valentine 1 
reply to 
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma 
lines 56 
originator 
nntp posting host ch . apollo . hp . com . 

from article , by  ( troy wecker ) 

earlier i commented on the valentine 1 and replied 
about the value of the units counter .  . i did n't really go into 
why i called this feature a gimmick so here is more explanation. thanks 
jim for the good comments and opinion. 
. 
. 
. 

from what i understand the valentine 1 can only tell if these 
microwaves are coming from the front , rear or both. there are only 
two antennas .  . if they are coming from both this in interpreted as a 
side . counts are determined as sources by their 
relative strength to one another even if they are reflections of the 
same source. 
. 
. 
. 

it sounds like your analysis is based on hypothesis and not 
actually using the valentine 1. i 'd like to give some feedback based on 
real life  . i keep the valentine 1 in advanced logic mode 
and it rarely lights up as a christmas tree. the only time it does 
is when i am in the middle of a major shopping area and then it makes 
sense that is does since there are 8 sources coming from many different 
directions. i have found the valentine 1 to be consistent in its 
reporting of regardless of any moving cars in the area. 

i have found the directional indication to be very useful. in one case 
there was two radar traps set up within one mile of each other. as i 
passed the first radar trap , the direction indication changed. then 
the detector was set off again pointing in the forward direction. with 
other radar detectors i would have assumed that this was due to a reflection .  . 
but with the valentine 1 i knew there was a high probability that there 
was another trap .  . and there was ! 

on other occasions , the directional helped discern a false alarm from 
a true alarm .  . for example , as i pass a source , the direction indicator 
changes. the directional also allows me to focus my attention as to where 
the signal might be coming from instead of having to look all over the 
place. when a car is approaching me from the rear with a detector 
that leaks , i can tell that the signal is coming from the rear and as the 
car passes me i can verify the source. with other detectors , i would 
have been unable to do this and would have had to assume that there was a radar 
trap when there was none. 

i 've had the valentine 1 for several months now and find its added features 
to be useful and not  . 

barry 


barry 
chelmsford uk expert center 508 tn 436 
chelmsford , ma 

from (james p. callison ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 39 

in article writes 
but why not turn the question around , why are automatics so common in 
the us 

because some people like them  ( and some people actually need them) .  . 

my guess is that when they tried to couple manuals to the torque rich 
v8 's in the sixties the clutches turned out as real killers you had to 
use both feet to depress , and that this has just lived on. 

yeah , right. real muscle cars had a manual transmission , and their 
clutches are n't that heavy .  . shelby american used plenty of 
high powered , high torque engines , and carroll only put autos in 
his cars because people wanted them.  ( blasphemers ! heretics ! 
burn them , burn them for defiling a shelby with an auto ! ) 
real  ( and they were the ultimate sports car at the 
time) had big block fords which turned out amounts 
of power and torque , and none of them had automatics .  . 

and also , an automatic with a v8 engine can be real fun to drive. 

yeah , if you call a gear shift in the middle of a curve fun. ) 

i personally would love to have a '66 galaxie 500 7 liter coupe , 
with a fire breathing 427 and four floor  ( to go along side 
my '66 galaxie 500 hardtop with a fire breathing 390 
with three tree i love the sound of dual exhaust in the 
morning ! ) .  . there 's no comparison between a real american 
muscle car and a car with a big engine and an automatic , imho .  . 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

from  ( ark boon lee ) 
subject clutch 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 7 
nntp posting host soda . berkeley . edu . 


any one with experience in having a clutch  ( or any other) 
on his her car 
i'm considering to replace my old stock clutch on my 90 crx si .  . 
what is a fair price 

martin 

from (ron bense ) 
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time 
organization dis claim is mine 
lines 16 

in article  ( alois m. himsl ) writes 

in article devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . ,  ( nancy 
feagans ) writes 
ashtrays and cigarette lighters .  . these should be an option . 

you forget that the cigarette lighter plug is essential for plugging in radar 
detectors and lights. the ashtrays are also essential because they are great 
places to keep change and tokens .  . 

would n't you rather have some type of standard electrical plug instead of 
that fire hazard waiting to happen adaptor i know i would , and i would 
also prefer to have sensibly placed cup holders instead of an ashtray .  .  ( my 
car came with coin holders already built in) 

ron 

from  ( jim battan ) 
subject re 300zx or sc300 
nntp posting host sequent . com . 
organization sequent computer systems inc. 
lines 17 

in article  ( danny phornprapha ) writes 
i'm getting a car in the near future. i 've narrow it down to 300zx and sc300 .  . 
which might be a better choice 

having driven both , and having owned an sc300 for 14 months now , all i can 
say is it depends . they 're both great cars. in fact , my wife and i 
are saving our pennies so we can get her the 300zx convertible in a year. 
the 300zx handles like a dream , while the sc300 rides like a dream. 
fit and finish on both are excellent , but the lexus gets the nod in 
customer satisfaction .  . they 're both very attractive , and hideously 
expensive. the resale value of the sc is better than the zx .  . the 
300zx is n't available with traction control , which makes it a handful 
on slippery surfaces. 

jim sequent computer systems , beaverton , or 
or uunet ! sequent ! 
1 503 578 

from  ( kevin gosson ) 
subject 89 honda crx dx 
nntp software pc tcp nntp 
keywords great cond. , 45 mpg 
lines 11 
nntp posting host down . ftp . com . 
reply to goose 
organization ftp software , inc. , north andover , massachusetts 

1989 honda crx dx , white w blue int. 
original owner , 59 , 500 miles , mostly highway .  . 
recent tune up , new battery 
oil changed every 3000 miles 
kenwood high power cassette receiver , w 4 spkrs 
or best reasonable offer 

if interested , please e mail me at 
or call after 6pm 603 437 ask for kevin 




from (scott leapman ) 
subject re a 
originator 
reply to 
organization ibm austin 
lines 5 


i tried the stuff on my 1991 saturn sc , and was so disappointed with it 
that i returned it for a refund .  . i polished the car for 2 hours and could n't 
remove the marks thin film that was all over the finish. it also 
attracted more dirt than without the stuff. 

from  ( diana smith) 
subject question 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 7 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 


my ex husband i used to own  . have n't seen any for a long 
time. they were really good cars. does out there know anything 
about them now i heard they were being made in mexico , but of course 
they would n't be the original german if that 's even true. when i 've 
been in mexico i have n't seen any. we loved ours , even tho' they were 
ugly they had names one was humphrey  . 

from  ( dirk broer ) 
subject re old corvettes low insurance and corvette prices 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
lines 85 

in article , (richard newton ii ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article (scott warren rosander ) writes 
in article , (george hei 
nz ) writes 
after too many years of school i'm finally graduating and getting a real 
job. of course i am trying to make plans of how to spend all this extra 
money. right now i have an 89 accord , a good car , but not real sporty 
i was thinking of selling it in about two years and dropping around 
20k on a sports car of some kind. after thinking about it , i may have a 
better idea i 'll keep the accord until it drops and buy the car i 've 
always wanted a corvette stingray .  . my reasoning is that 8000  ( accord ) 
8000  ( corvette ) 16000 is less than what i would spend anyway. 

basically , i'm thinking of a late 70 's , early 80 's for around 7 10k .  . 
my question is , what are good years to consider  ( for reliability , looks , 
horsepower in that order , believe it or not , horsepower is not a main 
concern , if i want to go fast , i get on my motorcycle ) and what are 
good prices 

 63 to '82 vettes had the same basic chassis .  . 1980 add aluminum  ( weaker ) 
rear  axle  housing .  . all these years used same brakes , similar springs etc 
late 70 's was a bad year for gm reliability .  . catastrophic converter was 
added in 1975 .  . 

cheapest corvette '78 to '79 low end about 4k tops out about 12k except 
for those that think there '78 indy 25th vette is 
special. these guys have been known to ask 25k .  . i do n't think they get it 
. 

best buy 69 74 .  . i got my 69 for 5k needs body work but 
i'm willing .  . 

parts for all are readily avail at swap meets and mail order etc. 

v 8 reliability looks independant suspension 4 wheel disk and all 
under 10k .  . and they thought a miata was a good deal. 

also , what would insurance look like i'm male , single , 23 (i might 
wait until i'm 25 to get the car lower insurance) .  . would the fact that 
i mainly drive the other car lower it is there some type of classic 
car or rarely driven insurance class for driving it under 10k miles 
per year 

my dad has a 66 vette and its on what you say  classic insurance' .  . 
basically what that means is that it has restricted amount of driving 
time , which basically means it cant be used as an every day car and would 
probably suit your needs for limited mileage .  . 

my origional inquires to my insurance agent i can drive my '69 convertable 
for 3000 miles or less per year , i must keep it in a locked garage and it 
will cost me 2 of the stated value per year  ( does this sound right ) .  . 


i 've also been looking at vettes recently , and found a '67 convertible 
that i like at a dealer .  . i currently own an '88 ford escort gt , which 
is insured through state farm .  . i called em up , and asked about the rates 

if i sell the escort , the vette insurance is 401 . 16 . per 6 months. 

if i keep the escort , the vette insurance is 308 . 82 . per 6 months. the 
escort 's insurance goes down by 10 , to approx 320 per 6 months. 

i'm 28 , male , and have a good driver discount. another variable would 
be where you live. best bet is to just call up some insurance brokers , 
and get a quote. 

state farm says they base the price on the fair market value of the car , 
which is determined by an outside  . they look in the newspaper , 
and call up dealers to find out what the going rate is , and adjust it for 
the condition of the car. 

to get the values above , they went on the selling price of the car. the 
dealer 's asking price is 21 , 900 i need to do research to find out if 
this is reasonable .  . in any case , i told state farm the value was 20k .  . 

get an to look at the car. he will check serial numbers and look 
for origional equipe .  . depending on what mods have been done the car could 
be worth only 10k .  . problems like wrong engine trans. wrong paint type ( 
used lacquer ) an modification would reduce tthe value. but your 
looking for a car to drive right 

this sounds like a ball park price for a small block  ( 327 cu in . ) . manual 
no air car. a 427 would put it closer to 30k .  . 

get it appraised ! ! ! for insurance purposes also. 

from wen  ( wen king su ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
organization california institute of technology 
lines 9 
nntp posting host neptune . cs . caltech . edu . 
keywords mercury , villager , minivan , van , cars , 

in article (steven a. morris ) writes 
the villager quest seem like the best of the voyager copies to 
come along since the mazda mpv .  . the nissan maxima engine paired with 
the maxima 4 speed auto trans should be an excellent drive train , and 
the rest of the vehicle seems well engineered .  . only the price is 
controversial .  . 

hmm .  . the last time i checked , villager quest does not have a maxima 
engine , and is very much under powered for its weight. 

from  ( alan s. mazer ) 
subject re what is the deal with blue book value of an auto 
organization image analysis systems group , jpl 
lines 41 
distribution na 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

mail bounced , so .  .  .  . 

in article you write 
i am in the process of buying a new auto .  . i have n't decided yet whether 
i should sell my current car myself or trade it in as part of the new 
auto purchase. 

traditional wisdom says you are almost certainly better off selling it 
yourself if you do n't mind that extra hassle .  . having a trade in on a purchase 
just makes getting the best price from a dealership more confusing. 

i know that the blue book value for the car is  . 

i assume this is retail  . there are two prices , one for 
retail and one for wholesale .  . you really want the retail price if you can 
get it. the blue books also have adjustments you can make for low mileage 
and extras on your particular car. you should look all this stuff up yourself. 
also keep in mind that the blue book prices are averages over the country 
that may not apply in your area. for example , blue book prices are low for 
california .  . a better way of finding out how much your car might be worth is 
to call around and see what it 's selling for  ( if any used lots have one) or 
looking in local papers for similar cars and checking out the prices. it 
might be more time efficient to take a small loss  ( rather than hold out for 
6 months for the best price) .  . 

an 
has offered to give me blue book value for the car. 

i do n't know what you mean by an acquaintance but i would make darn sure 
that i was paid , that is , 's check in full before delivery. there 's 
a real temptation when selling to a pseudo friend to be more accomodating 
than you should. make sure you get the money and if they about paying 
in full at the start  ( with a 's check or cash ) then i would go 
elsewhere. rememeber that you can probably sell your car to a used car lot 
or wholesaler and get wholesale  . that 's probably a safer approach 
than selling to a private party. 


alan mountain dew and doughnuts .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . ! ames ! elroy ! alan because breakfast is the most important meal 
of the day. 

from  ( mohit k goyal ) 
subject which radar detector should i buy 
nntp posting host apache . utdallas . edu . 
organization univ. of texas at dallas 
lines 8 

i just entered the market for a radar detector and am looking for 
any all advice recommendations warnings etc from anyone in 
this group. 

email is preferred .  . 

thanks. 


from (robert william fusi ) 
subject for sale '91 toyota camry 9500 
organization lehigh university 
lines 20 

1991 toyota camry for sale 
deluxe package 
5 speed 
grey 
power windows 
power door locks 
am fm cassette 
power steering 
power brakes 
70k highway miles 
excellent condition 

9500 rob fusi 

(609) 397 after 7pm e mail me for more info .  .  .  . 
(914) 335 6984 day  ( until 5) 
ask for bob fusi 




from (david g. wonnacott ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
summary switched to erie insurance exchange 
distribution usa 
organization u of maryland , dept. of computer science , coll. pk. , md 20742 
lines 8 

in article (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance ... 

i got numerous complaints about geico , and several helpful pointers to 
other  ( good ) insurance companies. i have decided to go with the erie 
insurance exchange , which seems to combine high ratings from the net 
and consumer reports with low rates (at least for me) .  . thanks for all 
the responses. 

from  ( doug zolmer ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
nntp posting host 
reply to  ( doug zolmer ) 
organization bell northern research ltd. 
lines 24 

in article , (john g. kissane ) writes 
as a matter of interest does anyone know why autos are so popular in the us while 
here in europe they are rare just wondering .  .  .  .  .  . 

in many of our cities , there are traffic signals every 100 feet  ( unsynchronised , 
of course  ( well here in ottawa anyway ) and the roads are so congested that 
shifting manually is a real pain in the left foot. also , most canadians are 
too stupid to learn how to shift manually  ( gee , i gotta co my two 
feet on the clutch , brake and accelerator , and i gotta steer , shift and 
operate the signals  ( optional ) and radio with my two hands .  .  .  . duh .  .  .  . it 
ca n't be done) .  . also , most north american made cars come with the automatic 
as standard equipment , so why bother with a manual when the car can shift 
for you for no addition money. 



john kissane motorola ireland ltd. , 'o . o' . 
uucp  .  . uunet . ! ! glas ! mahon industrial estate , () () 
internet blackrock , cork , ireland u 


doug zolmer internet disclaimer my opinions only 1 3 5 
bell northern research ltd. ottawa , ontario , canada 
dept. service control point routing services design 2 3 r 

from (scott leapman ) 
subject car alarms which one 
originator 
reply to 
organization ibm austin 
lines 9 


before we get into another discussion on the relative merits of a car alarm , 
let 's go on the assumption that one is desired .  . the question then remains , 
which one i 've owned a , and was satisfied , but not enough to get 
another for my new car. the alpine has been highly recommended , but what about 
clifford and 's 2 any others i want all of the standard stuff 
door lock interface , starter kill , light flash , led , valet mode , passive active , 
shock motion sensor , etc .  .  .  . thanks for the advice ! 


from  ( darren gibbons ) 
subject datsun nissan 240 260 cars 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 19 

well , the opel deal fell through .  .  .  . 

now i'm looking at a datsun for sale in our local buy sell. any 
previous owners have any experience with these cars besides looking 
for rust , good compression , low miles , and all the other usual car 
things one looks for , is there anything special about these cars that 
i should watch out for 

how about things like handling , performance , mileage , etc. these cars 
look hot , to my eyes at least , and bear more than a passing 
resemblance to the martin  ( zagato(sp ) , which has to be one 
of the most cars ever made. 

what is the difference between , , the is rather 
imho , but the other cars are decent .  . 
thanks again .  .  .  . 
darren gibbons 



from (james p. callison ) 
subject re  . extensions . 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 59 

in article news . ctron . com . writes 
in article , daniel u. holbrook writes 
these are the extensions i know of 
ch switzerland 
se sweden 
fi finland 
uk uk 
com us 
edu us  ( are both com and edu us ) 
fr france 
dk denmark 
no norway 

.com and  . edu . are both united states , one refers to commercial institutions , 
the other to mental i mean , educational institutions .  .  . gov . is also 
pretty much us , it refers to government institutions .  . internet was built on 
the aarp backbone , a us defense contractor network that used the extension 

i think you mean arpa aarp is the american association of retired persons , 
and i seriously doubt that they 'd want young building 
anything on their backbones , what with de and all ) 

to identify the type of organisation .  . internet extended the convention for 
other countries , but the us retained the old conventions .  . 

the general convention is that if it does n't have a country tag on it , it 's 
a us site. that includes 
.com commercial 
 . edu . educational 
 . mil . us military sites 
 . gov . us gov't non military sites (eg nasa sites) 
 . org . anyone who is none of the above 
there are sites with such that are non us sites , but they will have 
the country extension (eg xxxx . edu . au . is an extension i saw today) .  . 
us sites can also use the  . us . extension , but , as mr. smith pointed 
out , the internet was built on the arpanet backbone , and they default 
to us sites if there 's no country code. 

i would suggest that anyone who did n't know this  ( or wants to know 
more about it on a non system administrative level) check out 
the book the whole internet user 's guide and catalog by ed krol .  . 
 ( or is it catalog and user 's guide i can never remember , and my copy 
is my desk at home .  .  . ) .  . it 's a very good not necessarily technical 
guide to the internet and the various utilities that lurk on it  ( including 
 . i do n't think it 's part of the nutshell series , but it is 
published by o'reilly and associates .  . 

this should go to one of the news. newsgroups , but damned if i 
can figure out which one .  .  .  .  . ) 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

organization arizona state university 
from 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
distribution usa 

lines 15 

in article ,  ( bob kehoe ) says 

either choice is good , but beware that 
i did not experience reasonable mileage 
with the v6 .  . average city driving was 
, with about 21 avg. on the highway .  . 

my nissan quest has been doing 20mpg city , though its first few tanks 
were more like  . the v6 and at are remarkably smooth. 


johnny p. stephens sig file upgrade on backorder .  . will be 
distance learning technology here any day now. 
arizona state university opinions expressed are mine. 


from 
subject re last of the v 8 interceptors  ( mad max ) 
lines 11 
nntp posting host alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska 

tony , i believe , first of all , that max 's car is an austrailian 
built car. i do n't think its a chopped up u.s. unit. it may be called a 
kangaroo or or something similar not sure. but , i do recall reading 
that austrailian cars used ford v 8 engines. the ford v 8 
is , i think , a 428 c.i. cop car motor .  . whatever the case that small car 
with a screaming big block ford 428 would probably smoke the tires for 
miles kilometers .  . i hope someone out there can elaborate on the subject. 

smoke 'em hard , smoke 'em fast. later , 
david  . 
'68 lincoln continental i .  . 

from  ( roger hupfauer ) 
subject re too fast 
organization autodesk inc. , sausalito ca , usa 
lines 24 

 ( dan day) writes 
in article  ( jim frost ) writes 

if the mustang and or sho platform were designed for 130mph , it would 
come with better seatbelts , more supportive seats , a stronger 
passenger compartment cage , better brakes , a stiffer suspension , 
different tires , and a body design that takes advantage of aero 
effects to keep the car on the ground. 

in other words , it 'd be a 1993 rx7 .  . 





yeah , and then we 'd pay 30 , 000 .  . go with a 5.0 lx mustang .  . most bang for your 
buck .  . 








from  ( bob alman ) 
subject re where can i get a new york taxi 
distribution na 
organization hp sonoma county  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 . 2 . 
lines 41 

wharfie wrote 
in article  ( bob alman ) writes 
hose h o s e 

dork .  . d o r k. 


oh , really 
here 's what you posted earlier in another thread. before you thrash 
others for making simple mistakes or flaunt your wonderful vi skill , 
think about how you make them feel as well as how you look  ( you spelled 
it  . 
for years you have assaulted others with offensive language , etc. from 
the content of many of your posts , you appear to have a lot of useful 
information to share with people , but it gets overshadowed when you come 
across as an abusive smart ass. 


wharfie wrote 
in article  ( z 
auberer ) writes 

remember roads in america are not designed for speeds above 80 
meaning they 
would be safe at 55 65 .  . roads like the autobahn are smoother , 
, 
wider and slightly banked .  . 

well , that 's news. before 1975 the speed limit on texas 
highways 
was 75 .  . the speed limit on the new jersey turnpike (i 95) was 70 .  . 
there 
were no speed limits in nevada or montana .  . 

east becoming hidden by trees after about 1 , 000 ft and continued to 
the 
left strait north .  . i wanted to turn north , checked the south lane , 
rolled 

straight . s t r a i g h t 


from 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host nntpd invader . navy . mil . 
reply to kenneth finnegan 
organization technologies 
lines 18 

in article 
 ( eliot ) writes 

the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 


eliot 

would n't that make them an i4 or would they 
really be an 4  ( henceforth referred to as 
underscore 4 ) 

kenneth 






from arun g. 
subject re honda mailing list 
organization freshman , biology , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 6 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . rec . autos . 24 apr 93 honda mailing list by james 
b. 
is there a honda mailing list , and if so how do i subscribe to it 

if you look at their magazine ads , they may have a phone number to call 
and you can ask for a catalog or to be on the list , etc. 

from (stephen d'amelio ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
nntp posting host elba 
organization progress software corp. 
lines 26 

 ( vlasis theodore ) writes 

have you detroit beings compared the ultra long throw stick shifts of 
the 5.0 with the 93 mr2 turbo or 93 rx7 (i ll buy it in 6 mos ) 

or the differential of the rx7 compared to the differential of 
the 5.0 that sounds in every turn 

or the price tag of the rx7 vs. a mustang part of the definition of 
a mustang is that it should be affordable by the masses .  . of course 
ford knows youre argument , they own a big piece of mazda ! take a good 
look at a mach iii , now an rx7 , hhhmmmmm .  .  .  . 

and way 5.0 and camaro both have drums on the rear breaks ... 
hello , this is the 90 's 

that is a tragedy , but i do n't think new camaros or the new mustangs will. 

steve 

7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
alan 1992 winston cup champion 
1954 1993 
7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 



from  ( outatime ) 
subject emergency brake on '86 nissan maxima 
keywords nissan 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 12 


just a quick , simple question really .  .  .  . 

how many wheels are affected by the emergency brake on an '86 nissan 
maxima .  . i 've heard that all four are affected , but this would seem unusual 
to me. i thought the emergency brake on most cars only affected the rear 
wheels. also , how powerful is the emergency brake usually enough to lock 
wheels at 30mph hmmmm .  .  .  . i just have to wonder about some of the things i 
hear .  .  .  . 




from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re opel owners 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 52 

 ( matthew liggett ) writes 

in  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

(craig boyle ) writes 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 
i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater , 
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my 
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 
thanks ! 
darren gibbons 


this would be the manta , would it not sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader 

sounds a lot more like an opel gt to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same 
chassis as the kadett , rather than the bigger manta but i could easily 
be wrong. i think the later kadett 's were sold here as buick opels .  . 

craig 

i think the manta is the european name for the gt .  . i'm pretty sure 
that the only kadett 's sold here were are the pontiac lemans .  . i think the 
gt is just an early '70s to mid '70s manta .  . 

chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

bzzt .  . 
the manta was a two door sedan in the us. 
it had a 1900 engine. 
was sometimes referred to as an opel 1900 .  . 
manta 's are also ve hot and fun cars too. 


 junk  collector , toys r us kid , antiauthoritarian , and fan of 
frogs , iguanas , and other herps .  . 

funny , the manta 's over in europe look surprisingly like the opel 
alluded to by the original poster. 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re 
keywords color match , liquid glass 
organization corporation 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( bret d barnard ) writes 
with spring upon us it 's time to start waxing again. i was wondering if anyone 
had any suggestions about and  . i know wax is often 
recommended on the net , but i was wondering about the colored to cover up 
some minor scratches .  . do the colored give on overall good quality shine 
are they good for the paint or clear coat 

what about liquid glass , is it a clear polish which dries clear thus filling 
scratches is it good for the paint clear coat 

please post with both good and bad experiences. and hey , let 's name names 
 ( brands ) here ! ) 


all ! stick with plain  ol wax that 's non abrasive .  . 
eagle 1 , , turtle wax , and a few others are good examples .  . 
the colored just color in the scratches so they 're not so 
apparent .  . the better approach is to buff minor scratches completely 
off with a cleaner mild abrasive .  . 

never tried liquid glass , although i still have this sample they sent 
me a few years back. 

aaron 



from  ( harjeet kalsi ) 
subject new mercedes diesels 
keywords automotive diesels 
organization systems ltd. 
lines 16 


hi fellow auto enthusiasts ! 

does anyone have any info on the new 4 valve per cylinder diesels mercedes 
is working on any specs on outputs , engine size , will they be direct or 
indirect injection , etc. would be welcome. from what i hear these should 
be out late this year , next year 

thank you in advance for your replies ! 








from  ( jerry bowman ) 
subject re improvements in automatic transmissions 
nntp posting host fred . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado boulder , ocs 
lines 51 

in article  ( brent herling ) writes 


in article ,  ( shazad barlas ) writes 
i just wanted to know 

to wheelspin in an auto , you keep the gear in n gas it then stick the 
gear in d .  .  .  . i 've never tried this but am sure it works but does this screw 
up the autobox we 're having a bit of a debate about it here .  .  .  . 


ah yes , the neutral slam .  . 

i know that gm tested the old 's and 's by shifting from reverse to 
forward gears repeatedly while holding the engine at high rpms .  . the units hold 
up incredibly well. this is also the recommended technique to rock a stuck 
vehicle out of the mud .  . i think the hydraulics are up to the task , but the 
mechanicals of the driveline may object by breaking something. 

0.02 


i agree about the durability of the old from gm. while i 
never intentionally my '68 firebird 400 ci conv .  . into gear , i would leave 
the trannie in low  ( read 1st) , grab hold , hit the pedal , and once the tires 
grabbed , take off. when i reached about 57 60mph the turbo 400 auto would 
shift to s  ( read  super  or 2nd ) and leave about 10 to 15 foot of double 
stripped rubber on the ground. most everyone i knew at the time was quite 
impressed with  peeling  out at 60 mph. the trannie held up just fine. 
motor mounts would last about a year until i tied the motor down with large 
chains .  . oh yea , fyi pontiac 400 ci bored 0.04 over 
large valve heads 
holley 650 spread bore 
 blazer  cam  ( do n't remember the specs ) 
, headers , dual exhaust 
get this  . , leather seats , power windows 
power top , ac , cruise etc . ) . 

oh yea , i also pulled the  cocktail   ( weights ) from the front 
and removed the lead pellet from the accelerator pedal .  .  ( damn us regulations) 
oh , how i miss that car ! ! ! 
0 60 under 6.7 sec and about 6 to 14 mpg  ( well i do n't miss the mpg ) 
front wheels 4 off the ground with three quick jabs at the pedal .  . 
bent pushrods , stripped rocker studs , every 6 12 months 
( i really wonder what kind of rev 's i was turning no tach ) 
re improvements in automatic transmissions 
anyone seen one of these lately i 'd buy it back in a sec ! ! ! 

open top brent 

am i the only one that smells a little el caca del toro here 

from  ( sammy ) 
subject changing m t oil on maxima 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

hello again , another question. ) 

i just got my hands on 2 quarts of gear oil (at 7 a quart ) 
now i need to know how to throw it into my car. 

i own an 89 nissan maxima se , any ideas 
can i mix the oil in there with this stuff , or should i drain first , then 
only use this stuff. 
if you know where  ( if there is one) the drain plug on the manual transmission 
on the maxima is , i would really appreciate any comments. 
also have any of you maxima owners , this stuff in your cars 

thanks in adv .  . 
sammy 


from  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
subject re locking tire 
reply to  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
distribution usa 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 20 

in rec . autos . , writes 
you put a locking on your tires , do you need to have your 

x 
mas 
x 
mail address 

since the wheel tire is balanced off the car i.e. the are 
not normally involved , how would they do that i would think that 
since the are so close to the center of rotation any slight 
difference in weight between a normal and a locking one would 
not have any noticable effect on the balance. i could be wrong , it is 
friday afternoon. 

mack costello code 65.1  ( formerly 1720 . 1) . 
david taylor model basin , division hq .  . nswc 
bethesda , md 20084 5000 phone (301) 227 2431 ( 



from  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
distribution usa 
lines 25 

in article  ( wayne smith) writes 

in article (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i 've read in this group that geico has funded the purchasing of radar 
guns by police depts  ( i'm not sure where) .  . 


geico has purchased radar guns in several states , i know they have done 
it here in ct. 

i have also heard horror stories about people that have been insured by geico 
for years and then had 1 accident and were immediately dropped .  . and once 
you 've been dropped by any company you become labled a high 
risk , and end up out 3 or 4 times what you should be for insurance. 

my suggestion , stay where you are , or shop around but stay away from geico ! 

jeff 



from  ( gary w. mahan ) 
subject re lexus and infiniti 
organization loral software productivity laboratory 
lines 7 

do n't the numbers in the car names above to the engine size in 
liters i.e. 4 . engine , sc300 3.0 liter sport coupe  .  .  . 
and 4 .  .  .  ( similar , kinda , to bmw and mb deal) .  . 

note bmw doesnt always follow this convention .  . 

for example , 1980 320i had a 1.8 liter engine. the 1979 had a 2.0 liter .  . 

from  ( neil b. gandler ) 
subject need info on 88 89 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 10 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ubvmsd . cc . buffalo . edu . 


i am a little confused on all of the models of the 88 89  . 
i have heard of the le se  . could someone tell me the 
differences are far as features or performance. i am also curious to 
know what the book value is for prefereably the 89 model. and how much 
less than book value can you usually get them for. in other words how 
much are they in demand this time of year. i have heard that the mid spring 
early summer is the best time to buy. 

neil gandler 

from state . edu . (steven j orlin ) 
subject re changing oil by self. 
keywords n 
nntp posting host magnusug . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 33 


in article (andrew infante ) write 
s 


you 're actually worried about somebody stealing 
your oil 

ahhh yes , andrew , we meet again .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . no . , not  stealing  the oil , just draining it as to leave me stranded .  . 

c'mon , you think a vandal 'll do that ! 

let me guess , you 're from hudson ohio 

that 's absolutely ridiculous ! 

get out and see the world. 


if i were the vandal , and i really hated someone , maybe someone who knew 
something about cars , of course i would look for any types of valves i could 
undo .  . especially , special oil drain plugs , and radiator petcocks .  . 

as well as putting bad things in the gas .  .  .  . 

while i would never vandalize someone 's car , if i were to , it would probably 
be the  time bomb  approach , and i'm sure i'm not the only one who thinks 
that way .  .  .  . 


steve 

from (james bruder ) 
subject re manual advice needed .  .  .  . 
organization hp information networks , cupertino , ca 
lines 8 

i do n't think that a transmission fluid change will solve your problem. 
unless you are in an extremely cold climate and using a very heavy weight 
fluid .  . follow the manufacturer 's recommended oil weight. some of the 
cars i have had  ( all standard transmissions 4 or 5 speeds) recommend 
changing the transmission fluid at 30 , 000 miles under normal driving 
conditions. i 've gone 100 , 000 without changing the transmission oil  ( and 
had to replace the transmission bearings ! ) .  . my older cars used 85 weight 
oil whereas my 92 honda uses 10 30 motor oil  ( or maybe 30 weight) .  . 

from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 40 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( thomas tornblom ) says 

in article (the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 

vw golf passat 2 . 8l . vr6  ( inline v6 ! ) , very narrow angle (11 deg ) , one head. 
15 

audi 80 100 2.6 2 . 8l . v6 

v8 do n't know of any. 

audi v8 3.6 4 . 2l . 
some mbs 
some bmws 

v12 jaguar 
bmw 750 850 
mb 600 

please add to the list. 


thanks , 
s 


real life thomas t email 
snail mail communicator nexus ab phone 46 18 
box fax 46 18 
s 751 08 uppsala , sweden 


drew 

from tim nagy 
subject mgb questions 
organization 's office , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 29 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 

the wheels are n't , they were to be painted silver grey .  . 

the accelerating from a stop should n't be because of the light 
weight of the car. 

do n't pull the make it reach the snaps , i pulled a couple out of 
the top doing that. replacing the usually does n't work. let it 
sit in th e sun , open on the car for a couple hours , the try , gently ! ! ! ! 

i continually blew up the 4 connecting rod bearing , be sure your not 
too much oil. 

do n't expect too much of a smooth ride. the lever arm shocks hold the 
road , and your bladder .  . the are ultra expensive. supposedly the can be 
rebuilt .  . j. c. whitney sell a shock replacement kit the uses standard 
shocks .  . 

i had to brake and clutch master cylinder , in addition to 
the clutch slave .  . this work made a world of changes. 

be sure the carb is the original type replacement .  . my 1970 had dual 
oil side draft carbs .  . 

ask if the clutch has ever been replaced .  . to replace the engine and 
tranny have to be pulled as a unit. 

if you need more , i had mine all through school. lots of 
maintenance to use every day. 


from  ( bill christens barry) 
subject 2 camrys eating clutch master cyls 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 36 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 
summary why the repeated leaks 
keywords clutch master cyl problems 

i have both an '84 and an '86 camry , each with manual 5 speed transmissions .  . 
the '84 has about 105 , 000 miles on it and the '86 about 83 , 000 miles. about 
a year ago i found that the master cylinder on the clutch in the '84 was 
leaking fluid around the piston seal , leading to air in the system and fluid 
back into the passenger compartment of the car. i pulled the plunger and 
got a rebuild kit  ( new plunger , seal , etc . ) . and thought i had the problem 
 . much to my surprise , the same problem developed several months 
later ! this time i looked carefully at the master cylinder to make sure 
there were no scratches , , or other obvious causes of the problem. i 
did n't find any. ever since i have been periodically feeding the clutch 
additional fluid and bleeding air from the system. i knew i 
would be selling the car and did n't want to go all the way to solving the 
problem. 

i should add that the clutch is original , and that i 've had to adjust the 
pedal to allow maximum extension of the piston into the master cylinder in 
order to the clutch .  . 

my hypothesis is that this means that when fully depressing the clutch pedal , 
the angle of the piston rod  ( attached to the pedal ) is off the of the 
cylinder , thus cocking the piston and seal and perhaps it. 

what do you think of that as an explanation can you suggest a possible fix 
short of replacing the master cylinder and getting a new clutch put in 

now the '86 same problem , except that the above diagnosis does n't explain 
why all of the fluid leaked out (by way of the master cylinder , into the 
passenger compartment ) while i was on vacation for 10 days , during which 
the clutch pedal was not depressed or otherwise caused to distort .  . what 
can you suggest here 

many thanks. let 's hope i do n't end up going to click and clack on this .  .  .  . 

bill christens barry 



from arun g. 
subject 
organization freshman , biology , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

i know this is the wrong place to post this , but i could n't find any 
relevant newsgroups in my area. 

for those of you who are from pa , where is (where the cops 
measure your speed from the time it takes you to cross the distance 
between two white lines on the road , right ) most commonly used i'm 
especially interested in the pittsburgh area  ( specific locations , prior 
experiences , if possible) .  . for those pa and non pa , if they use 
in your state , is it most common in rural , city , highway areas , etc. 
what i'm interested in mainly is where i can speed with the least risk 
of being caught. you can always detect radar , but there 's no way to 
fight unless you know where all the white lines are. 

thanks a lot , 

arun 

from (brian donnell ) 
subject re dealer cheated me with wrong odometer reading. need help ! 
nntp posting host hotspare . arc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa arc information sciences division 
distribution usa 
lines 9 

i do n't know about where you are , but here in california false 
representation 
of odometer readings is a criminal felony .  . if you can substantiate this , 
you need to report that dealer to the local authorities .  . you should consult 
with a lawyer to tell you what civil action you can take as well. keep in 
mind that you will have to prove that the dealer was aware of the change in 
the dashboard .  . 

brian donnell 

from  ( superuser ) 
subject re val 1 vs.  ( was re best radar detector ) 
nntp posting host hydra . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 28 

in article brian (brian donnell ) writes 
in article ,  ( allen 
tobias ) wrote 

i live in the backyard of the folks who make the stalker radar system. the 
valentine 1 has saved me many , many , many times from the stealth revenue 
enhancement traps of the local area. i have had all the major brand detectors , 
and , imho , nothing else even comes close to the v1 ! 


i had n't heard of the valentine 1 before. car driver and other auto 
magazines 
recommend bel detectors .  . i was considering their latest the 
which picks up super ka and laser as well. it also avoids 
radar detector detectors  ( although i really do n't care about this since i 
doubt i 'll be driving in virginia anytime soon or have any other states 
also made detectors ) 

how does the valentine 1 compare with the bel products 

brian donnell 

no comparison. the bel is just a up escort like detector .  . 
no directional indicators , no counter , no radar signature analysis , no 
remote display option , not as sensitive , not as well built .  . 
had it , sent it back ! 

at 

from  ( dennis j. holt ) 
subject re honda clutch chatter 
organization university of michigan dept. , ann arbor 
lines 31 

in article  ( doug zolmer ) writes 
in article , (james bruder ) writes 
anyone else experiencing a similar problem 

this concerns the clutch on a 92 honda accord 5 speed. when the clutch 
is first used in the morning , about the first 4 miles of shifting , there 
is a significant amount of clutch chatter until things warm up. then the 
clutch shifts smoothly .  . this chatter started when i moved to the san 
francisco bay area from a low humidity environment. the dealer stated 
that this is known to happen since honda changed from an asbestos to 
non asbestos clutch material. no remedy ! ! seems that moisture on clutch 
surface causes slipping until the moisture evaporates .  . 

any comments out there 

the clutch on my '92 honda civic ex v (ex in the u . s . ) . does this too. 
it 's annoying. now that i think about , it is worse when the humidity is 
high. the dealer also claims there 's nothing they can do since the clutch is 
a self adjusting hydraulic design . yeah , right. 


one of the reasons i sold my '92 civic vx was the clutch 
although i di n't notice it being any worse in weather , perhaps because 
its always around here. i was told by honda that it has to do with 
changing from asbestos to non asbestos linings , which began around 1990. 
someone could make some good money selling the old fashion variety if it 's 
legal to manufacture them these days. my feeling is that since many other 
car makers do not have this problem , that it 's a poor design or engineering 
problem on the part of honda .  . three things to look out for on all honda 
products clutch chatter , bad brake rotors , and rusty exhaust systems. 


from  ( blair robertson ) 
subject re service indicator of a bmw 
organization university of vermont division of emba computer facility 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 76 

 ( derek chan ) writes 

in article ,  ( shazad barlas ) writes 
derek .  .  .  .  . 

there is a tool available to reset the service indicator on bmws but the lights 
will come back on after 2 3 weeks. the tool is in fact illegal  ( in europe 
 . it is often the case that the unsuspecting punter off to buy a 
used bmw and a few weeks later , all the lights come on ! other than that , i know 
of no other tool .  .  .  .  . anyone else 

shaz , 

hmm .  .  . but the service indicators that i have works this way 
there are 5 green , 1 yellow , 1 red indicators .  . 
initially all green indicators will be on for few minutes when you start 
your car. the computer will actually sense how you drive your car and 
as time goes by the green indicators will start to go off one by one and 
then the yellow indicator will turn on and then the red indicator will go 
on. and you should get service when by the time green indicators are off. 

after service the  ( mechanic(or you) will reset the service indicators and the 
computer starts counting again. 

so i expect to have a  ( tool(or a procedure ) to reset it so the green lights will 
come on and the yellow and red lights will go off. 

i wonder how people can do oil change themself without knowing how to reset the 
indicator .  . 

it 's the first european car i have and changing oil at 15 , 000 miles is a 
surprise to me. and it 's a big plus ) .  . but i wonder how that could happen 
since the oil lose its lubrication ability over time , i thought it 's the oil and 
not the vehicle that determines how often we should change oil. 

any bmw owner on the net response welcomed .  . 

ps. my initial question is how do you the service indicator of a bmw 

derek 

there is a perfectly legal tool available to reset the bimmer service lights. 
it will cost you 45 from a mailorder , and buying one far outweighs 
the possible consequences of destroying all the electronics if you try 
di it yourself. 
you wonder how people do an oil change without knowing how it reset .  . 
why is reseting so important the only reason for doing 
it is stop the annoyance of a red light staring at you. 
forget this  in european cars you only need to change the oil every 
15000  crap. anyone serious about keeping their engine in good shape , and 
extending its life , will change it every 3000 , (inc  . do n't wait 
for the lights to come on before servicing the car. 
i bought a bmw about 6 months ago , it had 3 green lights on. i have changed 
the oil every 3000 , completly flushed brake , changed all  ( filters(oil , 
air and fuel , changed transmission and drive oils 
and done almost all of the other things req for service 1 
and a service 2. after nearly 6000 miles , i am still on 2 green lights. 
after a winter in burlington  ( and it is snowing today ! ! ) that is not bad. 

good luck ! 

blair 



blair e. robertson a new in vermont 
university of vermont posting his own ideas .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
medical research 
smooth muscle ion channel group 
colchester 
vermont 05446 2500 
email 
telephone (802) 656 




from  ( geof evans ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization royal melbourne institute of technology 
lines 20 
nntp posting host minyos . xx . rmit . oz . au . 

(the devil reincarnate ) writes 
i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 
v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 
v8 do n't know of any. 
v12 jaguar 
please add to the list. 
thanks , 
s 


is this a joke 




evans domain 
if they really wanna know .  .  . tell . 'em that god was drunk .  . 


from  ( thomas tornblom ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 19 17 44 gmt 
organization communicator nexus ab 
lines 32 

in article (the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 

vw golf passat 2 . 8l . vr6  ( inline v6 ! ) , very narrow angle (11 deg ) , one head. 
audi 80 100 2.6 2 . 8l . v6 

v8 do n't know of any. 

audi v8 3.6 4 . 2l . 
some mbs 
some bmws 

v12 jaguar 
bmw 750 850 
mb 600 

please add to the list. 


thanks , 
s 


real life thomas t email 
snail mail communicator nexus ab phone 46 18 
box fax 46 18 
s 751 08 uppsala , sweden 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
organization university of westminster 
lines 10 

just a quick note on the shape in the uk .  .  .  .  . 

when they first came out here , there were 3 models. the base model had an 
auto box and engine from the camry 2.0 ! ! ! well i found out that this 
model is no longer profitable for toyota and have since it. i 've also 
noticed that auto have depreciated a lot more than the next model up .  .  .  . 

surprise surprise huh oh .  .  .  .  . you lucky americans have the turbo mr2 ( 
no such luck over here ( 
 .  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  . 

from  ( vikas sontakke ) 
subject re review 1989 ford taurus sho 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 21 


in article , sam writes .  .  .  . 

one more way , which works in manual trans cars i 've driven , and it is my 
personal favorite (the other suggestions above are great , but try this 
one , too) .  . 

while pushing the shifter gently towards reverse , let the clutch out 
slowly  ( right to the friction point) and the shifter will be pulled into 
position. if you do it right , the car wo n't jump backward , nor will the 
gears grind .  .  .  .  . you will just glide back. 

sam 

i can vouch for this method in my 1990 sho .  . this is the only sure way of 
putting in the reverse without any problem every time. 

digital equipment corporation , maynard ma .  . 
internet 
uucp , ucbvax , allegra ! ! helix . enet . ! 


from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re best radar detector 
keywords  .  .  .  . 
organization nec systems laboratory , inc. 
lines 19 

in article  ( shazad barlas ) writes 
hi now that we have these photo speed traps here , i was wondering if 
anyone knows if radar detectors are capable of detecting photo cameras if 
not , are there any other devices which will 

yup .  . radar detectors that detect ka band will pick up photo radar 
as it 's reflected from some poor slob ahead of you that just got nailed .  . 

btw , many photo radar installations in the southern u.s. became 
targets for high powered rifles , or had their lenses decorated with cow 
flop , etc. not that i'm advocating destruction of public property , but you 
get the picture .  .  .  .  . 

later , 

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d wide glide jubilee 's red lady 
1975 baby bike 
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. 

from  ( matthew r. singer ) 
subject re opel owners 
lines 55 
reply to  ( matthew r. singer ) 
organization mit lincoln laboratory 



in article ,  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
newsgroups rec . autos . 
path ! ll . mit . edu . ! ll . mit . edu . ! mit . edu . ! ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! ux1 . cso . uiuc . edu . ! news . cso . uiuc . edu . ! uxa . cso . uiuc . edu . ! 
from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re opel owners 
date tue , 20 apr 93 19 45 02 gmt 5 00 
message id 
references 
sender  ( net noise owner ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 30 

(craig boyle ) writes 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 
i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater , 
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my 
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 
thanks ! 
darren gibbons 


this would be the manta , would it not sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader 

sounds a lot more like an opel gt to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same 
chassis as the kadett , rather than the bigger manta but i could easily 
be wrong. i think the later kadett 's were sold here as buick opels .  . 

craig 

i think the manta is the european name for the gt .  . i'm pretty sure 
that the only kadett 's sold here were are the pontiac lemans .  . i think the 
gt is just an early '70s to mid '70s manta .  . 

chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 


the gt was based on the chassis .  . it was built model years 1969 1973 .  . 
the manta came out in the 1974 model year and was a 4 seat coupe .  . 



matthew r. singer mit lincoln laboratory 
(617) 981 244 wood street 
lexington , ma 02173 


from  ( graham e. thomas ) 
subject re nissan  ( was re manual shift bigots wanted) 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 19 
nntp posting host oit . gatech . edu . 

(andrew a. spencer ) writes 



you are sure that what you call a 200sx we call a 240 just curious .  .  . 
we also have a nissan (sp) to the 240 called a 200 , which 
came in turbo and  . but i do n't think we 've ever had a 240 
turbo .  .  . just . curious .  .  . , i'm in the us , if that matters .  . ) . 

drew 

what we currently know as the 240sx , is known elsewhere as a 200sx .  . 




graham e. thomas blah blah blah blah blah 
georgia institute of technology blah blah blah blah blah 
internet blah blah blah blah blah 

from  ( aamir hafeez qazi ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 22 
reply to 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

from article , by wen  ( wen king su ) 
in article (steven a. morris ) writes 
the villager quest seem like the best of the voyager copies to 
come along since the mazda mpv .  . the nissan maxima engine paired with 
the maxima 4 speed auto trans should be an excellent drive train , and 
the rest of the vehicle seems well engineered .  . only the price is 
controversial .  . 

hmm .  . the last time i checked , villager quest does not have a maxima 
engine , and is very much under powered for its weight. 

yes , it does come with the maxima gxe engine to the maxima se 
transmission .  . and it has decent power for a minivan also. 

check again. 

aamir qazi 


aamir qazi 

why should i care i 'd rather watch drying paint. 

from  ( jeffrey c. strait ) 
subject bmw parts 
organization the university of illinois 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cheetah . csl . uiuc . edu . 

greetings automobile enthusiasts .  . can anyone tell me if there is 
a mail order company that sells bmw parts discounted .  .  .  . cheaper than 
the dealerships .  . 

sorry if it 's a faq .  . email replies very much appreciated. 

thanks , 

jeff strait 
university of illinois phone (217) 333 6444 
if you ladies leave this island , if you survive basic recruit 
training , you will be a weapon , a minister of death praying for war 

from (the devil reincarnate ) 
subject v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization , wa 
lines 16 


i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 
v8 do n't know of any. 
v12 jaguar 


please add to the list. 


thanks , 
s 


from  ( sean reifschneider ) 
subject re choice of gauges 
organization observatory software 
lines 21 

in article  ( dave gauge ) writes 
if you had free reign to design your own instrument cluster , which 
gauges would you choose to have beyond the basic set 

turbo boost is necessary if a car. 
fuel reserve warning. 
coolant level warning. 

it would also be nice to have a gauge that would cycle across the different 
sensors in the fi system such as o2 sensor , altitude , air flow .  .  .  . 

i 'd love to get tranny and diff. 
brake temp would be great .  .  .  . 

and a big ass tach .  . ) 

sean 

from the labs of , mitchell , , and , inc. 
sean , ruler of the realm 


from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 18 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , () says 

in article 
 ( eliot ) writes 

the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 


eliot 

would n't that make them an i4 or would they 
really be an 4  ( henceforth referred to as 
underscore 4 ) 

i think that it is known as a 180 degree vee configuration .  . 
 ( could be wrong .  .  .  . this . is how i 've seen them referred to) 
drew 

from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re changing brake fluid .  . is . it necessary .  .  . 
in reply to 's message of 23 apr 93 16 31 29 0500 
lines 15 
organization ibm toronto lab 

in article writes 


hi. 
i 've been seeing all these articles about changing 
brake fluid and i am wondering if this is really necessary. 
i have an 86 toyota corolla , with 94000 and i am in the 

only if you want to stop. seriously though , every 2 years you should 
have this done. brake fluid absorbs water over time , the water becomes 
steam when the fluid gets hot , and steam compresses .  . you 'll also have 
better luck with the longevity of master cylinder , calipers and brake 
lines. 

jeff goss 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization  r us 
lines 13 
nntp posting host lanmola . engr . washington . edu . 

in article state . edu . state . edu . (brian j queiser ) writes 
examples 

ferrari 's is a flat 12 boxer .  . 
porsche 's 911 is a flat 6. 
subaru 's impreza is a flat 4. 

i think you got it the other way round the ferrari flat 12 is a 180 
degree v12 and not a true boxer , while the subaru and porsche are 
true  . do n't know about the vw bug though , but i suspect that 
it is also a true boxer .  . 

eliot 

from  ( wes fujii ) 
subject re improvements in automatic transmissions 
organization hewlett packard boise , idaho 
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 
lines 24 

shazad barlas wrote 
to wheelspin in an auto , you keep the gear in n gas it then stick the 
gear in d .  .  .  . i 've never tried this but am sure it works but does this screw 
up the autobox we 're having a bit of a debate about it here .  .  .  . 

i 've known more people to leave their rear ends in pieces doing this , 
especially if they have reasonable power to transmit and good traction 
on the road surface. 

you 're better off  . 

wes fujii 



a real motor is an oldsmobile rocket 455 
hurst this is not the new generation of olds 


wes banzai fujii 
olds boise , idaho 




from  ( horace dediu ) 
subject re dirty diesels 
distribution na 
organization gte laboratories , waltham , ma 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( kumaravel natarajan ) writes 
i heard the diesels are considered cleaner burning than 
gas engines because the emit less of carbon monoxide , 
hydrocarbons , and oxides of nitrogen .  .  ( co , hc , nox) .  . 

but they can put out a lot of particulate matter. i heard 
something about legislation being discussed to clean up 
diesel emissions . is there anything in the works to 
install scrubbers for diesels how about the feasibility 
of installing them on trucks and cars would it be any 
different than a converter i 'd assume easier , 
since we 're removing particulate matter instead of converting 
gasses .  . let 's hear people 's opinions .  .  .  . 



vel natarajan motorola cellular , arlington hts il 


this really bugs me. the emissions of diesels are the cleanest of any vechicle , 
but they are considered so polluting that they are banned in passenger cars 
in california .  . what a bunch of crap. diesel is the fuel of choice for 
enviromental benefit in europe while here it 's illegal for the same reason. 

the particulates are nothing but carbon .  . they are just an annoyance at worst. 
nothing beats the diesel cycle for efficiency and emissions , torque or engine 
durability .  . it 's also cheaper. 

horace dediu gte laboratories 
(617) 466 40 sylvan road 
internet waltham , ma 02254 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject horizontally opposed boxer engines  ( was v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization  r us 
lines 42 
nntp posting host lanmola . engr . washington . edu . 

in article state . edu . state . edu . (brian j queiser ) writes 
there are two crank configurations for 
the flat 4 the most common one is probably the crank that is very 
similar to the i4 crank .  . 

which flat 4 engines have i4 style cranks 

comparing those two engines , the i4 and the 
flat 4 have no first order shaking forces or rocking moments. the 
i4 has a second order shaking force , while the flat 4 has a second 
order rocking moment. the significant thing about the flat 4 's 
second order moment is that it can be easily balanced out by adding 
mass at the ends of the crank .  . the i4 , however , requires a counter 
rotating shaft with mass to balance out the second order forces .  . 

i am 99.99 sure that subaru  ( and porsche ) use the boxer configuration 
and not the inline 4 crank that you analyzed and compared .  . would you 
care to re evaluate the other case of a flat four i think that this 
configuration is perfectly balanced as far as primary , secondary 
forces and couples are concerned. i have an article in front of me 
that says so. 

bottom line the biggest difference between the engines would probably 
be their intended use. the flat 4 is easier to fit under low 
and in rear compartments  ( for mid or rear  . the i4 can be 
mounted to reduce hood length  ( read cab  . 
other than that , there is n't much to the differences between 
them , no matter what subaru ads say.  ( technology shared with 
porsche .  . indeed . ) . 

the flat four is also shorter than an inline 4 , so even if it is mounted 
it will not take up lots of length .  .  . and a longitudinal 
placement is easier for a 4 wheel drive drivetrain .  . 

i think that subaru 's ads hold water. in practice , their flat 
are noticeably smoother than inline 4s and completely buzz free , 
though some may not like its peculiar note. but as alfa has shown , a 
boxer four can produce a spine tingling scream that only the likes of 
recent hondas can approach. 


eliot 

from  ( po sum chung acf ) 
subject re water in trunk of 89 probe 
organization nasa ames res. ctr .  . mtn vw ca 94035 
lines 25 

in article (james long) writes 
in article 
 ( tommy szeto ) writes 
water gradually builds up in the trunk of my friend 's 89 ford probe .  . every 
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and scoop out the water 
under the plywood carpet cover on the trunk .  . i would guess this usually 
happens 
after a good thunder storm .  . a few qs 

1) is this a common problem 
2) where are the drain holes located for the hatch 

i noticed this is my '89 probe also , when recently cleaning out the back. i 
think the water is coming up through some rubber stoppered holes beneath the 
spare .  . mine looked slightly worn , and there was no water or water damage above 
the level of the spare area. 

i have the same problem with my '90 probe .  . the water is definitely not comming 
up from the rubber stoppered hole beneath the spare .  . i have to remove the 
rubber stopper to drain the water. seems like a common problem with probe .  . 



po sum chung email 


from  ( chuck fry ) 
subject re v4 engines 
nntp posting host freud . arc . nasa . gov . 
organization recom technologies , code flm , nasa ames , moffett field , ca 
lines 21 

in article  ( matthew r. singer ) writes 
did n't the saab have a v4 i recall someone telling that it was 
something like 1 2 of a ford 289 .  . 

not only the  ( correct spelling) , but the 95 wagon and 96 sedan 
used a 1500 cc or 1700 cc v 4 from ford of germany .  . this particular 
motor had a 60 degree vee angle , a balance shaft and exhaust 
ports. this motor was later stretched into the v 6 commonly seen in the 
capri .  . 

the v 4 could make pretty reasonable power for its size. but in the 
saab , it made too much torque for the transmission , which had been 
designed for a 3 cylinder 2 stroke .  . 

chuck fry , former iii owner 



chuck fry 
this space for rent 
i alone bear responsibility for the claptrap above. 

from (craig boyle ) 
subject re new integra for '94 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
distribution rec 
lines 27 

in article  ( parminder bhandari ) writes 
i 've heard unconfirmed rumours that there is a new integra being released 
for '94 .  . 

well , you can just about set your watch by honda releasing new models every 
4 years and an upgrade half way through the cars life. the local acura 
dealership tells me that the new integra will be out very soon , i.e. may june .  . 

its hard to find specific details as the integra has been deleted from 
most of the rest of the world i have seen them in canada and australia 
as well as the u.s. but it was discontinued after the first generation 
in europe .  . normally you can see new japanese models appear in europe 
or japan first and extrapolate from there. c d reported that the engine 
would be a carryover i think. 


craig 

does anybody have any info on this 

the local sales people know as much as i can throw them. 

 . 

 ( still no sig) .  . 



from  ( brent a. peterson ) 
subject re drag coefficients 
organization illinois institute of technology , chicago 
lines 28 

in article  ( gary w. mahan ) writes 
could someone explain how to make sense of drag coefficients (i . e . cd) mentioned in magazines .  . i understand that lower numbers signify better aerodynamics but 
what does this mean in the real world. is there a way to calculate new top  ( speeds(assuming the car is not rev limited at top speed) or mileage benefits if a identical car had the cd reduced from  . 34 . to  . 33 .  . 


i do n't remember the formula 's off hand as it has been awhile since 
i took aerodynamics and have n't used the stuff since. 
the cd is related to the drag force which is what effects top speed and 
fuel consumption .  . when the drag force on the car or aircraft is greater 
than what the vehicle 's engine can overcome it has reached its top speed. 
 ( autos of course also have to overcome rolling resistance ) 
since drag opposes the vehicle 's motion , the engine must make up for that 
by burning more fuel .  . anyway , since the of an auto is rather 
complex , the drag , pressure , etc is either found , or 
using a numerical method. 

anyway for flow around a cylinder the drag is 

cd d (q 2r ) 

where d is the drag force , q the flow velocity and r is the radius 
of the clyinder .  . 
to get a rough  ( very rough ) estimate , you can set r at 1 2 the car 's 
width , q at the car 's speed and knowing the cd , find the drag force that 
the car would need to overcome .  . 


bp 

from rajeev t. 
subject bmw question 
organization freshman , biology , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 7 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

when do the new m . benz . c class cars come out 
the new that mb has adopted will it only apply to the c 
class cars or will it also apply to the current s class cars. 
does any one know what will replace the current 300 class since the c 
class will be smaller and more in line with the current 190 .  . 
another question , is bmw realising a new body style on the current 7 
series and 5 series. they seem to be a bit dated to me. 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
organization clearer than blir 
lines 26 
nntp posting host 192 . 42 . 145 . 4 . 

in article writes 
the sound he describes is common to any older toyota engine i ever heard. 
i do n't know the relevance of his observations about oil changes , my simply 
makes noise. not all that annoying , mind you. but you hear it well when the 
engine is right behind your left ear ) 

i think those with 1.6 mr2 's would describe the engine as sweet if a 
little loud , those with 2.2 mr2 's i ca n't imagine any unbiased person 
paying it any compliments .  . sounded like my ex 's rusty chevy 
chevette .  . with the 1.6 i would want to redline it just for the music , 
with the 2.2 i would short shift so that it would shut up .  .  . the new 
camry 2.2 features balance shafts .  . i guess since the mr2 is getting 
the axe , it is too late for them to do anything about this .  .  . 

it is no mystery that the turbo mr2 is only 2 liters .  .  . the engineers 
had enough integrity to prevent any further abuses .  . also , in europe 
the mr2 non turbo was also only 2 liters .  .  . as usual , the 
undiscriminating american market  ( if it is japanese it must be good) 
gets the dogs .  .  . to be fair , we also got the turbo , which the europeans 
did not. 



eliot 



from (james p. callison ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 42 

in article (the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 

i do n't know of any. and are abundant .  . 

v6 legend , 

a whole h !  . minivans , pickups , just about any car above the 
subcompact compact range and below the full size range  ( with a few 
exceptions) .  . 

are much more rare now the only one i personally know of that 's 
still in production is the venerable ford in the f series pickups .  . 
i think that jeep 's big 6 's are also straight , but i'm not a 
big jeep person. 

v8 do n't know of any. 

where are you to not know of there are mustangs , , 
, camaros , corvettes , thunderbirds , all real full size 
pickups , crown , chevy moby h h h ) , and even a few 
japanese and european vee with  . 

dodge viper dodge promises a truck with a  . 

v12 jaguar 

do n't and both use v extensively 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

from state . edu . (brian j queiser ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host top . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 32 

 ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
(andrew a. spencer ) writes 

i think that it is known as a 180 degree vee configuration .  . 
 ( could be wrong .  .  .  . this . is how i 've seen them referred to) 

then what is a flat engine 

flat 180 deg v opposed 

usually , it also equals boxer , however , i think the term is 
traditionally reserved for 8 's and 12 's  ( and firing order  . 
this was talked about here in r.a many months back i ca n't remember 
the consensus .  . 

examples 

ferrari 's is a flat 12 boxer .  . 
porsche 's 911 is a flat 6. 
subaru 's impreza is a flat 4. 

regards , 

brian 

state . edu . 

i am the engineer , i can choose k. 

department of engineering mechanics 
ohio state university 
columbus , oh 

from (robert a walker ) 
subject re broncos 
organization worcester polytechnic institute 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host aspen . wpi . edu . 


does anybody have any information on the second generation broncos  ( i'm 
not talking about bronco ii 's , i'm referring to the broncos that began 
production in 1978 based on the f 150 chassis i believe) 

ahh broncos .  . well personally , i have a '78 .  . the blue book is just 
a hair over 3 grand .  . i bought it for 2500 and then bought new tires 650 
front end rebuild 350 , carb rebuild 130 .  . then i did the unthinkable 
and blew the engine (not bronco specific , engine with 168 , 000) 
2400 more bucks there , now it is in nice condition , well after new seats out 
of a t bird , radio , 2 amps , speakers , alarm , well the radio and amps were 
free and i bought the speakers used for 40 bucks , and the other speakers 
i took out of my old jeep  ( sell a jeep for a bronco you might ask , 
but it was a  . its a lovely specimen , solid front and rear 
, ford 9 and a dana 44 up front. watch the rear axel wrap , i 
busted off my u bolts once , i added traction shocks after that and 
have n't had a problem since. also the bottom of the doors tend to 
rot , bottom of the tailgates likes to rust right up to the new ones 
that might be in your budget. the post 80 broncos have that 
front end and little stamped and folded steel radius arms were 
as the 78 79 have nice big cast iron longer radius  ( arms(ie more 
wheel  . the only rust i have is on my doors and a few 
dings in the sheet metal. i do n't know when the removeable tops were 
discontinued but they are fun. i just ordered a full convertable top 
for 400 for  ( mine(credit card) .  . do n't ever break the window if you 
have the double laminated privacy glass in your cap it is over 
400 bucks to replace .  . my bronco also does pretty good offroad , 
i have n't out my suspension , yet , and have crossed over 
3 foot deep of water with no problems , handles rocks like a charm too. 
one problem is it is wide and you sometimes ca n't follow a cj or a 
toyota , between two rocks or trees , and your grandmother will have 
a hard time getting up into it. 

bob 

from  ( steve hui ) 
subject high mileage audi question 
organization national capital freenet , ottawa , canada 
lines 22 


a question for any high mileage audi owners out there i am 
interested in buying a 1989 audi for 5500 cdn .  . the 
reason the car is selling for so little is that is has 
km on it  ( just under 100000 mi . ) .  . the car 's owner 
claims the car is in good condition. my question is how 
reliable are audi with mileage that high would it 
be worthwhile for me to buy the car any problem areas that 
i should look out for 

any help would be greatly appreciated. post responses and or 
e mail me. 

thanks 

steve hui 


subject tires comparison 
from  ( valentin popescu ) 
distribution world 
organization california state university , lost angels 
nntp posting host opus . calstatela . edu . 
lines 28 


 . 

i am looking to buy 4 new tires .  .  . (r or  . i do n't 
have much to spend , but i would like a tire that will last. does 
anyone have any experience with the following brands 




general 

there are others , but these i can find here for under 70 .  .  . like 
i said , i am mostly interested in then speed , since i 
hardly get to drive them over 80 or 90 mph. also , is it true that 
noone will give you warranty on such tires , according to 
a tire dealer 

finally , do hr tires last longer than r tires  ( threadwear again) , 
or is that strictly a speed factor 

thanks for any replies .  .  . 


whatever does n't kill me makes me stronger .  . 

internet 
bitnet 

from (stephen f. nicholas ) 
subject re geico 
organization georgia state university 
distribution usa 
lines 9 

i'm glad this forum came up. i 've been pricing insurance lately and had considered geico .  . but no more ! ! any company with practices like theirs can 
e . s . a . d .  . ! ! i 'll stay with liberty mutual .  . 

steve nicholas 
wells computer center georgia state university 


a risk is not a risk until it is taken. 


from (steven a. morris ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization addiction studies program , seattle university 
lines 6 
nntp posting host sumax . seattleu . edu . 

remove legend from the v 8 list , it 's a 6. 

steve morris , m.a. internet 
addiction studies pgm uucp uw beaver , uunet ! ! ! sumax ! 
seattle university phone (206) 296 5350  ( dept ) or 296 5351  ( direct ) 
seattle , wa 98122 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 27 

(andrew a. spencer ) writes 


in a previous article , () says 

in article 
 ( eliot ) writes 

the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 


eliot 

would n't that make them an i4 or would they 
really be an 4  ( henceforth referred to as 
underscore 4 ) 

i think that it is known as a 180 degree vee configuration .  . 
 ( could be wrong .  .  .  . this . is how i 've seen them referred to) 
drew 

then what is a flat engine 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from (james p. callison ) 
subject re super mega automobile  ( sighting(s ) ! ! ! ! ! exotics together ! 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 60 

in article (james p. callison ) writes 
in article  ( graham e. thomas ) writes 
( the blade runner ) writes 
sighting of such a fine beast. but remember , the mustang will 
forever be the true king of the road. 

especially the '68 shelby american gt  ( king of the road , so named 
to steal gm 's planned camaro king of the road 's thunder ) 

and maybe the mustang 
will be forever king of the road , the gt 40 is n't road legal .  . 

i think the gt 40 actually is street legal , although that particular 
question is moot  ( see the price figures below) .  . 

some gt 40s are street legal , some are n't .  . 

this car was right hand drive  ( were n't they all like that ) .  . how much does 
a gt 40 go for how many were made 

i found my shelby american guide. there were a grand total 126 gt 40s 
built 
gt 40 coupes 55 
gt 40 road cars 31 
gt 40 mk ii 13 
gt 40 mk iiis 7 
gt 40 roadsters 5 
3 
gt 40 mk ivs 12 
total 126 
additional mk iiis 6 12 

twelve of these cars were prototypes 48 racing coupes 31 road coupes 
eight mk ii coupes 4 mk iiis and 3 rhd mk iiis .  . the other 
breakdowns follow the above list (eg , 12 were mk  . the rhd 
breakdown is only given on the mk iiis .  . 

the prices  ( for those which can be bought ) are around the 1 million 
mark , last i heard , with a projection of some 3.5 million  ( or 
thereabouts) in 2000. it was second only to some penny ante ) .  . 

shelby won the world manufacturer 's cup with his in '65 that 
was also the year that he retired them from the shelby american racing 
team  ( in favor of the ford gt program the next year) .  . that victory 
broke a  ( 13 ) year winning streak .  . 

well , there 's lotsa info i could spout , but i 'll refrain .  . much of 
this information comes from hot rod magazine 's shelby american 
cobra mustang guide , which has more info on the shelby american 
fords than you could ever want to know. 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

from  ( carl mercer ) 
subject corvette car cover for sale 
keywords 1992 , tan ,  ( repost ) 
distribution usa 
organization northern telecom , inc. network application systems 
lines 11 

i'm not sure if this made it out so i 'll try again. 

i have an 's (sp ) corvette car cover for sale. the cover is canvas 
on the outside and felt on the inside. it is weather proof and in great 
condition. i'm asking 95.00 and i 'll pay shipping.  ( originally 175.00 
in october of 1992) .  . 

carl mercer 

(716) 359 0895 evening 
(716) 654 2652 day 

from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 22 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , (andrew a. spencer ) says 


in a previous article ,  ( eliot ) says 

in article  ( thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) writes 
nice theory. too bad the mr2 's never came with a four cylinder over 2.0 
liters .  . more like 1 . 6 .  . or did they were the 's 2.2 or 
some such 

let me clarify , i think they both are 2.0  . 

i also understand that anyone using balancing shafts on four cylinders , must 
pay saab a royalty for using their patented design .  . like . porsche 's 3.0 i4 .  .  .  . 

i was already corrected on this , and believe i may have been in , that 
it is actually  . 
apologies for into the thread. 
c ya 
drew 


from  ( charles ellis ) 
subject re what is the deal with blue book value of an auto 
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci .  . 
lines 8 

it 's a toll for insurance companies and auto dealers to rip you 
off in case of accident or trade in. 

charlie ellis 


charlie ellis 


from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re service indicator of a bmw 
organization university of westminster 
lines 18 

derek .  .  .  .  . 

there is a tool available to reset the service indicator on bmws but the lights 
will come back on after 2 3 weeks. the tool is in fact illegal  ( in europe 
 . it is often the case that the unsuspecting punter off to buy a 
used bmw and a few weeks later , all the lights come on ! other than that , i know 
of no other tool .  .  .  .  . anyone else 

about changing oil every 15 , 000 miles .  .  .  .  . thats ok .  .  .  .  . on newer audis , they 
only require it after every 12 , 000 miles (i am talking about an oil change) 
just a query do you drive your car very very carefully like no sudden 
acceleration etc if yeah , then the 15 , 000 m oil change seems quite reasonable .  . 
but if you drive kinda fast .  .  .  . i 'd get a bit up tight that 15 , 000 thingy 

(a point to note just because the first light came on at 3k , does n't mean 
all the others will come on every 3k too) 

 .  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( albion h. bowers ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx s 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 46 
reply to  ( albion h. bowers ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( lawrence c smith) says 

in article ,  ( matthew liggett ) writes 

must be one somewhere. 

believe bugatti 's  ( coming(has ) out one. something like 4 
and mucho macho hp. one cool price too , as i heard. at any rate , 
the point is , i'm pretty sure there is , indeed , one in production .  .  .  . 
tho rather limited .  .  . 

this is no bugatti .  . it 's labeled a bugatti but has nothing to do with 
the bugatti 's of , from what i understand. just some ppl wanting to 
build a silly supercar and use that name to sell it. 

drew may be thinking of the v16t , but that has n't reached 
production , at least not yet. as for the bugatti , well , i have to agree 
with matt , it ai n't the top dog , it ai n't sexy and looking , and it 
ai n't a real bugatti .  . in fact , it looks like it 's in tight competition 
with the for the most butt ugly car of the decade award. 

it is n't that bad. at least the bugatti has compound curves compared 
to the slab sides on the  . and the bugatti has a quad turbo v 12 
 ( thing of it as 4 three cylinder turbo engines tied  . also 
bugatti 's nephew is on the board of directors and had a hand in the 
development. so that 's about as much bugatti as you are likely to get in 
today 's world. much like enzo ferrari 's son being allowed to 
take over part of ferrari as well .  .  .  . 

i do n't know of any cars with v4 , but there are a number of motorcycles 
with them but i could n't tell you which ones , all motorcycles look alike 
to me. d 

that 's funny. i have friends who say the same about  . 
) 

most gp motorcycles are v 4s , and the vf line of hondas were all v 4s 
(from the vf through the vf , including the race bike and 
the present  . it should be noted that lancia built a v 4 in 
recent history in the hf , a very pretty italian coupe .  . 


al bowers dod 900 alfa ducati hobie kottke  iaido nasa 
well goodness sakes .  .  . do . n't you know that girls ca n't play guitar 
mary chapin carpenter 

from  ( zauberer ) 
subject re choice of gauges 
organization purdue university 
distribution usa 
lines 34 

in article  ( dave gauge ) writes 
if you had free reign to design your own instrument cluster , which 
gauges would you choose to have beyond the basic set 

i consider the basic set to be 

tach 
must have 

coolant temp  ( or cylinder head temp for air cooled engines ) 
must 
oil pressure 
must 
amps 
i 've seen amps and volts , i would go for the volts 
speedo 
must you ask 
fuel 
i would like to know how much gas i have. of course the 
gauge i have now dose n't tell me s t so i could see not 
having one in favor of a warning light at say , 

others that are nice to have 

volts  ( maybe this should be in the basic set) 
vacuum boost 
! how i would to have a vacuum gauge 
on my dash ! 


travis disclamer the ideas expressed above are in fact the same as 
my employer , since i have none ) 
e mail , flame , at 


from  ( brent a. peterson ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization illinois institute of technology , chicago 
lines 35 

in article  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 
in article ( the blade runner ) writes 
i just have got to remind all of you that this is it ! yes , 
that 's right , somtime this fall , ford (the of cars) 
will be introducing an all new , mega cool 
way too fast for accord drivers mustang .  . it 's supposed to be 
100 streamlined , looking similar to the mach iii concept car 
ford came out with around january .  . i ca n't wait. anyone out 
there hear anything about it recently 


if everything i 've read is correct , ford is doing nothing but re 
the existing mustang , with minor suspension modifications .  . 
and the pictures i 've seen indicate they did n't do a very good job 
of it. 

the new mustang , is nothing but a re cycle of a 20 year old car. 

jeff 


gee .  .  .  .  . is it 1999 already 

yes , it will still be on the fox program chasis , anything that will be different 
on the new car as far as mechanical 's is unknown. the suspension will most 
likely be changed , as well as the drive drain .  . from what has been printed on 
it , there is no clear idea of what will be done , as some say it will have 
the modular v8 and others the current small block .  .  .  . just have to wait and see 
also is far as styling goes from what i seen is good , a return to tradition .  . 
c scoop on the sides and roof line much like a '65 or '66 fastback .  . 

bp 




from  ( thomas tornblom ) 
subject re ultimate awd vehicles 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 93 16 20 49 gmt 
organization communicator nexus ab 

lines 22 

in article writes 


before the s4 became the s4 it was called the 200 turbo quattro 20v .  . 
this model did come in a wagon , a very quick wagon .  . very rare also. 

mike sylvester umass 

being a satisfied audi owner ( 90 100 turbo quattro .  . my 4 th audi ) i 
get the free magazine. the latest issue presented a new s4 avant 
 ( wagon ) with a 4.2 litre v8 .  . i 'd like one of these ) 

btw , this is my second quattro and my third turbo and i must say that 
even in the summer , with dry roads , the give so much extra in 
road holding and balance that i hope i can afford them always. 

thomas 

real life thomas t email 
snail mail communicator nexus ab phone 46 18 
box fax 46 18 
s 751 08 uppsala , sweden 

from  ( chris silvester ) 
subject production hold on '93 firebird camaro w 6 speed 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

after a tip from gary i got on the phone 
with pontiac systems or customer service or whatever , and 
inquired about a rumoured production hold on the formula firebird and 
trans am. btw , talking with the dealer i bought the car from got me 
nowhere .  . after being routed to a firebird specialist , i was able 
to confirm that this is in fact the case. 

at first , there was some problem with the 3 23 performance axle ratio .  . 
she would n't go into any details , so i do n't know if there were some 
shipped that had problems , or if production was held up because they 
simply did n't have the proper parts from the supplier. as i say , she 
was pretty vague on that , so if anyone else knows anything about this , 
feel free to respond. supposedly , this problem is now solved. 

second , there is a definate shortage of parts that is somehow related 
to the six speed manual transmission .  . so as of this posting , there is 
a production hold on these cars. she claimed part of the delay was 
not wanting to use inferior quality parts for the car , and therefore 
having to wait for the right high quality parts .  .  .  . i'm not positive 
that this applies to the camaro as well , but i'm guessing it would. 

can anyone else shed some light on this 

chris s. 


chris silvester any man capable of getting himself elected president 
should by no means be allowed to do the job 
douglas adams , the hitchhiker 's guide to the galaxy 


from  ( youjip won ) 
subject manual advice needed .  .  .  . 
summary oil 
keywords mazda mx 6 '88 
nntp posting host cs . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 4 

i have manual transmission 5 speed. it difficult to engage gear. does oil change improve this situation 
what do you think about the most favorable oil change period 



from  ( franklinkl ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
summary how about a beamer 
lines 33 

in article state . edu . , state . edu . (brian j queiser ) writes 
 ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
(andrew a. spencer ) writes 

i think that it is known as a 180 degree vee configuration .  . 
 ( could be wrong .  .  .  . this . is how i 've seen them referred to) 

then what is a flat engine 

flat 180 deg v opposed 

usually , it also equals boxer , however , i think the term is 
traditionally reserved for 8 's and 12 's  ( and firing order  . 
this was talked about here in r.a many months back i ca n't remember 
the consensus .  . 

examples 

ferrari 's is a flat 12 boxer .  . 
porsche 's 911 is a flat 6. 
subaru 's impreza is a flat 4. 

regards , 


not to inject a non automotive note to this thread , but the bmw opposed 
twin used in motorcycles for a long time is and always has been known as 
a boxer . 

ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait 
ama and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't 
i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints 
dod 0126 the sinners are lots more fun , y'know only the good die young 

from  ( alois m. himsl ) 
subject re bmw 
organization lehigh university 
lines 41 

in article , 
writes 
i looked at that bimmer yesterday. it 's an '81 , has about , according 
to owner  ( odometer stopped working at  . well , sounds good , 
body is ok , he wants 3000 .  . 
i liked the car , despite it 's auto tranny , but my wife will be a primary 
driver on this one , and she wants auto .  . 
the radio does not work untill the car warms up and you honk the horn ( ! ) 
the a c seems to have a leak .  . 
the sunroof is sticky , but operational .  . 
odometer does not work , as mentioned before. 
idle is a bit , going from to  . 
wipers are slow. 
that 's teh gripes .  . the owner says that he changed radiator , alternator , 
rotors and calipers , exhaust .  . 
the biggest problem , is that the owner is a sob , telling strange 
stories. i hate that. i would never buy from a like that , except , how 
often you see a descent for that amount of money. he also said that , 
although i could bring a , he would n't let me check the car by taking 

it to a garage. suspicious .  . and who knows what milage is on it. 
so , let me know what to check for , given there 's practically no rust .  . 
i know there was an article on in r d a few years back , anybody remembers 
what issue 
mike . s . 

don't buy it ! all of the things you mentioned will just give you headaches 
later on. also it sounds like the car needs a lot of work and as you probably 
know bmw 's are not cheap to fix either. the owner sounds like a shady 
character just trying to take advantage of someone. sure 3000 sounds good 
but you should calculate how much the repairs will be. it sounds like you 
would have to sink in at least 1000 to get everything fixed if not more. 
also never trust anyone as far as mileage is concerned. who knows how many 
miles are on it and how it was driven .  . sure people tell you bmw 's hold up but 
you have to consider any car is subject to wear and tear .  . for all you know it 
could have 200 , 000 miles on it. the thing you have to remember is that this 
is n't the last around either. just wait and keep shopping. for around 
5000 6000 you can probably find one that is better , needs less repair , and has 
legitimate mileage unlike the one you are considering .  . take it from a guy who 
has been taken a couple of times. good luck. 
al himsl 

from  ( woobin lee ) 
subject re  . extensions . 
organization image computing systems lab , university of washington 
lines 28 
nntp posting host dance . ee . washington . edu . 

in article writes 
i was wondering what the country extension are. 
sometimes i just do n't have a clue from where 
some people are writing. 

these are the extensions i know of 

ch switzerland 
se sweden 
fi finland 
uk uk 
com us 
edu us  ( are both com and edu us ) 
fr france 

please feel free to add to this list. 

markus 

nz new zealand 
au australia 
jp japan 
kr korea 


lee 

image computing system lab 

from ( ) 
subject re looking for tips for driving cross country 
organization nynex science technology , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 33 

r. sez 
as the subject says , i am moving from mass. to calif. and will be driving 
mostly on interstate 80 .  . 
any advice from folks who have done it before 

plan your gas stops in major city areas to avoid the 25 cent per gallon 
only gas station for 50 miles and you 're an out of  . 

prepare your car. do n't forget things like your fuel air filters .  . if 
you 're loading your car up , consider putting your spare on top of your stuff 
just in case of a flat. in my x country trip , a tire in the 
california desert it took me 20 minutes to unload all my stuff to get to 
the tire .  . 

if you have a hatchback , cover all your stuff with a white to help 
keep the stuff and your car cool , as well as possibly avoiding theft .  . 

mcdonalds have good , clean bathrooms .  . 

invest in a 30 cb magnetic roof antenna .  . it may help if you 're stranded , 
and you can always ask people for places to stop for food , etc. 

many times police like to hang out in the 1st 10 miles after you enter a 
new state , to catch all the who have escaped the previous state. 

same as above when you enter a 55mph city zone after hours and hours of 
rural interstate 

dave 


914 644 fax 914 644 juggle ! 
nynex science technology , 500 westchester ave , white plains , ny 

from  ( bill bill tuthill ) 
subject re comparing saabs bmw 's 
summary y 
organization sun microsystems inc. , mountain view , ca 
lines 13 
nntp posting host cairo 

 ( jonathan edwards ) writes 

bmw 's suck in the snow. i have aggressive snows , plus a hundred 
pounds of sand in the back , and i still try to avoid driving in the snow. 
i happily took the saab through blizzard conditions without a worry. 
i would say this is the single design flaw in the bmw .  . 

for a reasonable sum , you can get a bmw with traction control 
a torque sensing  ( limited slip ) rear differential .  . since no 
fwd car , including the saab , has this kind of front differential , 
since it would exacerbate torque steer , a bmw with traction control 
should have the theoretical advantage on snow. of course weight 
distribution and skinny tires could affect this .  .  .  . 

from  ( brent herling ) 
subject re improvements in automatic transmissions 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 48 



in article ,  ( shazad barlas ) writes 
i just wanted to know 

to wheelspin in an auto , you keep the gear in n gas it then stick the 
gear in d .  .  .  . i 've never tried this but am sure it works but does this screw 
up the autobox we 're having a bit of a debate about it here .  .  .  . 


ah yes , the neutral slam .  . 

i know that gm tested the old 's and 's by shifting from reverse to 
forward gears repeatedly while holding the engine at high rpms .  . the units hold 
up incredibly well. this is also the recommended technique to rock a stuck 
vehicle out of the mud .  . i think the hydraulics are up to the task , but the 
mechanicals of the driveline may object by breaking something. 

0.02 


i agree about the durability of the old from gm. while i 
never intentionally my '68 firebird 400 ci conv .  . into gear , i would leave 
the trannie in low  ( read 1st) , grab hold , hit the pedal , and once the tires 
grabbed , take off. when i reached about 57 60mph the turbo 400 auto would 
shift to s  ( read  super  or 2nd ) and leave about 10 to 15 foot of double 
stripped rubber on the ground. most everyone i knew at the time was quite 
impressed with  peeling  out at 60 mph. the trannie held up just fine. 
motor mounts would last about a year until i tied the motor down with large 
chains .  . oh yea , fyi pontiac 400 ci bored 0.04 over 
large valve heads 
holley 650 spread bore 
 blazer  cam  ( do n't remember the specs ) 
, headers , dual exhaust 
get this  . , leather seats , power windows 
power top , ac , cruise etc . ) . 

oh yea , i also pulled the  cocktail   ( weights ) from the front 
and removed the lead pellet from the accelerator pedal .  .  ( damn us regulations) 
oh , how i miss that car ! ! ! 
0 60 under 6.7 sec and about 6 to 14 mpg  ( well i do n't miss the mpg ) 
front wheels 4 off the ground with three quick jabs at the pedal .  . 
bent pushrods , stripped rocker studs , every 6 12 months 
( i really wonder what kind of rev 's i was turning no tach ) 
re improvements in automatic transmissions 
anyone seen one of these lately i 'd buy it back in a sec ! ! ! 

open top brent 

from  ( horace dediu ) 
subject re 300 series , vw passat 
organization gte laboratories , waltham , ma 
lines 9 

go with the mercedes , if you can afford it. i think the 300 wagon starts around 
50k , although it could be 60k .  . 

there is no comparison with any of the other cars listed. 


horace dediu gte laboratories 
(617) 466 40 sylvan road 
internet waltham , ma 02254 

from  ( max lu ) 
subject re auto air conditioning without freon 
organization nanyang technological university singapore 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
distribution usa 
lines 15 


it is actually simple in principle .  . porous like and 
activated carbon can gases evaporated from the  ( water 
or methanol , etc . ) . giving the cooling effect. upon being heated , the 
gas saturated adsorbent bed will give off the gases which are then to be 
condensed .  . this forms the adsorption cycle. the only problem 
is that the cop is very low (0 . 2 . 0 . 6) .  . 

max 


max g q lu , phd internet 
division of thermal enginerring bitnet 
school of mpe , nanyang technological university phone (65) 
nanyang avenue , singapore 2263 fax (65) 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject re changing oil by yourself idiots 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( mark 
dean ) says 

quit whining on the net about changing your oil yourselves ! ! ! ! ! ! 
if you ca n't handle such a simple procedure as changing your 
oil then get somebody else to do it and get the hell off the 
network ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

md 


cool off ! these people have as much right to be here as you do. 
 ( btw , is this the kind of friendly , helpful service we should 
expect from cray ) 

from ( erik ) 
subject re dirty diesels 
organization university of virginia 
distribution na 
lines 30 

writes 
i heard the diesels are considered cleaner burning than 
gas engines because the emit less of carbon monoxide , 
hydrocarbons , and oxides of nitrogen .  .  ( co , hc , nox) .  . 

but they can put out a lot of particulate matter. i heard 
something about legislation being discussed to clean up 
diesel emissions . is there anything in the works to 
install scrubbers for diesels how about the feasibility 
of installing them on trucks and cars would it be any 
different than a converter i 'd assume easier , 
since we 're removing particulate matter instead of converting 
gasses .  . let 's hear people 's opinions .  .  .  . 


vw and mercedes have with particulate traps .  . also , vw 
uses a kind of turbocharger on their jetta that helps 
reduce particulates as well , although i do n't know the 
mechanics of it. 

many diesel cars , busses , and trucks in europe are now being 
equipped with and traps in an effort to clean up 
diesel emissions , already well below legal limits anyway. 

it 's a shame gm had to soil the diesel 's reputation in 
passenger cars and prevent further resource devotion to 
research into making this efficient engine even 
further ahead of gas engines in emissions .  . 

erik 

from  ( jim chott ) 
subject re re toyota land cruiser worth it 
nntp posting host 222 . 18 . 80 . 28 . 
organization major semiconductor company 
lines 37 

in article , 
(paul hovnanian ) wrote 

based on my experience with a '79 fj40 ( the hard top jeep style model ) i 
would definitely give a new model consideration if i were in the market. the 
older models are very well built .  . unless toyota lost its mind , i would 
assume , until proven otherwise , that the newer models have inherited some 
if not all of the qualities of their ancestors .  . 

two major differences in the running gear  ( that i'm aware of) need study. 
my '79 has a solid front axle housing whereas the newer models have 
independant front suspension .  . the solid axle is theoretically stronger and 


the new cruisers do not have independent suspension in the front. they 
still 
run a straight axle , but with coils .  . the 4runner is the one with 
independent 
front. the cruisers have incredible wheel travel with this system. 

more reliable than the newer model , but only experience will tell. the 
independant front suspension is , no doubt , a compromise made to satisfy 
the typical user , who will never need a real utility vehicle. the second 
difference is the type of transfer case used on the newer models. i'm 
not sure , but i think went to a full time 4wd or all wheel drive 
system. the older landcruisers have a lock up type. both have their 
advantages and disadvantages .  . 

the 91 up cruiser does have full time 4wd , but the center diff locks in 
low range. my brother has a 91 and is an incredibly sturdy vehicle which 
has done all the 4 trails in without a tow .  . the 93 and later is even 
better with the bigger engine and locking diffs .  . 


jim 85 toyota 4wd pickup 
72 lemans sport convertible 
tempe , arizona 

from  ( bob conrad ) 
subject re new anti carjacking campaign 
organization university of nevada , reno department of computer science 
lines 16 

in article  ( nigel allen ) writes 

here is a press release from the national crime prevention council 
the campaign urges drivers to remember to lock up , roll up , and 
look around 
lock car doors immediately after entering or leaving the car 
roll up windows as far as possible and 
look around and be alert to avoid situations that are 
suspicious .  . 


that reminds me of a blurb in the police in my school paper along 
the lines of ,  .  .  . police . were called because so and so reported there 
were suspicious people around the business building. turns 
out it was two black men leaving the building after doing homework late 
one night. 

from ( joe thielen ) 
subject re what is the deal with blue book value of an auto 
organization u s west advanced technologies 
lines 48 
nntp posting host advtech . uswest . com . 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( vicki newton ) writes 

i am in the process of buying a new auto .  . i have n't decided yet whether 
i should sell my current car myself or trade it in as part of the new 
auto purchase. 

i know that the blue book value for the car is  . an 
has offered to give me blue book value for the car. i am just wondering 
if this is a standard measure for negotiating a resale price or if i 
can hope to get more money from someone else. what exactly is blue book 
value based on i know that for its year  ( 88 ) my car has low mileage 
( 50 , 000) .  . it is in excellent working condition but does have a few 
dings on the exterior  ( nothing  . do any of these facts alter the 
fair selling p rice of the car i am not looking to rip anyone off , i 
just naturally want to get the best price for the car. 

thanks a million , 


i think the blue book is the nada handbook for used car prices , no 
is the blue book value given the retail or wholesale value the 
blue book value is n't set in stone , though. low milage , extra addons 
and stuff like that there can increase the resale price of the car , you 
may want to head on over to the local library or borrow your friends 
blue book and read up on that sort of stuff. i paid 400 under bb 
 ( retail ) for my '87 civic in 1990 , and it was in perfect condition and 
had only 14 . 5k . miles on it. the guy was desparate to sell , new kid on 
the way , etc. , but it was a good price. remeber , both you and the 
buyer , if he has any sort of brains at all , are using the blue book , so 
you should pick a fair price. 


chintan amin 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

a mileage chart should be available in the book. it usually goes by 
the class of car you own and year. usually you will end up adding a few 
hundred dollars to the retail price or subtracting it .  .  .  . consumer 
reports also has a number you can call and get a quote for your area. 
a friend of mine used it , and was quite happy with the service. i 
believe it cost about 10 . 00 .  . 

joe 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject review audi s4 quattro 
organization  r us 
lines 175 
distribution world 
reply to  ( eliot ) 
nntp posting host lanmola . engr . washington . edu . 

it 's been a while since i 've reviewed a car but today i paid a visit 
to an old friend whose love for audis has been so overwhelming that he 
makes a not too sucessful living selling them. 

without further delay , i will get to the 1993 audi s4 


1) servotronic steering 

for those who are not familiar with what servotronic is , it is the 
name for the speed variable power steering manufactured by and 
used in audis and bmws .  . 

i have been outspoken in my of servotronic over the past 
couple of months , and this was based on magazine reviews and drives of 
the audi 90 cs quattro and the audi fwd .  . i am quite happy to 
report now that on the s4 , the servotronic is . i 
suppose that due to the fat tires , the servotronic has been 
loaded up more and this , so far has been the best implementation that 
i have tried. it is far from perfect , mind you , and i 'd be much 
happier if it was an option that i could refuse , but on the s4 , i no 
longer consider this to be bad enough where i feel the entire car is 
ruined .  . 

the steering is still a tad too light , but it is accurate and i 
suppose the sprung chassis sends back so much information that 
some makes it through to the driver 's hands. so there is feel and 
there is accuracy in the s4 's steering .  . but there is also room for 
improvement. i consider the s4 's steering to be better than the 
japanese competition , primarily because the japanese do not believe in 
feel and engineer it out completely. 


2) engine 

! what a pressure  . with just 110 miles on the clock i did 
not expect the s4 to be producing anywhere close to what it will be 
putting out 10000 miles later , but still , the car packs a terrific 
punch .  . for a turbocharged machine , it is very unusual in that it 
encourages lazy driving. i.e. low revs , high gear. it is so 
supremely flexible that one could hardly believe that there 's only 2.2 
liters of displacement to move this 3700 pound car around in such a 
fashion. with maximum torque available at 1950 rpm and a 7200 rpm 
redline , the car can pretty much be left in third all day .  .  . which 
translates to a speed range of something like 20 100 mph. a 
that one normally associates with large capacity  . 
the technical achievement is  . 

throttle response is right up there with a good atmospheric engine. in 
fact , it would even put engines to shame. downshifts 
are almost unnecessary .  . it is more fun to use the feature 
than to rev the engine. for those not familiar , the s4 engine features 
up to 15 seconds of additional turbo boost for passing .  . sort of like 
lighting up the after burners in a jet fighter , one could , with the 
right foot only , in third gear , blast the car from 30 to 80 in just a 
few moments .  .  . simply by the gas. as far as the numbers go , 
maximum torque available in mode shoots up to about 270 lb 
ft .  .  . incredible for a 2.2 liter .  . it takes a few moments for it to 
develop but it is well worth waiting for. since this is quite 
a heavy car , one 's body parts are not flung around like say , the corrado 
vr6 .  . the acceleration is smooth and strong , somewhat similar to riding 
in a as it accelerates down the runway on takeoff .  . also , one 
is treated to a very distinctive and entertaining whistle from the 
turbo .  .  . the only entertaining sound to come out of a very 
refined but sounding 5 banger .  .  . 

yes , audi has refined the 5 to the point where at 7200 rpm it sounds as 
as it does at 2000. the smoothness is outstanding , but not quite 
up to the standards of a very good 6 , e.g. a 12 valve bmw .  . i 'd say that 
in terms of refinement , i.e. willingness to rev , smoothness , lack of 
harshness under full acceleration it is better than many  . however , 
lost in the refinement process is the characteristic 5 cylinder bark 
that made the older engines so , if not terribly refined .  . 
the 20 valve turbo 5 sounds pretty except for the whistle under 
full boost .  . subjectively , i 'd rate the vw vr6 engine as being far more 
musical than the turbo 5 .  .  . also , audi 's own v8 is also far more musical , 
with a race car when pressed , though none of these can 
match its grunt .  . 

the only hint of the engine 's true capacity occurs when one is taking 
off from rest after the turbo has come to a near stop. with the extra 
inertia from the permanently engaged 4wd system , one has to be somewhat 
delicate in feeding in the clutch to prevent an embarassing stall .  . 
alternately one could use more revs .  .  . in both cases a very small price 
to pay for such a fantastic engine. i think that audi of america should 
offer an automatic option for this car , just as they offer  ( though in 
extremely small numbers) a 5 speed for the much v8 .  . the 
characteristics of the engine are perfect for an automatic .  . ironically , 
in europe a slush is available but none is offered for the land of the 
slush .  . marketing rearing their ugly heads again .  .  .  . 


3) chassis 

i 've noticed that audis tend to have very wide wheels and relatively 
modest tire widths .  . the car comes with of size 225 50  .  . 
which is not uncommon at all. however , the very attractive 5 spoke 
wheels are no less than 8 inches wide , so there is no sidewall bulge 
whatsoever. combined with the flared wheel arches , the s4 has a mouth 
watering macho , yet subdued look. 

on rough concrete , it becomes immediately clear that the new 100 body 
style has made significant advances in structural rigidity as well as 
road noise suppression .  .  . i suppose the two are inter related , but i 
digress .  . to use a cliche , the s4 's body feels like it has been carved 
out of stone. flex is totally undetectable , even when going over rough 
roads .  . with a super rigid body like this stiff springs and stiff 
do not cause excessive harshness and while the s4 's ride quality will 
never worry a lexus , it will also not draw comparisons to trucks or 
pony cars. 

the servotronic steering has already been mentioned. i consider it to 
be because it did not inhibit cornering .  . i was 
able to test the car 's cornering powers without too much  . i 
think a new concept is at work in this car. with its fat tires , 
talking about understeer or oversteer is practically meaningless .  . on a 
banked highway on ramp , i went in slow and started applying power as i 
went around. i could feel the g forces build to the point where the 
skin on my face was being sideways .  . yet the car was totally and 
completely obedient to throttle and steering inputs .  .  . it felt that the 
limits were not even close to being approached .  . the g forces were 
thrilling , but the entire affair of going around a curve is strangely 
 . you tell the car what you want and it does it. end of 
story. i think that i am starting to relate more and more to those 
reviewers who were highly impressed by the honda nsx 's clinical 
efficiency but were unable to fall in love with the car. 

the brakes have a very good to them and stop the car pretty 
well too , though i 've read that they are prone to fade .  . i am not too 
surprised , since the s4 does not have brakes over the base audi 
100 fwd .  . harder pads would help , but that in turn would lead to a more 
wooden response when cold. i am starting to see a trend among the 
luxury sports sedan makers where extra weight is not being offset by 
additional braking capacity .  . the 's fade performance is nothing to 
brag about neither is the 's or the legend 's .  . brake fade these days 
seem to be a forgotten virtue when everybody 's attention is focused on 
anti lock capability .  . 


4) comfort 

for a car with such sporty abilities , its comfort levels are also 
excellent. the cabin is beautifully appointed , with carbon fiber panel 
inserts in place of the wood trim of the '92 s4 .  . all the expected 
gizmos are there .  .  . heated seats , power seats , seat memory , power this 
and that. the glaring ommision was the trip computer , which was removed 
because audi has n't gotten it to work reliably yet .  .  . that means that the 
car has no boost gauge .  . a real disappointment taking into account how 
much the turbo dominates its performance. 

unusual for the germans , the s4 comes with a honda style moonroof , as 
well as the very intelligent dial a sunroof position rotary switch. 

noise levels , including engine and tire noise is so low that i would n't 
consider the lexus  advantage in this area to be significant enough 
to sway a potential buyer .  . 


5) conclusion 

even though few will be able to afford an audi s4 at its sticker price 
of 48k , the car is a bargain if one takes into account what it has to 
offer over the competition. the 20 valve turbo 5 is a real gem , even if 
it does n't produce ferrari sounds. no other luxury sports sedan maker 
offers the utter security of quattro all wheel drive , which to some is 
worth the extra money all by itself. the safety features are also 
top notch .  .  . 1994 side impact standard compliant , the very elegant 
automatic seat belt and the dual airbags .  . the 100 series 
audis have been outstanding in government crash tests. it gets my 
thumbs up for being so overwhelmingly capable rather than being 
all out exciting and intoxicating .  . 


eliot 


from daniel u. holbrook 
subject re what car is this ! 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 27 

nntp posting host po4 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

the bricklin was a car manufactured by a company started by malcolm 
bricklin , who , i believe , was canadian .  . he was the first one to import 
subarus , and later was responsible for importing , i believe. 
anyway , he had this idea that what would really sell would be a sports 
car , but one incorporating a bunch of innovative safety features. the 
bricklin was built to be that of beasts , the safety sports car. 
if any of you remember the early 70s movement among car makers to 
design experimental safety cars , you will recognize the general 
appearance of the bricklin big  ol bumpers , etc. anyone recall other 
safety features the engine was an american v 8 , ford i think is right. 

personally , i kinda like the way they look , and if i remember from the 
old magazine articles , the performance was only half bad. the choice of 
colors , though , tended towards the 1970s green yech but highly 
visible , i suppose. 

the , on the other hand , was a dog nice looking (imo) but no 
motor at all. 
dan 

carnegie mellon university 
applied history 


i have standards. if you do n't like them , i have others. 
groucho 


from  ( derek chan ) 
subject re service indicator of a bmw 
organization cisco 
lines 49 
distribution world 
nntp posting host lager . cisco . com . 
originator 


in article ,  ( shazad barlas ) writes 
derek .  .  .  .  . 

there is a tool available to reset the service indicator on bmws but the lights 
will come back on after 2 3 weeks. the tool is in fact illegal  ( in europe 
 . it is often the case that the unsuspecting punter off to buy a 
used bmw and a few weeks later , all the lights come on ! other than that , i know 
of no other tool .  .  .  .  . anyone else 

about changing oil every 15 , 000 miles .  .  .  .  . thats ok .  .  .  .  . on newer audis , they 
only require it after every 12 , 000 miles (i am talking about an oil change) 
just a query do you drive your car very very carefully like no sudden 
acceleration etc if yeah , then the 15 , 000 m oil change seems quite reasonable .  . 
but if you drive kinda fast .  .  .  . i 'd get a bit up tight that 15 , 000 thingy 

(a point to note just because the first light came on at 3k , does n't mean 
all the others will come on every 3k too) 

 .  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  .  . 
shaz , 

hmm .  .  . but the service indicators that i have works this way 
there are 5 green , 1 yellow , 1 red indicators .  . 
initially all green indicators will be on for few minutes when you start 
your car. the computer will actually sense how you drive your car and 
as time goes by the green indicators will start to go off one by one and 
then the yellow indicator will turn on and then the red indicator will go 
on. and you should get service when by the time green indicators are off. 

after service the  ( mechanic(or you) will reset the service indicators and the 
computer starts counting again. 

so i expect to have a  ( tool(or a procedure ) to reset it so the green lights will 
come on and the yellow and red lights will go off. 

i wonder how people can do oil change themself without knowing how to reset the 
indicator .  . 

it 's the first european car i have and changing oil at 15 , 000 miles is a 
surprise to me. and it 's a big plus ) .  . but i wonder how that could happen 
since the oil lose its lubrication ability over time , i thought it 's the oil and 
not the vehicle that determines how often we should change oil. 

any bmw owner on the net response welcomed .  . 

ps. my initial question is how do you the service indicator of a bmw 

derek 

from (george louie ) 
subject re nissan  ( was re manual shift bigots wanted) 
reply to (george louie ) 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 13 

in rec . autos . ,  ( graham e. thomas ) writes 

what we currently know as the 240sx , is known elsewhere as a 200sx .  . 


graham e. thomas blah blah blah blah blah 

this is kind of interesting. i always assumed that the 240sx was named 
because of the 2.4 liter engine which it uses .  . likewise for the 200sx 
which uses a 2.0 liter engine. is n't this true 


george 

from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 29 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( doug zolmer ) says 

in article , (john g. kissane ) writes 
as a matter of interest does anyone know why autos are so popular in the us while 
here in europe they are rare just wondering .  .  .  .  .  . 

in many of our cities , there are traffic signals every 100 feet  ( unsynchronised , 
of course  ( well here in ottawa anyway ) and the roads are so congested that 
shifting manually is a real pain in the left foot. also , most canadians are 
too stupid to learn how to shift manually  ( gee , i gotta co my two 
feet on the clutch , brake and accelerator , and i gotta steer , shift and 
operate the signals  ( optional ) and radio with my two hands .  .  .  . duh .  .  .  . it 

i agree wholeheartedly ! ! 

ca n't be done) .  . also , most north american made cars come with the automatic 
as standard equipment , so why bother with a manual when the car can shift 
for you for no addition money. 

not sure about there in ca , but here in us , the manuals are quite often the 
standard equipment. of course , finding a car with one might be hard , but 
if you read the sticker on the window , there is an additional 2k or 
so tacked on for that lousy tranny .  . so you actually are paying more , just 
that it 's sometimes hard to find one that is equipped standard .  ( this 
applies to most cars , but not to the  . eg . , , etc .  . ) . 


drew 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re what is the deal with blue book value of an auto 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 38 

 ( vicki newton ) writes 

i am in the process of buying a new auto .  . i have n't decided yet whether 
i should sell my current car myself or trade it in as part of the new 
auto purchase. 

i know that the blue book value for the car is  . an 
has offered to give me blue book value for the car. i am just wondering 
if this is a standard measure for negotiating a resale price or if i 
can hope to get more money from someone else. what exactly is blue book 
value based on i know that for its year  ( 88 ) my car has low mileage 
( 50 , 000) .  . it is in excellent working condition but does have a few 
dings on the exterior  ( nothing  . do any of these facts alter the 
fair selling p rice of the car i am not looking to rip anyone off , i 
just naturally want to get the best price for the car. 

thanks a million , 


i think the blue book is the nada handbook for used car prices , no 
is the blue book value given the retail or wholesale value the 
blue book value is n't set in stone , though. low milage , extra addons 
and stuff like that there can increase the resale price of the car , you 
may want to head on over to the local library or borrow your friends 
blue book and read up on that sort of stuff. i paid 400 under bb 
 ( retail ) for my '87 civic in 1990 , and it was in perfect condition and 
had only 14 . 5k . miles on it. the guy was desparate to sell , new kid on 
the way , etc. , but it was a good price. remeber , both you and the 
buyer , if he has any sort of brains at all , are using the blue book , so 
you should pick a fair price. 


chintan amin 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( gene kim) 
subject review 1989 ford taurus sho 
organization purdue university 
lines 330 

review of 1989 ford taurus sho by gene kim 


background 

last week , i bought a 1989 ford taurus sho , moving up from driving 
a 1987 toyota celica st and a 1975 oldsmobile cutlass .  . i have been 
interested in buying a sho for about five months and have been combing 
the classifieds in denver and chicago every week. i bought a 
remarkably clean red sho with miles on it for  . 
as far as i can tell , this is about 2000 under blue book and i still 
have another 8000 miles before the extended service plan runs out. 

as one should with any pre 1991 shos , i made sure that the car was 
already with the upgraded clutch and pressure plate , as well as 
having been recalled for upgraded rotors and seatbelt attachments .  . 
however , my sho does not have the newer rod shifter i understand i 
can get this for 230 from any ford service center. in addition , the 
car received the full tune up at 60k miles , receiving new platinum 
plugs and valve adjustment .  . 

for a car with miles on it , the car was virtually immaculate .  . 
the clearcoat paint job was devoid of any large chips or dents , 
although the front air dam molding was covered with lots of small 
scratches not surprising since most of the miles were spent on the 
highway .  . 

having driven a smaller two door coupe for so long , i was a bit 
concerned about whether i could get used to driving a larger car. to 
my surprise , the size of the car does n't bother me at all it seems 
just as nimble as my celica ! (no comparisons with my oldsmobile .  . ) 
visibility from the driver 's seat is excellent , helped mostly by of 
the small the quarter windows , aft of the back seat door windows and 
in front of the c pillar and rear window. parallel parking is a bit 
more difficult , but other than that , i love the size. 

in fact , i'm starting to appreciate the large trunk as i pack up 
for a 14 hour drive to washington , dc for the summer. more on the 
ride later in this review. 


engine 

as with anyone even slightly interested in shos , i was very 
interested in the 24 valve 3 . 0l . yamaha engine. i was not 
disappointed. base performance of the engine under 4000 rpms is 
good. you can even do reasonable launches from second gear , although 
i do n't make a practice of this. the engine revs smoothly and eagerly 
tooling around town does not require many shifts .  . this is good 
since the shifter is definitely one of the weakest points of the car. 
 ( more on this later . ) . 

while the performance of the engine under 4000 rpms may be 
, it undergoes a hyde transformation once you hit 
higher revs .  . at 4500 rpms , a butterfly valve opens and you can 
literally hear and feel the geometry of the engine changing as twelve 
more valves open up. the engine soars to its 7000 rpm redline , and 
you are treated to , in my opinion , the sounding v6 around. 
the engine sounds overjoyed to be at 6500 rpm ! 

i 've noticed that when i drive around town , i constantly watch the 
tach to see how far below 4000 rpm i am. to go from 2000 rpm to 4000 , 
you may have to punch the accelerator while torque is more than 
adequate , it does n't come fully online until those other 12 valves 
are used. 


transmission 

when car and driver first reviewed the car in 1988 , they 
at how ford had put such a wimpy clutch and shifter 
into the car. i remember driving a friend 's parent 's sho in 1990 , and 
remember thinking about whether i had the leg strength to drive the 
car in traffic the clutch was that stiff .  . that was back then. 

the entire clutch assembly on my sho has been replaced under a 
ford recall in 1991. the clutch on the sho feels no stiffer than the 
one on my toyota celica .  . in fact , the friction point seems a bit 
larger and more forgiving .  . 

when playing with the shifter with the car parked , the shifter 
felt very reasonable .  . the 1 2 and 3 4 gates were where you 'd expect 
it to be , and the shifting action was smooth. on the road , it 's 
much the same but you have to shift slowly ! make no mistake , it 's 
a clumsy shifter .  . 

when hurrying shifts , like when i was initially trying to impress 
friends , i consistently miss the 1 2 shift , often clumsily for 
the 2 3 shift , and sometimes even muff the 3 4 shift .  . i find this 
pretty amazing in a car like this. 

it also took me several days to realize that you get the 
shifts when you take your time. seems obvious , but compared to my 
toyota and my friend 's honda , this seems atrocious and clumsy .  . 
someone on rec . autos . noted that should blow shos off the line 
because of the incredibly clumsy shifter .  . 

i now shift much more , and the shifter seems more 
reasonable .  . when you play within these bounds , the shifter works 
smoothly with no surprises .  . i do n't know whether the rod shifter 
upgrade would help at all. 

along these same lines , i initially had trouble shifting gears 
smoothly .  . again , slowing down the shifts and taking more care to 
match revs when letting out the clutch helped immensely .  . this took 
several days for me to get the hang of. (i think some of my problems 
were because i 've never had a car with enough power to balk at bad 
shifts in higher gears . ) . 

occasionally , i have trouble shifting into reverse .  . the shifter 
refuses to enter the gate , and i often grind the synchros trying to 
get it into gear. i 'll be watching this carefully in the next couple 
of months. 

a quirk when i upshift and the engine drops back to 1000 2500 
rpm , i hear a and then a grinding noise coming from the the 
engine compartment .  . not terribly loud , but the passenger can 
definitely hear it. i asked about it when i was looking at the car , 
as do all my passengers .  . apparently , this is a definitely a sho 
sound and is the gearbox apparently called gear rollover . 
replies to my queries on rec . autos . are at the end of this review. 


exterior 

as i mentioned before , i am astounded by how well the body of this 
sho has stood up. paint chipping on the front bumper and grille are 
virtually non existent .  . looking at how older sometimes 
do n't age so gracefully , i wonder what the guys at ford did 
differently to the sho bodies .  . 

the body , in my opinion , is extremely attractive with matching 
color body moldings than the stock  . for some odd reason , the 
sho seems different enough from vanilla to get stares at 
stoplights of course , this could be my imagination. 
) shos get fog lights , a more open grille , a completely 
monochromatic exterior , and a deeper ground in the back with 
sho in relief. i 've seen a couple shos whose owners have 
colored these in with colors or in black. yuck .  . 

i do n't think the car is flashy .  . i like it that way. i feel 
almost anonymous with all those out there , but different and 
distinctive enough to those of us who care. ) 


interior 

the interior is what really makes me feel like i do n't deserve the 
car. the seats are grey leather , the steering wheel and shifter are 
covered with black leather , and the entire instrument panel is done in 
a black grey metallic scheme .  . 

the instrumentation is stock taurus , except for the 140 mph speedo 
and 8000 rpm tach .  . you get a center console with two , a 
large compartment under the radio  ( great for a cd player ) , an 
that contains yet another compartment , three appropriately sized coin 
holders for (i think) , and a compartment for holding 
cassette tapes .  . there 's map holders in the doors , and an oddly small 
glove compartment .  . 

i spilled a whole can of coke in the cupholder and was delighted 
to find that the entire rubber holder can be removed and washed in a 
sink .  . hey , i'm really impressed with the ergonomics and 
thoughtfulness that went into its design. and it 's a 1989 , before the 
interior was upgraded ! 

the is bigger than any car i 've had. why do they need so 
much space ) (no smart ass comments , please. ) 

the driver and passenger seat have lumbar and side bolsters .  . from 
what i hear , it 's not uncommon for the side bolsters to show wear .  . 
mine is no exception. the left side bolster on the driver 's has 
cracked and i'm not convinced the right bolster is all the 
way. 

a big surprise for me i forgot that shos do n't have a normal 
hand parking brake .  . instead , they have the regular parking brake that 
you press with your left foot. too bad. again , i'm getting used to 
it , but it seems a bit anachronistic to me. 


ride 

the suspension is nice and stiff .  . too stiff it 's stiffer than 
any car i 've had. a friend 's new 1993 toyota celica st seems 
and is still able to soak up bumps better. the sho seems stiffer with 
less ability to soak up bumps .  . driving over railroad tracks is a 
noisy and jarring affair .  . on the other hand , taking turns feels 
wonderful because the body is so rigid and does n't flex at all i 
listened for that before i bought the car. 

on the highway , the ride is great. when i drove the car from 
chicago back to purdue , i had trouble keeping under 85 mph , let alone 
from trying to see what 100 mph really feels like. it 's a relatively 
quiet ride , but the sunroof rattles .  . i 've tried to find out what 
exactly makes all the noise up there , but it seems to be the window 
that rests on the rails .  . no easy way to get rid of it , i think. 

over the past three days , i 've between thinking the 
suspension is wonderful and perfect and thinking that the ride is way 
too rough .  . (not for me , mind you. but i wonder whether i would 
advise my dad to buy one for himself . ) . but , i 've discovered , as with 
the shifter , if you take your time with shifts , you 'll have no reason 
to complain. let me explain .  .  .  . 

the ride is worst when turning and applying lots of power to the 
wheels. i feel the wheels for traction and torque steer 
making the car left and right. after i understood this , i 
avoid the limits of traction and i'm a happy camper again. 

it 's not body rigidity , but the of the car. 

as if matching the suspension , the steering feel is quite heavy .  . 
my first impression of driving my sho was how hard you had to turn the 
wheel at highway speeds .  . it tracks straight as an arrow , but when 
driving around a parking lot , the high effort steering did n't seem so 
useful. however , it 's reasonable , but it does n't communicate the road 
to the driver as well as a 1993 ford probe gt .  . imho , it 's much better 
than the steering on my celica st. 

i wonder how bad this car is during winter 


miscellaneous notes 

gripes 

the rattles from the sunroof is intermittent some days it rattles 
loudly , other days i look up wondering where all the noise went. 

activating the sunroof is sometimes very noisy loud as 
it retracts on its rails .  . i wonder if there is a quick fix for this. 
again , other days it completely disappears .  .  ( function of humidity ) 

once i made the connection between the sometimes awful feeling suspension 
and torque steer , i 've never complained about ride. 

i wish the seats had more support under the thighs .  . also , i wish the 
side bolsters would close more tightly .  . 

i hear that tires for this car can get really expensive. i 
currently have goodyear gt 4s that cost the previous owner 500 
for four. 

i used to hate the ford stereo systems whose idea was it 
to use a volume paddle now , to my amazement , i do n't 
really mind .  .  .  . and sometimes think it 's an okay idea ! ! ! 
pretty ridiculous , though. 

getting up to 4000 rpm sometimes seems to be a chore .  . but , 
this is no big deal. there is more than enough torque 
down low. 

i often up the shifting when driving with friends. it 
took me a couple of days before i could really shift 
smoothly from 2nd to 3rd gear.  ( hard to believe , is n't it ) 

my car has almost 93 , 000 miles on it. my parents noted that 
it is almost impossible to find a low mileage sho .  . 
astute observation , imho .  . i wonder how long i can make 
my sho last i just bought a book titled drive it forever 
for tips in this department. ) 

the goofy parking brake pedal still throws me for a loop. i once 
parked the car in gear , and then accidentally let out the clutch 
after i started it. the car forward , and bounced off 
the car in front of me no paint damage at all , but starting the car 
is a whole new ritual for me with that pedal ! also , i began 
to wonder how strong that brake really is.  ( today , i backed out of 
parking spot today and started to drive away before i noticed 
the glowing brake light. oops . ) . 

the driver 's power window when closed all the way. the same 
thing happens in my parents 1989 mercury sable .  . oddly , all the 
other windows work smoothly .  . 


likes 

i'm liking the interior amenities more and more each day. the 
are great. 

i did n't expect to use the keyless entry buttons so much , but 
it really is handy. you can lock all the doors by 
pressing the 7 8 and 9 10 buttons together ! neat ! and 
you can never lock yourself out of the car. 

i really feel like i do n't deserve this car. i really ca n't 
believe that i could afford it. i got this car ten years 
ahead of schedule. ) 

i love this car so much that i 've been telling my parents to 
look into buying one. i love this car so much that i 
wrote this 13k file i meant to write a couple of lines 
and ended up with this. 

if there were a j.d. powers survey for used car owners , i would have 
an opportunity to express my incredible satisfaction of owning this 
car. i do n't like thinking about getting another car , but at this 
point in time , i'm sure i 'd buy another sho .  . for under 7000 , you 
ca n't beat it.  ( next time with an airbag and abs , though . ) . 

insurance wise , this car is also a big win. i pay the same premiums 
as on my 1987 toyota celica despite that it has nearly twice 
the horsepower .  . 



other odds and ends 

much to my amazement , there is no sho mailing list anywhere. 
maybe because the sho registry publication has filled this void .  . i 
have n't joined yet , but i 've noticed that queries about shos still 
appear on rec . autos . about once a month. owners of shos are always 
quick to respond , and are very vocal fans of the cars.  ( maybe some 
of the most vocal on rec . autos .  . ) 

i 've put together the responses to my questions about the cars , as 
well as other posts with useful information on these cars. i 'll be 
posting this in the form of a faq soon. 

if anyone is interested in starting a mailing list , please speak up ! 
i do n't know if i have the resources here at purdue to start one , but 
maybe someone out there does. 


gene kim 




from ( joe thielen ) 
subject re help with 89 mitsubishi galant gs transmission 
organization u s west advanced technologies 
lines 51 
nntp posting host advtech . uswest . com . 

in article  ( total stranger ) writes 
hi , 
i need your help with a problem i have with a 1989 mitsubishi 
galant gs transmission .  . the car has a 5 speed manual  . 
since the car was bought new , while shifting from 2nd to 3rd , unless 
i do it slowly and carefully , it makes a popping or hitting sound. 
the dealer and mitsubishi customer service  ( reached by an 800 ) say 
this is normal for the car. is it 
and about a year ago , at , the stick shift handle got stuck 
while attempting to put it in reverse 
1 the shifter would not budge .  . the clutch had no effect. 
2 the front tires would not budge , even when the clutch is 
fully depressed .  . 
3 if the clutch is released the engine would die. 
4 assuming that some gear was engaged while the shifter was 
stuck , i could not make the car move. it acted as if 
it were in  ( neutral(except for dying when clutch is released . ) . 
5 i finally was able to release the shifter by having 
someone rock the car back and forth  ( less than an inch ) , 
while i depressed the clutch and the shifter .  . 
6 the shifter acted normally after that. 

when this happened , i took it to the dealer , they checked the 
clutch , it was o.k. they checked the transmission , it was o.k. 

i had the exact problem a couple of months ago , and again last 
week. the dealer says there is nothing they can do because 
mitsubishi (the 800 ) says they have never heard of the 
problem , and the dealer could not reproduce the problem while 
they had the car. 
in all three occurances , the car was parked head first in a garage , 
and since the front wheels were stuck , the car could not be towed 
to the dealer before releasing the shifter  ( hence temporarily 
solving the problem) .  . and the dealer , and mitsubishi , refused to 
send someone to check the car while it was stuck. 
i know there is wrong with the transmission  ( shifting 
from 2nd to 3rd ) , and getting stuck at random , but i ca n't get 
the dealer to fix it. i need your help with the mechanical problems , 
and with how to handle mitsubishi .  . 
all hints and suggestions are greatly appreciated , and sorry to 
bore you with the long post. 

thanks , 
 . 


try another dealer .  . sometimes the sophistication of equipment etc is 
better at one dealer than another. you may also find another dealer 
willing to help you with the problem. 

joe 

from  ( erini doss ) 
subject cellular 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 11 

i need to get some info. on cellular antennas .  .  . who 
are the biggest companies in this market now how much 
do their antenna cost what are the specs on the antennas 
 ( gain ,  .  .  . who is the contact person 


thank you 

email at 



from (james bruder ) 
subject honda clutch chatter 
organization hp information networks , cupertino , ca 
lines 12 

anyone else experiencing a similar problem 

this concerns the clutch on a 92 honda accord 5 speed. when the clutch 
is first used in the morning , about the first 4 miles of shifting , there 
is a significant amount of clutch chatter until things warm up. then the 
clutch shifts smoothly .  . this chatter started when i moved to the san 
francisco bay area from a low humidity environment. the dealer stated 
that this is known to happen since honda changed from an asbestos to 
non asbestos clutch material. no remedy ! ! seems that moisture on clutch 
surface causes slipping until the moisture evaporates .  . 

any comments out there 

from (james b. atkins ) 
subject honda mailing list 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 2 


is there a honda mailing list , and if so how do i subscribe to it 

from (brian chung ) 
subject re market access 
organization the loyal taxpayers 
lines 41 
distribution world 
nntp posting host alchemy . tn . cornell . edu . 

in article  ( henry robertson ) writes 
now , now , before we get too carried away here .  .  .  .  . 

keep in mind that owning any car in korea is a luxury that only the ruling 
class can afford .  . every government agency worth its salt finds some reason 
to levy a tax on car ownership last i heard , there were seven different 
fees to pay to own a car. i believe this is the sort of petty bureaucratic 
that new president kim young sam wants to eradicate .  . basically , 
i think the rules came into place as bureaucrats from backgrounds 
wanted to wreak revenge on the ruling class. in exchange , 's like 
hyundai screwed over smaller companies , perpetuating a vicious cycle. 
i have faith that korean people can potentially build cars as well as anyone 
else , but for now hyundai cars seem to reflect the tensions within society , 
of screwy components that wo n't work together. stubborn like a mule , the 
car either wo n't go forward or wo n't stop at all. 

 . gasp hm , i'm not sure whether the above 
was just a silly remark or a serious remark .  . but in case there are 
some misconceptions , i think henry robertson has n't updated his data 
file on korea since .  .  . mid . 1970s .  . owning a car in korea is no longer 
a luxury .  . most middle class people in korea can afford a car and do 
have at least one car. the problem in korea , especially in seoul , is 
that there are just so many privately owned cars , as well as taxis and 
buses , the rush hour has become a 24 hour phenomenon and that there is 
no place to park. last time i heard , back in january , the kim administration 
wanted to legislate a law a potential car owner to provide 
his or her own parking area , just like they do in japan .  . 

also , henry would be glad to know that hyundai is n't the only 
car manufacturer in korea .  . daewoo has always manufactured cars and 
i believe kia is back in business as well. imported cars , such as 
mercury sable are becoming quite popular as well , though they are still 
quite expensive. 

finally , please ignore henry 's posting about korean politics 
and bureaucracy .  . he 's quite uninformed .  . 

t. h. brian chung happiness is .  .  .  . this  . sig . was brought 
tea , earl grey , hot. to you by , the 
210 lake st. apt. 11 a sport of kings .  . 
ithaca , ny 

from  ( jack wood ) 
subject re chevy gmc 4x4 pickups , opinions 
distribution na 
organization hewlett packard boise , idaho 
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 
lines 41 

dick grady wrote 

i am considering buying a 1993 chevy or gmc 4x4 full size pickup with 
the extended cab .  . any opinions about these vehicles have there been 
any significant problems 


dick grady salem , nh , usa 
so many newsgroups , so little time ! 


i bought a brand new 1992 chevrolet hd 4x4 extended cab last 
may .  . it has had many , many problems. see my post that describes 
the situation. i went to bbb arbitration , and they ruled that chevrolet 
must buy it back from me. if you do get one , stay away from the 5 speed 
manual with the deep low first gear. they have put three of them in my 
truck so far. after about 1 , 500 miles , overdrive either starts 
rattling or loudly .  . there is no way to fix them. chevrolet 
says that the noise is a characteristic of the transmission .  . 

also , if you are planning to use your truck to tow , the 
gear ratios in that tranny suck. on a steep hill , you get up to about 
55 mph in second gear at 4 , 000 rpm  ( yellow line) .  . if you shift to third , 
the rpm drop to only 2 , 500 , and you begin to loose speed. i should 
point out that the 350 v8 they put in the hd  ( 8600 gvw ) trucks is a 
motor compared to the one they put in the light duty ones. they 
dropped the compression ratio , supposedly for engine longevity 
reasons. so the light duty 350 may pull better than my truck does. 
other things that have gone wrong include the ventilation fan (3 times 
so far) , paint  ( had specs of rust embedded in the paint from being 
shipped by rail with no covering ) , and suspension parts  ( link between 
and control arm fell off) .  . 

any company can make a bad individual car , chevrolet included. what 
really bothered me was the way they reacted .  . they made no attempt 
to deal with me except to tell me to take it back to the dealer for 
them to attempt to fix it one more time. so i bought a brand new 
ford hd super cab with a 460 and an automatic .  . i will never 
buy another chevrolet .  . 



from e . 
subject re sport utility vehical comparisons any opinions 
organization at t 
lines 51 

from article , by  ( karl elvis macrae ) 


i just read articals on this in road and track and car and driver 
 ( is that one mag or two b ) , and i was wondering if people out 
there have any opinions that differed from what these mags have to 
say .  .  .  . 


i'm looking at the following three suv 's anyone who 's driven all 
three have any strong opinions 


ford explorer 
toyota 4runner 
nissan pathfinder 


currently i'm leaning toward the toyota , 'cause i 've had big success 
with toyota trucks in the past , and 'cause i think it 's the best 
looking of the three. but i thought i 'd see if anyone has any strong 
opinions .  .  .  .  . 



thanks ! 


karl 


i agree that the toyota is the best looking i just did n't fit plus it is the 
highest cost of all the ones you mentioned. i have good friends who have all 
three of the trucks you talked about , the ones with kids all went to the 
ford because of the room required to carry a couple of kids and all the junk 
you need. the single ones went for the toyota and the nissan .  . every one has 
been happy with what they bought .  . although no one is into serious four wheel 
off road driving. 



karl elvis macrae software release support cisco systems 
or 415 688 8231 dod 1999 

shovels and rakes and implements of destruction 
arlo guthrie 


bentz  ( 303)488 )  ( ncsc8 ! bep ) at t 
8300 e. ave. 
, colorado powder skiing the path to salvation 

from  ( phil truesdale ) 
subject mgb questions 
summary need pre purchase help 
organization wheaton college , il 
distribution na 
lines 35 

my son is considering the purchase of a 71 mgb , which has been substantially 
restored .  . the odometer has rolled over , but we ca n't be sure of the actual 
mileage .  . the engine and drive train apparently were n't touched in the 
restoration , except for a new carb and a few  . he plans to do vacuum and 
compression checks to see what they might tell us about the engine. the body 
and have no visible rust , the interior is new , as are tires , 
front brakes (not sure about the back ) , battery , bumpers and other misc parts. 
the paint is checked in a few places , and here and there , allegedly by 
a wind blown car cover. it seemed to handle ok , except for soft front shocks .  . 
questions 

are there problem areas common to we should check out 

the brakes seem soft and rather ineffective what should we expect in the way 
of braking action 

it seemed to be when accelerating from a stop. what should we expect 
it to do , given the 4 cylinder engine 

the top is in place , but will not reach a number of the snaps .  . the weather 
was cold. should the vinyl stretch and fit when it warms up , or is it forever 
shrunk 

is it normal for the wire wheels to be painted , or are they usually 

given this rather limited description , what would be a reasonable price 

gee , this turned out to be a little long sorry. while my brother once owned 
an  ( what a car ! ) we 're obviously not into sports cars. any help with 
these questions , or suggestions on other things to investigate would surely be 
appreciated. 

phil 



from (mike harker ) 
subject re what car is this ! 
organization national capital freenet , ottawa , canada 
lines 20 


you guys are correct. the bricklin was produced in canada .  . 
the national museum of science and technology here in ottawa 
has one , and sometimes they put it on display. most of the time , 
it stays in storage because the museum does n't have much room. 
it 's a big deal for a car to be canadian and that 's why they 
have it. if anybody 's a fan , they also have a nice green '73 
riviera that looks like it just came out of the showroom .  . 

mike 
ottawa , ontario , canada 
voice 613 823 

paul  ( formerly 
sven 's law there 's exceptions to every law (except this one) 

from  ( philip f iv ) 
subject does a car wash hurt the cars finish 
summary car wash better or worse than nothing hand washing detailing 
nntp posting host crux1 . cit . cornell . edu . 
organization cornell university 
lines 13 

can taking the car to a car wash hurt the car 's finish 

and if so , is it better to hand wash it about once a month , or just take it 
to the car wash anyway 

are detailing places worth the money if i do a good , careful job on washing 
and waxing , is a detail place going to be worth it 

reply to my email address 



my views reflect cornell 's .  . sue them dry. 

from michal  ( michal prussak ) 
subject re pennsylvania insurance , limited option 
nntp posting host gs58 . sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
distribution usa 
lines 16 

in article (george louie ) writes 
coverage. this also applies to my existing car insurance policy. does 
anyone understand what the limited option means. will it lower 
my rates if i opt to have it , or will it be more expensive if i opt 
to have it what does it do for me  ( in layman 's terms please) is 
it a good deal or should i ignore it i'm not the type to sue anyone 
at a drop of the hat nor am i the type to report every little ding to 

limited option will lower your rates. if you choose it , you ca n't 
sue others for pain suffering , but you still can sue for economic loss. 
so you can sue for your wrecked car and for medical bills , but you ca n't 
sue for for pain and suffering .  . 

at least , that 's how i understand it. 

michal 

from  ( roger hupfauer ) 
subject '87 grand national 
organization autodesk inc. , sausalito ca , usa 
lines 9 

does anyone have one of these that would care to share 
some information on i concerned about the turbo .  . 
how reliable is it how 's the gas milage .  . 

please to me , not here. 

thank you. 

roger 

from  ( mark walker ) 
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host warlock . eece . unm . edu . 

in article state . edu . , state . edu . (scott j costanzo ) writes 
... he was as smooth as silk .  . it was 
the most amazing shifting demonstration i 've ever seen ! having said all that i 
still do n't know why anyone would want to shift a synchronized tranny without a 
clutch why do it 

ego trip .  .  .  . 


mark walker my old man always said 
too much is just right ! 
505 277 3688  ( home 899 0644 ) guess that applies to my preferences 
albuquerque , nm in performance cars. 

from  ( philip bush ) 
subject re plug wires do they really need replacement 
organization motorola , inc. , schaumburg , il , usa 
distribution na 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 148 . 5 . 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( vadim maslov ) 
wrote 


hi , netters 

i went to all tune and lube for routine maintenance 
and they said i need to change plug wires because 
they are original ones and you driven 70 k miles on them . 
i had a strong suspicion that they just wanted to make money. 
wires had no visible defects and my repair manual does n't 
recommend any scheduled maintenance for them. 

is it plain vanilla rip off 
or there can be some backing behind 
their suggestion to replace wires 

i have ford taurus 86 .  . 


vadim  . 


i once had a sparking problem with my '65 mustang , and simply changing 
the spark plug wires fixed it. 


philip bush national champion 
motorola , inc. , schaumburg , il sho convention show 
email 3rd place 
phone (708) 576 judged 


from  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) 
subject re houston auto insurance. 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
distribution usa 
lines 37 

in article (robert colello ) writes 

hello , 
i am moving to houston to go to rice university for graduate school. 
i will be living on the corner of s. mian and university blvd. i was 
wondering what kind of liability rates to expect. here is the relevent 
info. 
sex male 
age 23 
status single 
none , walking .  . 
car 1982 ford crown victoria , 4 door 

if anyone can check the above info , or is in a similar situation please 
e mail me the rates they find out or pay. thanks for your help in advance. 





my suggestion look at your current insurance card , there will be a name 
accross the top telling you which insurance company you are insured by. 
call information in houston and get the number of a branch office in the 
houston area , call the insurance company. 

your rates will vary depending on the amount of coverage you want , 
do you want to carry comp and collision  ( probably not on an 82) , 
what your driving record is. you mentioned none of these things in your 
posting so how can anyone give you accurate information. 

like i said , pick up the phone and make a few calls , it wo n't kill you. 


jeff 




from (paul w. emery ) 
subject v4 engines 
organization of technology 
lines 22 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

on the subject of the v4 , ford in the uk used v4 engines in 
their ford transit vans . this . brings back a memory from the seventies . i . 
played in a band at the time and for something like 180 pounds four of 
us bought a 1967 tranny to cart the gear around in . it . was in terrible 
shape  ( cosmetically ) because it 's last owner was a pig farmer . we . spent 
days cleaning it up and putting in a partition and more seating but 'til 
the day it died everytime you turned on the fan to the defroster dried 
pig shit came flying out the vents ! ! ! . 
back to the engine if i remember right it was a v4 and that 
thing could haul , we could fill it with equipment and up to 8 people and 
it went like a bat out of hell , of course there were no pollution controls 
on the engine and the gas was leaded and higher octane than we get now. 
when the mechanical fuel pump quit we put in an electric one from a 
morris minor that worked great. ah fond memories. 




i 'd like to own a squadron of tanks 
paul w. emery ron nasty the 
m i t magnet lab cambridge mass u.s.a. 


from (kenneth . r . 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization at t 
lines 20 

in article 
(the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v8 do n't know of any. 

kidding , right 

corvette , several 's and bmw 's , mustang gt , etc. , etc. there 's a lot of 
them. you from a european site 

kenny 


kenny , att bl , 3 t 5 b ,  . 




from (james p. callison ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 57 

in article  ( vlasis theodore ) writes 

i can put a v 8 with twin garret 4s on yugo and get 7 . qm .  . 
thats useless ... its still a yugo that will loose any race on a track , 
or on the street. 

a yugo that will go 1 in 7.7 seconds will not lose on the 
street. that 's just too damn quick. it might be wrapped around 
a telephone pole at the end of that quarter mile , but it will 
be there alone .  .  .  . 

have you detroit beings compared the ultra long throw stick shifts of 
the 5.0 with the 93 mr2 turbo or 93 rx7 (i ll buy it in 6 mos ) 

or you could replace the stock shifter with a hurst short throw 
shifter  ( available from ford motorsport ) , or any number of other 
after market products to boost the performance of a mustang or 
camaro .  . can you do that with a '93 rx 7 , or , verily , with any 
mr 2 with the detroit aftermarket , you can build a mustang or 
camaro which is superior to either car you mention for less than 
the sticker price of either. 

or the differential of the rx7 compared to the differential of 
the 5.0 that sounds in every turn 

well , gee .  . it works , and it does n't break. it transmits power to 
the drive wheels , and it 's essentially zero maintenance and there 's 
an aftermarket in parts for ford and chevy rear ends , too. 

and way 5.0 and camaro both have drums on the rear breaks ... 
hello , this is the 90 's 

well , the '93 mustang cobra (which , from all reports , uses the 
same running gear as '94 mustang ) has 4 wheel disks .  . i ca n't 
speak for the new camaro , but i think it does , too. 

also , stop and think about the markets here. the mustang is , and 
always has been , a mass market sporty car  ( that 's where the 
pony car class came from) with a performance model. that 's 
why it has the econo box running gear. that was also factored 
into the design of the mustang from the day lee conceived 
his baby it was designed as a wide market car sporty , yet 
accessible with room for performance tweaking .  . 

the cars you listed are designed for a specific market niche , 
and they both fit those niches very well. the mustang , at least , 
does well in multiple markets i ca n't speak for the camaro .  . 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

from  ( donald wendel ) 
subject compilation of problems 
distribution world 
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569 
reply to  ( donald wendel ) 
lines 54 


aw my 85 caprice classic with 120k miles has finally reached 
the threshold of total number of mechanical problems that 
i am forced to post ) .  . anyone out there who might be 
able to give me some pointers on one or more of the below , 
please e mail or post ! 

aw 1. when making turns , especially when accelerating , 
there is usually a loud thunk from the rear of 
of the car. sounds like it could be the differential .  . 

wheel bearing ,  . 


aw 2. on starting the car , i get blue  ( oil ) smoke from 
the exhaust for 5 10 seconds. exhaust valves 

bad valve stem seals .  . 

aw 3. brakes .  . more pedal travel than i feel comfortable 
with , but master cylinder is full and fluid is 

worn pads , rear brakes not adjusted up tight or worn out drums .  . 
90 of low pedal complaints usually are from a rear brake problem. 

aw 4. tranny .  . tranny problems seem to be slowly getting 
worse takes almost 2 seconds to downshift from 
3rd to 2nd on heavy throttle application , and more 
recently , it is reluctant to shift from 2nd to 3rd. 
fluid  ( checked with car running with tranny put 
through all the gears and then back to park , as per 
haynes manual ) is red and clear , and is on full mark. 
possible valve if equipped with one. also could be the 
cable. 

aw 5. my springs all around are just about shot i have 
4 new shocks on , but car still skips out on bumps 
in turns at moderate to high speed. how hard are 
they to change can they be reconditioned 
difficult on front. easy on rear .  . they are not expensive. about 75 100 
for front and less than 50 for the rear .  . 

its also kind of dangerous to work on the front springs without the 
proper equipment. 
don 


2 . 1a . i put spot on my dog .  .  .  . spots . gone ! 



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v . 32bis) . 713 520 9566 (v . 32bis) . 
houston , texas yob . sccsi . com . home of alt . cosuard . 


from  ( eliot ) 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
organization clearer than blir 
lines 27 
nntp posting host lanmola . engr . washington . edu . 

in article (andrew a. spencer ) writes 
nice theory. too bad the mr2 's never came with a four cylinder over 2.0 
liters .  . more like 1 . 6 .  . or did they were the 's 2.2 or 
some such 

foot in mouth again , drew .  . the first generation mr 2 's were 1.6 's which 
were very smooth. i 'd be real surprised if the original poster was talking 
about a 1st generation car. the second generation cars were 2.2 for the 
non turbo and 2.0 for the turbo .  . i drove the non turbo 2.2 and calling it 
unpleasant is to be kind to it .  .  . 

i also understand that anyone using balancing shafts on four cylinders , must 
pay saab a royalty for using their patented design .  . like . porsche 's 3.0 i4 .  .  .  . 

wrong and wrong. mitsubishi owns the patent , which has since expired 
which is why everybody with a shred of integrity is putting balance 
shafts into their big 4 's .  .  . the notable exception is nissan .  .  . and only 
for the us market suckers .  . i guess we need to write to c d and start 
telling them to publish graphs for engine vibration over rpm .  . then 
you 'll see usenet discussions of the form engine a has peak 
vibrations 3 db less than engine b , therefore engine a is better than 
engine b. 

1 2 ) 


eliot 

from (k a sturrock ) 
subject re viper car alarms 
organization georgia state university 
lines 26 

(ronald e garnett ) writes 

ron viper also sells some fancy field disturbance sensor that 
ron supposedly detects people the car .  .  .  .  . 

ron 

if your viper system were tuned like a neighbor 's is you would n't get 
any sleep because of the damn thing waking every one in the neighborhood 
up. 

we all used to try to ignore the alarm , but have now made a pact to 
bombard the house with night time visits and phone calls when ever we 
are awakened because some thunder storm passed over the next county 
or a stray dog looked at the car. 

car alarms are a serious pain in the ass ! 

ks 

p.s. real men do n't have car radios since the exhaust is too loud to 
hear it anyway grin ! 



k a anthropology georgia state university 

from  ( mattias hembruch ) 
subject re driver 's seat best cars of the year 
organization toronto stock exchange 
lines 20 

 ( tom haapanen ) writes 


the golf also won 's  ( automobile journalists  association of canada) 
1993 car of the year award. 

and unless i am mistaken (i screwed up my borrowed vcr and got the first 2 
minutes ) , the corrado slc was awarded 's sports  ( sporty ) car of the 
year .  .  . 

mattias 


tom haapanen software metrics inc waterloo , ont 
stick your index fingers into both corners of your mouth. now pull 
up. that 's how the corrado makes you feel. car , january '93 

mattias hembruch 
my views do not necessarily reflect those of the tse .  . 
e mail 

from george . howell . (george howell ) 
subject keyless entry .  .  .  . now how 
distribution world 
organization goucher college , towson , md 
reply to george . howell . (george howell ) 
lines 24 

bruce james writes 


without the key , though , the steering column  lock  would have to be 
sacrificed .  . 

not necessarily .  . maybe some sort of servo lock or something along those 
lines could be used to acheive the same effect. maybe a solenoid type of 
thing too. 

george howell 


m m ooo ppp aaa 
mm mm o o p p a a r r 
m m m o o ppp 
m m o o p a a r r 
m m ooo p a a r r 

ford  better living through american horsepower  
george howell 
george . howell . 



from  ( youjip won ) 
subject information needed .  .  .  . 
keywords mazda mx 6 
nntp posting host cs . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 7 

hi ! this is my first time to post on this news group. now a days , i have at a certain problem. i have '88 mazda mx 6 , non turbo fuel injection .  . 
there is a engine warning signal on the dash board. while driving , this signal turns on , but not always. what does this mean in the manual , they say go to authorized mazda dealer .  . . it is really good idea. do n't you think so 
i wanna know how the engine warning signal comes. is anybody out there who can give me same advice as authorized mazda dealer can give 

won 



from (t . m . haddock) . 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
distribution usa 
organization chevron 
lines 37 

in article , (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i'm in determining whether or not these things are true. 
has anyone out there with geico made a claim i 'd be interested in 
hearing whether or not you were satisfied with the service and whether 
you then had trouble renewing your policy. 

i'm also interested in any good or bad stories about liberty mutual or 
state farm .  . 


stay away from geico .  . 

a recent car driver issue has an article about geico giving free 
laser guns to police departments to increase they 're speed limit 
enforcement .  . the article also said that if you get a speeding ticket 
your premium will increase dramatically based on how much over the 
limit you were. if i remember correctly , at more than 20 over , 
you 'll get something like a 65 increase .  . 

if you have a radar detector , you will be denied coverage or dropped 
immediately. 

one accident claim and you will be dropped .  . 
after many years with geico , my father who had 0 tickets and had made 
0 claims , had an accident and filed an 800 claim .  . he was dropped 
immediately. since then he has been with state farm for years with 
no complaints .  . 

i have been with state farm for about 20 years no complaints .  . 


travis 

from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re wife wants convertible 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 38 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( tom wetzel ) says 

in article andrew a. spencer , 
writes 
well , actually , he did n't , but we 'll pretend the real author of this 
query has his name tacked in here .  .  .  .  . ) 


my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car. 

i was about to recommend you consider a targa top over a convertible but , 
drew made the point very well. when my wife and i were in our 20s we 
did the convertible thing with triumphs .  . now in our mid 40s , we still 
appreciate the open air but prefer targa types. there is much less wind 
noise , objects papers blowing around , foreign objects getting into the 
car and one still has almost all the advantages of the convertible .  . 

tom 

while it 's being mentioned , i personally prefer the moonroof sunroof t top 
targa thing as well. i simply do n't like cloth tops , nor the extra insurance , 
nor the s color matching alot of companies do. if i chose a convertible , 
it 'd be 

a) mazda rx7 ii. i just like the way they look. it 'd have to be in black , 
with color matched black  ( top(they look good ! ) 

b) vw  . they do a job of matching colors too. also , last year 
for them ! collector s item 

c) mustang gt droptop .  .  . they . look ok too. 

i know this does n't help , but i thought i 'd do it anyway .  .  .  . ) 

good luck to your wife . you ) 

drew 

from (john schultz ) 
subject re opinions on 88 89 pontiac 
nntp posting host spock . se . houston . geoquest . slb . com . 
organization geoquest system , inc. houston 
lines 21 

in article  ( neil b. gandler ) writes 


i am in the market to buy a used car. i am particularly 
interested in the pontiac  . my budget is between 7 
8 thousand .  . would i be able to afford an 88 or 89 .  . what 
engines were available at this time. i know they did n't 
redesign until the 1992 model year. how is the reliability of 
past models. i would appreciate any advice or information. 

neil gandler 

in a word , yes. 

1989 prices  . retail ) 

sedan 4d le 7 , 125 
sedan 4d se 8 , 125 
sedan 4d 10 , 975 



from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re comparing saabs bmw 's 
organization university of westminster 
lines 7 

i dont know about saabs but whenever there is a  long  in a magazine 
they always say that tehy 're are little annoying which keep on occuring 
every so often .  .  .  . i would n't expect that from such a  quality  car .  .  .  .  . why 
does n't anything like this ever happen on bmws maybe coz they 're  quality  
cars ) 

 ( repentently ! )  .  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( frank ball ) 
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting 
organization , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 
lines 41 

i'm not familiar with the used in winston cup , but in the trans am 
cars i 've played with the transmissions were the racing variety , with 
dog clutches instead of  . in a transmission with dog clutches , the 
gears are always engaged with each other and moving the dog clutches 
engages the gears to the shafts .  . motorcycle transmissions are the same way. 
shifting without the clutch on a transmission with can and will cause 
transmission damage , the only question being how long it grenade 
something  ( for the trans in my 87 pulsar se , it was about 3 5k miles , but 
it had a weak tranny in the first place) .  . 

just out of curiosity , how is this dog clutch any different from a 
transmission .  . what you described sounds the same to me. in fact , what little 
i 've studied on , the instructor referred to the synchros as dogs 
and said they were synonymous .  . the gears are always in a synchronized 
gearbox , and you slip the gears back and forth by shifting .  . or at least , 
that is what i was taught .  . explain , por favour 

motorcycle transmissions do n't have synchros .  . the dogs are very 
and sloppy .  . there are maybe 6 10 teeth  ( dogs ) on the side of the 
gears that engage the next gear over as the forks slide the gears back 
and forth. to shift start to apply pressure at the same time the 
clutch is pulled (the clutch is a hand lever ) and shift quickly. if 
you try a slow lazy shift it will grind , you just have to pop it into 
the next gear before it has a chance to grind .  . there is n't a neutral 
between gears  ( obviously there is , but you ca n't select it with the 
shifter ) so double clutching is not a possibility .  . speed shifting 
(which is what i have always heard clutchless shifting called) works 
pretty well for upshifts with some practice , but i usually use the 
clutch especially for the lower gears .  . 

i think auto  ( as in automobile) trannys are similar , except that the 
dogs are very fine , with no slop .  . and the addition of 
rings .  . the gear teeth are always engaged in auto transmissions 
that are synchronized , but may not be in non gears  ( reverse 
and sometimes first) .  . 


frank ball m  ( 707 ) 794 work , 
hewlett packard  ( 707 ) 794 fax ,  ( 707 ) 538 3693 home 
1212 valley house drive , , 750 ,  62 f 100 , 
park ca 4999 , law , ama , dod , i'm the nra .  . 

from 
subject vw jetta gli help 
reply to 
organization university of albany , suny 
lines 17 

i am considering the of a 1987 vw jetta gli with miles on it. 
i recently found out that there are two versions of the gli and 16v .  . 
i know of three differences between the two cars that both carry the same 
name the 16v version has 20 more horsepower , 4 wheel discs , and a standard 
sunroof .  . 
oops , that 's the difference between the gli 16v and the regular gl ! ! 
so in addition to the engine , what other differences exist between the 
two models of the jetta gli 
more importantly , how can i tell which version this one is there are 
no badges that said 16v so i am inclined to think that is the version. 
assuming this one (the one i looked at ) is the version , is there a valid 
reason to buy it instead of a comparably equipped gl which would cost less 
 ( of course i would love to get the 16v version , but money talks . ) . 

please email any responses. thank you. 
peter 


from  ( desmond chan ) 
subject any info on merc 300e 2.6 
summary questions on merc 300e 2.6 
keywords questions on merc 300e 2.6 

to reader , 
can anyone out there tell me about the reliability and the 
performance of the merc 300e 2.6 in the years 91  . 

can anyone please specify the weaknesses  ( if any) and the g 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 3 
nntp posting host tartarus . uwa . edu . au . 
x newsreader nn version 6 . 4 . 19 . 1 



cheek .  . 

from  ( young jin kim) 
subject '89 toyota camry 9000 
organization best lab , uc berkeley 
lines 4 
distribution world 
nntp posting host chess . berkeley . edu . 

89  toyota camry le 4 dr sedan 
ac at power windows and locks 
53k miles , asking 9000 .  . 
pls call 510 526 or send e mail to this account. 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re lexus and infiniti 
organization  r us 
lines 18 
nntp posting host lanmola . engr . washington . edu . 

in article writes 
first off , the correct spelling of nissan 's luxury automobile division 
is infiniti not infinity .  . 

who cares about typos of these meaningless , synthetic names if the 
cars were named after a person , e.g. honda , i 'd be more respectful .  . 

lexus 
gs300 v6 
es300 v6 
sc300 v6 

wrong ! the gs300 and sc300 use straight , while the es300 uses a 
v6 .  . only a giant like toyota can afford to have both a v6 and inline 
6 in its lineup , but that wo n't last for long. 


eliot 

from  ( matthew r. singer ) 
subject re opel owners 
reply to  ( matthew r. singer ) 
distribution rec . autos . 
organization mit lincoln laboratory 
lines 56 



in article ,  ( mark maynard ) writes 
newsgroups rec . autos . 
path ! ll . mit . edu . ! ll . mit . edu . ! ames ! agate ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! bogus . sura . net . ! news feed 1 . peachnet . edu . ! gatech ! ! ! tamsun . tamu . edu . ! news . utdallas . edu . ! convex ! convex ! maynard 
from  ( mark maynard ) 
subject re opel owners 
message id 
sender mark maynard 
nntp posting host trojan . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
references 
distribution rec . autos . 
date tue , 20 apr 93 19 17 48 gmt 5 00 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 22 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 

i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater , 
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. 


this would be the manta , would it not sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader 
chintan amin 


sounds more like an opel gt .  . neat cars , fun to drive. sold through 
buick from 196 through 1973  ( if i remember correctly) .  . i believe it 
was in '72 that there were some engine mods made such that parts 
were not interchangeable with the older models. parts are thus much 
harder to come by for the later models. parts in general are not 
too difficult to find. at one time jc whitney carried some stuff 
including a brand new (not remfg ) long block. either a gt or a 
ghia  ( hmm that spelling looks hosed ) will be my next project. 

mark 


in 1972 , they lowered the engine compression so that it would run on 
regular gas (not to mention the addition of emission controls) .  . the '72 
also added pop out rear quarter windows .  .  .  . 

alot of parts are available for the gt from c r small cars in ct and 
used from bill daley 's opel parts in ma .  .  .  .  . 



matthew r. singer mit lincoln laboratory 
(617) 981 244 wood street 
lexington , ma 02173 


from george . howell . (george howell ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
distribution world 
organization goucher college , towson , md 
reply to george . howell . (george howell ) 
lines 19 

the current 4 . 9l . v 8 will soldier on for about two years. a version 
of the 32 valve modular v 8 in the mark viii could be offered then. 

how unfortunate for anyone who loves the simplicity with which 302 and 
351 fords and 305 and 350 can be built up. still , it will provide 
a needed punch for the ford to stay up with the new firebird camaros .  . it 
would n't surprise me if ford called the engine a 5.0 litre in the 
mustang .  .  ( we all know that the current 5.0 is really 4.9 anyway) 

, the car looks ok , but not nearly as exciting as the new 
camaro firebird , imo. 

i must agree. i do n't think i 've seen anything as impressive looking as 
the new firebird since my friend back home sold his 1970 formula 400 
firebird  ( for a paltry 2000 , without even telling me. the bastard . ) . 

george howell 
george . howell . 


from  ( jeff perry ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization private site in san marcos , california 
lines 26 

 ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 

in article ( the 
i just have got to remind all of you that this is it ! yes , 
that 's right , somtime this fall , ford (the of cars) 
will be introducing an all new , mega cool 
way too fast for accord drivers mustang .  . it 's supposed to be 
100 streamlined , looking similar to the mach iii concept car 
ford came out with around january .  . i ca n't wait. anyone out 
there hear anything about it recently 


if everything i 've read is correct , ford is doing nothing but re 
the existing mustang , with minor suspension modifications .  . 
and the pictures i 've seen indicate they did n't do a very good job 
of it. 

the new mustang , is nothing but a re cycle of a 20 year old car. 




i just saw a picture of the '94 mustang in popular mechanics what 
a disappointment after being bombarded with pictures of the mach iii .  .  .  . 

jp 

from  ( timothy s newman ) 
subject ford probe , import car of the year 
organization department of computer science , michigan state university 
lines 13 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host howell . cps . msu . edu . 
originator 


okay , okay , i know the ford probe is made in the us , in fact it 's 
made in michigan , at a mazda plant. my question are most of the parts 
from american or japanese sources i have been told that most of the us 
assembly plants for japanese import almost all of the parts used in 
the vehicles .  . 

any information anyone has on this will be appreciated ! 

tim newman 




from nigel allen 
subject alternative fuel vehicles 
reply to nigel allen 
organization canada remote systems 
distribution rec 
lines 48 


here is a press release from the u.s. department of energy. 

energy secretary hails president 's plan for alternative fuel 
vehicles 
to national desk , environment and energy reporters 
contact larry hart of the u.s. department of energy , 202 586 

washington , april 21 secretary of energy 
hazel r. o'leary today said president clinton 's executive order on 
alternative fuels will make the federal government a driving force 
behind efforts to increase the availability of both alternative 
fuel vehicles and fuel supplies. 
president clinton signed the order today , which calls for 
federal purchases of alternative fuel vehicles in numbers over the 
next three years at least 50 percent higher than those called for 
in the energy policy act of 1992. 
president clinton also announced that texas land commissioner 
gary will head up the federal fleet conversion task force to 
advise o'leary on implementation of the executive order. 
i am delighted that i will be working with gary to make 
this happen , o'leary said. as land commissioner , gary has 
helped make texas a national leader in converting the state fleet 
to alternative fuels , and has been a tireless proponent of natural 
gas vehicles in speeches across the country. 
the task force is to issue a report within 90 days recommending 
a plan and schedule of implementation .  . 
the department of energy and all of us in government must lead 
by example if the option of alternative fuels is going to become a 
practical , affordable choice for fleet owners across the country , 
o'leary said. increased use of produced alternative 
fuels means reducing pollution while creating jobs. we believe 
that energy efficiency , protecting the environment , and a healthy 
economy are complimentary goals. 
o'leary said that plans call for the department of energy to 
coordinate the agencies  five year purchase plans , help with 
funding for extra purchase or conversion costs , and work with gsa 
to encourage development of the fuel infrastructure needed to make 
fleet conversions practical .  . 
under the order , the department of energy will also be working 
with states , local governments and industry to coordinate vehicle 
purchases and encourage manufacturers and fuel suppliers to make 
alternative fuel vehicles and alternative fuels more widely 
available. 
30 

canada remote systems toronto , ontario 
416 629 7000 629 7044 

from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host 223 . 250 . 10 . 7 . 
reply to 
organization sps 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in article 
 ( dan day) writes 
in article 
writes 

before you go in. find out the invoice prices of the car , add a 
reasonable 
profit for the dealer ( 200 300 ) , offer them that price and stick to 
it. 

whoa ! watch your terminology .  . dealer invoice is not dealer cost . 
... 

that 's probably true but it 's the closest to it that you 're going to get. 
the actual dealer cost depends on a lot of things and even the dealer 
probably does n't know exactly what it will be until all the factory 
kick backs , incentives , etc. are paid and that often depends on his volume 
at the end of the month quarter whatever. it might be a funny but 
it 's all you have to start with , except the sticker , and anyone who pays 
sticker price is really being ripped off. 

mark 

from (ron stafford ) 
subject re changing oil by self. 
lines 30 
nntp posting host 192 . 153 . 237 . 26 . 
organization 

in article john foster writes 
date wednesday , 21 apr 1993 12 47 50 edt 
from john foster 
subject re changing oil by self. 
from  ( drew eckhardt ) 
in article (paul o'donnell ) wri 
in  ( yik chong lam) writes 

hello , 

i find this method much better myself , too , although i do really 
hate it when the bolt finally comes loose and the wrench and my 
hand both come crashing into my face. after coming to , which is 
about 15 minutes later , i change my clothes  ( because by this time 
all the oil has drained on me) , and ice my entire face and suck 
down about 20 tylenol to ease the pain. later in the day i then 
proceed with refilling the engine oil. 

it 's just crazy how i try and change the oil on my cars in one 
weekend i go through about 3 bottles of tylenol and 2 bags of ice. 

john 

not everyone should be trusted with tools. ) 



ron texas instruments incorporated 
(214) 917 2050 p.o.box , ms 
dallas , texas 

from  ( keath milligan ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization real time communications 
lines 32 

in article 103 . bgsu . edu .  ( greg gantzer ) writes 
in article , ( the 
blade runner ) wrote 

i just have got to remind all of you that this is it ! yes , 
that 's right , somtime this fall , ford (the of cars) 
will be introducing an all new , mega cool 
way too fast for accord drivers mustang .  . it 's supposed to be 
100 streamlined , looking similar to the mach iii concept car 
ford came out with around january .  . i ca n't wait. anyone out 
there hear anything about it recently 

yeah , it looks like shit ! ! ! nothing like the mach iii. check out the 
latest issue of popular mechanics , they have a picture of one. it looks 
like a cross between a dodge daytona and an eagle talon , only much uglier .  . 
this car looks like it should have been produced in 1990 , not 1994. 

i 'll pick up that pm and have a look maybe the picture in there is not 
the actual car , but a prototype 

i saw the mach iii and was not all that impressed it looked way too 
japanese for me .  .  .  . the tear drop headlights reminded me of a nissan nx .  .  .  . 

glad i did n't hold out for the '94 and bought a '93 .  . maybe they 'll work on 
the design a little bit , listen to consumers and come out with nice looking 
'95 or '96 .  . it always takes a while to work out the kinks in a new design , 
e.g. the f body camaro firebirds  ( btw , the new camaros look like shit too) .  . 

milligan , software engineer , corporation , austin , texas 
, 

try real time communications !  ( 512 459 or telnet wixer . com) . 

from  ( boenig ) 
subject v 16 
organization new mexico state university 
lines 16 
nntp posting host huey . nmsu . edu . 


probably the most famous is the one cadillac made from about 1925 
to 1935. they had to scale down then because the great depression really put 
the crimp on luxury cars. it had 452 cubic inches with over two hundred horse 
power. they do n't make them like they used to. 
there were others though. packard had one until about 1930 whe it down 
sized to their legendary twin six , their for the next twenty years. 
lincoln and pierce arrow might have also had one but i am not two sure. 
most luxury and semi luxury cars of this era at least experimented with 
if they did not actually produce them. there was actually a cylinder war 
among the big three to see who could produce the biggest engine. 

big m 


standard disclaimer applies , because i ca n't think of anything  . 

from (robert gallant ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
reply to (robert gallant ) 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 11 


i would gladly spend twice the money for insurance , rather than using 
geico .  . not only do they supply radar guns to the police they also want 
to make radar detectors illegal .  . they also ask if you have a detector 
 ( probably to put you in a high risk group or just refuse to insure you) .  . 

i know a few people who were by geico due to an accident that 
was not their fault. 

rob 


from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re honda clutch chatter 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 22 01 32 gmt 
lines 31 
organization ibm toronto lab 

in article (james bruder ) writes 


from (james bruder ) 
date wed , 21 apr 1993 22 01 32 gmt 
organization hp information networks , cupertino , ca 
path eclipse ! yktnews . watson . ibm . com . ! watson . ibm . com . ! newsgate . watson . ibm . com . ! news . ans . net . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! usc ! sdd . hp . com . ! sc . hp . com . ! ! ! ! 
newsgroups rec . autos . 
lines 12 

anyone else experiencing a similar problem 

this concerns the clutch on a 92 honda accord 5 speed. when the clutch 
is first used in the morning , about the first 4 miles of shifting , there 
is a significant amount of clutch chatter until things warm up. then the 
clutch shifts smoothly .  . this chatter started when i moved to the san 
francisco bay area from a low humidity environment. the dealer stated 
that this is known to happen since honda changed from an asbestos to 
non asbestos clutch material. no remedy ! ! seems that moisture on clutch 
surface causes slipping until the moisture evaporates .  . 

any comments out there 


i have been having problems with a slightly different clutch problem on 
my 90 prelude .  . see rec . autos . tech . for more detail. my problem is a false 
engagement point below the actual one. it also seems affected by weather 
it is most noticeable  ( and annoying ) on damp or cold days. my dealer says 
he ca n't reproduce the problem i think i 'll just sell the car. 

jeff goss 

from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 30 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( zauberer ) says 

in article (the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 
v8 do n't know of any. 

are you serious ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
try  ( the(deep breath ) mustang , camaro , optional on nearly every truck ever built , 
corvettes , caprices , bmw , , , seville , 
infiniti , jeep grand cherokee , lexus ls 400 , lexus sc 400 , mark viii 
town car , m b , and the mercury grand marquis to name a few ! ! ! ! 

v12 jaguar 

how about 
viper 
must be one somewhere. 

believe bugatti 's  ( coming(has ) out one. something like 4 
and mucho macho hp. one cool price too , as i heard. at any rate , 
the point is , i'm pretty sure there is , indeed , one in production .  .  .  . 
tho rather limited .  .  . 

drew 

from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 27 

in article  ( joe staudt ) writes 
v6 legend , 

honda prelude ( ) 
nope .  . 4 cylinder .  . 

v8 do n't know of any. 

you did n't try very hard 
lexus , several of each 
i was n't aware that there was another infiniti with a v 8 besides the  . 

bmw one model (5 series ) 
several .  . the , , 540i , 530i .  . (4 . 0 . liter and 3.0 liter v 8) 

mercedes one or two models 
one or two there 's at least one v 8 for every platform except 
the compact  . s class  ( 400sel , 500sel ) ,  ( 400e , 500e ) , 
and roadster  . 

acura one model (ca n't remember the name right now) 
acura does n't have any v 8 cars at the moment. 

v12 jaguar 
bmw , 850 
mercedes 
and  . the other sls  ( 500 sl and 300sl ) are v 8 and inline six .  . 

from  ( terry quinn ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 32 
reply to 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 



they beat ford to the market with the camaro firebird , but really only 
in words. production of these vehicles will be limited until the 
end of the year , keeping selling prices above msrp for the most part 
since there are so many twitching camaro fans out there. 

drivel .  . i received delivery of my '93 trans am 7 weeks after i 
ordered  ( promised 6 8 weeks) , and paid 400 over dealer invoice , 
which is a discount off of msrp .  . i only have about 370 
miles on it , but so far no problems , and it seems very well put 
together. by the way , first year production will be about 60 , 000 
cars. dealers would like you to think there is a shortage , but 
considering they only sold about 90 , 000 f bodies last year and the 
new model was introduced mid year , that is not going to create a 
shortage .  . gm planning on ramping to about 160 , 000 f bodies next 
year  ( according to a wsj  . 

several people have mentioned seeing a photo of the '94 mustang in 
popular mechanics .  . i saw a photo of it in motor trend january 
1993 issue  . direct side on view. although they described 
it as a seriously handsome car with broad shoulders , i thought 
it looked pretty boring in that view. reminded me of a 
toyota celica  ( yuch ! ) .  . description of mechanicals same as has 
been reported from the pm article. 



terry quinn 
germantown hills , il 

from compuserve . . . internet 

from  ( steve bonsib ) 
subject after market sunroofs  ( power moonroof big type) who makes the best 
keywords sunroof 
article i.d. transfer . 
organization stratus computer inc , marlboro ma 
lines 16 
nntp posting host data . cac . stratus . com . 

hello all , 

i know that after market sunroofs may have left a bad taste in some of 
your mouths , but i am really interested in finding a good brand if one 
exists. please let me know if you have heard of any makers with a good 
reputation  ( few failures , no leaks , that sort of thing) and whether or 
not you have had first hand experience with that manufacturer .  . who is 
generally regarded in the industry as the best  ( price no object) maker 
of power sunroofs 

steve 


steve reply to 
stratus computer 
marlboro ma 

from jason m. roth 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast) 
organization junior , architecture , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 24 
distribution usa 

nntp posting host po4 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 


still its amazing in germany you can have cars traveling 155 mph and 65 
mph on the same 3 to 4 lane road. around washington dc they ca n't 
keep traffic flowing at 55 .  . 

germans are just more organised you ca n't blitz all of europe in a 
matter of , what , 9 months , unless you 're pretty organised .  . if we tried 
that , there 'd just be a whole bunch of tanks backed up at the border , 
waiting for some jerk in the right lane trying to get over to make a 
left turn. 

this , of course , caused germany to invade belgium .  . one of the important 
lessons of history is that anything , including late afternoon 
, will cause germany to invade belgium .  . 
dave barry 

happy motoring ! 

jmr 

'93 sl2 , blue green 

he 's the most inventive asshole i 've ever met he really puts a lot of 
energy into it .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( tom mathes ) 
subject re locking tire 
nntp posting host 223 . 7 . 248 . 44 . 
organization motorola inc , austin , texas 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in article writes 
if you put a locking on your tires , do you need to have your 
tires 

john mas 


e mail address 


well , it depends on what kind of locking you have. my previous 
car had locking that weighed about 2 .  . more than the others. 
the locking were factory equipment , and according to the factory 
service manual , after tire balancing the technician mechanic was 
supposed to put a 1 2 oz. on the rim opposite the locking 
nut .  . i always had vibration problems with those stupid since no 
one ever did the service correctly. i eventually got rid of the locking 
and replaced them with the standard  . unfortunately , i 
found out about the technique 6 months after i got rid 
of the locking nuts. ( 

my present car , a saturn sc , has locking that i bought at the 
dealer and are made specifically for the saturn .  . they have been made to 
be exactly the same weight as the non locking  ( said so on the 
package and i verified it myself) .  . i have n't had any vibration problems 
with the tires at all  ( due to the nuts ) in 12 , 000 of ownership .  . i did 
have some other vibration problems , but it was due to a poor job of tire 
balancing .  . 

tom 

from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re honda clutch chatter .  . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 23 08 56 gmt 
lines 39 
organization ibm toronto lab 

in article (james bruder ) writes 


from (james bruder ) 
date fri , 23 apr 1993 23 08 56 gmt 
organization hp information networks , cupertino , ca 
path eclipse ! yktnews . watson . ibm . com . ! newsgate . watson . ibm . com . ! news . ans . net . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! usc ! sdd . hp . com . ! sc . hp . com . ! ! ! ! 
newsgroups rec . autos . 
references 
lines 16 

it 's nice to know that i'm not alone out there when it comes to clutch , etc 
problems on late model hondas .  . if i get a few more supportive responses 
i will take them to my local honda dealer or maybe send them to the regional 
rep in southern calif. for their input on the problem. maybe some group 
pressure from honda owners can be placed on honda to find a solution , such 
as a retrofit of the clutch 

or , maybe i 'll just sell the blasted vehicle and go back to driving my 10 
year old pick up which was  ( now fixed) having clutch problems and caused me 
to look for what i thought would be a trouble free solution. ya sure. not 
to put down honda or anything the accord has performed flawlessly in all 
other areas for its 16 , 000 miles. 

as it is said out of all this something will develop ! 

later folks. 

not alone at all. my old 83 accord  ( now in the hands of a sibling ) has a much 
better engagement of the clutch .  . even the old 84 civic we keep as a beater 
feels better in this aspect .  . note that these are cars with 250 , 000 kms and 
140 , 000 kms respectively .  . my 90 prelude blows both of them away in every 
respect except smooth clutch engagement .  . of course the kawasaki is the best 
of the bunch but i need more than 2 wheels most of the time. 

the prelude has had a dud clutch from day 1 , and after three years and 67 , 000 
kms is no better. best of luck and feel free to add this to your collection. 

jeff goss 

from arbor . mi . us . (david hwang ) 
subject re best radar detector valentine 1 
organization d.j. services 
lines 43 

in article  ( troy wecker ) writes 

let me explain why i feel the counter feature is a gimmick .  . 
radar waves bounce off objects especially metal. that is how radar 
speed measurement works. a high frequency microwave  ( x band approx 10 
ghz and k is approx 24 ghz ) is sent out and reflected back to the 
antenna off of an automobile or other objects .  . if an object is moving 
a doppler shift  ( about 34 hz per mph on x band) occurs , is measured 
and converted to miles per hour. these waves bounce all over the 
place and they can reflect many times and go in many directions. 

from what i understand the valentine 1 can only tell if these 
microwaves are coming from the front , rear or both. there are only 
two antennas .  . if they are coming from both this in interpreted as a 
side . counts are determined as sources by their 
relative strength to one another even if they are reflections of the 
same source. 

i'm certainly no engineer and really have no scientific basis 
on which to make this argument , but do n't you answer your own 
question is the reflected signal shifted at all from the 
act of being reflected if so , would n't it then be easy for 
the detector to discriminate between reflections and direct 
sources 

here is the problem. since the microwaves reflect , how does the unit 
tell if it is a source or a reflection take a valentine 1 and 
drive to the local grocery store that uses an x band radar door 
opener .  . you can tell by the small black box above the door pointed 
down at about a 45 degree angle and your detector going off when it 
gets near .  . the valentine 1 will count 7 or 8 from all 
directions front , rear and sides (it does n't say which side) .  . the 
count changes as cars drive by and reflections change. is there 7 or 
8 sources not at the store i go to. as i drive around with a 
standard detector i can only find one source and that is the door 
opener for the front door. 

troy wecker 

sequent computer systems 
beaverton , or 

david w. hwang , m.d. arbor . mi . us . 

from  ( neil b. gandler ) 
subject opinions on 88 89 pontiac 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 10 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ubvmsb . cc . buffalo . edu . 



i am in the market to buy a used car. i am particularly 
interested in the pontiac  . my budget is between 7 
8 thousand .  . would i be able to afford an 88 or 89 .  . what 
engines were available at this time. i know they did n't 
redesign until the 1992 model year. how is the reliability of 
past models. i would appreciate any advice or information. 

neil gandler 

from vlsi . ee . vill . edu .  ( bijan mobasseri ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization villanova university 
lines 9 

we have seen lots of discussion on automobile engine configuration .  . let me ask 
a similar question from the aviation field. you must have seen images of prop 
planes with all cylinders exposed .  . i have seen up to 8 cylinders positioned 
in a circular fashion with the prop at the center of the circle .  . 
this arrangement always brings up a geometric dilemma .  . how can one crankshaft 
throw accomodate 8 rods or are the pistons displaced but not visible from the 
outside. 

bijan 

from  ( parminder bhandari ) 
subject info about audi 90  ( used ) 
organization toronto stock exchange 
distribution rec 
lines 10 

i am thinking of buying a used audi 90 auto .  . 

these cars look good and audi do have a good rep. for these cars in europe 
(where i'm from) .  . 

i was just wondering if there anything about these cars that i should know. 

 . 



from  ( parminder bhandari ) 
subject question about integra auto box 
organization toronto stock exchange 
distribution rec 
lines 17 


i'm new to this group and this may have been discussed already , in which case 
my apologies , but .  .  .  . 

i have a '92 integra with an auto box. according to the manual the car has 
a lock up torque converter , or something similar. 

what is it , what does it do and how does it work 

 ( excuse my  . 

does anybody know 

 . 

(no sig yet) 


from  ( wayne smith) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host valve . heart . rri . uwo . ca . 
lines 8 

in article (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i 've read in this group that geico has funded the purchasing of radar 
guns by police depts  ( i'm not sure where) .  . 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re saturn extended warranty 
distribution world 

lines 12 

i agree with gaia .  . even though the saturn has proved to be a very reliable car 
so far , a little money spent now is worth the peace of mind. 

in my opinion , getting the warranty is enough. in my case , that 's be 
cause anything that needed repairing in the interior  ( sunroof , windows , doors , 
etc . ) . i could do myself. i just did n't want to mess with the engine and such. 

plus i think the extra 3 years of 24 hour assistance must be so 
 . i opted for the 5 year plan for 375 .  . 

thomas 


from (michael a. atkinson ) 
subject for sale in evanston , il one car 
originator 
nntp posting host unseen3 . acns . nwu . edu . 
organization chaos 
lines 13 


for sale 

1981 oldsmobile omega four door. gray , power windows , power steering , 
power brakes , remote trunk release. starts reliably and runs well , 
but needs some work. 400 obo .  . 

for details , email or  ( 708)864 )  . 

michael a. atkinson there is no try , there is only dew .  . 


a libertarian and an nra member. 

from (james p. callison ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 48 

in article  ( zauberer ) writes 
disclamer this is not a flame .  .  . if you anger easily please go on. 
 . peterson ) writes 

the next mustang will be ford 's highest profile car. it attracts 
way more attention than the camaro firebird because it 's heritage 
is more embedded in the general public. do n't lie to yourself and 
believe ford will forfeit that. 

fyi they already did. 

oh , really. when 

too bad that the current mustang ca n't even compete with the new 
camaro without using an active imagination. 

the '93 mustang cobra can. check it out. 

right now few cars can compare with the '93 camaro , think about it .  .  . 
20 , 000 for a car that will out perform all but a few exotics .  . 
if you are now swearing at me look at the stats .  .  . they . do n't lie. 
there are no comparable cars in it 's class , not for its price. 

, maybe. the '93 mustang cobra does a good job for a lower price , 
and it 's just a taste of what 's ahead in the 30th anniversary of 
the original pony car. 

unless the ford gets the 32v , 300hp romeo .  . you do n't seriously believe 
that it was designed for the mark viii only , do you 

hey , can you imagine the potential of a modified lt 1 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
folks in a few years we will surpass the levels of performance 
achieved in the late '60 's , thats scary. 

just think ! corvettes are almost up to the performance levels 
of a '65 cobra ! wow ! in a few years , they might be up to the 
performance levels of a '66 ford gt 40. wow , man , just think 
about it .  .  .  . ) 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

subject buy back 
from 
organization brigham young university 
lines 9 

we were at a dealership today looking at buying a car and 
the salesman was showing us something he was calling a 
buy back . is that a car that was and then 
given back for the new model the next year if that 
is so , how many miles is a good number to have on it 
and are these types of cars generally a good buy 

thanks , 
ellen 

from  ( bob kehoe ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
nntp posting host 
organization computers , beaverton , oregon , u.s.a. 
distribution usa 
lines 18 


i have tested both vehicles  ( identically 
equipped ) , both for week long periods .  . 
curiously  ( and consider these are test 
vehicles) , i found the mercury higher 
in build quality than the nissan .  . 

either choice is good , but beware that 
i did not experience reasonable mileage 
with the v6 .  . average city driving was 
, with about 21 avg. on the highway .  . 

both were optioned to the hilt (the nissan 
had leather ! ) .  . the villager was in the 
24k range and the nissan was over 26k .  . 

bob 


from (john navitsky ) 
subject re ford probe opinions  ( centered around the gt ) 
organization eskimo north (206) 367 3837 seattle , wa .  . 
lines 132 

in article ...  ( bill heiser ) writes 
in article ...  ( chuck kesler ) writes 
jeremy g. zonker says 

can anyone offer any opinions of the ford probe .  .  .  . ala how they do in 
the long run , repair records , reliability , mileage , etc 

i 've found mine  ( '93 probe gt ) to do quite well. 

window problem deleted , has been trimmed 

i have had my probe looked at twice by my local dealer (where i purchased 
the car) ... the first time , they made this problem worse. the second time , 
after advising them of the service bulletin mentioned on my ford probe mailing 
list  ( they said they did n't know of the bulletin ) , they adjusted the window and 
made it much better. however it now makes a noise on rough 
roads , and still when i open close the window in wet weather  ( anyone 
elses 's do this ) 

i 've not had any of the air or leakage problems that have been reported but 
do get the squeal that bill describes .  . i live in seattle so the wet weather 
may be a factor. 

ford only gives 1 key with the car. c'mon ford , spend an extra few pennies ! 

if i recall correctly i got two keys. 

horn buttons behind air bag in spokes and not in 
center  ( personal preference ) 

you 've got to position the fingers perfectly to make it beep buttons are 
terrible. 

this is true. i'm wondering if this may be a safety concern. ie , if people 
pound on the place where the airbag lives .  .  .  . 

speaking of the horn , i was surprised to find that the probe comes with one 
of those nice  sounding horns instead of the japanese sounding kind. 
the previous probes had japanese horns .  . 

no opinion. 

transmission (the 5 speed is a must ) 

i have always been a 5 speed guy. almost every car i 've ever owned has been 
a 5 speed. because i got a good deal on this car with the 2500 miles , i 
 ( knowingly ) overlooked the fact that it has an automatic .  . but it is a pretty 
high tech automatic .  . it is a fully controlled 4 speed with 

the 5 speed is much more fun. we opted for the automatic for a number of 
reasons but it 's still fun , and in some ways more practical .  . 

no shake rattle noises when going over bumps potholes  ( still ! ) 

ditto .  . 

shakes and rattles has been my main gripe .  . i 've gotten them to fix the 
worst of them , but i fear that with the rather harsh ride , the car will 
be a virtual of rattles when it gets older. 

i too would suspect that this may be true. 

tires 225 goodyear eagles (70 left hoping for 30k ) 

very very very well. it sticks to the road like glue , even on a rough 
surface. 

yes ! 

interior is very , very nice too. very pleasing to the eye , and ergonomically 
sound. 

definitely .  . ford mazda did a very very nice job on this one. the 
car has a much more expensive than it actually is look and feel to it. 

ditto .  . 

yes , this car 's stiff suspension is n't for everyone. i personally like it , 
but if you find it a little harsh but otherwise like the car , i 'd strongly 
suggest looking into the mx 6. 

agree. check it out. i do n't mind it but would say that if it was much 
stiffer it might be a problem.  ( how about the '93 r1 rx 7 for suspension ! ) 

well i would n't encourage passenger carrying in the probe unless the 
person in the front seat likes to sit with his knees to the dash .  . as 
mentioned in the consumer reports write ups , consider the back seat 
as a parcel shelf . no biggie to me though  ( if it had been , i 'd not 
have bought the car !  ( but it 's definitely not a family  . 

true. 

i 've heard that the exhaust system has trouble , but mine works fine. 

i have n't heard about this one. i know that some of the very early probes 
 ( '89 and maybe '90 ) had problems with prematurely rusting mufflers (which 

i 've had this problem and read about it.  ( or at least i assume the one 
i had was the one i read about ) .  . in any case what happened was the 
weld between the muffler and the pipe feeding it  ( ok , so i'm not a mechanic ) 
broke. in my case the dealer welded it , ordered replacement parts and 
put them on when they got them. i suspect this is some sort of 1) design 
flaw , or 2) production flaw .  . in any case i have an earlier model and would 
expect it to be worked out on newer ones. in any case it is a warrantee 
repair .  .  ( or they get the keys back ! ) 

from what i 've heard , it sounds like ford mazda had some qc problems with 
the probe  ( and probably mx 6) when they first went into production , but 
i think these problems have mostly been corrected at this point. that 's 
almost always to be expected with a completely new car like this , though. 

i have to agree that they seem to have some qc  . but i seriously 
feel the car design is sound , and expect it to do very well. 

i second this. there seems to be some things that slipped through but the 
car seems very sound. while not perfection  ( what is) you get an awful 
lot for your money. 


bill heiser , 
boston university , boston ma 

btw , bill has a probe mailing list. you might want to subscribe to it if 
you are interested in more detail. try request ford 
 ( did i get that right never can remember if the request goes on the 
front or the back ) 


, ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , 
, ` , , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , , ` , ` , ` , 
, ` , a right today , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , 
, ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , 

from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject re bimmer vs beamer 
nntp posting host 223 . 250 . 10 . 7 . 
reply to 
organization sps 
distribution usa 
lines 19 

in article  ( andrei chichak ) 
writes 
back when i was building round tail light 2002s they were bimmers .  . it 
was 
only when the  ( red , generated , quiche eating ) 
yuppies 
got into the market ( that they became beamers and the hood ornaments 
started 
disappering .  . 

yep , that 's when i noticed it too. i stopped replacing the hood badge 
after the second or third one (at 12.00 each) .  . 

2002 drivers used to flash their headlight at each other in greeting .  . try 
flashing your headlights at a driver and see what kind of look you 
get. they usually check their radar detector .  .  . they . think you 're 
them to a cop .  . 

mark 

from  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) 
subject re impala ss going into 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
lines 15 

i still ca n't understand all the hype about the ss , it still has 
the ugly caprice body  ( orca on  . the caprice was the worst new 
body style to come out of detroit ever ! now just because the lt1 engine 
and a few suspension are being added. 

its still ugly , its still a  . gm 's answer to everything is throw in 
a v8 and someone will buy it. or add some plastic ground affects 
and a few stickers and call it a gt , gtz or ss , and someone will buy it. 

imho gm needs to scrap the caprice body completely and start over with a 
blank sheet of paper. no minor modification  ( wheel well treatments , tail 
amp modification , or nose re design or even the lt1 engine) will help 
the existing caprice .  . 

jeff 

from  ( dirk broer ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
distribution usa 
lines 32 

in article , (david g. wonnacott ) writes .  .  .  . 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i'm in determining whether or not these things are true. 
has anyone out there with geico made a claim i 'd be interested in 
hearing whether or not you were satisfied with the service and whether 
you then had trouble renewing your policy. 

i'm also interested in any good or bad stories about liberty mutual or 
state farm .  . 

geico supports  ( reads gives to police) laser radars .  . they have been known 
to be very picky .  . no sports cars. no radar detectors  ( although maryland 
insurance board over rules this  . no  . 

basically it seems if you need to use your insurance ever they do n't want 
you. they once told me they would n't insure me  ( perfect record) because of 
my corvette even though it would be insured by another specialty insurance. 
we must insure all the cars . i think this rep did n't know what she was 
talking about. 

geico is cheap. but if you ever file a claim be prepared to be dropped .  . i 
think in most areas two tickets will do it. 

geico will never see a dime from me if i can help it. 

state farm .  . slighty higher than most but very good response. not as picky 
as geico .  . 


from  ( markus strobl 98121 ) 
subject  . extensions . 
nntp posting host st83 . ericsson . se . 
reply to 
organization ericsson telecom ab 
lines 26 

i was wondering what the country extension are. 
sometimes i just do n't have a clue from where 
some people are writing. 

these are the extensions i know of 

ch switzerland 
se sweden 
fi finland 
uk uk 
com us 
edu us  ( are both com and edu us ) 
fr france 

please feel free to add to this list. 

markus 




'75 chevy camaro 350 
'87 205 1.4 4 speed 

do n't ask what your car can do for you ask what you can do for your car. 


from  ( balaji v. ramanathan ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host translab . its . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 43 

in article  ( matthew liggett ) writes 
in (the devil reincarnate ) writes 


i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 
lexus es300 , gs300 , sc300 , infiniti , dozens of others , including 
common cars like the toyota camry  ( as an option) .  . 
v8 do n't know of any. 

mustang 5.0 (302) 
camaros firebirds 
some mercedes  

lexus , , acura legend , infiniti , lincoln mark viii , some 
and other luxury autos .  . 

dodge viper ( ) 

v12 jaguar 


please add to the list. 


thanks , 
s 




 junk  collector , toys r us kid , antiauthoritarian , and fan of 
frogs , iguanas , and other herps .  . 



8 cut here for signature ! 8 
balaji ramanathan , 
institute of transportation studies , i do n't believe in luck ! 
university of california , irvine .  . i rely on it ! ! 

from (james p. callison ) 
subject re dealer cheated me with wrong odometer reading. need help ! 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 45 

in article  ( yong je lim ) writes 
here is a story. i bought a car about two weeks ago. i finally can 
get hold of the previous owner of the car and got all maintanence 
history of the car. in between '91 and '92 , the instrument pannel 
of the car has been replaced and the odometer also has been reset 
to zero .  . therefore , the true meter reading is the reading before 
replacement plus current mileage .  . that shows 35000 mile difference 
comparing to the mileage on the odometer disclosure from. the 
dealer never told me anything about that important story. 

i hope that i can return the car with full refund .  . do u think this 
is possible does anyone have similar experiences any comments 
will be appreciated. thanks. 

this is a tricky situation if the previous owner did n't inform 
the dealer of the odometer change , then the previous owner committed 
fraud , and he may be liable .  . the dealer may also be liable if the 
previous owner notified the dealer , or if the previous owner had the 
dash replaced at a dealer , or if the previous owner had the dash changed 
legally , any records search on the car should turn up the fact that 
the odometer had been altered .  . if a dealer changes the speedometer , he has 
to report it (it goes into the car 's service record with the manufacturer , 
and on the title , if i remember correctly the dealer told me that 
the old mileage , etc. were sent to ford when my t bird 's speedo 
was replaced) .  . if the odometer can be set to the old mileage , it must 
be if it ca n't (eg , electrically driven odometers ) then the mileage 
of the old odometer must be written on a permanent sticker which is 
to the door frame of the vehicle. 

either way , if the change had been done legally , then a records search 
(which the dealer almost certainly did) should have turned it up. 

call your state 's department of transportation public safety motor 
vehicles or your tag agent to find out for certain what your 
rights are. your state 's attorney general will know for certain ) 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject re question 
nntp posting host 223 . 250 . 10 . 7 . 
reply to 
organization sps 
distribution usa 
lines 13 

in article 
 ( diana smith) writes 

my ex husband i used to own  . 
... 
even tho' they were 
ugly they had names one was humphrey  . 

that 's pretty good. 

a friend had an audi that he named murphy .  . 

mark 

from  ( thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 26 
nntp posting host 


eliot is right about 2.2 liter engine in the second  ( and last) generation 
mr2 's .  . but the original guy did not indicate the year of his mr2 .  . if it 's a 
first generation car  ( like my '85 ) , it has 1.6 liter engine  ( or perhaps 
same engine with a , if it 's '87 '89) .  . 
the sound he describes is common to any older toyota engine i ever heard. 
i do n't know the relevance of his observations about oil changes , my simply 
makes noise. not all that annoying , mind you. but you hear it well when the 
engine is right behind your left ear ) 
mike . s . 

sorry  bout that mine is a '91 model non turbo 2 . 0 .  .  ( with abs and revised 
suspension  ( whatever revised  . i'm in australia , so we always seem to 
get the versions without extras which the europeans and americans get as 
standard. 

my query is , why does the noise get noticeably louder about 2 3 months after 
an oil change. i just find it a bit wierd that this happens. is it the oil i'm 
using  ( mobil 1) or is it the engine (the 3s ge version model) ie. gets 
the older the oil is  ( i'm only  . 

its not distressing or anything , but just slightly puzzling .  . 


puzzled .  . 


from (ron stafford ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  . (please . read) .  .  .  . 
keywords brick , truck , danger 
lines 61 
nntp posting host 192 . 153 . 237 . 26 . 
organization 

in article  ( sergei poliakoff ) writes 
from  ( sergei poliakoff ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  . (please . read) .  .  .  . 
keywords brick , truck , danger 
date thu , 22 apr 1993 13 39 56 gmt 
in article ,  ( tom mackey ) writes 
in article  ( neil williams ) writes 
a reformatory for a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old 
that did it. they put a cover over the overpass , what else could they do 

execute the juvi on the grounds of the reformatory , required 
by the rest of the inmates , as soon as possible after the incident and a 
quick sure trial .  . i am quite serious. cause and effect. nothing else 
will ever make a dent .  . 

this will not work. hitler youth , newark teenager car stealing epidemics , 
student riots and other similar cases show that death is not a 
behaviour shaping or even intimidating factor for teenagers .  . 
teens defy death. 

i is a strong deterent to the teens that are executed .  . they wo n't do that 
again ! this policy cuts way down on repeat offenders .  . 

please do not flame me i do n't agree with capital punishment for teen 's .  . 



as far as rock throwing is concerned well , it is very sad and tragic .  . 
most of these incidents stem from the fact that these kids are dumb , 
even smarter ones completely lack deductive thinking and ca n't foresee 
the consequences of their actions beyond immediate ones. 
unfortunately , and cars at 80 mph make an explosive 
mix. 

they are also unsupervised .  . with proper supervision , they would not be 
throwing rocks. if parents cannot provide the minimal supervision needed 
to stop this activity , they should not be allowed to have children ) 

notice the smiley ) 


however , i hardly believe there was intent to kill in most of these cases , 
rather desire to see the glass (i admit i was mercilessly 
attacking moscow busses with a slingshot in my tender years) , akin to 
a child breaking toys. i witnessed several even more 
projects like stacking up bricks on a railroad track. technical 
details of such a venture completely dominate the possibility of 
a human  ( heck , when you are 10 , you have a vague concept of 
human tradegy ) in a mind of a youngster .  . i'm quite sure that technical 
challenge of matching and predicting speed of a thrown stone so that it 
gets the car smack in the windshield completely occupies the teen , 
not leaving much room for other considerations .  . 


sergei 



ron texas instruments incorporated 
(214) 917 2050 p.o.box , ms 
dallas , texas 

from (steven a. morris ) 
subject re lexus and infiniti 
organization addiction studies program , seattle university 
lines 20 
nntp posting host sumax . seattleu . edu . 

in article joseph d. mazza mazz writes 
btw , i just saw the new on tv this weekend. the big changes a 
grille has been added  ( looks nice , too ! ) , and some wood for the 
interior. otherwise , it looked largely unchanged .  . 

they changed the lights and slope of the hood , along with the new 
grille .  . otherwise , it is unchanged .  . 

interestingly , their lack of wood and lack of a grille was a big 
design statement .  .  .  . they tried to defy conventional wisdom and carve 
their own niche ... unfortunately , sales were only half those of the 
lexus and hence , they now join the pack. i still wonder if much of 
the problem was n't the slow start from the initial ad campaign. 

personally , i like the q without the grille .  . 

steve morris , m.a. internet 
addiction studies pgm uucp uw beaver , uunet ! ! ! sumax ! 
seattle university phone (206) 296 5350  ( dept ) or 296 5351  ( direct ) 
seattle , wa 98122 

from  ( alan peterman ) 
subject re auto air conditioning without freon 
article i.d. qiclab . 
distribution usa 
organization scn research laboratories of tigard , oregon .  . 
lines 21 

in article  ( allen tobias ) writes 

better still , years ago they demonstrated a cold air system which only used 
air . it was called a  . the unit worked very well , the short coming 
was the seal technology. where is it today 

actually the company , and the product was which stood for 
rotary air conditioning .  . it . used a rotary compressor with what 
was effectively an air air heat , and worked pretty well. 
the negatives were mostly that it was about 5 10 less efficient than 
using freon , and noise problems from the high velocity pressure air , 
all of which were solved by the time the company went bankrupt .  . it 
is still a legal entity in florida , but i believe completely dead  .  .  . 
and there 's a heck of an to buy up it 's patents and restart 
the operation .  .  .  . 



alan l. peterman (503) 684 1984 hm work 

it 's odd how as i get older , the days are longer , but the years are shorter ! 

from  ( dwight joe ) 
subject market access 
organization miners for a heart of gold 
distribution na 
lines 31 

in article 
(andrew sung kim) writes 
... 
what about the rice import issue of course , it is not closed up 
like a shell , but how open is it compared to to us 

japan is much more open than korea .  . 

yes. a pontiac grand am suffers a factor of 2 increase in price 
when it is exported to japan .  . 

however , a dodge vehicle (the one that congressman mentioned ) 
suffers a factor of 4 increase in price when it is exported to korea .  . 
a ford taurus suffers the same problem. a honda accord costs i am 
not making this up 48 , 000 in korea .  . 

just how many people would want to buy a honda accord for 48 , 000 

solution all ships carrying korean made vehicles should be returned 
to seoul .  . pronto .  . until as such time as korea decides 
that it wants to abide by the rules of free and fair trade 
with the usa and japan .  . 

, , , 
o o 
ooo u ooo 
no imi wa nan ka .  . ` 
imi ga nai yo .  .  . 
made mo  . 
, ima ka .  . 


from (robert j. wade ) 
subject geico annoyance 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
distribution rec . autos . 
lines 6 

if you want to annoy geico , call them up .  .  . give . fake name .  .  . but . real car 
specs .  . get . a quote and then tell them they are more expensive than your 
current state farm allstate insurance. they will still send you quote etc. 
then you can tear up their quote and stuff it in the prepaid return 
envelope and mail it back to them. actually they were 12 more than my current 
state farm rates. 

from (david g. wonnacott ) 
subject re info opinions wanted on cars in this article 
summary my thoughts on civic , corolla , 626 
distribution na 
organization u of maryland , dept. of computer science , coll. pk. , md 20742 
lines 80 

in article (robert bell) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu . (john f nielsen ) writes 
in article  ( rhonda gaines ) writes 

i'm in the market for a new car. currently i own a '90 mazda mx 6 dx 
which has served me just fine. however , i 'd like to get 
a 4 door car since i do n't relish the thought of moving a carseat 
around in a 2 door car. my criteria are 4 door , a c , am fm cassette , 
quick acceleration , cruise control , decent rear seat legroom  ( my 
husband is a 6 footer) .  . it must also be under 20k 
preferably closer to the 11 15k range (which will probably rule out 
the accord) .  . the '93 cars that have caught my eye are toyota corolla , 
toyata camry , mazda 626 , pontiac grand am , pontiac grand prix , 
honda accord ,  ( and civic if it 's roomy enough and still comes in a 
4 door model) , hyundai sonata , and maybe even a small oldsmobile , 
although not the achieva .  . all opinions , benchmarks , 
recommendations , etc. are welcome. 

the civic does still come in a 4 door model. my wife and i looked 
quite seriously at the 626 , prizm  ( corolla ) , and civic , as well as 
some other cars. our impressions all three seemed well built and had 
the features we wanted these are similar to the features you want 
except for cruise control , and we want a manual transmission and are 
considering anti lock brakes .  . i also hate automatic seatbelts and we 
both think having an airbag is a plus. in general , comfort and 
performance were both significant .  . 

some specific 's and 's are listed below. 

mazda 626 
very comfortable and roomy 
can theoretically get abs on dx model , though in practice this is 
hard to find 
base price for base model includes numerous little things like 
tach , variable speed wipers , rear defroster , 60 40 split folding rear seat 
more expensive than many other cars listed below 

honda civic 
dx gets significantly better mileage than other cars listed here 
comfortable front seat 
adjustable seat belt mounting 
no abs without ex model  ( includes 1000 's of other things like a sunroof ) 

geo prizm toyota corolla 
seats not very comfortable to us  ( your mileage may vary) 
adjustable seat belt mounting 
can get abs without lots of other extras 

saturn 
sl2 was quite comfortable , though sl1 less so 
motorized attack belts 

dodge spirit 
no real outstanding 's , but seemed generally ok 
rear seat does not fold down 

chevy corsica 
comes with abs standard 
lower would you buy that car again and safety ratings in 
consumer reports  ( than first 3 cars above) 
suspension did n't feel as stiff as the others  ( this would be a 
for some) 

the honda accord and toyota camry were both more expensive than the 
626 , and in our minds , not significantly better. 

we probably gave disproportionately low consideration to the big 3 , 
due (a) to my wife 's family 's general dislike of chrysler products , 
(b) some unimpressive gm products owned by my parents and a 
of mine (c) the taurus comes with automatic transmission , i find the 
seat of the tempo very uncomfortable , and the escort has attack belts 
and no air bag. 

we 'll probably end up with a 626 i saw a 626 dx with a c and 
cassette advertised for just under  ( washington post , april 14 , 
i think) , and my local dealer says they can match that price. i will 
probably get the 626  ( maybe  . the main question in my mind 
is whether or not i will have to do a factory order or preference 
order to get one with abs , and whether or not the dealership will 
run the price up a lot if i do so. 

from  ( grayson walker ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
keywords boycott geico 
organization a . s . i .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 35 

in article  ( lawrence b. keys) writes 
in article  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 
in article  ( wayne smith) writes 

in article (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

do n't worry about this they 'll drop you like a hot potato after you do 
make a claim .  . they 'll just make filing the claim a pain , but it will end 
when they leave you in the lurch .  . 

i 've read in this group that geico has funded the purchasing of radar 
guns by police depts  ( i'm not sure where) .  . 
more than that. geico funded the company that developed lidar .  . when locals 
showed a reluctance to buy the units , geico started giving them away. i 
know they 've given units to the florida highway patrol , county sheriff 's a 
and some local governments .  . 
the real question is why this is the hook .  . geico , and other ins. co . s . can 
tell which drivers represent risk. this is a determination they can make 
after you receive a speeding ticket from one of geico 's lidar units. most 
drivers do not represent increased risk even after a ticket or two , but 
this gives them the opportunity to raise rates for equal risk. it 's called 
extra profits .  . they also know how silly the nsl is , and how it is almost 
universally ignored .  . driving in excess of the nsl gets you a ticket , an 
increase in your rates , points on your license but it does n't make you 
a riskier driver to insure .  . 
like the sound of this like the people who thought up the scheme go geico ! 

unless you have some driving history problems , you 're usually better to go 
with one of the major companies and stay there. you 'll get long term customer 
discounts on your premiums .  . now , about the of your premium that is paid as 
commission .  . that 's another story for another day. 

from george . howell . (george howell ) 
subject broncos 
distribution world 
organization goucher college , towson , md 
reply to george . howell . (george howell ) 
lines 18 

does anybody have any information on the second generation broncos  ( i'm 
not talking about bronco ii 's , i'm referring to the broncos that began 
production in 1978 based on the f 150 chassis i believe) 

i need to know what to look for , can the tops be removed from all 
models , how easily can that be done. also , what kind of price range 
should i be looking at (i . e .  . what is blue book) i'm in college right 
now , and would like a jeep .  . unfortunately , i 've got a bit of a ride to 
school , and i need to carry a lot of junk to and from the dormitory in 
the spring fall. i think that the bronco  ( with the removable fiberglass) 
would be a better  ( read bigger ) choice than a cj 5 or cj 7. 

even better anybody in the maryland virginia area interested in selling 
one 

george howell 
george . howell . 


from  ( ken buck ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
organization bull information systems inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

 ( wharfie ) writes 
my car was recently destroyed in a hail storm .  . ... 
i fully expected to get around by the insurance company. 
i was n't the only one who had hail damage. state farm 
opened its claim centers on evenings and weekends , and flew down 
additional adjusters from dallas .  . 

i have no experience with state farm , but i think it 's important to 
differentiate your experience from a typical accident. 

hail damage is clearly not the fault of the owner , and also tends to 
be well publicized in the media , so it 's to the ins. co. 's benefit 
to respond promptly and  . damage like this does n't imply 
anything about the likelihood of future claims  ( unless you live in an 
area that gets frequent damaging hail storms ) , so there 's no reason 
for them to stop covering you. 
that 's a lot different from at fault accidents or theft related claims , 
which may be more indicative of claim patterns. 

from  ( thad mcculloch ) 
subject re autos dealer 
keywords buying a car 
organization loral data systems 
distribution nj 
lines 26 

in article  ( lam , thanh ) writes 
i got a price quote of 18 , 875 . 00 . for a camry v6 w abs from a toyota dealer in 
 . i came back to that dealer in two weeks to sign a purchase agreement .  . 
then i was told that the salesperson made an error in pricing .  . i walked out of 
that dealer .  . i wonder if this kind of practice is common with toyota dealers 
is the price quote written on the salesperson 's business card binding 
i would any comments. 


i had a similar experience. we had a written quote which had been mailed 
to us from the salesman at one of these no haggle toyota dealers for 
a camry w abs , leather , etc. the price seemed fair , but when we 
went in to take them up on their offer , they discovered that certain 
extra cost items had n't been included in their original written quote. 
it would have an extra 1100 and , in spite of the fact that we 
had a written quote , they said there was nothing they could do. 

bottom line , quotes from are worthless and it appears to me that 
the toyota dealers think they 've got such a superior auto that they 
do n't have to deal. we walked , went out and bought a new lh car 
 ( eagle vision tsi ) and i do n't regret it one bit ! 


thad mcculloch 



from (brian donnell ) 
subject val 1 vs.  ( was re best radar detector ) 
nntp posting host hotspare . arc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa arc information sciences division 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( allen 
tobias ) wrote 

i live in the backyard of the folks who make the stalker radar system. the 
valentine 1 has saved me many , many , many times from the stealth revenue 
enhancement traps of the local area. i have had all the major brand detectors , 
and , imho , nothing else even comes close to the v1 ! 


i had n't heard of the valentine 1 before. car driver and other auto 
magazines 
recommend bel detectors .  . i was considering their latest the 
which picks up super ka and laser as well. it also avoids 
radar detector detectors  ( although i really do n't care about this since i 
doubt i 'll be driving in virginia anytime soon or have any other states 
also made detectors ) 

how does the valentine 1 compare with the bel products 

brian donnell 

from  ( rob reilly ) 
subject re changing brake fluid .  . is . it necessary .  .  . 
organization 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host fnal . gov . 

in article , 
wrote 

hi. 
i 've been seeing all these articles about changing 
brake fluid and i am wondering if this is really necessary. 
i have an 86 toyota corolla , with 94000 and i am in the 
process of doing preventative maintenance and i was 
wondering if this was something that i should add to 
my list of things to do. 
any information would be greatly appreciated. i really 
love this car and would like to keep it for as long as 
possible. 

thanx .  .  .  . 

lisa 

sign me .  .  .  . only a manual will do .  .  . 

amplifying on jeff goss 's answer , the absorbed water will rust your 
and master cylinder and calipers and you could suddenly lose all 
your brake fluid .  . 

from  ( dan day) 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host mudd . se . houston . geoquest . slb . com . 
organization geoquest system , inc. houston 
distribution usa 
lines 27 

in article writes 

before you go in. find out the invoice prices of the car , add a reasonable 
profit for the dealer ( 200 300 ) , offer them that price and stick to 
it. 

whoa ! watch your terminology .  . dealer invoice is not dealer cost . 
you 'll hear lots of ads screaming two dollars over dealer invoice ! ! ! 
sounds like a real deal , huh no. you know what the dealer invoice 
 ( also called factory invoice ) is it 's a piece of paper with numbers 
on it that the factory sends the dealer .  . what do the numbers 
signify absolutely nothing. it 's a marketing gimmick that the 
salesman can wave in your face to impress you. note that nowhere 
on the invoice does it claim to be the real price of the car , and 
most ads which mention dealer invoice will end with a very fast , 
low voice saying something like invoice may not reflect actual 
dealer cost . actually , i guarantee it does not reflect actual 
dealer cost. 

also , the reasonable profit for dealer is usually around three percent. 
adjust according to the dealer cost of the car and any options that 
you want. haggle like hell with the salesman over the cost of 
dealer prep and protection package (i . e .  . a few of 
paint and fabric  . while you 're at it , ask the salesman 
to toss in a thing or two that does n't cost him any cash. my 
wife and i got a in a twin turbo mitsubishi 3000gt when 
we bought our mitsubishi mini van .  . 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re opel owners 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 13 

 ( matthew macintyre at the national university of senegal ) writes 

by the way , what do people think about the opel calibra 

i want one , and i do n't want to move to europe to buy one. please make 
it the next pontiac f car. of course i 'll have to wait 'till 2003 to buy it .  .  .  . 





chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 12 

 ( eliot ) writes 


the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 


eliot 

are 180 degree v 6 flat six engines 

chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( jtd is lost ) 
subject re what car is this ! 
organization skidmore college , saratoga springs ny 
lines 8 


never had a factory v8 .  . they were considering production 
with a turbo  ( or twin turbo , i forget ) version of the standard v6 .  . as 
to who produced it , you got me ! 

jonathan 



from  ( christopher j. born ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
distribution usa 
news software ibm os 2 pm rn  ( nr 2) v0 . by o. and r. rogers 
lines 20 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host scepter . raleigh . ibm . com . 
organization ibm networking development 

in writes 

my nissan quest has been doing 20mpg city , though its first few tanks 
were more like  . the v6 and at are remarkably smooth. 

agreed ! i own a mercury villager and i'm very impressed with the v6 and 
the at. in the past , i 've been biased towards manual standard  ( transmissions(i owned 
an aerostar with a 5 speed , it was awesome ! ) , but settled with the at in the 
villager and have been pleasantly surprised with it 's performance. 

btw , consumers report in their report on the villager , alluded to some 
funny noises from the at , i 've been listening for them but have n't noticed anything 
unusual .  . 

chris 


christopher j. born 



subject review 1989 ford taurus sho 
from (david bonds ) 
reply to (david bonds ) 
distribution world 
organization the cutting edge houston , tx 713 466 1525 
lines 13 


gk occasionally , i have trouble shifting into reverse .  . the shifter 
gk refuses to enter the gate , and i often grind the synchros trying to 
gk get it into gear. i 'll be watching this carefully in the next couple 
gk of months. 

enter 1st , wait 2 3 seconds and then go into reverse .  . they use the same 
synchros , and you 'll never (at least i have n't) ground em to fit when using 
this technique. 


the cutting edge bbs (cutting . hou . tx . us) . a 14 . 5a . system 
houston , texas , usa 1 . 713 . 466 . 1525 . running uupcb 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re lexus and infiniti 
organization university of westminster 
lines 8 

yeah .  .  .  . and bmw has 2.7 
535 3.4 

btw can someone out there please tell me how to put someone else 's file 
on and then reply to that so the other person 's file and my own  reply  go 
to the newgroups together (ps just mail me personally ) 

thanx in advance .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( xiaocong guo ) 
subject re toyota land cruiser worth it 
organization mountain view , california 
lines 26 

 ( tom vervaeke ) writes 

my wife and i looked at , and drove one last fall. this was a 1992 model. 
it was wayyyyyyyyy underpowered .  . i could not imagine driving it in the 
mountains here in colorado at anything approaching highway speeds .  . i 
have read that the new 1993 models have a newer , improved hp engine. 

i'm quite serious that i laughed in the salesman face when he said once 
it 's broken in it will feel more powerful . i had been used to driving a 
jeep 4 . 0l . 190hp engine. i believe the 92 's land cruisers  ( land yachts ) 
were 3 . 0l . , the sames as the 4runner , which is also underpowered  ( in my 
own personal opinion) .  . 

they are big cars , very roomy , but nothing spectacular .  . 


( ) ( ) 
tom vervaeke email 
hewlett packard co. phone 719 590 2133 

i love animals. they taste delicious. 
( ) ( ) 

the land cruiser has a l6 4.5 engine which has 200 hp and 280 , when i 
drove it here in california , power is more than enough. the high price is 
the only reason i did not buy it. 

from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
in reply to 's message of sat , 24 apr 1993 06 01 05 gmt 
lines 21 
technik . tu . muenchen . de . 




organization ibm toronto lab 

in article (peter a. bidian ) writes 


there is another advantage with manuals .  . you can start the car by pushing it 
and shifting into second gear. this does n't work with an automatic .  . 

peter 


just for the record , read your owner 's manual before attempting a push start. 
most manufacturers today do not recommend this (i think the converter 
is the primary reason unburned gas goes down to it and may ignite when 
the converter gets into its operating range) .  . 

the best reason for a manual because you like to drive one. i find that its 
much easier to develop lazy habits in an auto trans car. remember , pay 
attention out there stupidity behind the wheel has still taken more people 
to the morgue than drunk driving. the problem is that we do n't revoke peoples 
license for stupidity .  . 

jeff goss 

from  ( jesse mccabe ) 
subject re choice of gauges 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 13 

 ( dave gauge ) writes 
b 
b 

i can think of a few others , but what are your ideas and why 

dave 

well , in my bmw i like the little light that turns on when you are running 
out of gas , it 's a big help. if you got a turbo , that gauge is a must. 
if i could , i 'd just like all the gauges possible on my car , but .  .  .  . we ca n't 
have everything can we 


from  ( total stranger ) 
subject help with 89 mitsubishi galant gs transmission 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 43 
distribution world 
nntp posting host phakt . usc . edu . 

hi , 
i need your help with a problem i have with a 1989 mitsubishi 
galant gs transmission .  . the car has a 5 speed manual  . 
since the car was bought new , while shifting from 2nd to 3rd , unless 
i do it slowly and carefully , it makes a popping or hitting sound. 
the dealer and mitsubishi customer service  ( reached by an 800 ) say 
this is normal for the car. is it 
and about a year ago , at , the stick shift handle got stuck 
while attempting to put it in reverse 
1 the shifter would not budge .  . the clutch had no effect. 
2 the front tires would not budge , even when the clutch is 
fully depressed .  . 
3 if the clutch is released the engine would die. 
4 assuming that some gear was engaged while the shifter was 
stuck , i could not make the car move. it acted as if 
it were in  ( neutral(except for dying when clutch is released . ) . 
5 i finally was able to release the shifter by having 
someone rock the car back and forth  ( less than an inch ) , 
while i depressed the clutch and the shifter .  . 
6 the shifter acted normally after that. 

when this happened , i took it to the dealer , they checked the 
clutch , it was o.k. they checked the transmission , it was o.k. 

i had the exact problem a couple of months ago , and again last 
week. the dealer says there is nothing they can do because 
mitsubishi (the 800 ) says they have never heard of the 
problem , and the dealer could not reproduce the problem while 
they had the car. 
in all three occurances , the car was parked head first in a garage , 
and since the front wheels were stuck , the car could not be towed 
to the dealer before releasing the shifter  ( hence temporarily 
solving the problem) .  . and the dealer , and mitsubishi , refused to 
send someone to check the car while it was stuck. 
i know there is wrong with the transmission  ( shifting 
from 2nd to 3rd ) , and getting stuck at random , but i ca n't get 
the dealer to fix it. i need your help with the mechanical problems , 
and with how to handle mitsubishi .  . 
all hints and suggestions are greatly appreciated , and sorry to 
bore you with the long post. 

thanks , 
 . 

from  ( jerry bowman ) 
subject re help ! ! !  ( with buick regal ) 
nntp posting host fred . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado boulder , ocs 
lines 36 

in article  ( gerry vahe ) writes 


! ! ! ! 

i'm going crazy. i have a 1981 buick regal with over 100 , 000 miles on it. 

just recently , when i go over a bump of any size , the rear drivers 's side of th 

e car feels like there is something hitting the floor board. the noise is 

when i am going around a corner when there is less weight above the tire wh 

en i hit a bump .  . 

i had the whole brake drum off today , checked under the car to see if th 

e muffler was hitting or something and i cant seem to find anything at all. eve 

seems to be tight. 



any ideas could it bee a shock absorber is there any way i can tell 

anything will help and be greatly appreciated 
gerry 
check out the shocks where they mount , at both ends. if you have 
the type that have a loop , from lack of a better term , and a bolt like 
piece sticking through , there should be a rubber bushing between the loop 
and the bolt .  . is it there is it crushed and allowing metal to metal 
contact i hope you can make some sense of this. good luck. 





from (james bruder ) 
subject re vibration when brakes are applied 
organization hp information networks , cupertino , ca 
lines 7 

hi javier ,  ( how are things at corp , my old stomping ground was c level ) 
vibration when applying the brakes can be caused , on disc brakes at least , 
by warped rotors .  . when the brakes are applied , there results uneven pressure 
on the rotor .  . turning the rotors by a brake shop will remedy this problem 
as long as there is enough rotor width left for turning (i . e .  . within  . 
there could be some possible front end suspension problem but a brake shop 
should be able to confirm warped rotors by a visual inspection which is free. 

from  ( lawrence b. keys) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
organization national institute of standards technology 
distribution usa 
lines 59 

in article  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 
in article  ( wayne smith) writes 

in article (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i 've read in this group that geico has funded the purchasing of radar 
guns by police depts  ( i'm not sure where) .  . 


geico has purchased radar guns in several states , i know they have done 
it here in ct. 

i have also heard horror stories about people that have been insured by geico 
for years and then had 1 accident and were immediately dropped .  . and once 
you 've been dropped by any company you become labled a high 
risk , and end up out 3 or 4 times what you should be for insurance. 

this must vary from state to state , because our old company kemper wanted 
to drop me  ( keeping my wife) or tripple our premium because i had 1 ticket. 
only 2 points for 10 mph over speed limit. well i called geico , and they 
insured both my wife and i for less then we were previously paying 
kemper .  . 

generally i hate the whole insurance game. i realize that it is necessary 
but the way that a person can get around does n't make any sense. 

one good thing about geico is that everything can be handled over 
the phone. 



my suggestion , stay where you are , or shop around but stay away from geico ! 

jeff 



. 

larry 





oo 

1990 2.0 16v 


forever ! 
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates 
that you probably would n't understand anyway ! 



from  ( gary w. mahan ) 
subject drag coefficients 
organization loral software productivity laboratory 
lines 4 

could someone explain how to make sense of drag coefficients (i . e . cd) mentioned in magazines .  . i understand that lower numbers signify better aerodynamics but 
what does this mean in the real world. is there a way to calculate new top  ( speeds(assuming the car is not rev limited at top speed) or mileage benefits if a identical car had the cd reduced from  . 34 . to  . 33 .  . 

thanx 

from  ( markus strobl 98121 ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
nntp posting host st83 . ericsson . se . 
reply to 
organization ericsson telecom ab 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( jarmo ahonen ) writes 
(john g. kissane ) writes 

as a matter of interest does anyone know why autos are so popular in the us while 
here in europe they are rare just wondering .  .  .  .  .  . 


many cars sold here in finland are small and cheap cars (at least when 
compared to other cars note that we have over 120 car tax) .  . 

and you could n't expect a good auto to a 1.3 l engine 

most of the bigger cars are , however , sold with autos .  . 



i would guess the high price of gas in europe  ( compared to the us) has 
always favoured 4 cylinder manuals .  . 

small engines with autos are a real bore .  .  .  . 

but why not turn the question around , why are automatics so common in 
the us 

my guess is that when they tried to couple manuals to the torque rich 
v8 's in the sixties the clutches turned out as real killers you had to 
use both feet to depress , and that this has just lived on. 

and also , an automatic with a v8 engine can be real fun to drive. 

markus 





'75 chevy camaro 350 
'87 205 1.4 4 speed 

do n't ask what your car can do for you ask what you can do for your car. 


from  ( matthew r. singer ) 
subject opel gt 
article i.d. ll . 1993apr21 . 
reply to  ( matthew r. singer ) 
organization mit lincoln laboratory 
lines 11 




are the any opel gt 's out there i'm wondering if there are enough to 
starting a mail list .  .  .  . 


matthew r. singer mit lincoln laboratory 
(617) 981 244 wood street 
lexington , ma 02173 


from  ( stuart alexander ridgway ) 
subject re mr2 seats for sale 
nntp posting host cunixf . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( stuart alexander ridgway ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 31 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( lee groves ) writes 

as the owner of an mr2 , and having several friends who own them , 
i am very uncomfortable when i see an ad like this. 
... 
when these seats are seen for sale , they are most often stolen .  . 
so it would be nice to see a statement saying where they came from. 
... 
i 'll give this seller the benefit of the doubt , but people should be 

aware the the vast majority of mr2 seats on the market especially 
those that are in celicas are stolen .  . 

i am the original owner of the seats and the original poster. 

i take very serious offence in your statement. 
me thinks thee protest too much .  .  .  .  . 1 2 ) 
.... 
please in the future think before you make allegations like the above. 

he made no allegations , and specifically gave the seller the benefit of the 
doubt. he simply made the net aware of the fact that many of these seats are 
stolen , so watch out and ask questions when buying .  . that 's good advice to 
follow when buying anything from a third party , on the net or elsewhere. 
it hurts. 
touchy , touchy .  .  .  . 
mike . s . 

alex 


from  ( diane palme x2617 ) 
subject re wife wants convertible 
organization allen bradley co. 
lines 35 
nntp posting host tinman . mke . ab . com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

(andrew a. spencer ) writes 

(keith p7625 ) writes 
help ! ! ! 
my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car. 


 ( jeff perry ) writes 
fyi , just last week the pbs show motor week gave the results of what they 
thought were the best cars for '93 .  . in the convertible category , the 


 ( snip , snip ) 

does porsche have a patent on the targa name 
i mean , convertible to me means top down , which the del sol certainly 
does not do. it has the center that lifts out. this is what i would 
term a  ( targa(unless porsches was gonna sue me for doing that) .  . i know 
the rear window rolls down , but i still can hardly consider this car 
to be a convertible .  . 

drew 

here we go .  .  .  . 

no , of course porsche does n't have a patent on the targa name. if that were 
the case , what would fiat do i suppose that technically my del sol is not a 
convertible in the literal sense , but it certainly classifies as an open 
topped car. in addition , the rear section behind the removable top is what 
makes my car safer than a convertible .  . 

 ( flame retardant on  .  .  . ) . 

diane 


from  ( jonathan edwards ) 
subject re comparing saabs bmw 's 
organization intranet , inc. 
lines 27 

in article () writes 
hi , 
would someone like to post a comparative analysis  ( quantitative 
measures hp etc and more so the qualitative feel of how they compare 
for the driving feel , handling , noise , etc) for the 
saab 900 9000 's and the bmw 3 5 series. 
any comments on just comparing the 900 with the 9000 re handling .  . 
i take it that the saabs and bmw 's are comparable for reliability and 
all that .  .  .  . would . be nice if flaming wars could be avoided and 
folks just post their experiences  .  .  . 

i had a '82 saab 900 turbo , and now have a '87 bmw 325is 

there is no comparison for handling , reliability , or overall quality of 
engineering .  . the bmw wins hands down. after 5 years i was sick and tired 
of the all the little problems and entropic decay of the saab .  . the 6 year 
old bmw is still as sweet as it was new. 

but i see you are posting from western ma .  . bmw 's suck in the snow. 
i have aggressive snows , plus a hundred pounds of sand in the back , and i 
still try to avoid driving in the snow. i happily took the saab through 
blizzard conditions without a worry. i would say this is the single design 
flaw in the bmw .  . 


jonathan edwards 
intranet , inc 617 527 7020 

from (robert j. wade ) 
subject re saturn extended warranty 
keywords warranty 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 36 

in article (i we are gaia ) writes 
in article  ( vivek chickermane ) writes 
advice on saturn extended warranty 


i placed an order for a saturn sl2 and it is expected next week. the 
saturn retailer gave me some pamphlets about the extended warranty plan 
and i have been thinking about it. being a first time new car buyer , i am 
seeking advice from veterans esp. those who have bought saturns lately. 
fyi , i have listed some of the features of the saturn extended warranty plan. 
the car comes with a 3 years 36 , 000 mile bumper to bumper warranty. 

plan i 

extended coverage 

covers the cost of repairs to 
engine 
transaxle 
front wheel drive 
24 hour assistance program 

coverage term  ( years miles) 

deductible 5 60 , 000 6 75 , 000 6 100 , 000 

50 375 550 725 


i say extended warranties are a ripoff , high profit item for dealers .  . 
but what i really want to point out here is that you are not buying 
5 60k , 6 , 6 100k .  . you get 3yr 36k free . so what you are buying is 
2 24k , 3 , 3 64k .  . keep that in mind when you look at the cost vs. coverage. 
another point is that many car companies routinely fix car problems that are 
out of warranty .  .  . why . design manufacturing defects that the company owns up 
to , keeping customer happy , etc. 

from  ( issa el hazin ) 
subject re lexus and infiniti 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 41 

(keith chong ) writes 

in article writes 
first off , the correct spelling of nissan 's luxury automobile division 
is infiniti not infinity .  . i would also like to clear up the question 
of what kind of engines power lexus and infiniti automobiles , since a 
person had remarked in earlier posts that most lexus and infiniti models 
had v6 engines , while at the same time saying that several of each 
manufacturer used v8 engines. 

lexus 
v8 
gs300 v6 
es300 v6 
v8 
sc300 v6 

the gs300 and sc300 have an inline 6. 


infiniti 
v8 
v6 
g20 inline 4 (i must admit that i cannot remeber for sure here) 

inline 4 is correct. 


i hope this helps. 



keith 

this is off the subject but , 

do n't the numbers in the car names above to the engine size in 
liters i.e. 4 . engine , sc300 3.0 liter sport coupe  .  .  . 
and 4 .  .  .  ( similar , kinda , to bmw and mb deal) .  . 

issa 

from  ( tonya r. flynn ) 
subject re wife wants convertible 
organization encore computer corporation , ft. lauderdale , fl 
nntp posting host encore . com . 
lines 34 

in article tom writes 
in article andrew a. spencer , 
writes 
my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car. 

i was about to recommend you consider a targa top over a convertible but , 
drew made the point very well. when my wife and i were in our 20s we 
did the convertible thing with triumphs .  . now in our mid 40s , we still 
appreciate the open air but prefer targa types. there is much less wind 
noise , objects papers blowing around , foreign objects getting into the 
car and one still has almost all the advantages of the convertible .  . 


my last car had t tops  ( big t  . my current car is a convertible .  . 
imho , if you 're after that  convertible feel' , t tops , open top , 
sunroofs , , whatever , just do n't cut it. there 's no 
substitute for a convertible .  . if you 're not after that sun beating 
down on you , the wind in your hair and teeth , the and 
getting in the car and the noises associated with the 
of the wind , you 're not after that  convertible feel' .  . 
so go with something with at least a hole above the driver but do n't call 
it a convertible .  . 

and i do wonder how those targa tops would compare against my roll 
bar in a rollover situation. of course , i 'd rather not test it 
in my car. i , too , am in my early 40s .  . 

a convertible accept no substitute .  . 


(i 'd rather be sailing ) flynn w. sunrise blvd. 
 ( 305 797 2446 ) ft. lauderdale , fl 
let 's just punch through that uucp uunet ! gould ! 
sand bar crew of dread internet 

from  ( dirk broer ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast) 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
distribution usa 
lines 33 

in article , (craig boyle ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( zauberer ) writes 
in article  ( wharfie ) writes 

remember roads in america are not designed for speeds above 80 meaning they 

would be safe at 55 65 .  . roads like the autobahn are smoother , , 
wider and slightly banked .  . 

well , that 's news. before 1975 the speed limit on texas highways 
was 75 .  . the speed limit on the new jersey turnpike (i 95) was 70 .  . there 
were no speed limits in nevada or montana .  . 

i guess i was n't clear enough here. i said the roads were designed for 
speeds of 80 or so and still be safe. the current 55 65 will add a saftey 
margin .  . 


actually , the roads were designated as safe at 80 when they were built 
in the 1950 's taking into account the kinds of cars then available. the 
number would be much higher today because the cars , tires and just about 
everything else has a lot. 


i believe the interstates were funded as part of a national 
defense plan etc. the requirements were to move heavy army trucks at 
 . 

still its amazing in germany you can have cars traveling 155 mph and 65 mph 
on the same 3 to 4 lane road. around washington dc they ca n't keep traffic 
flowing at 55 .  . 

dirk 

from  ( fireball ) 
subject any opinions on early 80 's 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 22 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 
summary considering buying 



having had my car die on  ( me(engine fire , insurance agent said 
it was probably totaled ) , i am in the market for a another vehicle. 
i saw a that was within my expected price range and was 
wondering if anybody could relate their experiences with me. 

namely 1. does it have  ( power(it has a 305 in it) 
2. does its being front wheel drive make maintenance difficult 
3. one power window and the power seat do not work , are these 
expensive items to replace if i do the work myself 
4. how long do the engines usually  ( last 90m now) 
5. any other experiences good or bad , and opinions. 

thanks 
ryan 







from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re is car saftey important 
organization university of westminster 
lines 10 

safety is an important criterium for me when buying a car. i wo n't buy a 
small car like a civic or whatever. 

great safety handling speed for me 

safety handling speed for the rich ! ! ! 
ie merc ! ! ! 




from  ( mark shaw ) 
subject re dirty diesels 
nntp posting host 223 . 199 . 55 . 11 . 
organization motorola western mcu design center , chandler arizona 
distribution na 
lines 44 

in article ,  ( horace dediu ) writes 
in article ,  ( kumaravel natarajan ) writes 
i heard the diesels are considered cleaner burning than 
gas engines because the emit less of carbon monoxide , 
hydrocarbons , and oxides of nitrogen .  .  ( co , hc , nox) .  . 

but they can put out a lot of particulate matter. i heard 
something about legislation being discussed to clean up 
diesel emissions . is there anything in the works to 
install scrubbers for diesels how about the feasibility 
of installing them on trucks and cars would it be any 
different than a converter i 'd assume easier , 
since we 're removing particulate matter instead of converting 
gasses .  . let 's hear people 's opinions .  .  .  . 

this really bugs me. the emissions of diesels are the cleanest of any vechicle , 
but they are considered so polluting that they are banned in passenger cars 
in california .  . what a bunch of crap. diesel is the fuel of choice for 
enviromental benefit in europe while here it 's illegal for the same reason. 

the particulates are nothing but carbon .  . they are just an annoyance at worst. 
nothing beats the diesel cycle for efficiency and emissions , torque or engine 
durability .  . it 's also cheaper. 

diesels fall into the same emissions mythology as alcohol fuels .  . the main reason 
they are considered cleaner is because they are better at the emissions we 
actually measure and regulate .  . but they also contribute additional emissions 
which have long been determined to be as harmful , but no suitable control or 
limits have been defined .  . 

current evidence is pointing to most visible smog actually being diesel emissions 
and suspended particles and less of a photo chemical reaction. diesel particulates 
are now becoming a major concern in decreased lung capacity .  . and emit 
more (a known carcinigen ) than gasoline .  . the evidence 
is mounting that while we have been beating the gasoline engine to death , we may 
have been ignoring the effects of the alternatives .  . 

and anyone who thinks diesels are so great , should go and spend a few hours in 
rush hour traffic in some cities in europe .  . there the stench of the diesels is 
awful and it can even burn the eyes. 

diesels being clean is only relative to our current standards. 

mark 

from  ( albion h. bowers ) 
subject re drag s 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 43 
reply to  ( albion h. bowers ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( gary w. mahan ) says 

could someone explain how to make sense of drag coefficients (i . e . cd) mentioned in magazines .  . i understand that lower numbers signify better aerodynamics but 
what does this mean in the real world. is there a way to calculate new top  ( speeds(assuming the car is not rev limited at top speed) or mileage benefits if a identical car had the cd reduced from  . 34 . to  . 33 .  . 

it 's pretty complex , and cd is n't the whole story either. cd for cars is 
usually calculated based on the frontal area of the car. so a large car 
with a good cd could get the same drag force as a smaller car with a 
poorer cd .  . 

to calculate drag use this formula 

d 1 2 v 2 cd s 

where d is the drag force  ( lbs ) , is the local air density  ( slugs ft 3) , 
v is the velocity (ft s) , and s is the frontal area (ft 2) .  . note that the 
pieces called 1 2 v 2 are sometimes called or dynamic pressure 
(a fancy aero term for air pressure or  . 

note that power is 

p f v 

where p is power  ( lbf ft s) , f is the force , drag in this case  ( lbf ) and v 
is velocity (ft s) .  . 

note that if you put the whole equation into one (by substituting d for 
force ) you get a velocity cubed term. that 's why huge increases in power 
result in little increases in speed. ditto for decreases in cd .  . 

so if you have a 100 mph car and reduce cd from  . 34 . to .33 , your new top 
speed is  ( sound of trumpet fanfare ) 

101 mph 

sorry to  . 



al bowers dod 900 alfa ducati hobie kottke  iaido nasa 
well goodness sakes .  .  . do . n't you know that girls ca n't play guitar 
mary chapin carpenter 

from  ( matthew liggett ) 
subject re v4 engines 
nntp posting host silver . ucs . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
lines 30 

in (paul w. emery ) writes 

on the subject of the v4 , ford in the uk used v4 engines in 
their ford transit vans . this . brings back a memory from the seventies . i . 
played in a band at the time and for something like 180 pounds four of 
us bought a 1967 tranny to cart the gear around in . it . was in terrible 
shape  ( cosmetically ) because it 's last owner was a pig farmer . we . spent 
days cleaning it up and putting in a partition and more seating but 'til 
the day it died everytime you turned on the fan to the defroster dried 
pig shit came flying out the vents ! ! ! . 
back to the engine if i remember right it was a v4 and that 
thing could haul , we could fill it with equipment and up to 8 people and 
it went like a bat out of hell , of course there were no pollution controls 
on the engine and the gas was leaded and higher octane than we get now. 
when the mechanical fuel pump quit we put in an electric one from a 
morris minor that worked great. ah fond memories. 

saab iii too i believe. 



i 'd like to own a squadron of tanks 
paul w. emery ron nasty the 
m i t magnet lab cambridge mass u.s.a. 




 junk  collector , toys r us kid , antiauthoritarian , and fan of 
frogs , iguanas , and other herps .  . 

from erlangen . de .  ( oliver scholz ) 
subject pontiac option codes wanted 
organization csd .  . , university of erlangen 
nntp posting host informatik . uni . erlangen . de . 
lines 12 
summary pontiac option code listing needed 

does anyone have a listing of pontiac 's three letter option codes and 
what they mean 

thanks. 

oliver 


oliver 
graduate student of computer sciences at the university of erlangen , germany 
you 're killing me , peg ! oh , shut up , al , like i care .  .  .  . 


from  ( chuck lampman ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  . (please . read) .  .  .  . 
organization 
lines 5 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host gatech . edu . 

enough , already. let 's take this discussion to some other newsgroup 
that 's more appropriate. most of us are tired of it and would like to 
get back to old cars , imho .  . 

chuck 

from  ( arne henriksen ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host skylark . edb . tih . no . 
organization trondheim college of engineering 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 17 

the devil reincarnate wrote 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 
v8 do n't know of any. 
v12 jaguar 


please add to the list. 


thanks , 
s 


from (ron bense ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast) 
distribution usa 
organization dis claim is mine 
lines 12 

in article  ( dirk broer ) writes 

still its amazing in germany you can have cars traveling 155 mph and 65 mph 
on the same 3 to 4 lane road. around washington dc they ca n't keep traffic 
flowing at 55 .  . 

actually , that 'd be 155 mph and 60 mph (the legal speed limit for trucks ) 
in two lanes , each direction. it 's a hell of a rush when those trucks fly 
by.  ( or was that me flying by them who cares , the rush is really something 
else , and so is the draft ) 

ron 

subject review 1989 ford taurus sho 
from (david bonds ) 
reply to (david bonds ) 
distribution world 
organization the cutting edge houston , tx 713 466 1525 
lines 57 


gk i hear that tires for this car can get really expensive. i 
gk currently have goodyear gt 4s that cost the previous owner 500 
gk for four. 

try eagle gas , wear better , cost less , lose little handling , and are 
quieter .  . i'm going to switch to in my next set , with new rims 
 ( fitti twists ) if i can afford 'em by the time my gas wear out. 

gk is a whole new ritual for me with that pedal ! also , i began 
gk to wonder how strong that brake really is.  ( today , i backed out of 
gk parking spot today and started to drive away before i noticed 
gk the glowing brake light. oops . ) . 

mine is strong enough to not let the car move when it 's in , even if you 're 
giving it enough gas to normally move it in 1st. you might need a brake 
adjustment .  . 

gk the driver 's power window when closed all the way. the same 
gk thing happens in my parents 1989 mercury sable .  . oddly , all the 
gk other windows work smoothly .  . 

watch it closely , the glass actually from the torque in the motor , it 
seems stronger in the drivers window then the others. 

gk i'm liking the interior amenities more and more each day. the 
gk are great. 

i 've found the location  ( under the in between the seats ) to be a 
pain , but like having them. they moved it into the dash (pop out) in the 
'91 model year , much better. 

gk i really feel like i do n't deserve this car. i really ca n't 
gk believe that i could afford it. i got this car ten years 
gk ahead of schedule. ) 

i did the same thing. got a black '89 with 65 . 5k . miles on it for 8k 
in july '92 .  . 

gk i 've put together the responses to my questions about the cars , as 
gk well as other posts with useful information on these cars. i 'll be 
gk posting this in the form of a faq soon. 

grabbed it and archived it. thanks ! 

gk if anyone is interested in starting a mailing list , please speak up ! 
gk i do n't know if i have the resources here at purdue to start one , but 
gk maybe someone out there does. 

i 'll be starting one this summer , one way or the other  ( current software 
i use dose n't support mailing lists , but is on the rsn list if not , i'm 
going to upgrade to another package that does have it) , that is , if nobody 
else beats me to it. will make an announcement here when it goes up. 


the cutting edge bbs (cutting . hou . tx . us) . a 14 . 5a . system 
houston , texas , usa 1 . 713 . 466 . 1525 . running uupcb 

from  ( bob pitas ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast) 
organization cambridge technology partners 
distribution usa 
lines 38 

in article  ( ad absurdum per aspera ) writes 
wharf rites 

they were designed for speeds of upwards of 80 i forget the 
exact spec but for military vehicles .  . that 's 80 in a 1958 dodge 
powerwagon .  . not 80 in a 1993 ford taurus .  . 

ever  once in a while , you still see a reference to the super 
slab system as interstate and defense highways .  . but whether 
the military has much of anything that goes 80 on the road is 
another matter. a few of their most whomped up diesel trucks , 
maybe , load permitting .  . the military surplus stuff i 've 
driven jeep classic  ( willys kaiser amc , pre independent 
suspension ) and power wagons  ( slant 6 in a crew cab pickup ) 

actually , i 've heard that some m1 tank commanders take the 
off their turbine engines , and can acheive on a 
paved road. never seen it myself , but i believe it .  .  .  . 

were n't exactly congenial at highway speeds , and i would n't 
swear any of them would do 80 except as a bedload on a semi .  . 

stuff deleted 


joe 
just another personal opinion from the people 's republic of berkeley 




'85 mustang gt bob pitas 
ush 14.13 @ 99.8 
up at ned , epping , nh  ( cambridge , ma) 

geddy lee  ( in yyz ) 
disclaimer these opinions are mine , obviously , since they end with my  . sig . ! 


from 
subject re viper car alarms 
lines 82 

in article , (ronald e garnett ) writes 
hello auto enthusiasts ! 

i recently had more car mangled  ( broken into) and decided to 
get an alarm installed. it 's a viper 400 and has a shock 
sensor , sensors for each door , ignition cutoff , and automatic 
door locks .  . 

i have this same alarm installed in my syclone .  . it works great. the shock 
sensor is very sensitive , but much more practical than the motion sensor i have 
on my other car. it does n't trigger if the car is rocked gently by the wind , 
but any kind of shock sets it off. even kicking the tire sets it off. it 
works great. 


what worries me is the hood and hatch .  . if someone could pry 
them up gently enough , then they could bypass the alarm .  . 

the shock sensor is adjustable and there are two cycles on it. you can adjust 
it to be sensitive enough that there is no way you could open the hood without 
setting off the alarm .  . although , i know that you cannot pop the hood on the 
syclone without setting off my alarm now , and yet i have had zero  ( none ! ) false 
alarms with this system. the alarm tells you when you disarm it whether it has 
been activated in your absence .  . i have been able to trace every alarm to it 's 
cause and it was not a false alarm .  . 

i'm also wondering how easy it would be for a thief to crawl 
underneath the car and cut the battery cable to disable the alarm .  . 

i guess it would be possible depending on the vehicle. my syclone is so tight 
in the engine compartment that it would be tough to do this. there are 
supplemental power supplies you can put on with this viper alarm , but i do n't 
have one. i really think that if someone wants my car that bad , the alarm 
wo n't keep them from it , even with a supplemental power supply. 

viper also sells some fancy field disturbance sensor that 
supposedly detects people the car .  .  .  .  . 

this is primarily for convertibles .  . i have a convertible and have looked at 
this feature in detail. alpine actually makes a better radar unit if you want 
to get one of these. it has zones in it that can be shut down independently so 
that if one side of your car has pedestrian traffic or something else that 
would trigger an alarm , it shuts down the zone , or rather , pulls it in tighter .  . 
i do n't see the real benefit to these unless you have a convertible that you 
leave the top down on. 

avoid the voice alarm that can be added to the radar package. it talks to 
people as they walk by. i saw one installed on a lotus esprit .  . the kids would 
it seeing how close they could get before it  warned  them to get back. 
the owner finally disabled it , which defeats the purpose in my mind. 

i'm interested in the opinions of you netters about these problems 
and about the viper in general. 

i am real happy with my viper .  . one other feature i really like is you can tune 
it to your preferences .  . you can have it arm passively or not. you can disable 
the for arming disarming .  . you can have it lock unlock the doors when the 
alarm is armed disarmed .  . 

i like these features. i hate the when the alarm arms , so mine 
flashes the lights only. i like the door lock feature , although i have to be 
careful to take my keys with me because it does n't know if you have left your 
keys in the car when it passively arms and locks the doors. but , if you are 
meticulous about taking your keys with you , it takes care of the rest. 
the car is an 89 ford probe gt that used to be in great shape ! 


ron 


i looked seriously at the alpine system too. it is a real nice system , but 
more money and it has a motion sensor standard instead of the shock sensor .  . 
the shock sensor is better .  .  .  . and . the viper shock sensor is better (2 cycle ) 
than the optional alpine one , imho .  . i think the viper gives you a lot of good 
value for the money. but it is n't absolutely tamperproof .  . no system is. 
except maybe the one that james bond had on his lotus in for your eyes only. 
anyone know where we can get one of those installed maybe that was what they 
had in the van in the world trade center , huh 


merrill 


from 
subject bmw 
nntp posting host vaxa . isc . rit . edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 

i looked at that bimmer yesterday. it 's an '81 , has about , according 
to owner  ( odometer stopped working at  . well , sounds good , 
body is ok , he wants 3000 .  . 
i liked the car , despite it 's auto tranny , but my wife will be a primary 
driver on this one , and she wants auto .  . 
the radio does not work untill the car warms up and you honk the horn ( ! ) 
the a c seems to have a leak .  . 
the sunroof is sticky , but operational .  . 
odometer does not work , as mentioned before. 
idle is a bit , going from to  . 
wipers are slow. 
that 's teh gripes .  . the owner says that he changed radiator , alternator , 
rotors and calipers , exhaust .  . 
the biggest problem , is that the owner is a sob , telling strange 
stories. i hate that. i would never buy from a like that , except , how 
often you see a descent for that amount of money. he also said that , 
although i could bring a , he would n't let me check the car by taking 
it to a garage. suspicious .  . and who knows what milage is on it. 
so , let me know what to check for , given there 's practically no rust .  . 
i know there was an article on in r d a few years back , anybody remembers 
what issue 
mike . s . 

from  ( bill heiser ) 
subject auto wax 
distribution usa 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 16 
originator 

having recently purchased a 93 probe with clear coat paint , i 
would like to give it a good wax job. what is the best type of 
wax to use for this type of finish is paste or liquid better 
i would be waxing it by hand , and it by hand , i guess 
using to buff it  ( anything better you would suggest ) .  . 

i 've heard comments here before about things like turtle wax 
and raindance not being very good , so i'm wondering what is 
recommended for a quality finish. 

thanks in advance. 
bill 


bill heiser , 
boston university , boston ma 

from  ( jerry bowman ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host fred . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado boulder , ocs 
distribution usa 
lines 42 

in article  ( kumaravel natarajan ) writes 
 ( matthew liggett ) writes 

in (the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 

ditto 
seems to me that i heard that some early saabs were 2 cycle v4 's .  . 
then again , who could possibly care 
v6 legend , 

what 's an , or 
most any gm w the 3800 v6 .  . 


v8 do n't know of any. 
mustang 5.0 (302) 
camaros firebirds 
some mercedes  
lexus  ( sc400 ) 
infinity 


v12 jaguar 

some mercedes 
bmw 

diablo 

please add to the list. 



vel natarajan motorola cellular , arlington hts il 




from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re ad said nissan altima best seller 
organization delco electronics corp. 
lines 23 

in article  ( mark goldsworthy ) writes 
i just bought an altima  ( and like it very much) and yes there is a 
little stanza logo ever so placed on the trunk .  . the altima is 
in big silver letters , but the stanza is shunted 
to the far left of the trunk lid .  . you can only see it if you get up 
close to the car and know where to look. it is very inconspicuous .  . 

in fact my first clue that this was a stanza was that the owners manual 
called the car a nissan stanza altima .  . 

anybody know why nissan did it this way 

to avoid paperwork associated with re certification as a brand new car , 
etc. so for ad purposes it 's a brand new nameplate , for paperwork it 's 
still a stanza .  . 

spiros 



spiros triantafyllopoulos 
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815 
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in i post , therefore i 

from  ( doddek david j ) 
subject re slick 50 , any good 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 32 

(michael a. davis ) writes 


chances are that this has been discussed to death already , and 
if so could someone who has kept the discussion mail me or direct me 
to an archive site. basically , 
i am just wondering if slick 50 really does all it says that it does. 
and also , is there any data to support the claim .  . thanks for any info. 

mike davis 

i do n't have any written data but i know what i have experienced .  . i use 
s 50 in everything including my  . in my car it smoothed the idle 
and reduced the operating temp by 5 degrees. i havent used it long enough 
to test for wear , but some people i know have. 
a farmer that lives near by used to have to overhaul his big tractors 
at least every other year if not every year. since he has been using s 50 
he has went 5 years without an overhaul .  . 

also a friend at a machine shop has in the past rebuilt engines with 200k 
miles on them because the thought it was time. these 
had ran s 50 since almost new. it was found when measuring the internals 
of the engine that they showed only about the amount of wear that would be 
expected of 30k miles not 200k .  . 

in my opinion it works. 

beware ! the cat is on the disclamer hey i'm a student , 
a 1974 cat hungry as hell. i do n't need one. 
pantera twin turbo david j. 
with liscence to fly it flies 


from steven ritter 
subject re pennsylvania insurance , limited option 
organization psychology , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 24 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

in my opinion , the limited option is the best thing casey has ever 
done. basically , limited means that you give up your right to sue 
for pain and suffering , unless one of the following conditions is met 
1. your medical bills resulting from the accident exceed x (where x is 
some number like 50 , 000 i'm not sure of the exact number) 

2. the accident was caused by a drunk driver (i mean , the other driver 
was drunk ) 

3. you get a good lawyer and have a good case  ( basically , you can appeal 
to regain your right to sue , but there 's almost no chance of this ever 
 . 

you are only giving up your right to sue for pain and suffering you can 
still sue for medical costs , actual damages , etc. by agreeing to limited 
, you are essentially giving up your right to be an asshole who 
treats every accident as an entry into the litigation lottery .  . in 
exchange , you get a substantial reduction in your rates. i save 
150 year. 

unfortunately , the insurance companies have managed to scare and confuse 
people so much that only about 5 of go for limited  . 
i guess that 's ok if more people opted for it , the insurance 
companies would be pushing harder for repeal .  . 

from  ( ayub butt ) 
subject toyota 1988 fx 
organization stanford university school of medicine 
lines 13 
distribution ba 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 
summary low 
keywords toyota corolla 88 
originator 

for sale , 1988 toyota corolla fx , am fm radio , nothing else. 
low mileage 28 , 000 .  . (i ride my bike to work . ) . 

dark blue. good condition. only 3800 .  . 

i am leaving the country for a year and must sell this 
great city car. 

call (408) 924 leave message. 

do not email to this account. 



from  ( zauberer ) 
subject re locking tire 
organization purdue university 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

in article writes 
if you put a locking on your tires , do you need to have your 
tires 

john mas 


e mail address 



i bought a set of are 's a few months back and decided to add locks 
so that i could keep my new rims .  . i have n't had a balance problem 
yet so i assume that it might be just particular to your type of 
stock nuts. my rims were balanced with new t a 's at a speed 
shop to the finest setting on their bal .  . machine , so that helps too. 

zauberer aka .  . travis t. 

subject re dirty diesels 
from  ( jerry stubbs ) 
distribution na 
organization university of kansas computer science dept 
lines 5 


yeah , but i hate to follow them with the exhaust at ground level. not all 
diesels are well maintained , either , it seems they run for so long that 
people keep them going long after the top end is worn out. 


from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re alarm systems are they worthwhile 
organization university of westminster 
distribution usa 
lines 8 

talking about car alarms , there are certain cars in this country that are 
only if they are fitted with a alarm .  . we 're talking 
and porsches and stuff. just before they (the insurance companies ) decided to 
make this move , they insisted that the car be fitted with a scorpion alarm ( 
now they 've changed to the  .  .  . so everyone who 's spent on fitting 
the scorpion alarm have themselves having to upgrade to the system. 

sad huh (  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  . 

from  ( will estes ) 
subject looking for low lease rate on toyota previa 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 7 

what 's the best lease quote that anyone has seen on a toyota previa dx or dx 
all for a two year lease if you know where i can get a better 
rate than 330 month , please contact me with the name and phone of 
the dealership .  . 


will estes internet 

from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject funny car taxes  ( was re market access) 
organization delco electronics corp. 
distribution na 
lines 20 

in article  ( henry robertson ) writes 
keep in mind that owning any car in korea is a luxury that only the ruling 
class can afford .  . every government agency worth its salt finds some reason 
to levy a tax on car ownership last i heard , there were seven different 
fees to pay to own a car. 

we used to have a tax in greece named after the queen 's mother. the queen 
left  ( monarchy was abolished ) but the tax stuck .  .  .  . 

similar single purpose taxes have stuck (i . e .  . to help the victims of 
the earthquake of , build the metro ) 

next time someone proposes a car tax or gasoline tax 
promising it 's temporary , it  . 

spiros 

spiros triantafyllopoulos 
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815 
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in i post , therefore i 

from  ( jonathan bruce hacker ) 
subject re auto air conditioning without freon 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 16 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host sandman . caltech . edu . 

 ( allen tobias ) writes 

better still , years ago they demonstrated a cold air system which only used 
air . it was called a  . the unit worked very well , the short coming 
was the seal technology. where is it today 

as i recall from reading posts here a while back ,  ( rovacs ) died 
because it was larger and than the competing cheap r12 systems 
of it day. probably a case of bad timing. i think the system would 
have a better chance today now that r12 systems are on death row , but 
investors may be hard to come by a second time. 


jon hacker get the os 2 2.1 march beta cd rom 
caltech , pasadena ca for 20 call 1 800 3 ibm os2 
ridge . caltech . edu . read about it in comp . os . os2 . beta . 

from  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
lines 21 

in article ( the blade runner ) writes 
i just have got to remind all of you that this is it ! yes , 
that 's right , somtime this fall , ford (the of cars) 
will be introducing an all new , mega cool 
way too fast for accord drivers mustang .  . it 's supposed to be 
100 streamlined , looking similar to the mach iii concept car 
ford came out with around january .  . i ca n't wait. anyone out 
there hear anything about it recently 


if everything i 've read is correct , ford is doing nothing but re 
the existing mustang , with minor suspension modifications .  . 
and the pictures i 've seen indicate they did n't do a very good job 
of it. 

the new mustang , is nothing but a re cycle of a 20 year old car. 

jeff 




from (robert j. wade ) 
subject re saturn extended warranty 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 21 

in article writes 

i 've owned a saturn for and year and a half , and did n't have the extended 
warranty , but just traded it in for a 1993  ( for reasons that i wo n't mention 
unless someone wants to know . ) . i opted for the 5 year 60 , 000 mile extended with 
50 deductible .  . it 's sorta like buying health insurance. you could say that 
you 're not sick now , and have n't been sick for a while , but you ca n't guarantee 
that you wo n't be sick tomorrow. a little money invested today is better than 
being sick tomorrow and now being able to pay for it , or having to pay a lot 
more tomorrow than you can today. 

justify all you want. extended warranties are a ripoff , high profit item for 
the dealer .  . and you did n't buy 60k , you get 3yr 36k free , so what you 
bought is 24k .  . and you still have to pay 50 every time you use this 
great  . better to put your money in the bank and use it for repairs 
if when you need it. considering that your last car was only 1.5 years old , 
are you sure you will even keep this new one past it 's free warranty period 
btw , typical profit on extended warranties is around 80 . that 's right , only 
20 of the money needs to go into the collective pot to pay for any future 
repairs that the group of extended warranty people collect .  . 


from  ( kevinh ) 
subject re v4 engines 
reply to 
organization ag 
lines 27 
originator 


in article ,  ( chuck fry ) writes 
in article  ( matthew r. singer ) writes 
did n't the saab have a v4 i recall someone telling that it was 
something like 1 2 of a ford 289 .  . 

not only the  ( correct spelling) , but the 95 wagon and 96 sedan 
used a 1500 cc or 1700 cc v 4 from ford of germany .  . this particular 
motor had a 60 degree vee angle , a balance shaft and exhaust 
ports. this motor was later stretched into the v 6 commonly seen in the 
capri .  . 

i think it was the reverse , the v4 being 2 3 of the v6 .  . 

the v 4 could make pretty reasonable power for its size. but in the 
saab , it made too much torque for the transmission , which had been 
designed for a 3 cylinder 2 stroke .  . 

it was also the worst engine that ford  ( europe ) have ever made bloody 
awful reputation .  . it 's most successful application being the transit 
van .  . 

saab gave up with this motor and then made the triumph  ( half a v8 ) under license (i believe) , but with 2 litre capacity and perhaps a different 
arrangement for the cylinder head studs , before developing their own straight 
four from the triumph .  . 



from 
subject re bmw 
nntp posting host vaxa . isc . rit . edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 12 

in article ,  ( shazad barlas ) writes 
in article writes 
the radio does not work untill the car warms up and you honk the horn ( ! ) 

! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! i cant stop its killing me ! ! 
! ! ! 


i was dead serious when i posted it. i actually have an attempt of explanation 
to this phenomenon , but i 'll keep you guessing .  . i still want responces , 
of which i got exactly 0. 
mike . s . 

from  ( karl elvis macrae ) 
subject ford explorer question , and suv review. 
organization tattooed love boys 
lines 60 
distribution world 
nntp posting host glare . cisco . com . 


ok , so in my ongoing search for a sport utility , here 's the latest 


toyota 4runner 

small. small small small. the interior of this vehical is impossible 
for a large person. too bad it would have been the winner otherwise. 

nissan pathfinder 

very low ceiling .  . my head hit the roof , fun on bumps , no also has 
a cheap looking interior. 

isuzu trooper 

class act. this is a really , really nice vehical .  . very comfortable , 
handled ok. has really cool grab handles everywhere. but it 's huge , 
and the engine is a bit too small for it 's bulk also the manual shift is 
weird and kind of awkward .  . i 'd buy this if it were 3k cheaper or 10 
shorter .  . but at this size and for this price , no. i kept trying to 
park in in san francisco .  . no thanks. 


chevy blazer 

cheap looking. small. not as small as the toyota and nissan , but still 
too small. 

ford explorer 

this is no sports car , and it 's certainly not for the serious off  . 
but it 's big enough to be comfortable without being as huge and heavy as the 
trooper .  . it 's engine has plenty of power for everyday driving , though it would 
be nice if it had a bit more. the automatic tranny is pretty nice head and 
shoulders above my '90 mazda mpv .  . the steering is not as tight as i 'd like , 
but it 's acceptable .  . the two door has easy to enter back seats  ( easier to get 
into , in fact , than the driver 's seat of the 4runner ! ) and with a 10 shorter 
wheelbase and the easier availability of a manual tranny , (yes , i'm a manual 
shift , i admit it .  .  . ) . it 's the one i'm thinking of buying .  . 


so , that said , is there anyone out there who has one of these and hates it 
anyone had any major problems heard any horror stories 

also , any reason to buy the ford over the mazda navajo , both being essentially 
the same vehical 


thanks 


karl 


karl elvis macrae software release support cisco systems 
or 415 688 8231 dod 1999 

shovels and rakes and implements of destruction 
arlo guthrie 

from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re lexus and infiniti 
organization delco electronics corp. 
lines 19 

in article  ( issa el hazin ) writes 
do n't the numbers in the car names above to the engine size in 
liters i.e. 4 . engine , sc300 3.0 liter sport coupe  .  .  . 
and 4 .  .  .  ( similar , kinda , to bmw and mb deal) .  . 

issa 

funny , i thought the numbering scheme for both lexus and infiniti was 
related to sticker price more than anything else , i.e. infiniti g20  ( around 
20k ) ,  ( around 45k ) , lexus  ( rip )  ( around 25k ) , lexus es300  ( around 
30k ) , etc. 

is there a conspiracy theory there 

spiros 

spiros triantafyllopoulos 
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815 
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in i post , therefore i 

from  ( troy wecker ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
article i.d. sequent . 1993apr21 . 
distribution usa 
organization sequent computer systems inc. 
lines 25 
nntp posting host crg1 . sequent . com . 

radar  ( radio association defending rights ) says that geico 
insurance not only buy 's radar for police but also actively lobbies 
states to promote making radar detectors illegal .  . i think the 
buying part is a misuse of money but the radar detector part shows 
how little they know about the issue. no study i am aware of has ever 
concluded that detectors have a negative impact on safety or that 
users have a higher average speed. incompetence by geico i think 
so. 


troy wecker 

sequent computer systems 
beaverton , or 


in article  ( wayne smith) writes 
in article (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i 've read in this group that geico has funded the purchasing of radar 
guns by police depts  ( i'm not sure where) .  . 

from  ( christopher mermagen ) 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 11 
nntp posting host multiplexer . eng . umd . edu . 

yeah , it seems toyota has always had a problem with those 2.2 's 
and sound. i know the celicas with em were pretty , and 
the were no exception. now , about large displacement 4s 
with bad noise .  .  . i have a 90 grand am h . o .  . quad 4 , and it 
sounds really good , almost like a larger 6 .  .  . now , toyota 
is coming out with an all new celica next year and the mr2 .  .  .  . 
well who knows .  .  . 

later 
chris 


from  ( adam goldberg ) 
subject re choice of gauges 
nntp posting host ren 
organization systems corp. , des moines , iowa 
distribution usa 
lines 25 

in article  ( dave gauge ) writes 
if you had free reign to design your own instrument cluster , which 
gauges would you choose to have beyond the basic set 

oil pressure , oil temperature 
coolant temperature 
manifold vacuum 
ammeter , voltmeter 

fuel pressure maybe  ( problematic , since you either need an electronic 
sensor gauge pair or you have to mount the damn thing outside the car) 

in addition , it 'd be nice to have a big red idiot light  check  
connected to oil pressure , oil temp , coolant temp , ammeter 
voltmeter .  . with heaps of , it 's hard to look at them all all 
the time. in the case of oil pressure , for example , you want to know 
right away if your oil pump goes bad , unlike coolant temperature , a 
minute or two of 0 oil pressure would be a very bad thing(tm) .  . 

adam 

adam g. 
, or ... ! uunet ! ! 
the above is not to be construed in any way as the official or unofficial 
statements of , or any employees .  . 

from 
subject re dirty diesels 
nf id r trsvax 000 304 
nf from trsvax . tandy . com . ! david apr 23 13 18 00 1993 
lines 9 


i would n't want anyone to make out of my front living 
room wall and then drive their diesel powered m 60 tank into it , 
shooting super hot soot all over my curtains and that freshly 
made  . 
in other words , please do n't flame me ! 

yup , i 'll have to answer for this one. 


from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re dirty diesels 
organization university of westminster 
distribution na 
lines 7 


yeah , diesels are cleaner than petrol powered cars. they even have 
fitted to now ! oh and citroen have even launched the  first sports 
diesel car in the world' .  . which is probably true if you assume if its for 
production purposes  ( merc benz had a prototype which runs on diesel back in 
around 1968 .  .  .  .  .  . it did and read this ! 200 mph ! ! ! ) 
 .  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( '69 dart ) 
subject '88 corolla 5spd .  . 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 12 

hi there , maybe you can help me .  .  .  . 

i have an '88 corolla with a 5 speed as the subject line says. the gearbox 
seems  . i used to have an '85 corolla , and it was also 
somewhat , but it had 30 , 000 more miles on it , and it was n't nearly as 
bad as this car ! is there fluid in the case if there is , could it 
just be low , or in need of a change as i recall , only the autos have fluid .  . 
or am i just mistaken please no flames for owning an import .  . i also have 
an old dodge , but it 's not in very good shape these days .  .  .  . 

thanks , 
derek 

from (james p. callison ) 
subject re super mega automobile  ( sighting(s ) ! ! ! ! ! exotics together ! 
nntp posting host uokmax . ecn . uoknor . edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa 
lines 56 

in article  ( graham e. thomas ) writes 
( the blade runner ) writes 

a gt 40 ! gotta be in my top 5 favorite cars of all time 
list. where is this place was the car for sale come on , i 
need details .  .  . or . not. anyways , i just had to say wow at the 
sighting of such a fine beast. but remember , the mustang will 
forever be the true king of the road. 

the place was in what used to be a small town  ( now a suburb ) north of 
atlanta .  . i do n't know if the car was for sale or not , you would n't put 
a price on the window on this type of car anyway. 

damn straight ! as far as i 've heard , unless the owner is very 
hard up , the gt 40s are not for sale at any price that mere 
mortals could afford .  . 

and maybe the mustang 
will be forever king of the road , the gt 40 is n't road legal .  . 

i think the gt 40 actually is street legal , although that particular 
question is moot  ( see the price figures below) .  . 

this car was right hand drive  ( were n't they all like that ) .  . how much does 
a gt 40 go for how many were made 

i wish i could find my shelby american guide it included the gt 40 
registry  ( as of '88 or so) .  . there were precious few of them made 
 ( fifty is the number that springs to mind they made just enough 
to qualify for the manufacturer 's cup , or whichever series it 
was that shelby broke 's 13 year winning streak in in '65 ) , 
and they are all accounted for. the last price i saw estimated on a 
gt 40 was a little bit over 1 , 000 , 000 (yes , that 's right , one million 
us dollars it was second only to some worthless piece of ferrari 
that it would blow the doors off of ) .  . 

i do n't recall off hand what the drive configuration was , although 
i'm certain some must have been , as they had to be sold to qualify 
for racing .  . the was the ford 427  ( hi , i think , 
and or side oiler ) coupled to various 4 speed transmissions .  . they 
also used 3 speed manuals they had lots of problems with the 
original trannys breaking under the load of the 427 .  . layout was 
rear engine , rear drive , with the bundle of snakes exhaust 
headers .  .  . i . can remeber other bits and pieces of info , but i 
ca n't remember whether they applied to the gt 40 or the shelby 
cobra daytona coupe .  .  . i . 'll try and find that reference. 

james 

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the forecast calls for thunder .  .  . '89 . t bird sc 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will munny , unforgiven 

from  ( nancy feagans ) 
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time 
nntp posting host 
organization jet propulsion laboratory  ( nasa ) 
lines 25 

in article (ron bense ) writes 
in article  ( alois m. himsl ) writes 

in article devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . ,  ( nancy 
feagans ) writes 
ashtrays and cigarette lighters .  . these should be an option . 

you forget that the cigarette lighter plug is essential for plugging in radar 
detectors and lights. the ashtrays are also essential because they are great 
places to keep change and tokens .  . 

would n't you rather have some type of standard electrical plug instead of 
that fire hazard waiting to happen adaptor i know i would , and i would 
also prefer to have sensibly placed cup holders instead of an ashtray .  .  ( my 
car came with coin holders already built in) 

ron 

exactly. you took the words right out of my mouth , ron ) 



nancy j. feagans (818) 306 
jet propulsion lab devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . 
not a shred of evidence exists in favor of the idea that life is serious. 

from  ( matthew liggett ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
nntp posting host silver . ucs . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
lines 32 

in writes 

in article 
 ( eliot ) writes 

the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 


eliot 

would n't that make them an i4 or would they 
really be an 4  ( henceforth referred to as 
underscore 4 ) 

horizontally opposed 4. 
or  boxer  
great idea , actually .  .  . 
smooth running low center of gravity .  .  . 
also used in some honda , , porsches  ( others ) 
... 

kenneth 








 junk  collector , toys r us kid , antiauthoritarian , and fan of 
frogs , iguanas , and other herps .  . 

from (andrew white ) 
subject compilation of problems 1985 chevy caprice 
distribution na 
organization social science computing , univ. of penn. 
lines 51 
nntp posting host ssc . sas . upenn . edu . 

my 85 caprice classic with 120k miles has finally reached 
the threshold of total number of mechanical problems that 
i am forced to post ) .  . anyone out there who might be 
able to give me some pointers on one or more of the below , 
please e mail or post ! 

1. when making turns , especially when accelerating , 
there is usually a loud thunk from the rear of 
of the car. sounds like it could be the differential .  . 
what could cause this is the differential going 
bad i recently had the differential fluid changed , 
and it did have tiny metal bits in it.  ( and no , 
the sound is not something rolling around in the 
trunk ! ) 

2. on starting the car , i get blue  ( oil ) smoke from 
the exhaust for 5 10 seconds. exhaust valves 
going bad worn rings anyone know whether the 
valves on the 4.3 engine can be 

3. brakes .  . more pedal travel than i feel comfortable 
with , but master cylinder is full and fluid is 
relatively clear. pedal does not slowly sink to 
the floor when held down. pedal does not feel 
, but i suppose that bleeding the brakes 
might help could anything else cause this 

4. tranny .  . tranny problems seem to be slowly getting 
worse takes almost 2 seconds to downshift from 
3rd to 2nd on heavy throttle application , and more 
recently , it is reluctant to shift from 2nd to 3rd. 
fluid  ( checked with car running with tranny put 
through all the gears and then back to park , as per 
haynes manual ) is red and clear , and is on full mark. 

5. my springs all around are just about shot i have 
4 new shocks on , but car still skips out on bumps 
in turns at moderate to high speed. how hard are 
they to change can they be reconditioned 

i 'd be interested in hearing from any gm full size rwd owners 
out there with stories to tell and or advice. here in philly , 
these cars are apparently  ( stolen ! ) quite often and converted 
into taxis .  . apparently the cab conversion shops will get a 
junk title for the car or switch with a car about to be 
 . about 60 of philly cabs are caprice 's , with most of 
the rest being crown vic 's with a few old new and 
(  . 

andrew white 


from  ( will estes ) 
subject wanted '92 toyota previa all , low miles 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 6 

i'm looking to buy a '92 toyota previa all with low miles. 
if you are selling one , or want someone to buy out an existing lease , 
please contact me by mail. 


will estes internet 

from  ( bradford kellogg ) 
subject re changing oil by self. 
originator 
nntp posting host buck 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 29 


in article , john foster writes 

i find this method much better myself , too , although i do really 
hate it when the bolt finally comes loose and the wrench and my 
hand both come crashing into my face. after coming to , which is 
about 15 minutes later , i change my clothes  ( because by this time 
all the oil has drained on me) , and ice my entire face and suck 
down about 20 tylenol to ease the pain. later in the day i then 
proceed with refilling the engine oil. 

it 's just crazy how i try and change the oil on my cars in one 
weekend i go through about 3 bottles of tylenol and 2 bags of ice. 

oh , that 's not so bad. every time i try to change the oil , i forget to 
shut off the engine first. the hot oil comes out and me , blinds 
me , then the engine starts to overheat , and while i'm screaming in agony 
and trying to crawl out from under the car , i grab the red hot exhaust 
pipe and get third degree burns on my hands. my screams intensify as i 
finally emerge from under the car , and i struggle to my feet in front of 
the car , whereupon the radiator hose ruptures and sprays me with super 
heated coolant .  . then the engine , but not before the cylinder head 
explodes , piercing my flesh with fragments of red hot iron .  . 

this happens every time. i'm starting to think i should pay the mechanic 
25 instead paying the hospital 250 , 000 and the dealer 25 , 000 for a new 
car. this gets costly when you change the oil every 3000 miles. 



from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 22 

 ( wayne smith) writes 

in article (david g. wonnacott ) writes 
i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i 've read in this group that geico has funded the purchasing of radar 
guns by police depts  ( i'm not sure where) .  . 

maryland and other states. 

to the original poster 

read the last 3 4 issues of car and driver about this. it 's 
interesting and should be illegal .  .  .  . 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( bob pitas ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  . (please . read) .  .  .  . 
keywords brick , rock , danger , gun , violent , teenagers 
organization cambridge technology partners 
lines 43 

in article (brian harvey ) writes 
 ( robbie felix ) writes 
how about the thousands of kind teenagers who volunteer at local 
agencies to help children , seniors , the homeless 

hear , hear ! thanks , robbie .  . 

you also do n't read that much about violence against teenagers , such as 
george bush burying alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year olds , 
who were trying to surrender , with bulldozers .  . 


on the other hand , i think it is true , without singling out teenagers 
for blame , that violence is more socially acceptable than it used to be. 
those of us who 'd like to discourage violence have plenty of work to do 
with people of all ages. 

well , this is n't the right group for this , but i have to say that i do n't 
think violence is any more socially acceptable now , by any means. how 
can you say that when we used to have of pistol toting as 
heros , or even thugs being considered romantic .  . do you think 
our great got yelled at by their parents for playing cowboys 
and indians i do n't think so. that behavior was somewhat encouraged 
back then , in fact. 
i think the only difference between now and then is that nowadays , when 
some teenager kills another one in a classroom in california , we here 
about it in ma the same day. back in the old days , they 'd never hear 
about something like that , period. 

sorry about posting to rec . autos . , but this is where it came up .  .  .  . 




'85 mustang gt bob pitas 
ush 14.13 @ 99.8 
up at ned , epping , nh  ( cambridge , ma) 

geddy lee  ( in yyz ) 
disclaimer these opinions are mine , obviously , since they end with my  . sig . ! 




from  ( dave , hack , 510 748 3418 ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
originator 
in reply to (john g. kissane ) 
reply to  ( dave , hack , 510 748 3418 ) 
organization the ask group 
lines 24 

in article , (john g. kissane ) writes 
as a matter of interest does anyone know why autos are so popular in the us while 
here in europe they are rare just wondering .  .  .  .  .  . 

primarily milage .  . gas is much more expensive , so people are very 
concerned about it taking a few more liters per kilometer .  . this , 
along with narrow old cities , also results in smaller cars with 
smaller engines. these engines usually do n't have the torque to mesh 
well with an automatic .  . so , having engines that do n't work well with 
autos , and a great concern for milage , the usual euro car has a 
manual. 

 ( note that not many big come with manuals .  . if you 've got the 
money for the car , you 've got the money for the gas , and the engine to 
drive through the ) . 

as automatics become more efficient , the bigotry is probably 
reduced .  . still , everyone knows how to drive a manual , and cars are 
cheaper with one , and it saves a little expensive fuel .  . so there 
are n't compelling reasons to go automatic .  . 

db 



from (james lu x3702 ) 
subject how good is car wash wax 
nntp posting host gallium . nsc . com . 
organization national semiconductor , santa clara 
distribution na 
lines 15 


question what 's your experience with car wash wax 

this is the liquid type of wax in bottles that you pour it in 
water , sponge it on you car , hose it off , and dry it with cloth .  . 
many people have used it. it is very easy to work with and gives 
the same visual results as that of paste type of wax .  . 

but , does it last long does it have any negative effects to car 
paint 

can you forward your reply directly to my email id thanks. 

james 


from  ( eliot ) 
subject re comparing saabs bmw 's 
organization  r us 
lines 21 
nntp posting host 192 . 42 . 145 . 4 . 

in article  ( bill bill tuthill ) writes 
for a reasonable sum , you can get a bmw with traction control 
a torque sensing  ( limited slip ) rear differential .  . 

traction control as far as the optional feature that one buys with 
cars is not the same thing at all as a torque sensing differential .  . 

a torque sensing differential is a type of lsd , but not all lsd 's 
are torque sensing .  . viscous coupled differentials  ( as opposed to 
viscous couplings ) are rotational sensing , not torque sensing .  . 
for that matter , so are traction control systems that use abs 
sensors and pulse braking .  . 

then there are the older and whatever which i am not 
familiar with the workings .  . 


eliot 




from sam 
subject re review 1989 ford taurus sho 
organization freshman , h ss general , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 28 
nntp posting host po4 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from rec . autos . 26 apr 93 re review 1989 ford  .  . by mark 
w. 
in article 
 ( dav 
id bonds ) writes 

gk occasionally , i have trouble shifting into reverse .  . the shifter 
gk refuses to enter the gate , and i often grind the synchros trying to 
gk get it into gear. i 'll be watching this carefully in the next couple 
gk of months. 

enter 1st , wait 2 3 seconds and then go into reverse .  . they use the same 
synchros , and you 'll never (at least i have n't) ground em to fit when using 
this technique. 

or do like the manual says and put it in 3rd first , then you can quickly 
go into reverse .  .  .  . no waiting. 

one more way , which works in manual trans cars i 've driven , and it is my 
personal favorite (the other suggestions above are great , but try this 
one , too) .  . 

while pushing the shifter gently towards reverse , let the clutch out 
slowly  ( right to the friction point) and the shifter will be pulled into 
position. if you do it right , the car wo n't jump backward , nor will the 
gears grind .  .  .  .  . you will just glide back. 

sam 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 27 

(the devil reincarnate ) writes 


i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 
v8 do n't know of any. 
v12 jaguar 


please add to the list. 


thanks , 
s 


the viper is n't an inline 10 or flat 10 , is it i'm pretty sure its 
a v 10. also , the is a v 16 , but it may not yet be more than a 
dream .  .  .  . 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( albert wu ) 
subject a c service rip off 
organization the university of texas system 
lines 8 

i went to a place called american car care centers to check my car for a c 
leak .  . after checking , i was told that there is a leak in the compressor 
seal .  . at the end , in addition to the labor for the check , i was charged 12 
dollars for a pound of freon , although they evacuated my a c afterwards 
because of the leak .  . first , is it fair for him to charge me for a pound of 
freon ( 12 plus tax) second , what can i do about this if this is unfair 

albert wu .  . 

from 
subject weird problem with gm 4 banger transmission 
organization spc community access system 
lines 34 

i'm having an interesting problem with my girlfriend 's car. before 
i delve into its innards , i thought i 'd check net . wisdom . on the 
subject. ) 

it 's a 1985 buick skyhawk (i know .  .  . i . know) 
2 . 0l . 4 banger 
auto 
miles 

when i drive tha car long enough to get it hot  ( especially at 
highways speeds) the transmission has this nasty habit of 
getting stuck in 3rd gear. as a result , when you stop for 
a light the motor stalls .  . putting the car in park , and waiting 
for 30 60 seconds before restarting sometimes allows the transmission 
to reset and go back into 1st. otherwise , it just stalls when 
put in drive. 

my thoughts either it the 3rd gear band is binding and getting 
stuck when it gets hot (not so likely) or perhaps the lock up 
converter is not properly  ( seems likely) .  . the least 
likely  ( keeping fingers crossed ) is that some critical vacuum 
hose has broken cracked and this behaviour is due to lack of 
vaccuum somewhere  ( as used to happen with old  . 

my background is that my father owns a service station and 
i worked there on and off from 10 19 years of age. please 
feel free to be as technical as you want. ) 

i 'd appreciate hearing any tips suggestions offers of free 
beer. grin 

, 

chris 

from 
subject re mr2 seats for sale 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 40 
nntp posting host vaxa . isc . rit . edu . 

in article ,  ( lee groves ) writes 
from article , by 
i have a pair of sport seats from '85 mr2 for sale , blue black. 

as the owner of an mr2 , and having several friends who own them , 
i am very uncomfortable when i see an ad like this. i have known 
several people who have lost the seats from their mr2 in the middle 
of the night to support the celica retro fit trade. and the 
insurance companies have been very miserable to deal with 
in all cases. 

when these seats are seen for sale , they are most often stolen .  . 
so it would be nice to see a statement saying where they came from. 
that would at least help to the fear that someone 
is making a buck at someone elses expense .  . 

i 'll give this seller the benefit of the doubt , but people should be 
aware the the vast majority of mr2 seats on the market especially 
those that are in celicas are stolen .  . 


lee 

( btw they are incredible seats .  .  .  . so if it 's legit , go for it ! ) 



i am the original owner of the seats and the original poster. 
i take very serious offence in your statement. 
i see a lot of computers on the net , and my friend just had been 
of his machine all the net computer ads are for stolen computers 
where did you learn logic 

as for the seats , they were replaced by a much harder  ( literally ) celica gts 
seats due to my back problem. that is why i had to reuse the mr2 brackets 
and that 's why the mr2 seats i sell are attached to celica brackets .  . 

please in the future think before you make allegations like the above. 
it hurts. 
mike . s . 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re viper car alarms 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 48 

writes 

in article , (ronald e garnett ) writes 
hello auto enthusiasts ! 


stuff deleted 

viper also sells some fancy field disturbance sensor that 
supposedly detects people the car .  .  .  .  . 


this is primarily for convertibles .  . i have a convertible and have looked at 
this feature in detail. alpine actually makes a better radar unit if you want 
to get one of these. it has zones in it that can be shut down independently so 
that if one side of your car has pedestrian traffic or something else that 
would trigger an alarm , it shuts down the zone , or rather , pulls it in tighter .  . 
i do n't see the real benefit to these unless you have a convertible that you 
leave the top down on. 

avoid the voice alarm that can be added to the radar package. it talks to 
people as they walk by. i saw one installed on a lotus esprit .  . the kids would 
it seeing how close they could get before it  warned  them to get back. 
the owner finally disabled it , which defeats the purpose in my mind. 

stuff deleted 

ron 


more stuff deleted 

merrill 

my neighbor runs a  ( viper(r ) and installs them on all 
saturns sold in my area  ( anne county ,  . he has an sc with the 
viper voice alarm installed. the alarm does everything , turn on the car , 
the radio , the heater , roll down windows , unlock the doors .  .  .  . the alarm goes 
off more frequently on hot days when a person walks by. it gets sensitive up 
to about 5 feet in heat. it is n't as bad as siren alarms , 
because it does n't continue to wail , it just says protected by viper , please 
stand back ! and shuts up .  .  .  .  ( mainly because the person walks away 
befuddled ! ! ! ) 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from (andrew krenz ) 
subject re impala ss going into production ! 
distribution na 
lines 40 

in  ( dunn jonathan james ) writes 

(andrew krenz ) writes 

i personally like the looks of the impala ss. the caprice was definately 
weird looking until this year when they made the rear wheel look 
more like a normal car , but the impala impresses me. gm ca n't exactly shove 
the lt1 in everything they make , you know , only the bigger stuff. i 'd like 
to see it next in a 1500 series pickup .  . that would be a hot setup. 


what about in a full size blazer as well would this engine have the gobs 
of torque necessary for off roading if so , this would be even better than 
the syclone .  . 

well , an lt1 blazer would n't come close to a gmc typhoon in speed , i think its 
too heavy .  . as it is right now , the normal 5.7 engine has plenty of 
power for a full size blazer .  . of course , i'm not saying gm should n't put the 
lt1 in it ) .  . it seems like they have a real winner with that engine. why 
spend so much more money into getting a 32 valve dohc v8 when you can take 
an lt1 it even seems to get pretty good gas mpg  ( for a 5.7 , that is . ) . 


talking about impala ss 
will this be in the 4 door caprice body i'm just curious if chevy is 
trying to their 2 door muscle cars , or to compete with the european 
super sedans .  . 

yeah , it 's a flat black , lowered 4 door caprice riding on 17 aluminum rims and 
eagle gs c tires. the rest of the car is basically a caprice  ( read 
police package) with 300 horsepower .  . 

i heard that chevy is resurrecting the monte carlo but that 's going to get 
their 3.4 dohc v6 and not the lt1 .  . 

jon dunn 


andrew 


from state . edu . (brian j queiser ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
nntp posting host top . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 96 

 . peterson ) writes 
 ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 
( the bald runner ) writes 

i just have got to remind all of you that this is it ! yes , 
that 's right , somtime this fall , ford (the of cars) 
will be introducing an all new , mega cool 
way too fast for accord drivers mustang .  . it 's supposed to be 
100 streamlined , looking similar to the mach iii concept car 
ford came out with around january .  . i ca n't wait. anyone out 
there hear anything about it recently 

if everything i 've read is correct , ford is doing nothing but re 
the existing mustang , with minor suspension modifications .  . 
and the pictures i 've seen indicate they did n't do a very good job 
of it. 
the new mustang , is nothing but a re cycle of a 20 year old car. 

gee .  .  .  .  . is it 1999 already 
yes , it will still be on the fox program chasis , anything that will be 
nt on the new car as far as mechanical 's is unknown. the suspension will most 
likely be changed , as well as the drive drain .  . from what has been printed on 
it , there is no clear idea of what will be done , as some say it will have 
the modular v8 and others the current small block .  .  .  . just have to wait and see 
also is far as styling goes from what i seen is good , a return to tradition .  . 
c scoop on the sides and roof line much like a '65 or '66 fastback .  . 

you know , i'm a ford fan , i must say , so i'm looking forward to the next 
mustang .  . i have faith that it will be a fine product , more desireable 
than the camaro is now. you know , that 's mho .  . 

the differences these days between ford and gm are not so much the quality , 
just the philosophy .  . it used to be quality and philosophy .  . gm is 
barely catching up , but they have more room for improvement that 
can only be made up in time. still come off the assembly line 
with screwed up paint stripes and poor trunk door hood panel 
it 's those 75 year old plants. and the latest gm products still come 
with the standard equipment (tm) .  . but like i said , they 're 
getting better and making the move in the right direction. 

they beat ford to the market with the camaro firebird , but really only 
in words. production of these vehicles will be limited until the 
end of the year , keeping selling prices above msrp for the most part 
since there are so many twitching camaro fans out there. i would n't 
press ford to hurry the mustang since the final wait could be worth it. 
besides , no bow tie fanatic is gonna buy the mustang anyway. 

i do not put much stock in the mag rags  inside information , or even 
ford rep quotes. the taurus was pretty much a surprise when it was 
finally disclosed in it 's entirety .  . inside information had the 
taurus with a v8 and rear wheel drive at one point. i would n't look 
for a simple re mustang , folks you may be cheating yourself 
if you do. there 's a lot of potential. ford has n't released a new 
car without a 4 wheel is in 7 years. the mustang project has been 
for at least 4 , right a 4 wheel is could happen. those 
modular v8 's are out there , too. in the interest of cafe and 
competition , do n't rule those out , either. your ignorant if you do. 
and there are so many spy shots and artist renderings out there , 
who really knows what it 'll look like the mach iii doubt it. 
highly .  . 

the next mustang will be ford 's highest profile car. it attracts 
way more attention than the camaro firebird because it 's heritage 
is more embedded in the general public. do n't lie to yourself and 
believe ford will forfeit that. 

i submit that the mustang will be a success. enough to elicit 
defensive remarks from some heavy camaro fans here. you know , 
intelligent , critical spews like , the mustang bites , man ! some of 
you are already beginning. i predict that the mustang and camaro 
will be comparable , as usual. i predict that the 
differences will be in subjective areas like looks and feel , as usual. 
the camaro is still a huge automobile the mustang will retain its 
cab styling and short , pony car wheelbase .  . the camaro still 
reaches out to the fighter pilot , while the mustang will appeal to 
the driver. the camaro will still sell to the muscle car set , while 
the mustang will continue to sell to the college muscle car set. 
both will be more refined (i do think the camaro is) .  . there will be 
no clear winner. 

unless the ford gets the 32v , 300hp romeo .  . you do n't seriously believe 
that it was designed for the mark viii only , do you 

) 

regards , 

brian 

state . edu . 

i am the engineer , i can choose k. 

department of engineering mechanics 
ohio state university 
columbus , oh 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re nissan  ( was re manual shift bigots wanted) 
organization university of westminster 
lines 10 

thanx craig .  .  .  .  . in addition to and to clear up any 
further confusion .  .  .  .  . the 200sx  ( of usa) was reffered to as a silvia turbo 
in the uk .  .  .  .  . performance figures of uk 200sx are 

0 60 6 . 4s . 

 .  .  . shaz .  .  . 
oh one more q you know that new prelude vtec well is there an auto version 
in the usa i 've heard of them in japan but not uk .  . also , do you guys get 
auto 

from state . edu . (brian j queiser ) 
subject re changing oil by self. 
keywords n 
nntp posting host top . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
state . edu . 
distribution usa 
lines 29 

state . edu . (steven j orlin ) writes 
(andrew infante ) writes 

you 're actually worried about somebody stealing 
your oil 

ahhh yes , andrew , we meet again .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . no . , not  stealing  the oil , just draining it as to leave me stranded .  . 

c'mon , you think a vandal 'll do that ! 

let me guess , you 're from hudson ohio 

hey ! what 's this hudson crap 
actually , the only place my car has ever been broken into was in hudson 
at my in laws  ( in their  . took my and some change. 
damn kids. 

regards , 

brian 

state . edu . 

i am the engineer , i can choose k. 

department of engineering mechanics 
ohio state university 
columbus , oh 

from 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
nntp posting host vaxa . isc . rit . edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( eliot ) writes 
in article  ( thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) writes 
are there any mr2 owners or motor head gurus out there , that know why 
my mr2 's engine sounds noisy the mr2 's engine is noisy at the best of times , 
but not even a nice nose it 's one of those very ugly noises .  . 

assuming yours is a non turbo mr2 , the gruffness is characteristic of 
a large inline 4 that does n't have balance shafts .  . i guess toyota 
did n't care about little details like that when they can brag about 
the mid engine configuration and the flashy styling .  . 

myself , i automatically cross out any car from consideration  ( or 
recommendation ) which has an inline 4 larger than 2 liters and no 
balance shafts .  .  . it is a good rule of thumb to keep in mind if you 
ever want a halfway decent engine. 

if the noise really bugs you , there is nothing else that you can do 
except to sell it and get a v6 .  . 


eliot 

eliot is right about 2.2 liter engine in the second  ( and last) generation 
mr2 's .  . but the original guy did not indicate the year of his mr2 .  . if it 's a 
first generation car  ( like my '85 ) , it has 1.6 liter engine  ( or perhaps 
same engine with a , if it 's '87 '89) .  . 
the sound he describes is common to any older toyota engine i ever heard. 
i do n't know the relevance of his observations about oil changes , my simply 
makes noise. not all that annoying , mind you. but you hear it well when the 
engine is right behind your left ear ) 
mike . s . 

from  ( bruce s. winters ) 
subject re warped brake discs on '91 taurus l 
lines 54 
nntp posting host 192 . 19 . 33 . 90 . 
organization united technologies research center 

in article ( joe thielen ) writes 
xref rec . autos . misc . consumers . 
newsgroups rec . autos . , misc . consumers . 
path 
! ! ! ! uunet ! ! zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! magnus . acs . 
 . ohio . state . edu . ! csn ! cherokee ! joe 
from ( joe thielen ) 
subject re warped brake discs on '91 taurus l 
message id 
sender  ( radio free boulder ) 
nntp posting host advtech . uswest . com . 
organization u s west advanced technologies 
references 

date wed , 14 apr 1993 22 58 21 gmt 
lines 23 


in article 
 ( antonio l. balsamo  ( save the wails ) writes 

from  ( dana merrill ) 
subject re warped brake discs on '91 taurus l 

anyone else had the same problem 

well , i have an '92 taurus gl .  . apparently they still have n't fixed the 
problem with the rotors .  . i 've got 26k miles on the clock and i'm getting 
the rotors  ( and pads ) replaces tonight .  .  . at . my expense of course. 

tony 



i owned a ford mustang 4 that had endless brake problems. the bad 
thing was that it had all other kinds of problems too. spent 2 months 
in the shop in the first 2 years i owned it  ( bought new) .  . so i got 
rid of it , and will more than likely not buy a ford product in the 
future. the thing that really ticked me off was how ford treated me. 
they were such jerks it was unbelievable ! 

joe 


in the past few years i have owned 3 mustang gts and now own a 91 t bird sc .  . 
they all have had this problem. there was a recall on the t bird for the brake 
problem. the ford dealer replaced the rotors and pads but the rotors warp 
after about 10k miles. between this problem and the fit and finish problems on 
the t bird i 'll never buy a ford again. 


bruce s. winters 
united technologies research center e. hartford ct. usa 


from  ( desmond chan ) 
subject re honda clutch chatter 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 8 
nntp posting host tartarus . uwa . edu . au . 
x newsreader nn version 6 . 4 . 19 . 1 

i also experience this kinda problem in my 89 bmw 318 .  . during cold 
start ups , the clutch seems to be sticky and everytime i drive out , for 
about 5km , the clutch seems to stick onto somewhere that if i depress 
the clutch , the whole chassis moves along. but after , it 
becomes smooth again. i think that your suggestion of being some 
is right but there should be some remedy .  . i also found out that 
my clutch is already thin but still alright for a couple grand more ! 


from  ( eliot ) 
subject re best radar detector valentine 1 
organization  r us 
lines 32 
nntp posting host lanmola . engr . washington . edu . 


re extended ka bands. 

i recently bought a 2 band detector .  . you guys must all think i'm 
nuts , right well , i did a little research into ka usage in this 
area and found out that ka is not currently being used in this state 
as well as surrounding states. here 's how i found out 

a cop friend who did spend time nailing does n't even know 
what ka is. he 's heard of k , which is what they use here and i 
explained that ka is used for photo radar etc .  .  . he then said , yeah , 
ka stands for k automatic ...  . he then went on to say that 
plans were being made for getting laser guns as far as going high 
tech were concerned , but he did n't know too much. 

my 8 year old 2 band whistler was consistently going off at speed traps , 
even the real sneaky ones. 

when i called the escort shop , they confirmed that ka is not used here 
or in surrounding states. they did claim that laser was being used 
a lot here , which i was quite skeptical of. 

so in the end , instead of spending a lot of money and or waiting 
months for a state of the art detector , i got a low priced , high 
performance 2 band escort 2200 .  . incidentally its performance is equal 
to their top of the line model in x and k band detection .  . i know that 
escort has been surpassed by other brands lately , but i 've never fully 
relied on a detector and i was convinced that the escorts would be at 
least quite good , which was good enough for me and my wallet. 


eliot 

from  ( outatime ) 
subject thoughts on the vw corrado vr6 
keywords vw corrado 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 6 


i was curious as to what people thought of the vw corrado vr6 
that 's about it .  .  .  . 




from (keith chong ) 
subject re lexus and infiniti 
nntp posting host mothra . nts . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 31 

in article writes 
first off , the correct spelling of nissan 's luxury automobile division 
is infiniti not infinity .  . i would also like to clear up the question 
of what kind of engines power lexus and infiniti automobiles , since a 
person had remarked in earlier posts that most lexus and infiniti models 
had v6 engines , while at the same time saying that several of each 
manufacturer used v8 engines. 

lexus 
v8 
gs300 v6 
es300 v6 
v8 
sc300 v6 

the gs300 and sc300 have an inline 6. 


infiniti 
v8 
v6 
g20 inline 4 (i must admit that i cannot remeber for sure here) 

inline 4 is correct. 


i hope this helps. 



keith 

from  ( markus strobl 98121 ) 
subject re license plates 
nntp posting host st83 . ericsson . se . 
reply to 
organization ericsson telecom ab 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( edi guerra ) writes 
i would like to know if anyone still has a copy of the list of license plates 
that were posted some time ago regarding special names and sayings .  . 

, 




me too ! 

markus 



from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject emergency brake on opel  ( was '86 nissan maxima ) 
keywords nissan 
organization university of westminster 
lines 5 

since we 're on the subject of brakes .  .  .  .  . does anyone know why a 4wd 
opel drive to the rear wheels when the brakes are applied 
boast about how the car is more stable in fwd mode during braking than in 4wd 
mode .  .  .  .  . how is this so 
 .  .  . shaz .  .  .  . 

from (craig boyle ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 27 

in article (james p. callison ) writes 
in article  ( zauberer ) writes 
disclamer this is not a flame .  .  . if you anger easily please go on. 
 . peterson ) writes 

the next mustang will be ford 's highest profile car. it attracts 
way more attention than the camaro firebird because it 's heritage 
is more embedded in the general public. do n't lie to yourself and 
believe ford will forfeit that. 

fyi they already did. 

oh , really. when 

too bad that the current mustang ca n't even compete with the new 
camaro without using an active imagination. 

the '93 mustang cobra can. check it out. 

so you think a 93 mustang cobra can match the performance of a new z28 
interesting belief ! 

craig 

 ( who neither owns , nor wants to own any gm or ford product) 

craig 

from  ( steve yavorski ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
distribution usa 
organization paramax systems , , pa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host ivy . paramax . com . 

in article  ( bob kehoe ) writes 

curiously  ( and consider these are test 
vehicles) , i found the mercury higher 
in build quality than the nissan .  . 

this is very curious being that they are both built by mercury in the 
very same factory .  . 

steve 

stephen internet 
integration phone (215) 443 7500 
paramax systems corporation 
, pennsylvania 

from 
subject buying a used car ... 
reply to 
organization university of albany , suny 
lines 14 

i have a few questions about the tax on a used car purchase. 
i live in new york state , and i am going to buy a used car. 
i know that i will have to pay tax when i go to register the car. 
but i would like to know of tax is payed on the book value of the car , or 
on the purchase price. also , what tax rate is used the owner lives in 
albany (8 tax) , and i will be living in saratoga with 7 tax. 
do i pay albany tax or saratoga tax (the difference is a whole 50) 
one more thing , how much does it cost for the usual 2 year registration 

did i leave anything out what else might i have to know to purchase and 
register a used car (i 've never done this before . ) . 

thank you , 
peter 

from  ( kris schludermann ) 
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting 
nntp posting host ssc . gov . 
organization superconducting super collider laboratory 
lines 11 

in article ,  ( jonathan r. lusky ) writes 

shifting without the clutch on a transmission with can and will cause 
transmission damage , the only question being how long it grenade 
something  ( for the trans in my 87 pulsar se , it was about 3 5k miles , but 
it had a weak tranny in the first place) .  . 

please explain the why of this. i have over 200k miles usage of clutchless 
shift and no problems. 

krispy 

from  ( timothy s newman ) 
subject domestic content of us japan joint ventures 
organization department of computer science , michigan state university 
lines 15 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host howell . cps . msu . edu . 
originator 


does anyone know what the domestic content is of any of these 
geo prizm , eagle talon , ford probe 



all are made in the us , but i have been told they contain mostly 
foreign parts. please follow up directly to me , i 'll post the 
findings to the net if there is interest. 

thanks ! 
tim newman 




from technik . tu . muenchen . dbp . de .  ( christian huebner ) 
subject re last of the v 8 interceptors  ( mad max ) 
organization technical university of munich , germany 
lines 11 

writes 

tony , i believe , first of all , that max 's car is an austrailian 
built car. i do n't think its a chopped up u.s. unit. 

the last v8 in mad max is based on a holden  . holden is 
linked with gm  ( vauxhall gb ) and so they 're quite unlikely to use 
ford parts. 

chris technik . tu . muenchen . de . 


from (andrew klossner ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
reply to 
organization tektronix color printers , wilsonville , oregon 
lines 17 


the villager quest seem like the best of the voyager 
copies to come along since the mazda mpv .  . 

i 'll agree about villager but not mpv it 's so small that i 'd class 
it as a suv with an extra seat shoehorned in. to get any rear cargo 
space , you shove the back seat up against the middle seat , eliminating 
all leg room. 

back to the villager ... 

only the price is controversial .  . 

and the use of attack belts instead of 3 point belts .  . that killed it 
for me. 

andrew klossner 

from (robert bell) 
subject honda civic saturn sl1 info needed 
distribution na 
expires fri , 7 may 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
nntp posting host plains . nodak . edu . 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
lines 17 

to anyone with experience about honda civic (ex or dx ) or saturn sl1 

i would be interested in knowing how reliable these cars are , how expensive 
they are to own and operate  ( parts , maintenance , gas , insurance) , if the 
dealers are good , and if they actually live up to their economy image. 

another question what would i expect to pay for a civic ex coupe with 
automatic , air , and an am fm radio 

mail to the address below or post to this group. 

thanks , 

rob 




from  ( joe staudt ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization corporation 
lines 30 

in article (andrew a. 
spencer ) writes 

in a previous article , () says 

in article 
 ( eliot ) writes 

the subarus all use 180 degree in their engines .  .  . ) 


eliot 

would n't that make them an i4 or would they 
really be an 4  ( henceforth referred to as 
underscore 4 ) 

i think that it is known as a 180 degree vee configuration .  . 
 ( could be wrong .  .  .  . this . is how i 've seen them referred to) 
drew 

i 've always heard them referred to horizontally opposed ... 

joe 


joseph staudt , corp. 
p.o. box 5582 usenet is like tetris for people who still 
akron , oh 0582 remember how to read. 
(216) 867 3700 j. heller 

from  ( doug zolmer ) 
subject re honda clutch chatter 
nntp posting host 
reply to  ( doug zolmer ) 
organization bell northern research ltd. 
lines 23 

in article , (james bruder ) writes 
anyone else experiencing a similar problem 

this concerns the clutch on a 92 honda accord 5 speed. when the clutch 
is first used in the morning , about the first 4 miles of shifting , there 
is a significant amount of clutch chatter until things warm up. then the 
clutch shifts smoothly .  . this chatter started when i moved to the san 
francisco bay area from a low humidity environment. the dealer stated 
that this is known to happen since honda changed from an asbestos to 
non asbestos clutch material. no remedy ! ! seems that moisture on clutch 
surface causes slipping until the moisture evaporates .  . 

any comments out there 

the clutch on my '92 honda civic ex v (ex in the u . s . ) . does this too. 
it 's annoying. now that i think about , it is worse when the humidity is 
high. the dealer also claims there 's nothing they can do since the clutch is 
a self adjusting hydraulic design . yeah , right. 


doug zolmer internet disclaimer my opinions only 
bell northern research ltd. ottawa , ontario , canada 
dept. service control point routing services design conform moooo ! 

from  ( steve hui ) 
subject re new '94 talon 
organization national capital freenet , ottawa , canada 
lines 21 


i would also be interested in finding out about the '94 talon , 
and i suspect that many other people would be interested too , 
so let 's get some responses on the net. 

the question again 
does anyone have any info on the 1994 eagle talon mitsubishi 
eclipse plymouth laser 

i know that the old talon was based on the mitsubishi galant , 
and that in japan , a 240 hp twin turbo v6 1994 galant has been 
released. 

so anyway , any info on the '94 talon would be appreciated. 

steve hui 

from  ( gordon hamachi ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
organization adobe systems incorporated 
distribution usa 
lines 38 

i came across this interesting information in my local public library while 
researching minivans .  . it is the dealer price and the retail price for a 
minivan i am thinking about purchasing .  . someone told me that the number for 
base price was slightly lower than the current price , but this should still 
give you some idea about pricing and how much you can negotiate .  . 


mercury villager gs 
dealer retail 
base price 
air conditioning 729 
rear defroster 143 168 
calif. emissions 87 102 
7 passenger seating 282 332 
am fm radio (no cassette ) std std 
automatic transmission std std 
anti lock brakes std std 
destination 540 540 

the total dealer cost is 
the total retail price is 



nissan quest 
dealer retail 
base price 
air conditioning std std 
rear defroster std std 
calif. emissions 59 70 
7 passenger seating std std 
am fm cassette std std 
automatic transmission std std 
anti lock brakes 593 700 
destination 540 540 

the total dealer cost is 
the total retail price is 

from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 25 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( jonathan r. lusky ) says 

in article writes 
i'm not familiar with the used in winston cup , but in the trans am 
cars i 've played with the transmissions were the racing variety , with 
dog clutches instead of  . in a transmission with dog clutches , the 
gears are always engaged with each other and moving the dog clutches 
engages the gears to the shafts .  . motorcycle transmissions are the same way. 
shifting without the clutch on a transmission with can and will cause 
transmission damage , the only question being how long it grenade 
something  ( for the trans in my 87 pulsar se , it was about 3 5k miles , but 
it had a weak tranny in the first place) .  . 

just out of curiosity , how is this dog clutch any different from a 
transmission .  . what you described sounds the same to me. in fact , what little 
i 've studied on , the instructor referred to the synchros as dogs 
and said they were synonymous .  . the gears are always in a synchronized 
gearbox , and you slip the gears back and forth by shifting .  . or at least , 
that is what i was taught .  . explain , por favour 

thanx 
drew 
ps email 's fine if this is inappropriate for here , or if i'm the only 
who does n't know the diff. 

from  ( dan hepner ) 
subject re dirty diesels 
distribution na 
nntp posting host cup . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 . 8 . 
lines 31 


from  ( kumaravel natarajan ) 

but they can put out a lot of particulate matter. i heard 
something about legislation being discussed to clean up 
diesel emissions . is there anything in the works to 
install scrubbers for diesels how about the feasibility 
of installing them on trucks and cars would it be any 
different than a converter i 'd assume easier , 
since we 're removing particulate matter instead of converting 
gasses .  . let 's hear people 's opinions .  .  .  . 

the technology cummins is applying to diesels to comply with 
the newer ca. emissions laws involves three things i know of 

1. all compliant diesels are turbocharged .  . 
2. all use an , which cools the air which was heated 
by compression by the turbocharger  ( up to about 25  . 
3. a on the injector pump which senses the pressurized air 
intake , and limits full delivery of fuel while the pressure is 
low. 

no scrubbers , converters , etc , are used. the path from 
the turbocharger to the exhaust outlet is kept very free. 

interestingly , except for the low pressure fuel limitation , power output 
and mileage are enhanced by these measures. one can buy aftermarket 
and which generate more power , lots more power , 
and these are approved by the carb .  . 

dan 

from  ( grayson walker ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
organization a . s . i .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 3 


bob excellent ! to the point and correct ! spread the word. 


from  ( mark w. rice ) 
subject re review 1989 ford taurus sho 
nntp posting host mozart . columbiasc . ncr . com . 
organization ncr corp. , columbia sc 
lines 17 

in article (david bonds ) writes 

gk occasionally , i have trouble shifting into reverse .  . the shifter 
gk refuses to enter the gate , and i often grind the synchros trying to 
gk get it into gear. i 'll be watching this carefully in the next couple 
gk of months. 

enter 1st , wait 2 3 seconds and then go into reverse .  . they use the same 
synchros , and you 'll never (at least i have n't) ground em to fit when using 
this technique. 

or do like the manual says and put it in 3rd first , then you can quickly 
go into reverse .  .  .  . no waiting. 

mark 

mark rice 803 791 my views. 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 35 

 ( cris hannu ) writes 

in article , (the devil reincarnate ) writes 

i am curious about knowing which commericial cars today 
have v engines. 

v4 i do n't know of any. 
v6 legend , 
v8 do n't know of any. 

yeah , right .  .  .  .  . 

the bmw are 's or v12 's , ca n't remember which .  .  .  . the auto show was 
a while ago. 

the 850 is a v12  ( 5l , from the 750il ) is there a 835 or 840 

v12 jaguar 


please add to the list. 
thanks , 
s 


cris the high country. 
cray research , inc. 
boulder , co 
) 



chintan amin the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re thoughts on the vw corrado vr6 
keywords vw corrado 
organization university of westminster 
lines 8 

in the ec , the corrado vr6 is rated as  best handling car this side of a 
 . as it goes , i just read an article in  motor  comparing the 
vr6 to a ford probe  ( later to be launched in the uk) .  .  .  .  . the vr6 is more powerful  ( even more so coz its 2.9 instead of 2.8 in the ec ) and more fun to drive 
etc etc .  .  .  . but the probe has a slightly smoother engine  ( thanx mazda mx6 ! ) .  .  .  . 

they sum it up as  both cars are fast the vr6 is a bit more to 
drive but only if you 're prepared to work harder  
 .  .  .  . shaz .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( kevinh ) 
subject re opel owners 
originator 
reply to 
organization ag 
lines 10 


in article ,  ( matthew liggett ) writes 


manta 's are also ve hot and fun cars too. 

thanks for that , i have n't laughed so much in 
ages ! 



from (c b fowler ) 
subject re what is the deal with blue book value of an auto 
organization georgia tech research institute 
lines 37 

in article  ( vicki newton ) writes 

i am in the process of buying a new auto .  . i have n't decided yet whether 
i should sell my current car myself or trade it in as part of the new 
auto purchase. 

i know that the blue book value for the car is  . an 
has offered to give me blue book value for the car. i am just wondering 
if this is a standard measure for negotiating a resale price or if i 
can hope to get more money from someone else. what exactly is blue book 
value based on i know that for its year  ( 88 ) my car has low mileage 
( 50 , 000) .  . it is in excellent working condition but does have a few 
dings on the exterior  ( nothing  . do any of these facts alter the 
fair selling p rice of the car i am not looking to rip anyone off , i 
just naturally want to get the best price for the car. 

thanks a million , 


a dealer will make money off you in three ways , if you let him 

1) new car markup over his cost  ( remember his hold back ) , 
2) arranging financing through the dealership , and 
3) screwing you on the trade. 

keep the deal with the dealer simple by eliminating 2 3. buying a car at 
dealer 's cost is meaningless if he makes 1000 on the trade and or gets a 
kickback from the bank. 

blue book  ( you need to know if you 're talking average wholesale or average 
retail ) is a good guide to value for a car. if you are selling it yourself , 
try to get average retail , and chances are you 'll have done ok. 

be careful selling to acquaintances if you ever want them to become friends. 

c. b. fowler 


from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
in reply to state . edu . 's message of sat , 24 apr 1993 15 06 53 gmt 
lines 25 
state . edu . 
organization ibm toronto lab 

in article state . edu . state . edu . (brian j queiser ) writes 



flat 180 deg v opposed 

usually , it also equals boxer , however , i think the term is 
traditionally reserved for 8 's and 12 's  ( and firing order  . 
this was talked about here in r.a many months back i ca n't remember 
the consensus .  . 

examples 

ferrari 's is a flat 12 boxer .  . 
porsche 's 911 is a flat 6. 
subaru 's impreza is a flat 4. 

regards , 

brian 

bmws boxer twin ! (no two here ) been around since 1923 .  . i think the 
other examples are johnny come  .  .  . i may be wrong so no flames please .  .  . 

jeff goss 

from 
subject mg t series for sale 
reply to () 
distribution na 
organization instructional computing center , suny at oswego , oswego , ny 
lines 31 
originator 


1954 mg tf with frame up restoration in early '70 's a local show winner ! 
driven very little and stored inside since then mostly collected dirt 
dust. needs attention to brake cylinders  ( like all mg t 's) but otherwise 
ready to run. chrome paint not fancy but it is mechanically excellent. 
the engine , a , was completely overhauled by a machine shop. it is 
priced at 12 , 000 .  . 

1953 mg td good shape but has n't been run since '70 's .  . needs engine work , 
but no rust and everything is with it including a top , side curtains and 
carpet that were new and have n't seen the outdoors since the '70 's .  . 9 , 500. 

1952 mg td basket case. i 'd call it a parts car , but it 's too good 
for that. everything seems to be there except the tach .  . would make 
a good project car or parts car if you insist .  . no apparent rust but the 
upholstery is a disaster .  . stored inside since the '70 's .  . the top was 
new but now  . this one has wire wheels ! looking for 4 , 500. 

all three cars will be sold as they stand with no hassles or  . 
time has passed by and it is time to part company. prices are negotiable .  . 

reply via or u.s. mail to p. o. box 1015 
315 341 oswego , ny 




harry matthews internet 
learning resources satellite tv bitnet 
s . u . n . y .  . college cable tv voice mail 315 341 
oswego , ny alloy pc mho 's are mine , not s . u . n . y .  . oswego 's .  . 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re horizontally opposed boxer engines  ( was v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization  r us 
lines 76 
nntp posting host 192 . 42 . 145 . 4 . 

in article state . edu . state . edu . (brian j queiser ) writes 
none of the configurations are perfectly inherently balanced , which 
is what i was talking about. balance shafts and mass on either 
ends of the cranks can eliminate these forces moments , which is 
something i also pointed out. 

and did n't you also say that it was easier to add masses than to 
add balance shafts the sad truth is that some makers do n't 
bother to put balance shafts on their big shaky 4 's .  .  . 

the three cranks i refer to i 

i 1 4 i4 
even firing  ( 180 deg ) 
1 4 
k 2 3 j fp 0 
mp 0 
2 3 fs  ( 4(r l)zcos2t ) 
ms 0 

j 

j 1 4 
even firing  ( 180 deg ) 
k 1 4 
2 3 i fp 0 
mp 0 
2 3 fs 0 
a crank spacing ms  ( 2a(r l)zcos2t ) 


j 
j 
1 3 
1 2 
even firing  ( 180 deg ) 
k 
i fp 0 
mp 
4 3 fs 0 
2 4 ms 0 


how about 
1 3 






2 4 

if this is ridiculous , kindly explain why .  .  . it 's been more than 10 years 
since i studied this stuff. ) 

flat 4s and both have the potential to be nearly vibration 
free. because subaru does that has nothing to do with in 
general or porsche .  . 

i think subaru somehow connecting themselves to porsche is an 
absurdity , and i'm not a porsche fan. big wing dings .  . these 
configurations , overhead cams , etc , etc , etc , have been around 
for nearly 100 years. 

the point that they are trying to make is that while everybody settles 
for the orthodox inline 4 , they are using a horizontally opposed 4 , 
which is unique in that market segment .  . and porsche also uses a flat 
six in their 911 , so what 's the problem i do n't see any claim that 
their engine is as good as a porsche 's .  .  . they are simply pointing out 
that they use the same configuration as a porsche .  .  . if you want to 
nitpick ad campaigns , i think there are far more blatant excesses than 
this. 


eliot 

from  ( markus strobl 98121 ) 
subject re what car is this ! 
nntp posting host st83 . ericsson . se . 
reply to 
organization ericsson telecom ab 
lines 31 

in article news . ctron . com . ,  ( lawrence c smith) writes 
in article , (robert seymour ) writes 
in article (where 's my thing) writes 
it was called a bricklin .  . 

were manufactured in the 70s with engines from ford .  . 

, did n't the bricklin have an six cylinder or am i 
confusing it with the i was sure the had a v8 .  . 


the had the yucky v6 engine. a joint venture between  ( note 
spelling) , renault and volvo .  .  . this engine is a mighty boring piece of 
junk with approx 140hp .  . does n't like revs at all. 

if you look at the in the movie back to the future you will note 
that they changed the engine sound to a big v8 .  . a real does n't sounds 
half as good. you will also note that every time they have to spin the tires 
in the movie the ground is all wet. this is because a ca n't make 
a on a dry road ! the weak engine thats mounted over the rear axle 
makes it almost impossible. 

markus 
larry smith no , i do n't speak for cabletron .  . need you ask 

liberty is not the freedom to do whatever we want , 
it is the freedom to do whatever we are able .  . 





from (andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re impala ss going into 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 34 
reply to (andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , george . howell . (george howell ) says 

gm has always screwed the rest of the divisions in favor of the 
corvette .  . the current platform is no exception. the camaro and 
firebird is a load of crap to keep people from realizing that they can 
buy one of these instead of a corvette and save about 10 , 000 .  . 

i like the idea of an impala ss , but if they really wanted to impress 
me , they would throw in a big 454 .  . imagine the cops in their taurus 
police package 3.0 and 3.8 as they stare at your taillights .  .  .  . 


gimme a break ! you know chevy 'd screw that up just like that almost great 
truck with the big 454 . have you ever seen the mufflers on that 
thing it 's amazing it moves .  .  .  . (which . is n't to say it 's not a good idea , 
but i'm quite sure chevy 'd screw it up the same way) 

drew 
george howell 


m m ooo ppp aaa 
mm mm o o p p a a r r 
m m m o o ppp 
m m o o p a a r r 
m m ooo p a a r r 

ford  better living through american horsepower  
george howell 
george . howell . 




from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re questions about insurance companies (esp .  . geico ) 
distribution usa 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 8 

in article  ( ken buck ) writes 
 ( unless you live in an area that gets frequent damaging hail storms ) 

, only about once a week march through may .  .  .  . and sometimes 
in the fall. ) 




from 
subject re mr2 noisy engine. 
nntp posting host vaxa . isc . rit . edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( eliot ) writes 
in article writes 
the sound he describes is common to any older toyota engine i ever heard. 
i do n't know the relevance of his observations about oil changes , my simply 
makes noise. not all that annoying , mind you. but you hear it well when the 
engine is right behind your left ear ) 

i think those with 1.6 mr2 's would describe the engine as sweet if a 
little loud , those with 2.2 mr2 's i ca n't imagine any unbiased person 
paying it any compliments .  . sounded like my ex 's rusty chevy 
chevette .  . with the 1.6 i would want to redline it just for the music , 
with the 2.2 i would short shift so that it would shut up .  .  . the new 
camry 2.2 features balance shafts .  . i guess since the mr2 is getting 
the axe , it is too late for them to do anything about this .  .  . 

it is no mystery that the turbo mr2 is only 2 liters .  .  . the engineers 
had enough integrity to prevent any further abuses .  . also , in europe 
the mr2 non turbo was also only 2 liters .  .  . as usual , the 
undiscriminating american market  ( if it is japanese it must be good) 
gets the dogs .  .  . to be fair , we also got the turbo , which the europeans 

well , the 1.6 is music to my ears. i often turn my stereo off and just run 
it towards red line on nice twisty roads .  . but toyota engines at idle have 
a strange bells and at the bottom of a can sound. i ca n't 
describe it any better. 
just like all the older have a very characteristic sound 
at idle .  . do you know what i'm referring to 
mike . s . 


from  ( zauberer ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast) 
organization purdue university 
distribution usa 
lines 19 

in article 3 . pica . army . mil .  ( tom coradeschi ) writes 

useless road design , speed rate discussion deleted. 

actually , the roads were designated as safe at 80 when they were built 
in the 1950 's taking into account the kinds of cars then available. the 
number would be much higher today because the cars , tires and just about 
everything else has a lot. 

except the drivers. 

thank you ! 

travis disclamer the ideas expressed above are in fact the same as 
my employer , since i have none ) 
e mail , flame , at 




from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re is car saftey important 
organization university of westminster 
lines 10 

i of course car safety is important .  .  . i for one used to think that these 
guys are going way ott with their (sorry del button dont work) and 
side impact bars and crash zones and (the list goes on) just tpo make the 
car  ( and all its penalties ) ... bur recently i had a little accident  ( on 
my bike ) and not as bad as john 's ..... but after the accident it made me 
i should have worn a helmet  ( my mom always i should .  .  .  . i was 
more concerned about my hair style) .  .  .  .  .  . 

a few days i read a report in which the old rea .  .  . rea shit renault 5 
had an accident and its roof caved and crushed the heads .  .  .  . 

from  ( mark goldsworthy ) 
subject re ad said nissan altima best seller 
organization hp sonoma county  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 . 8 . 
lines 21 

spiros triantafyllopoulos wrote 
but , is n't nissan officially registering the car as far as 
government paperwork goes , nissan stanza altima , to avoid costly and 
lengthy paperwork i read this on the net a while ago , and someone 
actually may have said there 's a little stanza logo on the altima 
somewhere. 

i just bought an altima  ( and like it very much) and yes there is a 
little stanza logo ever so placed on the trunk .  . the altima is 
in big silver letters , but the stanza is shunted 
to the far left of the trunk lid .  . you can only see it if you get up 
close to the car and know where to look. it is very inconspicuous .  . 

in fact my first clue that this was a stanza was that the owners manual 
called the car a nissan stanza altima .  . 

anybody know why nissan did it this way 

mark 



from nextsc . cso . uiuc . edu . (paul park ) 
subject re new integra for '94 
distribution rec 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 20 

in article  ( parminder 
bhandari ) writes 
i 've heard unconfirmed rumours that there is a new integra being 
released 
for '94 .  . 
does anybody have any info on this 
the local sales people know as much as i can throw them. 
 . 
 ( still no sig) .  . 

here we go again .  .  .  . 
now these are just rumors .  .  . so dont quote me. 

new integra supposedly wedge shaped again. 175 hp and all wheel drive 
in top models. then a variant called the zx r comes later.  ( roadster ) .  . 

i think it gets unveiled at end of summer. 

nothing about an airbag was mentioned , but im sure it 'll have one. 
along with a nice hefty increase in sticker .  .  .  . 

from  ( uncle in connecticut ) 
subject re what car is this ! 
organization silicon graphics , inc. mountain view , ca 
lines 17 

in news . ctron . com .  ( lawrence c smith) writes 

in article , (robert seymour ) writes 
in article (where 's my thing) writes 
it was called a bricklin .  . 

were manufactured in the 70s with engines from ford .  . 

, did n't the bricklin have an six cylinder or am i 
confusing it with the i was sure the had a v8 .  . 

the used the renault volvo v6 in a rear engine configuration .  . 
the bricklin use some  iron in a front engine rear drive configuration .  . 


steve valin 
i 've just had my brain washed and i ca n't do a thing with it 

from (richard soennichsen ) 
subject re service indicator of a bmw 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
lines 5 

save youself the cash. take it from a bmw mechanic .  . idiot lights are for just that. buy yourself a pen and write it down yourself. change your oil every 3000 mi. and you will be just fine. 

follow the regular service intervals in you r book also. 



from  ( tommy reingold ) 
subject re likelihood of radio being stolen 
reply to 
organization at t bell labs , holmdel , nj , usa 
originator 
nntp posting host hoodlum . l1135 . att . com . 
lines 6 

the question is not whether your radio will be stolen .  . the question is 
when your radio will be stolen .  . 

tommy reingold 
at t bell labs , holmdel , nj 
or att ! ! tommy 

from  ( timothy j gardner ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 47 
nntp posting host pesto . mit . edu . 

in article state . edu . state . edu . (brian j queiser ) writes 

on the subject of the upcoming new mustang 

i do not put much stock in the mag rags  inside information , or even 
ford rep quotes. the taurus was pretty much a surprise when it was 
finally disclosed in it 's entirety .  . inside information had the 
taurus with a v8 and rear wheel drive at one point. i would n't look 
for a simple re mustang , folks you may be cheating yourself 
if you do. there 's a lot of potential. ford has n't released a new 
car without a 4 wheel is in 7 years. the mustang project has been 
for at least 4 , right a 4 wheel is could happen. those 
modular v8 's are out there , too. in the interest of cafe and 
competition , do n't rule those out , either. your ignorant if you do. 
and there are so many spy shots and artist renderings out there , 
who really knows what it 'll look like the mach iii doubt it. 
highly .  . 

the next mustang will be ford 's highest profile car. it attracts 
way more attention than the camaro firebird because it 's heritage 
is more embedded in the general public. do n't lie to yourself and 
believe ford will forfeit that. 


the car magazines have printed a lot of information about the new mustang 
and the consensus about what to believe in my car circle is that the 
suspension pieces and tuning will be almost identical to the current 
cobra , but on a stiffer body structure which will improve its behavior. 
after the  ( thunderbird ) cost and weight debacle , ford decided 
independent rear suspension with rear wheel drive wo n't be tried again in 
a volume car. 

the current 4 . 9l . v 8 will soldier on for about two years. a version of 
the 32 valve modular v 8 in the mark viii could be offered then. ford 
is spending big money tooling up for 2 . 5l . and 3 . 5l . v 6 engines which will 
power most of their cars in the immediate future , and therefore probably 
do not consider volume production of 300 hp v 8 engines a priority .  . 

, the car looks ok , but not nearly as exciting as the new 
camaro firebird , imo. 

i suspect ford will produce their car with higher quality than gm will 
achieve with the camaro firebird .  . the way gm loses money , the temptation 
to just get them out the door for the sake of positive cash flow will be 
great once demand really takes off. 

tim gardner 

from  ( kumaravel natarajan ) 
subject re dirty diesels 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group 
distribution na 
lines 43 

 ( horace dediu ) writes 

in article ,  ( kumaravel natarajan ) writes 
i heard the diesels are considered cleaner burning than 
gas engines because the emit less of carbon monoxide , 
hydrocarbons , and oxides of nitrogen .  .  ( co , hc , nox) .  . 

but they can put out a lot of particulate matter. i heard 
something about legislation being discussed to clean up 
diesel emissions . is there anything in the works to 
install scrubbers for diesels how about the feasibility 
of installing them on trucks and cars would it be any 
different than a converter i 'd assume easier , 
since we 're removing particulate matter instead of converting 
gasses .  . let 's hear people 's opinions .  .  .  . 

this really bugs me. the emissions of diesels are the cleanest of any vechicle , 
but they are considered so polluting that they are banned in passenger cars 
in california .  . what a bunch of crap. diesel is the fuel of choice for 
enviromental benefit in europe while here it 's illegal for the same reason. 

the particulates are nothing but carbon .  . they are just an annoyance at worst. 
nothing beats the diesel cycle for efficiency and emissions , torque or engine 
durability .  . it 's also cheaper. 

just to clear things up  ( as to why i posted the question that way) .  .  .  . 
i was debating with a co worker about diesels .  . i claimed they were 
cleaner burning than gas engines. he said the extra junk put out by them 
was offset by the savings in greenhouse gasses .  . i made all the same claims 
you did. but , one question of his was what about the carbon i said it 
was harmless , but he wanted to know how to get rid of it. i suggested 
scrubbers .  . (i figured it would be no harder or more expensive to install 
than cats  . ) . does there exist any designs for a (i 'd like 
to know just to answer his final question . ) . i convinced him that diesels 
are cleaner otherwise. 

btw , (i named my subject dirty diesels because i knew it would get a reaction 
out of people who knew they were cleaner than gas engines and that they 'd 
read it .  .  . ) . 


vel natarajan motorola cellular , arlington hts il 


from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re mercury villager minivan good buy 
in reply to wen 's message of 23 apr 1993 14 27 32 gmt 
lines 28 

organization ibm toronto lab 

in article wen  ( wen king su ) writes 


path eclipse ! yktnews . watson . ibm . com . ! watson . ibm . com . ! newsgate . watson . ibm . com . ! news . ans . net . ! europa . eng . gtefsd . com . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! usc ! elroy . jpl . nasa . gov . ! nntp server . caltech . edu . ! wen king 
from wen  ( wen king su ) 
newsgroups rec . autos . 
date 23 apr 1993 14 27 32 gmt 
organization california institute of technology 
lines 9 
references 
nntp posting host neptune . cs . caltech . edu . 
keywords mercury , villager , minivan , van , cars , 

in article (steven a. morris ) writes 
the villager quest seem like the best of the voyager copies to 
come along since the mazda mpv .  . the nissan maxima engine paired with 
the maxima 4 speed auto trans should be an excellent drive train , and 
the rest of the vehicle seems well engineered .  . only the price is 
controversial .  . 

hmm .  . the last time i checked , villager quest does not have a maxima 
engine , and is very much under powered for its weight. 

same engine , different state of tune  ( less hp and maybe more  . my 
friend at work regularly takes 6 people in his and it seems to haul around 
just fine. 

jeff goss 

from  ( will estes ) 
subject states that charges sales tax after trade in 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 11 

which western states have laws that charge sales tax on the difference between 
a new car 's price and the trade in 's value i know california charges you on 
the full value of the new vehicle regardless of trade in. 

if you are a california resident , is it legal to buy a car in a state other than 
california without also paying california sales tax how does california 
enforce any law that requires you to also pay california sales tax  ( on top of 
the out of state tax) 


will estes internet 

from  ( erini doss ) 
subject trucking industry 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 10 

which are them main trucking and 
their locations do you have the name of ac 
a contact person 


thanks .  .  . 

email at 



from (scott fisher ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 30 
nntp posting host wapsy . psy . uwa . oz . au . 

 ( jarmo ahonen ) writes 

(john g. kissane ) writes 

as a matter of interest does anyone know why autos are so popular in the us 
while here in europe they are rare just wondering .  .  .  .  .  . 


many cars sold here in finland are small and cheap cars (at least when 
compared to other cars note that we have over 120 car tax) .  . 
and you could n't expect a good auto to a 1.3 l engine 
most of the bigger cars are , however , sold with autos .  . 

here in australia most cars are manual  ( privately owned anyway) .  . why 
not sure , i think it has something to do with the fact that our car industry 
in the past was more closely aligned with europe than the us in the past. 
now it 's aligned with asia .  . 

scott .  . 

scott fisher ph aus 61 perth (09) local  ( 380 3272) .  . 
n 
department of psychology w e 
university of western australia .  . perth 32s , . . s 
, 6009 .  . perth , w.a. v 

joy is a jaguar xj6 with a flat battery , a blown oil seal and an unsympathetic 
wife , 9km outside of a small remote town , 3 on a cold wet winters morning. 



from  ( bill heiser ) 
subject re ford probe opinions  ( centered around the gt ) 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 152 

in article  ( chuck kesler ) writes 
jeremy g. zonker says 

can anyone offer any opinions of the ford probe .  .  .  . ala how they do in 
the long run , repair records , reliability , mileage , etc 

some other owners on the ford mailing list have commented 
about this problem , but i have n't seen it happen on my 3 month old 
'93 probe gt .  . i think this may be something that ford has corrected since 
the initial batch of cars. also , someone said that ford has issued a 
service bulletin to inform dealers about how to correct this problem , so you 
may be able to get your dealer to fix it. 

i have had my probe looked at twice by my local dealer (where i purchased 
the car) ... the first time , they made this problem worse. the second time , 
after advising them of the service bulletin mentioned on my ford probe mailing 
list  ( they said they did n't know of the bulletin ) , they adjusted the window and 
made it much better. however it now makes a noise on rough 
roads , and still when i open close the window in wet weather  ( anyone 
elses 's do this ) 

ford only gives 1 key with the car. c'mon ford , spend an extra few pennies ! 

i got two keys with my car , but only one remote entry push button ! 
but then , i bought my 93 with 2500 miles , and i think it may have been a 
... so i'm not surprised something was missing ( 

horn buttons behind air bag in spokes and not in center  ( personal preference ) 

i am seriously considering following the advice in the owners manual where 
it describes the procedure to follow if you discover something on your ford 
that could ... cause ... serious injury ... threaten lives ... etc) .  . something 
about notifying the national traffic safety group as well as ford .  . those little 
you 've got to position the fingers perfectly to make it beep buttons are 
terrible. 

the latter is probably because of the air bag. it 's pretty much takes up 
all the space where you 'd expect to find the horn .  . 
speaking of the horn , i was surprised to find that the probe comes with one 
of those nice  sounding horns instead of the japanese sounding kind. 
the previous probes had japanese horns .  . 

well , i guess that 's good in a way , but in a way it 's bad. when someone 
hears that kind of horn , they expect to see a big american car. they may 
not associate the sound with a small jap car style car  ( like the probe is) .  . 

tires fling dirt mud onto side of car 
yeah , not very badly , but enough to be annoying sometimes. 

the help a lot. 

transmission (the 5 speed is a must ) 

i have always been a 5 speed guy. almost every car i 've ever owned has been 
a 5 speed. because i got a good deal on this car with the 2500 miles , i 
 ( knowingly ) overlooked the fact that it has an automatic .  . but it is a pretty 
high tech automatic .  . it is a fully controlled 4 speed with 
torque converter lockup .  . even with the automatic , i'm getting 35 mpg on the 
highway , driving 65 70 ! .  ( but of course driving 65 is illegal , so i 
probably made that sentence up) .  . ) around town the mileage has been 
around 25 27 , not bad for an automatic .  . of course it does n't have the 
control of a 5 speed , but since i do a lot of city driving , it turns out 
to be very convenient .  . it 's nice to be able to drink a cup of coffee and 
drive at the same time  ( although that , too , is illegal here in 
we like to control your life massachusetts ) 


no shake rattle noises when going over bumps potholes  ( still ! ) 

shakes and rattles has been my main gripe .  . i 've gotten them to fix the 
worst of them , but i fear that with the rather harsh ride , the car will 
be a virtual of rattles when it gets older. 

tires 225 goodyear eagles (70 left hoping for 30k ) 

on my 89 probe gl , i got about 40k out of the original , 
and had driven the replacement tires  ( bridgestone ) 50k miles when 
i the car. the 195  ( 65(60 vr14 ) on my 93 probe 
look like they 're designed for performance (ie rather wide , shallow 
tread , etc) , so they probably wo n't last as long. but the car handles 
very very very well. it sticks to the road like glue , even on a rough 
surface. 

interior is very , very nice too. very pleasing to the eye , and ergonomically 
sound. 

definitely .  . ford mazda did a very very nice job on this one. the 
car has a much more expensive than it actually is look and feel to it. 

yes , this car 's stiff suspension is n't for everyone. i personally like it , 
but if you find it a little harsh but otherwise like the car , i 'd strongly 
suggest looking into the mx 6. 

having driven an 89 probe for 4 years , i find the 93 suspension interesting . 
the car actually drives much better than the 89 ... it is a very firm 
ride , and you definitely know about each and every bump in the road. yet 
the car remains very civilized on even the roads .  . you hear and 
feel the bumps , yet the car retains its posture very well. 

if you have 3 passengers , by all means bring them along too. they 'll find 
that they have no room in the back and you 'll find that the car rides 
differently  ( if that 's better is up to you) .  . 

well i would n't encourage passenger carrying in the probe unless the 
person in the front seat likes to sit with his knees to the dash .  . as 
mentioned in the consumer reports write ups , consider the back seat 
as a parcel shelf . no biggie to me though  ( if it had been , i 'd not 
have bought the car !  ( but it 's definitely not a family  . 

also , there 's a lot of glass 
around you which i was n't expecting the temperature inside the car gets pretty 
hot in the summer. 

a c is a must on any probe from 89 93 .  . the 93 in particular sends out 
a real blast of cool air when the ac is on max. that lots of glass you 
mentioned is what gives the car the very good visibility reports you 
see in all the write ups .  . most sports sporty cars do n't have that 
good visibility .  . 

i 've heard that the exhaust system has trouble , but mine works fine. 
i have n't heard about this one. i know that some of the very early probes 
 ( '89 and maybe '90 ) had problems with prematurely rusting mufflers (which 

the complaints i 've heard re exhaust system  ( on 93 's) have been on 
the gt .  . of course being a different engine , that is a 
exhaust system. 

i was one of those with an 89 who qualified for the free replacement .  . 
since i had already replaced the muffler when i received the notice , 
i was am due a refund from ford .  . i applied in february and am still 
waiting. ( 

gave me a free rental car for the day and a half that i was without my 
car. i was quite happy with the way they handled .  .  . especially . considering 
that i was expecting the worst from them ! 

yes. i was pretty amazed when i had my car in for some touch up 
adjustments this past week , and they had to keep it overnight  ( too busy 
for them to get to it) and they offered to pay for a  . they 
did make me pay for taxes and insurance though ( 

from what i 've heard , it sounds like ford mazda had some qc problems with 
the probe  ( and probably mx 6) when they first went into production , but 
i think these problems have mostly been corrected at this point. that 's 
almost always to be expected with a completely new car like this , though. 

i have to agree that they seem to have some qc  . but i seriously 
feel the car design is sound , and expect it to do very well. 


bill heiser , 
boston university , boston ma 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re v4 v6 v8 v12 vx 
organization university of westminster 
lines 3 


anyone anyone heard of a v16t its mainly sold in the middle 
east where they dont have as strict a legislation as in the usa and ec .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast) 
distribution usa 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 32 
nntp posting host 3 . pica . army . mil . 

(craig boyle ) wrote 

 ( zauberer ) writes 
 ( wharfie ) writes 

remember roads in america are not designed for speeds above 80 meaning they 

would be safe at 55 65 .  . roads like the autobahn are smoother , , 
wider and slightly banked .  . 

well , that 's news. before 1975 the speed limit on texas highways 
was 75 .  . the speed limit on the new jersey turnpike (i 95) was 70 .  . there 
were no speed limits in nevada or montana .  . 

i guess i was n't clear enough here. i said the roads were designed for 
speeds of 80 or so and still be safe. the current 55 65 will add a saftey 
margin .  . 


actually , the roads were designated as safe at 80 when they were built 
in the 1950 's taking into account the kinds of cars then available. the 
number would be much higher today because the cars , tires and just about 
everything else has a lot. 

except the drivers. 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from (robert j. wade ) 
subject re the 1994 mustang 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 13 


and way 5.0 and camaro both have drums on the rear breaks ... 
hello , this is the 90 's 

vlasis theodore 

good point. you would think by now that most car companies would just make 
4 wheel disc standard and be done with it. can it really cost that much more 
for disc especially when you think of the economies of scale they would gain 
by just making them all 4 wheel disc .  . no seperate parts numbers and orders 
etc. btw , the z28 and trans am and formula have disc , but the bottom 
line models have the rear drums .  . 
