from (andrew infante ) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 48 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article  ( jim small) writes 
in article (andrew infante ) writes 

since the occurance , i 've paid many 
dollars in , taken the drunk class , 
and , yes , listened to all the self righteous 
assholes like yourself that think your so above the 
rest of the world because you 've never had your 
own little dd  . 

some of us are n't that fucking stupid you cock sucking asshole. that 's why 
we have n't had our own little dd  . i'm soo impressed that you 've had 
to spend your own precious little dollars to make up for your own stupid 
act. now go fuck off. 



friends killed by drunk driving assholes like 2 
children friends by drunk driving assholes like 2 



now who 's the self righteous asshole , you weak willed fuck head 



i think you are , small , feeble minded ,  . 


yeah , it was one stupid little act. 

when are people like you gonna get it through they 're thick 
excuses for a skull to their pea sized piece of shit they 
call a brain that it was once 

why do n't you go back under the rock that the navy has provided 
for you and your homophobic racist sexist asshole friends that 
who give you daily rim jobs and place your opinion where it belongs , 
up your ass ! 

or , alternatively , blow me , you wannabe .  . 



andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re re windy days 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 15 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( alan duncan ) writes 

(robert d castro ) writes 
when how do you decide that it is too windy to ride 

mounted windshields on windy days are no fun at all. it has been 
windy as hell down here for a week or so and it plays hell with the steering .  . 
oh , i still ride. i just bitch a lot about it ! 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
hey ! where did they go 
you do n't think ....  . 


from (scott alan brandt ) 
subject want to borrow rent a bike in boston this summer. 
nntp posting host loon . cs . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota , minneapolis , csci dept. 
distribution usa 
lines 29 

this summer ( july 20) my wife  ( michelle ) and i will be in boston 
attending my brother 's wedding. after the wedding we are planning 
to motor up to bar harbor , maine to visit some relatives for a few 
days. our summer would be made if we could find a bike  ( or bikes) 
to borrow or rent to ride up to bar harbor and back. 

here 's some important details i 've been riding for 11 years , 
 ( my own bikes for the past 7 years) , michelle has been riding for the 
past 6 years  ( her own bikes) , i 've only been involved in one accident 
which was caused by a cage driver running a stop sign , i currently own 
a bmw , michelle owns a yamaha virago 700 , we prefer cruising over 
racing , we 've toured a fair amount , we 're both licensed and insured , 
and we 're nice people. 

so , if anyone has a bike  ( or bikes ) , but the second one would have 
to be a virago or something else with an equally low seat ) that they 
would be willing to loan us for 3 4 days in july , michelle and i would 
be eternally grateful. in addition to our friendship , you would also 
have the use of our bikes should you ever pass through minneapolis .  . 
in exchange , we would be happy to take you and a guest out for dinner 
and an evening of wild bike stories , or we might even be willing to 
cough up some money for improvements to the  ( bike(s ) , like new tires or 
something. 

also , any information about bike in the boston area would be 
greatly appreciated. 

thanks , 
scott brandt 

from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 14 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( jean noel moyne ) writes 

what does stand for i thought it was dui for driving under 
influence , so here what does w stand for 

driving while  . it allows for prosecution of drivers under the 
influence of a variety of drugs. 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( jerry cruce ) 
subject re inner tube in tyre .  .  .  . safe 
organization oregon state system of higher education 
lines 20 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

speedy mercer wrote 
in article writes 

hello dod ers et al. , 

i need some advice on inner tubes in  . 
barry manor dod 620 

spend the bucks and get a new tire .  . 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 


i second the commend from dr. speed , get a new tire .  . it 's like your 
brakes , something you do n't want to take chances with. i waited too long 
to take care of my front tire once and it went flat on me , doing 70 mph 
going down the grapevine towards  . at that instance , i would 
of given any amount of money for a new tire .  . i'm lucky to be here. 

jerry 

from  ( frank ball ) 
subject re help me adjust my 
organization , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 
lines 14 

jeff nichols wrote 

and speaking of , why would the clearance of the valves get smaller , 
i.e. 
need the use of a thinner shim 

because the valves into the cylinder head faster than the cams 
wear down .  .  . 


frank ball m  ( 707 ) 794 work , 
hewlett packard  ( 707 ) 794 fax ,  ( 707 ) 538 3693 home 
1212 valley house drive , , 750 ,  62 f 100 , 
park ca 4999 , law , ama , dod , i'm the nra .  . 

from  ( rick clarke ) 
subject re sans hands 
organization becton dickinson research center r . t . p .  . nc usa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host bdrc . bd . com . 

so how do i steer when my hands are n't on the bars  ( open budweiser in .  .  . 
david gibbs replies 
just in case the original poster was looking for a serious answer , 
i 'll supply one. 

yes , even when steering no hands you do something quite similar 
to  . basically to turn left , you to a quick wiggle 
of the bike to the right first , causing a lean to 

i guess i was semi serious. without using my hands , i lean and the bike 
turns .  . when leaning , a torque is applied , at a angle to the front 
wheel 's axle , just as in  . however , this torque is also about 
from the axis of the steering head. instead of making the 
bike lean , effect makes the bars turn , but i do n't remember 
which way. 

rick 

oh yeah , i tried this in the driveway , on the ,  ( as suggested 
somewhere else) but it does n't seem to work the same. 



rick clarke 
ama something , something , ... 

from  ( oleg rovner ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 23 
nntp posting host sdcc13 . ucsd . edu . 

in article a . writes 

so of the 120 hp produced by my engine , 

12 hp 7 . watts ) 1 hp 8 . 948 . 

is being dumped into 220 tiny o rings that 's 40 . 67 . watts per 
o ring ! seems a little hot , think 

o 
chuck rogers 


so , hey , like , does this work the other way if i was to like , you 
know , strap a generator to my and route its output to 
the chain , could i increase the horsepower 32 meters a sec is 
pretty nice and all , but , i 'd still like to be able to blow away 
a without going to nitro .  .  .  . 



dod 388 big l'audace 
do n't blame me , i voted libertarian 

from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 93 16 31 18 gmt 
lines 14 
organization ibm toronto lab 

in article (j .  . r. laferriere ) writes 

stuff deleted 

questions to ask a typical cop 


a in regards to pulling over someone of a minor moving violation 
 ( rolling stop , lane change , mph over speed limit , etc . ) . 

minor you put lane change in a minor category now i know 
who these guys are .  .  .  . 

jeff goss 

from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 23 
nntp posting host 1 . pica . army . mil . 

 ( arturo vega ) wrote 

 ( norman hamer ) writes 

... ... 
2) it keeps you in the habit of watching really carefully for bikes when 
you 're in a cage .  . this is a good thing. 

has anyone else ever caught themselves waving at oncoming motorcycle riders 
while in a car 

sure. it has caused my wife to conclude that i am totally insane , not just 
partially 

usually i just lift the left hand off the wheel and wave thru the 
windshield .  . damn near the same motion as on the bike 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from  ( jeff goss ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 93 21 51 23 gmt 
lines 17 
organization ibm toronto lab 

in article  ( jody levine ) writes 


in article writes 
another to the list but with this one i felt the most helpless .  . i am sitting 
at a light about 1 2 car lengths behind a car , a wise  . suddenly i 
hear screeching tires. i dart my eyes to my mirrors and realize it 's the 
flying up right behind me , in my panic i pop my clutch and stall the 
bike. luckily the guy stops a foot behind my rear wheel. 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

another tip is to make sure you keep well to one side of the lane .  . this gives 
you a quicker escape route. 

jeff goss 

from (i . d .  . benham ) 
subject re wanted uk bmw insurance tips 
nntp posting host bootes . cus . cam . ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge , england 
lines 18 

in article , (i . d .  . benham ) writes 
hi , 
i'm now in the market for buying a bmw . the . ideal would be an rs but i 'd be 
interested to here of any for sale  . age . is not a problem i'm more 
interested in a good example without a massive amount of miles and one which has 
been well maintained as i intend to keep it well and for some time. 

i would also like to know if anyone has any sound advice as regards to 
insurance old , licence for 9 years , no accidents claims convictions . am . i old 
enough to get bmw owners club insurance yet or will i have to wait until next 
year 

ian 

future owner 


article repeated due to large amount of other articles since 1st sent 

from (michael robinson ) 
subject re its still cold , but .  .  .  . 
organization institute of cognitive studies , u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 18 
nntp posting host cogsci . berkeley . edu . 

in article  ( jorg klinger ) writes 
in (michael robinson ) writes 
andy , when are you ever going to get it straight all yanks are 
self satisfied  . it 's the canadians that are parochial  . 

no , the yanks are. we are are midway through our invasion of 
florida and they are n't even aware of it yet. 

typical .  . their first attempt at foriegn policy , and no one even 
notices .  . 

canadians .  . they can even make boring. 




michael robinson uucp ucbvax ! cogsci ! robinson 
internet 

from  ( bill slack ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
distribution world 
organization w. r. slack 
lines 32 

in article (john stafford ) writes 
in article ,  ( bill slack ) wrote 

uh , folks , the shaft does n't have to do with it. i can get 
the front wheel off the ground on my 5 , ! 

the statement above is true to the spirit of the list because 
it is a false statement. misinformation that 's the spirit , bill. 

my 5 will do because it 's a chain drive model. 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

i knew when i posted that i was going to get into trouble. now i suppose i 
have to give 5 demos at the spring fling or something. 

but you 're right , john , it is a chain drive model. i think it goes around 
the camshaft and up over the rocker arms or something. stolen from an early 
design , according to urban legend .  . 

bill 

 ( bill slack ) dod 430 
but her tears were shed in vain and her every word was lost 
in the rumble of his engine and the smoke from his exhaust ! oo .  . o . o 






from a . 
subject re owners get hidden feature 
organization at t 
keywords lights 
lines 40 

warning warning may cause unpleasantness ! 

in article  ( dave t dorfman ) writes 
i was enjoying lunch this saturday at in milford nh with an assortment 
of other folks when dean ( yes he has not left the 
country , yet) mentioned that the wiring diagram of the 
shows that the light switch is a three position switch. 

high beam 
low beam 
both beams 


well the actual ergonomics of the switch make it appear to be a 
2 position switch , but sure enough as deam expected , when 
you balance the switch in the center position both the high 
and low beams go on. 

this provides a very nice light coverage of the 
road. 

this is true for the and the and i would expect for any 
other late model honda with the standard two position light switch. 


it 's a make before break type of switch. if not required , it ought to be 
for high low beams .  . 

there might be a wee problem with this. if you use both filaments at the 
same time , the bulb is tossing out a great deal more heat than normal. 
possibly enough to shorten it 's life span .  . my honda crx cage a cage that 
really wanted to be a bike had wimpy stock lights. so we used to run 
around with both beams on. made a mucho big difference until both low 
beam filaments died nearly simultaneously ! this was two weeks after 
finding out how nice it was to use both beams .  . i replaced the lights with 
quartz halogen lights and that ended the problem. 

neil kirby dod 
at t bell labs columbus oh usa (614) 860 
if you think i speak for at t you might have more lawyers than sense. 

from  ( beth dixon) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
distribution rec 
lines 45 

in article  ( brad warkentin ) writes 
in article  ( beth dixon) writes 

beth the one true beth dixon 
1979 yamaha spike the garage rat 



now just wait one cotton picking minute here .  .  .  .  . dod rule 417 . 1 . 2 . section 6 
paragraph 3 clearly indicates that multiple people ca n't lay claim to a bike 
in an obvious ploy to artificially increase the size of their stable .  .  .  . 

so the question of the day is .  .  .  . is spike owned by a lady of true class and 
breeding  ( my definition any woman who rides ) ) or by tom the head 
spike is owned by both tom and i. we went 1 2 's on the purchase price 
and have split costs of needed parts , registration , etc. both names are 
on the pink slip .  . 

i also note that you lay no claim to or ol sport.  ( like i said , 
obviously a lady of discriminating taste .  .  . ) . 
i am covered by insurance to ride the harley .  . i 'd give it a go if 
i could work the clutch .  . i can barely get the clutch lever to move 
using both hands while standing next to the bike. ol' sport is a 
very distinctive bike. 
the is favorite of mine. i 've an easy 4000 miles 
on that bike in the last year. unfortunately , my feet are a good 
10 off the ground once i'm on her. no way i could take her for a 
ride as pilot rather than  . if i could fit on a , i 'd 
buy one. imho , the best sport made. i'm not too upset 
i had to settle for the ducati as my touring bike , though. ) 

bored minds know. 
so , now you know. 

beth 


beth the one true beth dixon 
1981 yamaha excitable girl dod 
1979 yamaha spike the garage rat 
1992 ducati ama 
1963 ducati 250 restoration project 1.8 
i can keep a handle on anything just this side of deranged .  . 
zz top 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re funny thing happened on the way to the hon 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 13 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( kyle cassidy ) writes 
 .  .  . and . i see that for the past 30 miles 
i 've been riding with my side stand down. oops ! 

and who was it that insisted cutout switches were right up 
there with , something like a curse from god 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( randy davis ) 
subject re cables  ( was re cobra locks) 
reply to 
organization corporation , san diego , california 
distribution usa 
lines 29 

in article  ( charles sundheim ) writes 
to follow up , i had a bad experience w a lock too .  .  .  . 

last year i bought a cable ii (3 8 x3 4  long , something like that) 
that by all standards seemed like a decent piece. until i used it anyway .  .  .  . 
... 

so , in short , the 3 8 cables seems to be pretty useless , i would guess. 

the larger cable seems to be a much better unit. 

i 've got the larger cable about 5 8 inch in diameter  ( actually , i think 
its larger ) , about 4 feet long which coils into a 8 or 9 inch coil , with the 
tubular key lock like the u locks .  . it has worked fine for me for two years 
now , and seems  ( to me , anyway) that it is very secure .  . it does n't have the 
weaknesses that the u locks have other than the liquid nitrogen trick 
supposedly , is much easier to store in my than a u lock , and more 
versatile .  . i got mine from one of the mail order houses  ( motorcycle accessory 
warehouse , i beleive ) , for 42 .  . 

in combination with an ignition disable , and a couple of other , 
all i usually worry about is vandalism .  . 

randy davis email 
zx 11 pilot uunet ! ucsd ! ! randy 
dod 

but , this one goes to eleven ... nigel , spinal tap 


subject re shaft drives and 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( bill slack ) wrote 

uh , folks , the shaft does n't have to do with it. i can get 
the front wheel off the ground on my 5 , ! 

the statement above is true to the spirit of the list because 
it is a false statement. misinformation that 's the spirit , bill. 

my 5 will do because it 's a chain drive model. 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from  ( dan martin) 
subject re touring the southwest 
nntp posting host rintintin . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 30 

 ( kim sharpe ) writes 
a few of us are touring utah in mid june to see the  . 
do any of you have some helpful hints on where to stay or 
things to see do avoid .  . plans are to see bryce , zion , arches .  . 
is the grand close at that point or is an additional trip required 
any help would be nice. thank you for your support. 

spring break , i went through the four corners area and back. the most 
beautiful stop i made was in utah at the needles overlook .  . though this 
is a bit further east than where you appear to be going , i highly 
recommend it. imho it is far more beautiful than the grand canyon .  . it 
was not well marked , but was one of few paved roads off of (i was 
heading north from  . in order to get to the right place , i 
should clarify that it is the needles overlook , and not the recreation 
area. heading north from , it is the second turnoff , and may 
have been marked as the overlook .  . overlook is 
about 20  ( dirt , if this matters to you) miles past the needles 
overlook .  . the road out to the overlook is paved and reasonably 
maintained (i ran it about  . 

looking out from the overlook was like being god and looking down on 
the world. if it is n't too far out of your way , you should see it. 


dan martin i ca n't stand this proliferation of paperwork .  . 
its useless to fight the forms. 

you 've got to kill the people producing them. 
 . colorado . edu . vladimir p. , soviet plant manager 


from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
organization nec systems laboratory , inc. 
lines 23 

in article (michael nelson ) writes 
in article  ( chris behanna ) writes 

spray the chain wax onto the rollers and occassionally , and 
rust will not be a problem. 

i did. regularly. and it was. 

interesting. all i can say is that i have n't seen any wear in the 
1000 miles i 've used the stuff on the ninja , and the bike stays soooo clean. 

i 'll check back again in a few thousand more miles. 

while we 're on the subject , can i find a 
endless chain , other than the dealer (no , type master links are not 
acceptable ) 

later , 

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d wide glide jubilee 's red lady 
1975 baby bike 
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. 

from (michael maser ) 
subject re dogs 
nntp posting host uvic . ca . 
reply to 
organization university of victoria , victoria , bc , canada 
lines 49 

a . writes 

what , a dog weighs maybe , at max you ca n't handle it 

you have , i presume , thumbs grapple with it and tear it 's head 
off ! 

sheesh , even a trained attack dog is no match for a human , 
we have all the advantages .  . 


this was a recent discussion on rec . martial . arts .  . humans definitely do n't 
have all the advantages .  . dogs are strong and often bred for 
fighting of one sort or another. 

ed 
dod 1110 

being related to former trainers , i have come to know that humans do have all the 
advantages  ( well , at least one anyway) .  . it is a little known fact that a dog will 
involuntarily and release an object that is too large to swallow .  . i 
was told that if i were ever attacked by a dog i should ball my hand in a fist and 
force it down the dog 's throat. the dog would naturally gag and release , and become 
momentarily disoriented .  . this commonly happens to humans when we go to a doctor and 
have our throats examined ( proof positive ) .  . in the time during the dog 's 
, the next move would be to wrap an arm about the dog throat in a 
choke hold manner and with all your might until the dog lapses into 
( from lack of oxygen and halting blood flow ) .  . finally , run like 
the wind to get away from the local area should the dog get up again and be really 
pissed .  . 

 . for a second there i thought i was in rec . 
and not rec . motorcycles .  . 

till next time. 


mike dod squid rating 5 . 
pinetree rd. 
sidney , b.c. , can. excess 400 
wish list , mucho , 
home (604) 656 6131 , or 
work (604) 721 
joke of the month what did the gay say to the 
university of victoria indian chief 
news rec . motorcycles . answer can i bum a couple bucks 




from  ( joe senner ) 
subject a kinder , gentler bmw mailing list 
reply to  ( joe senner ) 
organization texas 
lines 63 

i know there 's already a bmw mailing list , but since it 's an r bike 
only list  ( and limited to the r100 bikes as well i believe) 
i 've decided to give this a go and see how much interest there is. 
please read all of this post if you plan on subscribing to the list ! 

there is only one restriction for the discussion on this list , that it 
be about bmw 's .  . i do n't care which bmw , any and all are welcome. i will 
probably post articles that appear in the local bmw club newsletter , and 
would other club members to do the same , especially tech 
articles. 

to subscribe to the list , send a message to the list address 



with the word subscribe  ( in caps ) in the subject of the message. having 
the word subscribe in the subject is the only way to subscribe. if you 
put the keyword in the message body , your message will go out to everyone 
on the list and you will be ridiculed beyond belief .  . 

your from line must have a valid return address 
the list sw will use the address in your from line 

if you would like to use a return address other than what is contained 
in your from line , do not send mail to the list ! send a note directly to 
me and i 'll take care of it manually .  . 

the list sw will hack up the outgoing message from line so that your 
original full name in () 's is preserved , but the return address is 
replaced with the mailing list address this 
allows you to simply reply to a message to keep it on the list  ( depending 
on your mail interface  . i use elm so that 's what i wrote it for ) .  . 
keep this in mind when you reply to a message and question the authors 
parentage .  . 

to remove your name from the list , send a message to the list address 
with the word unsubscribe  ( in caps ) in the subject of the message. 
having the word unsubscribe in the subject is the only way to remove 
your name from the list. if you put the keyword in the message body , 
your message will go out to everyone on the list and you will be ridiculed 
beyond belief .  . 

the list is run from my home system , a poor little 286 box running a 
very old version of something that smells somewhat like unix .  . the mta 
is n't the around , but i 've managed to hack it up enough to make 
a decent list mta .  . additions and are handled automatically by 
scripts that intercept messages based on the subject  ( see below) and 
may occassionally  . the sw will send a response message back when you 
subscribe. if you do not receive a response within a reasonable amount 
of time  ( my link is via uucp and sometimes runs in spurts ) , send me a 
message and i 'll look into it. 

if the list turns out to be too popular and the mta over the number 
of addresses , i 'll have to freeze the list recipients until i can come up 
with a better mta .  . 

good luck .  .  .  . 


joe 

bmw mailing list 
austin area ride mailing list 

from (john little sun repair depot ) 
subject re bra .  .  .  . bra .  .  .  .  ( was for ) 
organization sun microsystems technical centre japan .  . 
lines 48 
nntp posting host ale . japan . sun . com . 
summary exhausting ! 
keywords pete , newbie , wot , , dead parrot , leatherette , foucault , 

old nick (the little devil ! ) 

tsk , tsk , tsk .  . another newbie bites the dust , eh they 'll learn. 

newbie eh slap yer  credentials on the table , pete .  . that 'll show 
him ! 


i'm terribly sorry. 

and so you damned well should be .  .  .  . young ! it 's wet 
at ten paces if there 's any repeat of this sort of thing ! 

now , in keeping with the grand tradition of wreck . moto . , let 's ! 
take your partners by the hand .  .  .  . 

on tuesday morning i spent a couple of hours  ( when i should have been 
working) with a torch , bits of scrap metal over the biggest 
holes in 's exhaust pipes  ( s'mazin' what you can do with a 
couple of aa cells and a three volt bulb ! ) .  . i stuck some gun gum 
into the smaller holes and the pipes back onto the bike. 

so , last night i'm on the way home when lo  an  bloody behold , the 
thing starts blowing again. i check it out and the gas is 
escaping from around the clamp holding the number two pipe into the 
port. as far as i can see (it being somewhat hole of calcutta at the 
time ! ) , the nuts are still there  ( stop that bloody , you at 
the back ! ) , but the pipe is a bit loose. 

this morning i go out to the bike and pull out the socket set to 
tighten up me  nuts  ( somebody give that spotty kid at the back a good 
slap round the back of the head ! ) , and lo  an  bloody behold 
a bloody gen , i find that the outer skin of the pipe has separated from 
the inner sleeve right at the clamp mating  . so , i stuff in a bit 
of baked can and a bit more of mr  very best gun gum and 
come to work  ( late again ! ) so that i can ask of the oracle .  .  .  . will a 
joint hold that close to the exhaust port anybody tried it 

oh , and if anybody can tell me what the differences are between a 205 
and a 207 rod  ( made by gaz yup ! the camping folks. 
surprised the  me , too ! in that place just off the isle 
of wight ) i 'd be eternally grateful  ( twenty quid for two rods 
and i do n't even know what i'm buying .  . bloody kanji ! ) .  . 



john little sun microsystems .  . , japan 


from  ( allan hatcher ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 28 

in article (j .  . r. laferriere ) writes 
i was just wondering if there were any law officers that read this. i have 
several questions i would like to ask pertaining to motorcycles and cops .  . 
and please do n't say get a vehicle code , go to your local station , or obvious 
things like that. my questions would not be found in those places nor 
answered face to face with a real , live in the flesh , cop .  . 
if your brother had a friend who had a cousin whos father was a cop , etc. 
do n't bother writing in. thanks. 



well , here goes. after lurking for a long time , i 'll announce myself. yes , i'm 
the enemy .  . the enemy that also happens to ride an arrest me red 90  . 
bike history  ( as if this me to the dod ) 
79 honda xl 175 high school 
85 kawasaki 600 
84 honda sabre cornering by committee 
88 honda hawk gt  designed this bike 
90 

i 'll entertain questions but my answers will reflect georgia law and may not 
apply in your state. 

p.s. anyone got a suit for sale 





from  ( allen tobias ) 
subject re starting trouble 
nntp posting host hydra . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 82 

in article  ( yau felix chung ) writes 

i am having trouble starting  ( keeping running) my 1992  . i have 
had problems with it since last year , but it seemed to have subsided .  . now 
it 's back again. problem persists regardless of choke usage pattern , 
gasoline type  ( brand octane ) and pretty much anything else i can imagine 
to change. the dealer is stumped (it 's still under warranty) .  . 

i start the bike. it runs great for a while (45 90 seconds ) then the engine 
starts to slow down. decreasing the idle setting will increase the engine 
speed. increasing the choke increases the engine speed. regardless , the 
engine will eventually slow down  ( and stop) .  . 

once stopped , it will not restart  ( even after flooded engine  . if 
i let it sit (45 90 minutes ) it starts beautifully and runs great for ever. 
so i go out , ride it hard for 100 miles and bring it back , ride it easy 
for a few miles to let it cool down , and put it away. 

next day , i go thru the same drill to get it going. 

any ideas has anyone seen this before 

another f2 rider had similiar problems , and this is the mail i sent him , 
hope this helps resolve you problem ! 

at 



allen tobias writes 
check the vent tube to the tank. sometimes the tube is clogged or constricted .  . 
this prevents gas from flowing into the carbs because of the vacuum created by 
the displacement of the gasoline .  . this is the small tube on the bottom of the 
tank , the large tube is the overflow .  . you will have to remove the left side 
tail section to get access to this area. 

good luck ! 

but if it was clogged , would n't this interfere with engine operation all 
the time when it runs , it runs well. 

good point , did not catch this in the original post. the only other things 
which come to mind , since this is a gravity feed fuel system , is this. 
the fuel valve is vacuum controlled from the 1 carburator .  . let 
suppose there is a small hole or bad seal either in the hose itself or the 
vacuum valve in the fuel  . when it is cold , the hole is open enough 
to open the valve just enough to allow gas to the carbs with the choke on , 
since the choke creates more low pressure in the carbs when on to draw gas , 
and as the engine and surrounding area warm up , the hole seals up. 

one way to check fuel flow through the valve would be to pull the side 
panels off and remove the fuel hose to the carbs .  . connect a tube of the 
correct size , preferably clear tubing to observe fuel flow , on the output 
side of the fuel  . remove the control hose from 1 carburator .  . make 
sure the tank is full. place the valve in the on position and apply vacuum 
to the control hose , preferably with a vacuum device with a gauge , to check 
for air leaks .  . with vacuum applied , fuel should flow freely .  . to see if there is 
a vent problem , do this with the fuel filler cap open and closed , if it 
flows a lot faster with the filler cap open , then there may be something in 
the vent which changes position and depending on the position may clog 
or partially clog the vent .  . i have heard of some f2 fuel tanks being replaced 
to fix this problem. so the things which might be defective are , the control 
hose from 1 carb , the valve , and possibly the fuel tank vent .  . 

now if all of the above shows no problem of fuel flow when cold , then there 
is something in the carbs screwed up , but there are so many things to check , 
i would be typing all day to list them all ! 

here are a few , with everything back together , apply vacuum to the valve 
and open the drain holes on the carbs one by one to check fuel flow. open up the 
and check for foreign debris or clogged airways on the carbs , there are 
quite a few on each carb .  . 

i hope something is flushed out with all this trouble shooting .  . if american 
honda does not resolve this , get mad as hell and report them to the bbb and 
call the honda customer service hotline .  . it is a 800 number , but i do n't recall 
it off the top of my head. i called just about tires for my f2 and a few days 
later a customer satisfaction inquiry card arrived at home asking how i liked 
the support i received , here would be your chance to tell them what you think ! 

buy the service manual on the f2 , it is an invaluable source of information 
for working on your bike and i might add , trouble shooting ! 

from  ( curt howland ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization nasa science internet project office 
lines 21 

in article , 
 ( jody levine ) writes 

has anyone , while driving a cage , ever waved at i get the urge , 
but i 've never actually done it. 

i did it once with a biker girlfriend in the 
car , and she told me that i was stupid , the 
rider would n't know why i was waving .  . 

 .  .  . she . 's long gone .  .  .  . 

let 's see how many posts it takes for someone to selectively quote this article 

one. 


curt howland ace dod eff 569 
'82 sabre 
meddle not in the afairs of wizards , 
for it makes them soggy and hard to re light. 

from (paul thompson ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , california 
lines 29 
nntp posting host apple.com 

writes 

hear screeching tires. i dart my eyes to my mirrors and realize it 's the 
flying up right behind me , in my panic i pop my clutch and stall the 
bike. luckily the guy stops a foot behind my rear wheel. 
i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

the experience you describe is why i do n't like to sit with my bike in 
gear i figure there 's a chance that i 'll be startled in some way and 
stall my bike. and i figure this is more likely than the chance that 
i 'll be unable to escape some situation because of the extra time 
needed to put the bike in gear. 

so i concentrate on avoiding situations rather than making split second 
evasive  . i split lanes so i'm not at the end of the line. 
(unfortunately this is not legal in most of the country ) if i ca n't 
split  ( perhaps there is n't room) then i will stop near one side of the 
lane so i have an easy escape , and leave my bike in gear until the next 
car has stopped .  . i watch in my mirrors in the mean time to make sure 
it will ! whether i really would have time to move should a car fail to 
stop , i have n't had to find out yet. some cars have an annoying 
of racing up behind you before braking , so it can be hard to 
tell if they are planning to brake or not ! 

so in summary , position yourself for an easy exit , and then watch your 
mirrors until it 's all clear. 

paul thompson apple computer 

from (john r. daker ) 
subject re what is a squid  ( was re respect ) 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 13 
reply to (john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


in a previous article , (mike serafin ) says 


a poser squid was the guy i saw yesterday on my way home. similar attire as 
above sans jacket (it is april in texas ya know) , but he is riding down the 

amazing. and i thought only california got april .  . 

dod 650 darkman 
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal champion 

from  ( jorg klinger ) 
subject re daytona 
nntp posting host ccu . umanitoba . ca . 
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada 
lines 25 

in  ( ramin taraz ) writes 

well , i watched the daytona race on tnn .  . boy for the people who saw 
it 
was the yamaha a lot faster than the or what on the last 
stretch the took of and left the in the dust. i am a 
rider and am disappointed in the ! 

lawson was on the yamaha .  . 

not taking anything away from russel , but , well .  .  .  . 


if you only new who 
arch .  . eng. services lost horizons i think i am. 
umanitoba , man. ca. the anonymous 










from (michael maser ) 
subject re dogs 
nntp posting host uvic . ca . 
reply to 
organization university of victoria , victoria , bc , canada 
lines 46 

21 apr 1993 (ed green pixel cruncher ) writes 
in article ,  ( curtis jackson ) writes 
writes 
sheesh , even a trained attack dog is no match for a human , 
we have all the advantages .  . 

i agree with this 100 . 

me , too .  .  .  . for chihuahua 's .  . the police and the military do n't train 
and and use them as weapons because they are so 
easy for the average joe to defeat barehanded .  . you may have opposing 
thumbs , but the dog has teeth so effective some of yours are named for 
him. he has ir vision , better hearing and better smell than you do , 
and most likely faster reflexes .  . 

you 're on a motorcycle , he 's on paws .  . roll on and blow him off. he 
does n't even have net access. 


ed green 

c'mon ed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

a) all things have their weak areas 
b) what 's ir .  .  .  . idiot . response .  .  .  .  .  . dogs . have more rods or cones  ( i'm not sure 
which ) than humans and this allows their eyes to collect more light in lower 
light conditions. consequently their colour vision is almost non existant .  . i 
mean , if dogs had built in infra red vision , the armed forces would be 
strapping them to missiles instead of paying a quarter million for ir guidance 
capabilities .  . 
c) my dog has net access ! ! 



mike dod squid rating 5 . 
pinetree rd. 
sidney , b.c. , can. excess 400 
wish list , mucho , 
home (604) 656 6131 , or 
work (604) 721 
joke of the month what did the gay say to the 
university of victoria indian chief 
news rec . motorcycles . answer can i bum a couple bucks 




from  ( tommy marcus mcguire ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 27 
nntp posting host earth . cs . utexas . edu . 

in article  . l. ranck ) writes 
... 
and of course , you will get a moderate amount of flamage 
just for expressing an opinion , no matter what the opinion is somebody 
will flame you for it. 
... 
bill (703) 231 
... 

hey , what the hell do you mean by that you suck. i have a god given 
right to express opinions , carry a gun and to not wear a helmet , goddamn 
it. everything you stand for is stupid. 




you know , alan , i really like this one. 



tommy mcguire 



 .  .  . i . will append an appropriate disclaimer to outgoing public information , 
identifying it as personal and as independent of ibm .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( cookson ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 18 

in article  ( chris behanna ) writes 

interesting. all i can say is that i have n't seen any wear in the 
1000 miles i 've used the stuff on the ninja , and the bike stays soooo clean. 


on a related note  ( since ups lost my chain wax and i'm still using pj 1 goo ) , 
i found some great stuff to clean chain of wheels. it 's called 
goo gone and cleaned the off my rear wheel faster than the simple 
green cleaned the bug guts off my headlight .  . wonderful stuff. i recommend 
that we officially it a dod wonder (tm) product. 



dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re maxima chain wax  ( and mail order) 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 75 

in article  ( cookson ) writes 
in article  ( charles parr ) writes 

i bought it , i tried it 
it is , truly , the miracle  . 
my chain is , my wheel is clean , after  . 

i 'd try it on the , but goddamn competition accessories has n't mailed my 
order yet. hell , it 's only been two weeks and i was ordering some pretty 
bizzare stuff. like a clear rf 200 face , and a can of chain wax .  .  .  . 
bastards .  . 

for what it 's worth , i got my can in three days from  . that 's 
ups ground from ca to ut ,  . the stuff seems to work , and it does n't 
attract like pj 1 blue does. i gave it the acid test , a full 
day 's worth of breaking in the 's new paddle tires down at the 
sand  . if there 's anything wet it will be coated with 
sand at the end of the day , but the chain looked pretty clean. 

as far as mail order goes , if has it in stock  ( and they can 
tell you if it 's in stock , or about how long it will take to back order 
it if it 's not) , i usually get it in three days. competition accessories 
always seems to take a week or two to deliver .  . motorcycle accessory 
warehouse also takes a week or two , and after trying to buy some boots 
from them last week , i do n't think they actually stock anything. maw was 
about 30 cheaper than on tech 7 boots , but on 
monday i was hoping to get them by the end of the week , so i asked maw a 
completely unreasonable question do you have them in stock the 
conversation went something like this 

i need to know if you have some boots in stock. 

do you want to pay with visa or mastercard 

i want to know if you have them in stock. 

well , the computer does n't show anything , i 'd have to call the 
to find out if we have them. 

so do you have them or not 

do n't you understand what i'm saying i have to call our 
to find out if we have them in stock or not. 

uh , right. so can you do it 

yea , call me back in an hour , and ask for phil .  . 

so an hour later phil is n't there , but mike says he 'll check , and call 
him back in half an hour. half an hour later mike is n't there either , 
but he left a note that says they 'll have them by the end of the month 
(3 weeks  . screw it , the 30 bucks is n't worth the hassle .  . i called 
and asked if they had them in stock 

ooh , probably not , they are hard to keep in stock , 
but i 'll check. what size 

size 10. 

let 's see , yes ! size 10 , in blue white , gray white , black .  .  .  . 

i 'll take the blacks ! 

this was about noon on monday , they arrived thursday morning. once 
again , three days via ups ground. i like  . 

i'm not completely down on maw , they often have lower prices , but be 
prepared to wait. 

oh , and if anyone 's in the market for sand tires and other stuff , 
seems like a good outfit , friendly , fast , had the tires i 
wanted in stock , and were cheaper than too. 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re boom ! dog attack ! 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 18 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( blaine gardner ) writes 
in article bong mac . stanford . edu . 
stanford . edu .  ( eric bong ) writes in article , 
a . wrote 
a bicycling technique i 've 
employed was to use my frame mounted tire pump to fend off dog 
attacks .  . 

i have a bayonet in the factory from a swedish mouser mounted to 
the handlebars of my  . that 10 blade and my long arms do quite well 
thank you. 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
hey ! where did they go 
you do n't think ....  . 


from  ( cookson ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 29 

in article  ( dan sorenson ) writes 

how to get a verbal warning for 146 in a 55 


poppy cock ! this story is obviously a complete fabrication , and i 'll show 
you why .  .  .  . 

in ames , there is a road that leads to the little town of 

this establishes that the story takes place in iowa .  . 
gilbert .  . gilbert has one stop light , if that tells you something. 
having just gotten the bike back together , i thought i 'd take it 
for a short ride and check things out. heading out of town , i 
went into the at a slow pace , just under the speed limit , 

in iowa ! ! come on now dan , how dumb do you think we are you could 
have at least thrown in a or tennis ball reference. hell , you 
did n't even get the speed right. 

dean 

ps. ) 


dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from  ( cookson ) 
subject volvo attack ! 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corp. , bedford , ma .  . 
lines 22 

i was enough to experience my first volvo attack this weekend. 

i was last in a line of traffic that was about 6 vehicles long , riding 
down rt. 40 in ma .  . at the side of the road , sitting off on the 
shoulder was the killer volvo in question. no brake lights , no turn signal , 
nothing. we were doing about 40 mph and i was following the cage in front 
of me about 2.5 3 sec. back. well , as said cage passes the volvo , the 
brain dead idiot (tm) behind the wheel decides that she does n't need to wait 
for me to pass also and turns out perpendicular across both lanes of traffic 
so that she can turn around .  .  .  . so i get on the brakes in a effort to not 
t bone it , and the horn in an effort to wake the up. as she finishes 
the turn , she looks up at me with a completely blank , 
stare .  . 

where can i get rocket launchers for the 

dean 

dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from a . 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization at t 
summary , , ..... 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( bill slack ) writes 

various posts about ca n't do 

no mike .  . it is due to the shaft effect. the effects 
of the rotating shaft counteract any tendency for the front wheel to lift 
off the ground 

good point john .  .  . a . buddy of mine told me that same thing when i had my 
bmw i dumped the clutch at 5 , (hey , revved to 7 or so) and 
you know what he was right ! 

uh , folks , the shaft does n't have to do with it. i can get 
the front wheel off the ground on my 5 , ! 

well , just when you think nothing will strike at a 
bmw key fob feather dipped in silly and solid lure , 
somebody comes along and it right up to the lead swivel ! 

there is a dog. 

it 's going to be pretty difficult to better  ( worsen ) a scheme this 
low , though. 

) 
chuck rogers 


from  ( cookson ) 
subject re dod pins .  .  . not . ! 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 17 

in article writes 
bad news right after we placed our order , the company upped its 
minimum order for manufacturing .  . we got in under the wire  ( with 
an order of 115 or so pins) , but as a result of the low number of 
pins , we were relegated to the we 'll get to it in between other 
runs bin .  . as a result , it seems that it may be another 4 or 5 weeks 

how about the name and number of the pin place. i would think that 115 
or so people calling to bitch about why orders placed after ours are getting 
done first might speed things along. 

dean 

dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from  ( jeff deeney ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa 
lines 11 

in rec . motorcycles . , (ed green pixel cruncher ) writes 

driving while  . it allows for prosecution of drivers under the 
influence of a variety of drugs. 

like non cold medicines 1 2 ) 

jeff dod '88 
ama '81 
the sound of fresh rain run off splashing from the roof reminded me of the 
sound of urine splashing into a filthy texaco  . jack 

from  ( jody levine ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization ontario hydro research division 
lines 16 

in article  ( norman hamer ) writes 

waving at other makes more sense than just hey , how 's it going , 
nice to meet you on the road , have a good ride 

2) it keeps you in the habit of watching really carefully for bikes when 
you 're in a cage .  . this is a good thing. 

has anyone , while driving a cage , ever waved at i get the urge , 
but i 've never actually done it. 

i 've bike like jody levine dod 275 kv 
got a you can if you pf 
ride it toronto , ontario , canada 

let 's see how many posts it takes for someone to selectively quote this article 

from  ( tony kidson ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
distribution world 
organization the modem palace 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 13 

hey nick ! i got a bounce from , it seems that they 've never 
heard of a user  . you should sort these guys out. 


tony 


tony pgp 2.2 key by request voice 44 81 466 
morgan towers , the cat has had to move now e  ( mail(in order) 
morgan road , as i 've had to take the top 
bromley , off of the machine. 
england honda dod 


from  ( cookson ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 14 

in article writes 

driving while  . it allows for prosecution of drivers under the 
influence of a variety of drugs. 

it 's a shame there 's no law against driving while stupid. after a little 
while it would prevent all kinds of accidents .  . 

dean 

dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 24 
nntp posting host north1 . acpub . duke . edu . 

in article (john stafford ) writes 
in article ,  ( bill slack ) wrote 

uh , folks , the shaft does n't have to do with it. i can get 
the front wheel off the ground on my 5 , ! 

the statement above is true to the spirit of the list because 
it is a false statement. misinformation that 's the spirit , bill. 

my 5 will do because it 's a chain drive model. 



wow , is that custom made 

i wish i could get chain drive for my so 
i too can do and be real  . 



andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from (michael nelson ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , san francisco ca 
lines 14 

in article  ( chris behanna ) writes 

spray the chain wax onto the rollers and occassionally , and 
rust will not be a problem. 

i did. regularly. and it was. 

michael 



michael nelson 1993 
internet dod 


from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( jonathan e. quist ) writes 

freebie and the bean , great chase scene on a trials bike ! 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
god is real , unless declared integer .  . 
i came , i saw , i deleted all your files. 
black holes are where god is dividing by zero .  . 
the world will end in 5 minutes. please log out. 
earth is 98 full .  .  .  .  . please delete anyone you can. 

from 
subject re wanted advice for new 
organization hsh associates 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( jody levine ) writes 
so the question i have is how dangerous is riding 

it 's exactly as dangerous as it looks. you 're hard to see and have little 
protection. keeping out of trouble means knowing your limits , keeping your 
machine in good shape and being able to predict and make up for every stupid 
move that drivers make out there. we deal with it because it 's fun , but 
staying alive takes a conscious effort. 

i 've bike like jody levine dod 275 kv 
got a you can if you pf 
ride it toronto , ontario , canada 


thanks , jody .  . i ca n't say i 've ever seen it summed up so succinctly before. 
i might only add two things .  .  .  .  . stupid road design  ( or poor , at least) and 
we deal with it for the fun and brotherhood we share with others who take 
their lives in their to feel the wind in their hair .  .  .  . imho .  . 




is is there really such a thing as a 
welcome to the attitude express .  . corporate opinion if so , maybe 
now get out. my boss will let me express it. ) 


from (john r. daker ) 
subject re please tell me they 're not permenant scratches ! 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 23 
reply to (john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


in a previous article , (mike sixsmith ) says 

catherine barbara writes 

is there a way to wax out a dull finish  ( minor scrathes ) while 
on my fiance 's bandit , my hip pack rubbed against the tail 
and left a nasty dull finish and scratches .  . is there a way to get 
rid of these buff them out wax them out 
help ! 

okay , here 's what to do. get a drill and a disk .  . use , say a 
100 disk and go at it at a very low rpm .  . if you do n't have a drill , try 
coarse steel wool and brake fluid .  . dot 4 has an uncanny knack for removing 
any paint imperfections .  . 

oh , i'm not responsible for misuse or of either of these 
techniques. 

dod 650 darkman 
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal champion 

from  ( ted lemon ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
organization network computing devices , inc. 
lines 28 
distribution na 
nntp posting host pepper . ncd . com . 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 16 48 10 gmt 


one of the reasons i originally liked my current so much was 
he had a bmw .  . ) 

sigh. that 's music to my ears , after all the complaining lois did 
about the seat on my bmw .  .  .  . 

the best passengers are those which are  . echo the movements 
and lean of your rider .  . look over the shoulder thats most comfortable , 
but during turns look over the shoulder on the inside of the turn. 

i 've found that the phrase sack of potatoes works pretty well in 
describing to a passenger how s he should act. 

switch your hands to the guardrail to stretch your shoulders , but be 
sure and squeeze your thighs while you 're doing it so your rider knows you 're 
still there. ) the guard rail is n't as safe as holding onto your rider .  . 

on a long ride with my ex girlfriend nancy , i would notice her 
drifting off every so often  ( we were down highway 101 to  . 
i probably would n't have been aware of this if she had n't been in the 
habit of squeezing my butt with her knees to hold on. good advice. 

mellon 

uunet ! ! mellon 
member of the league for programming freedom .  . to find out how software 
patents may cost you your right to program , contact 

from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject on the football field .  .  .  . 
organization university of east 
lines 13 


there was an article in one of the u.k. dailies this week 
about a soccer who had to be carried off the 
field after a collision with a ford sierra cage .  . 

seems the cage driver wanted to turn around , but needed to 
drive onto the pitch to do this , so he waited till the ball 
and most of the players were up the other end. unfortunately , 
as soon as he started his someone booted the ball back down 
the pitch , the ran backwards towards his goal , straight 
into the cage ! 



from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re sans hands 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 14 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , (richard clarke ) writes 
so how do i steer when my hands are n't on the bars  ( open budweiser in left 
hand , camel cigarette in the right , no feet allowed . ) . if i lean , and the 
bike turns , am i 

is a method for leaning the bike. another method is 
leaning .  . once leaned , the bike turns all by itself. 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from catherine barbara 
subject re magnetic tank bags 
organization temporary employment service , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 


what about disks wo n't it erase them if you 're carrying them in the bag 

cathy 

cathy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
1252 s. ave. 2 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . '82 . yamaha 
pgh , pa  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . '73 .  ( custom wooden tank ) 
studio  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . '64 . 1 2 mustang  ( 351 v8 ) 
 ( 412)521 )  .  .  .  .  . dod . 

what we see is what we know , but what we feel is who we are. what we 
feel is what nobody can ever take away. 
t . m .  . mcnally 
until your heart stops 


subject re c with flames out the exhaust ! ! ! ! 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( neal 
howard ) wrote 


hey , the lone biker of the apocalypse  ( see raising arizona ) had flames coming 
out of both his exhaust pipes .  . i love to the kill switch on my sportster 
to produce flaming , especially underneath overpasses at night (it 's 
loud and lights up the whole ! ! ! 

it does ! i do it to keep people off my ass. they really back 
away when they see canon fire rolling out the back of a harley .  . 

oh , yea .  . it raises hell with the  . 

john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from  ( eerik j. villberg ) 
subject re what octane 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 8 

what about ethanol it 's available here in corn country and its octane is 
rated at 89 or 90 and costs the same as normal 87 octane .  . 


j. p people for the 
e eating of 
4208 harris street t tasty 
ames ia 50010 a animals 

from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re touring the southwest 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 32 

in article  ( kim sharpe ) writes 
a few of us are touring utah in mid june to see the  . 
do any of you have some helpful hints on where to stay or 
things to see do avoid .  . plans are to see bryce , zion , arches .  . 
is the grand close at that point or is an additional trip required 

well , it 's closer to bryce than bryce is to arches .  . i 'd spend a lot 
of time studying the maps , there 's a lot of you ca n't get there from 
here in that area. you might want to hit the grand canyon on the way 
up from california , loop around to arches , and then 
back down towards bryce zion on the way home. 

make sure you ride us 12 between capitol reef and bryce , it 's been on a 
number of top 10 roads lists. 


a nice booklet detailing a lot of interesting paved  ( byways ) and 
 ( backways ) roads can be ordered from the utah travel council .  . i think 
you can also get a state map from them just for asking. 

utah and 
4.00  ( us ) 

utah travel council 
council hall 
capitol hill 
salt lake city , ut 

(801) 583 1030 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


from  ( eric bong ) 
subject re boom ! dog attack ! 
organization 
lines 26 

in article , 
a . wrote 

what worked for me on my was to lean towards the dog as i modulated 
throttle to keep my ankle just ahead of his teeth. after a few seconds of 
warm pipe firmly wedged on his shoulder he turned his face sideways to see 
what was so warm and got his mouth nose muzzle burned on the pipes .  . one 
yip and he away , never to chase me again. 

nice  tex. i use the california dmv recommended technique 
slow as you aproach said dog and wick it up as you pass. i 've often 
contemplated putting the boot in said dog 's muzzle as i open the 
throttle , but have never tried that. i the impact would 
me and i 'd dump the bike. a bicycling technique i 've 
employed was to use my frame mounted tire pump to fend off dog 
attacks .  . on one occasion i was attacked by a pack of four dogs at 
once while up a steep hill .  . i lost my right sock , but no 
blood. i complained to the local animal control department  ( after 
complaining to the owner of the dogs to no affect ) about the dogs 
no more dogs , no more attacks .  . the telephone worked much better 
than the tire pump. 

eric bong dod 
1986 
1987 
1991 

subject re shaft drives and 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 24 

in article , 
(the mx crew ) wrote 

sorry for my stupid question , but what do you americans mean with 
shaft drives . my dictionary knows only strange meanings like 
, , , , , ,  . 


shaft , beat , , burn  ( or flame ) , deceive , hoax , 
 . 

drive campaign , crusade , push .  . 

so ,  shaft drive  may be a campaign to or a crusade of , 
efforts where are true to the spirit of this list. 

wheel revolution , swing 

crusaders of are in revolutions and they cannot 
swing , either , therefore shaft drives cannot do  . 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from (paul thompson ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , california 
lines 20 
distribution na 
nntp posting host apple.com 
keywords advice , , help ! 

 ( bob wert ) writes 

are there traditional 
signals for slow down ! ! or go faster ! ! or i go pee ! ! etc. 

my experience is when they pound their fists on your back it means slow down . 

seriously , concentrate on being very smooth , and you will make her 
experience much more enjoyable. even a normal upshift causes your 
passenger to bob , so i ease off the throttle before pulling in the 
clutch to eliminate this. it 's more work , but your passenger will 
appreciate it ! also , i 've found that using more rear brake than normal 
helps keep the bike from diving as much during routine stops , which 
makes it much easier for the passenger to hang on. if you 're going 
sport riding , have the passenger reach around you and themselves 
against the tank so you do n't have to bear both your weights with your 
arms.  ( again your bike will dive less too) 


paul thompson apple computer 

organization washington university , st. louis 
from brad thone 
to 
subject re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
lines 16 

i have never experienced wind so severe it physically operation 
of a motorcycle .  . it 's more a matter of deciding whether the aggravation 
is more trouble than it 's worth. this of course , depends entirely on your 
own particular circumstances and personal disposition .  . 


and skill. if you have n't done it before , it can be dangerous. it takes 
some getting used to. read ed 's list. 


brad thone 
systems consultant 
systems service enterprises 
st. louis , mo 
@ wustl . edu . 
@ bitnet . 

from  ( kyle cassidy ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
summary bike movies 
keywords movies 
lines 22 
nntp posting host rowan . edu . 
organization rowan college of new jersey 

in article  ( charles sundheim ) writes 

i am assembling info for a film criticism class final project. 

man , every time this thread comes up , i start jumping up and down screaming ' 
easy wheels ! easy wheels ! ' but to date , it seems like i'm the only one who  
s ever seen this. it 's absolutely hysterical .  . basic plot is this 

reporter searching for a ring of is blow off the road by a ( 
very hot) gang of babe in leather. he is rescued from his wrecked car 
in the desert by a xtian biker band lead by an ex viet nam vet with a 
steel plate in his head that gives him visions from time to time. they soon 
discover that the gang 'o babes is kidnapping children to be raised by 
wolves (the reasoning behind this is complex ) , and they set out to stop them 
and restore justice and order to the world. 

it is one of the 5 funniest movies i have ever seen in my life. 


kyle cassidy 
fire all of your guns at once ! 
dod 760 

from  ( gerardo enrique arnaez ) 
subject which is the better bike 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 6 


i am looking at the honda shadow and the intruder 800 or 1400 what have you heard about these bikes 

also , if i plan on doing long time riding are these twin v cruisers the best bikes to get , if i dont want something massive like the 



from  ( curt howland ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
organization nasa science internet project office 
lines 9 


knight riders has got to be one of the silliest 
movies i 've ever seen. 


curt howland ace dod eff 569 
'82 sabre 
meddle not in the afairs of wizards , 
for it makes them soggy and hard to re light. 

from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 35 
nntp posting host 3 . pica . army . mil . 

 ( speedy mercer ) wrote 

 ( randy davis ) writes 

 ( speedy mercer ) writes 
 ( jean noel moyne ) writes 
what does stand for i thought it was dui for driving under 
influence , so here what does w stand for 

driving while intoxicated .  . 

actually , i beleive normally means driving while impaired rather 
than intoxicated , at least it does in the states i 've lived in .  .  .  . 

this was changed here in louisiana when a girl went to court and won her 
case by claiming to be stoned on pot , not intoxicated on liquor ! 

one can be without necessarily being impaired by liquor drugs , 
not enough sleep , being a total moron ) , all can impair someone etc .  .  .  . i'm 
surprised this got her off the hook .  .  .  . perhaps in is confined 
to liquor 

lets just say it is dui here now ! 

ok. it varies from state to state. it has to do with operating a vehicle 
while there is greater than a given percentage of alcohol in your 
bloodstream .  . can we drop this now , and get back to asking ed green to 


tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from  ( teppo nieminen ) 
subject kz 750 partial engine 
organization helsinki school of economics and business administration , finland 
keywords kawasaki 
lines 25 

my kawasaki kz 750 l4 has 2 3 of play on the 
pedal axle , in other words , i can move the axle sideways up and down 
for few to each direction. this does n't bother me when 
riding , but i guess fixing it would n't hurt. last summer i took the 
bike to a shop to have the valves adjusted , and the mechanic mentioned 
that it should be an easy job. all i would have to do is to remove the 
front cover and replace a bushing or a seal that i would find 
there. well , upon a closer inspection i discovered that the 
axle does n't even run through the cover. it seems that , in 
addition to removing the cover , i would have at least to remove the 
and then the cover that is behind the  . 

question would removing this small cover from the left side of the 
engine enable me to lay my hands on that bushing seal  ( do n't know the 
exact term in english , sorry ) 

question has anybody done this job for this or some 
other purpose does the oil , for example , stay inside the engine 

thanks ! 


dod 2000 
zoo mc helsinki finland 


from  ( jonathan e. quist ) 
subject re dogs vs. bikes 
nntp posting host i88 . isc . com . 
organization lachman technology , incorporated , naperville , il 
lines 32 

in article (andrew infante ) writes 
in article  ( jorg klinger ) writes 
i have a large ol' farting dog and have made a real effort at trying 
to train him but he still just at will. 

do n't feed it so much. 
seriously. 

first i would like to break him of this and then i 'll worry 
about his chasing things. 


if you ca n't you 've obviously waited too long , or are not putting 
much effort into it. 

my 80 lb dog (not always ) used to fart all the time. 

by making her notice it  ( of course the smell does n't 
bother her ! ) , and thence kicking her outside  ( somewhat 
literally ) , she came to realize that she shoudl n't do it 
(at least not around me) 

sort of like that scene in 10 , in the minister 's study , when the 
secretary lets one fly , and the startled dog runs from the room. 
the minister explains , every time mrs. breaks wind , we beat the dog. 



jonathan e. lachman technology , incorporated 
dod 094 , , '71 k4 naperville , il 
there 's nothing quite like the patter of little feet , 
followed by the words daddy ! ! 

from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re bmw heated grips 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( joe senner ) writes 

 ( mark bergman ) writes 
to those of you who have the bmw heated 
are they comfortable do they transmit a lot of 
vibration how do they compare to the stock grips 
to foam grips 

i do n't have the grips , but have looked into getting them. it 's my 
understanding that the grips themselves are the standard european 
style grips now coming standard on the 93 bikes  ( k1100rs , , etc) .  . 
it 's also my understanding that the heater resides inside the bar 
itself so if anything i would suspect it would reduce vibration by 
providing more bar end mass. 

i do n't see why they would n't work with the old style foam grips aside 
from the fact that it might cause the foam to deteriorate or something. 
hard to belive considering they do fine in the 100 degree texas summers .  . 

someone once sold heated motorcycle grips via mail order. the were 
aftermarket replacement grips that had the heating elements into the 
grip itself. wires ran outside of the bars , from the grips to a switch and 
finaly the battery. cycle magazine tested them years ago and liked them. 
dunno if they are still made. might check with the racers .  . 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 




from  ( karstein holen ) 
subject bike vacation in the states 
organization bergen college of engineering , bergen , norway 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 25 

this summer i'm going to use my vacation  ( riding ) 
through the states. 
and i do have some questions that i would like to post here 
since i'm from norway i was wondering 
how much does it cost to rent a bike in the states 

 ( i'm going to the san fransisco san jose area 
the ride around  ( i'think ) 

as you might have noticed i still have n't made any plans 
so if you know about places i ought to visit 
please e mail me .  .  .  . 

 ( wanna be a dod  ( hangarond ) 

 ( karstein holen ) 
since i hurt my pendulum 
my life is all erratic .  . 
my parrot , who was , 
is now transmitting static .  . 
the carpet died , a palm collapsed 
the cat keeps doing poo .  . 
the only thing that keeps me sane 
is talking to my shoe .  . 
my shoe .  . 

from 
subject re posted gif of bmw 
organization college , ca 
lines 26 

if any would care to see any more close ups or different angles , i can 
post others to a . b . p . also. i would be happy to submit one to 
if someone wants to write me and tell me how .  .  .  . 

i would prefer a picture with you in it. since most motorcycles do n't post , 
and are rather similar looking (i . e . all 's are more alike than they are 
different ) , it is the people that are ultimately more interesting. 

from archive policy . txt . 
if you already have a picture in some machine readable format  ( gif preferred) , 
you can ftp it to edu . account  anonymous  password  incoming  , binary 
mode and notify me by mail or mail it uuencoded to 

please include a one or two line description for inclusion in txt .  . 

btw , i have charlie smith 's pictures available. 

sea bass sears dod 516 stanley , id. 

interestingly , i 've been to stanley , id by motorcycle .  . nice little town , 
nice road getting there. 

bruce 

bruce tanner (310) 860 2451 x 596 
college , ca dod nomad 007 

from (david karr ) 
subject re sans hands 
organization cornell univ. cs dept , ithaca ny 14853 
lines 17 

in article (david gibbs ) writes 

yes , even when steering no hands you do something quite similar 
to  . basically to turn left , you to a quick wiggle 
of the bike to the right first , causing a lean to 
occur to the left. 

this sounds suspiciously like black magic to me. if by quick wiggle 
to the right you mean that the handlebars turn toward the right 
before turning to the left , what is the input to the steering 
mechanism that makes this happen in the absence of the old 
shove shove 

david karr 
'80 bmw dod 0969 also , nra , aclu , et al. 



from  ( eric simmon ) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
lines 56 
nntp posting host maxwell . nist . gov . 

 ( jim small) writes 

in article (andrew infante ) writes 

since the occurance , i 've paid many 
dollars in , taken the drunk class , 
and , yes , listened to all the self righteous 
assholes like yourself that think your so above the 
rest of the world because you 've never had your 
own little dd  . 

some of us are n't that fucking stupid you cock sucking asshole. that 's why 
we have n't had our own little dd  . i'm soo impressed that you 've had 
to spend your own precious little dollars to make up for your own stupid 
act. now go fuck off. 



friends killed by drunk driving assholes like 2 
children friends by drunk driving assholes like 2 



now who 's the self righteous asshole , you weak willed fuck head 




i hate the 3b2 
the 3b2 can bite me. 

jim , 

i hope you never drive  ( or ride ) when 

you have been drinking 
you have been taking prescription drugs 
you did n't get enough sleep the night before 
you are upset with your girlfriend 
you just did n't feel like your brain was talking to your body 
you think you are at laguna and want to break the lap record 

any of the above situations have the potential for harm  ( read death) 
people make you have never endangered someone else by driving a vehicle in an 
unsafe manner , then go right ahead and bitch about mr misuse 
of a motor vehicle. otherwise , think about your own driving responsibilities .  . 

i am sorry about the loss of your friends , but it could just as well 
been the idiot who bought a volvo because he has problems falling asleep at the 
wheel. 

eric 





from (dean woodward ) 
subject re how to buy a first bike , etc. 
organization organization for mass confusion. 
lines 20 

writes 

there have been a lot of posts lately about i wanna buy my first bike is 
zx cbr a good bike to learn on etc. 

i think i'm going to put together a faq on buying a new bike. ravi used to po 
one all the time. 

bruce clarke b.c. environment 
e mail 

make that buying a first bike a new bike is not generally a good first 
bike .  .  .  . 



dean woodward you want to step into my world 
it 's a socio psychotic state of bliss .  .  .  . 
'82 virago 920 guns n roses ,  my world' 
dod 

from  ( neal howard ) 
subject re i need your advice !  ( i'm a new rider ) 
organization inc. , richardson tx 
lines 23 

any information that any of you could give me would be greatly 

appreciated ! ! ! ! just send the reply to my account , or if you 'd like , 

back to the net. 
chris 



my vivid imagination sez this is almost close enuff .  . 

mail to users neal dod faq . dod . 

but .  .  .  .  .  .  . naw ! ! ! 



neal howard '91 1200 dod 686 , inc  ( richardson , tx ) 
doh 
std disclaimer my opinions are mine , not 's .  . 
let us learn to dream , gentlemen , and then perhaps 
we shall learn the truth. august kekule   ( 1890 ) 


from  ( jorg klinger ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
nntp posting host ccu . umanitoba . ca . 
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada 
lines 39 

in  ( graeme harrison ) writes 

rec . motorcycles . 2 48 pm apr 19 , 1993 
is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

mike terry 
'82 virago 

i 've seen 'em , but the real question is , can one do a on a lead wing 
if so , how high would the front wheel be off the ground 

graeme harrison 

there was a guy around here who would do them on an early pre fairing 
wing with a  . he would get it right up and ride a ways. pretty 
intimidating sight. 

he was real good. he had to be. i guess you would n't get away with 
chopping the throttle more than once. 


if you only new who 
arch .  . eng. services lost horizons i think i am. 
umanitoba , man. ca. the anonymous 
















from a . 
subject re the best of times , the worst of times 
organization at t 
summary missing screw 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( tom dietrich ) writes 
 ( matthew trost ) writes 

in (paul blumstein ) writes 

turned out to be a screw inside my 

you better check all the screws in that carb before you suck 
one into a jug and munge a piston , or valve .  . i 've seen it 
happen before. 

what ! ! on a i'm going through the exploded view of the 
on the  ol sport , the round slide on spike , and 
the monster on my old norton in my mind , and i ca n't , for the life of 
me see a screw in any of them that , if it came loose could get into a 
jug .  . 

when they explode 'em , all the screws fly away. 

) 
chuck rogers 


from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
organization nec systems laboratory , inc. 
lines 22 

in article (michael nelson ) writes 
in article  ( charles parr ) writes 

my chain is , my wheel is clean , after  . 


careful .  .  .  . i was similarly impressed with it at first. 
but recently i have started finding rust spots on the 
chain. 

i went back to  .  .  . at least the sucker never rusted 
when i was using the  . 

spray the chain wax onto the rollers and occassionally , and 
rust will not be a problem. 

later , 

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d wide glide jubilee 's red lady 
1975 baby bike 
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. 

from (david gibbs ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
organization qnx software systems , ltd. 
keywords advice , , help ! 
lines 24 

in article (mike sixsmith ) writes 
 ( laura lemay ) writes 

lotsa stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

switch your hands to the guardrail to stretch your shoulders , but be 
sure and squeeze your thighs while you 're doing it so your rider knows you 're 
still there. ) the guard rail is n't as safe as holding onto your rider .  . 

hmmmm why does everyone on that side of the pond seem to want 
to hang on to the rider rather than the 

because i'm a guy and most of my are female. 

also , the other reasons , like having an idea where you passengers 
weight is , it being a more comfortable position for the passenger , 
and it being a more stable configuration all come into it as well. 

holding the grab rail is a great idea only for braking , when you 
do n't want the to slide forward into you , otherwise i do n't 
find it works well. 

david 


from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re faq please post 
organization university of east 
lines 46 

(ed green pixel cruncher ) writes 

in article , (mike sixsmith ) writes 

ed 1. all of us that argue about , etc. , throughly understand 
ed the technique of  . 

me including all the ones who think that they all the way 
me through a corner 

ed well .  .  .  . all the way through a decreasing radius corner , anyway .  .  .  . 

maybe they are riding around an ever decreasing circle of lies which 
eventually leads to the truth .  .  .  .  . 



me the official line here  ( though i do have my doubts about it) is that the 
me front brake is applied first , followed by the rear brake , the idea being 
me that you avoid locking up the rear after weight transfer takes place. 

if that 's the official line taught in those rider education classes 
you were refering to , that also do n't teach , i have to 
question the quality of the classes. 

me too , though unfortunately the official line is the one that you 
have to adhere to if you want to get a full licence .  . the examiner 's 
guidelines are laid down by the government , and the basic rider education 
courses have no choice but to follow them. it surprises me that none of the 
rider groups here , either mag or the make much noise about the fact that 
the riding test requires you to ride three feet from the all the time 
in order to pass , that the front brake must be applied before the rear , that 
you have to keep looking over your shoulder all the time  ( instead of just 
when it is justified ) there 's probably a few more too , which i ca n't 
think of for the moment. if the riding test could be a bit 
to include more of the real world survival skills and less of the 
woefully simplistic crap that it contains now , then the accident figures 
would (imho) reduce still further. 

do n't think we should include knowledge in our test though .  .  .  . 

) 





from (richard sturges ) 
subject re mail order response time 
reply to (richard sturges ) 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 11 

i have ordered many times from competition accesories and 
get 2 3 day delivery. once they had to backorder something , but they 
sent me a card to say it would be two weeks. came in 10 days or so. 

always be satisfied , with ca and in life. 


rich  ( h ) 703 536 
nswc division  ( w ) 301 227 1670 
i speak for no one else , and listen to the same. 


from (craig a. vechorik ) 
subject moa members , another letter to read ! 
nntp posting host ra . msstate . edu . 
organization mississippi state university 
lines 45 


in light of the last letter i posted from jeff brody concering the crap 
that is going on in the moa , (which some folks took not as dissemination 
of information that i received , but as my own bad mouthing ) i thought that 
i would post this one , which came to me yesterday. this is from board member 
robert to moa pres morse .  . this is not my words , o.k. guys 

april 4 , 1993 

re cecil king 's nominating statement 

dear chick 
we have a very serious problem with the election for president of the 
moa this year. cecil king 's nominating statement  ( as it appeared in the 
owners news) is 968 words , nearly twice as many as that is permitted by 
the by laws .  . in pertinent part , the rules state 

each candidate 's biography and position statement shall be limited to 
a combined total of no more than 500 words. the nominating shall cut the 500th word any biography and position statement exceeding this length. 

obviously the was not up to the task. had cecil 's 
statement been cut as required , it would have concluded approximately with 
the word sic in the second paragraph after the commencement 
of his position statement. as a result , cecil has obtained what i view as a 
grossly unfair advantage over the other candidates for president. this does 
not just the election for that office it makes a mockery of the 
process. i would appreciate your advising the board immediately what steps 
you intend to take to rectify this caricature of a fair election .  . 
, in your private correspondence with others , i would 
be most appreciative that when call me an asshole you remind the 
letter 's recipient that the re publication of such a comment is almost 
guaranteed to have consequences .  . 
with kind regards , i remain , 
robert 

o.k. moa ers , you read it , think for yourself , i trust you do know who 
cecil king is , and that he was editor befor don douglass , and he is 
a pres. candidate .  . i let you draw your own conclusions .  . 
regards , 
craig 
bmw moa ambassador 
bmw vintage bulletin tech editor 
dod 843 
real bmw 's have two wheels politically correct statement 


from (mike fester ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
organization usr local rn organization 
lines 17 

in article writes 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

if possible , i split lanes .  . even if you do n't get all the way to the 
head of the line , at least you wo n't rear ended. i always worry more when 
i'm in the lane , at the front of the line , and no one in behind me. then you 
have to keep an eye on your mirrors .  . i also get ready to pull a hard right , 
just in case . 

mike 

disclaimer these h h damn ! h h q .... w q wq wq ! d x 
exit x q c q q logout save quit ! quit 
zz zzzzzz vi man vi @ l c e x i t help d d ! ! 
man help c c e ! help exit quit q hey , what does stop d .  .  .  . 

from  ( ken murphy ) 
subject re squids and dealers 
distribution na 
organization array microsystems , colorado springs , co. usa 
lines 25 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

kevin . l . stell . wrote 

... squids ... 

i felt embarassed at this point to be a motorcyclist .  . i felt the eyes of those 
in cages , witnessing this display , then glancing over to the dealers lot and 
damning all those on two wheels. needless to say , my friend felt a little 
uncomfortable and we left. 

did you express your embarrassment to the owner i do n't blame you for being 
embarrassed , but i would have let my feeling be known that the behaviour of 
their sales staff and apparent enjoyment of such behaviour just cost them 
a sale and all further sales. 

i will now turn off my frustration and go ride .  .  .  . peacefully , to clear my 
anger .  . i only hope that the cop who is following me home , has an open 
mind and does n't associate me with them. 

sound good. enjoy. 

btw , i ca n't afford a new bike .  .  .  .  .  . 

who can 



from catherine barbara 
subject please tell me they 're not permenant scratches ! 
organization temporary employment service , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 

is there a way to wax out a dull finish  ( minor scrathes ) while 
on my fiance 's bandit , my hip pack rubbed against the tail 
and left a nasty dull finish and scratches .  . is there a way to get 
rid of these buff them out wax them out 
help ! 

thanks in advance 
cathy 

cathy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
1252 s. ave. 2 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . '82 . yamaha 
pgh , pa  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . '73 .  ( custom wooden tank ) 
studio  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . '64 . 1 2 mustang  ( 351 v8 ) 
 ( 412)521 )  .  .  .  .  . dod . 



from  ( jonathan e. quist ) 
subject re moa members , another letter to read ! 
nntp posting host i88 . isc . com . 
organization lachman technology , incorporated , naperville , il 
lines 19 

in article (craig a. vechorik ) writes 
o.k. moa ers , you read it , think for yourself , i trust you do know who 
cecil king is , and that he was editor befor don douglass , and he is 
a pres. candidate .  . i let you draw your own conclusions .  . 

i do n't know who either is , but i think i see your problem. 

you 've got cecil king and don douglass .  . what you need is don king 
and cecil adams .  . 


or maybe rodney king and cecil 



jonathan e. lachman technology , incorporated 
dod 094 , , '71 k4 naperville , il 
there 's nothing quite like the patter of little feet , 
followed by the words daddy ! ! 

from  ( opso lopso ) 
subject owners stuff 
nntp posting host educ . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
lines 5 

i was just wondering what kind  ( brand , name , etc .  .  . ) . would be best on this 
bike .  .  .  .  . thanks for your advice .  .  .  .  . 




from state . edu . (the hypeman ) 
subject any used gsx r for sale 
nntp posting host magnusug . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution na 
lines 19 


i recently sold my nighthawk in order to upgrade to a zippy little sport 
bike. i am , however , partial to the bigger zippy bikes like the gsx r 750 .  . 

there is only one in my town for sale , and he is not sure whether he wants 
to part with it or not ! 

please send me email if you would like to sell yours , know of one for sale , 
or could just offer details on the performance of yours even if you would n't 
sell. 

i appreciate any help ! 

the 

1983 pontiac 2000 se 1986 mercury topaz gs looking for a bike ! 
 baby   . baby  gsx r 750 1100 
under modification under construction cbr she likes ! 
 his   hers  

from a . 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization at t 
summary tough o rings 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( tony kidson ) writes 

well maintained chains , running in oil , without those little rubber  o  rings 
to cause losses , might reach 99 efficiency .  . the average open to 
the dust  o  ring motorcycle chain probably has a difficult job making 90 
efficient .  . 

so of the 120 hp produced by my engine , 

12 hp 7 . watts ) 1 hp 8 . 948 . 

is being dumped into 220 tiny o rings that 's 40 . 67 . watts per 
o ring ! seems a little hot , think 

o 
chuck rogers 


from  ( ken wallich ) 
subject re bmw heated grips 
organization if i were organized , why would i be reading news 
lines 26 
nntp posting host 

with wild abandon ,  ( henry prange ) offers 
the grips on my gs are a wonderful thing in the winter and no problem 
in the summer. vibration bmw 's do n't vibrate .  . everyone knows that. 

i 'd agree with henry .  . the grips are really nice to have in winter , 
and are n't different from  normal  grips in summer. 

my only complaint is that the  low  setting might as well be  . 
this has been complained about by every reviewer , official and 
unofficial , that 's ever talked about these grips .  . the  high  setting 
is often too high for use with lightweight summer gloves when things 
just get a bit , but since  low  does n't produce a noticable 
effect , i end up turning the grips on and off to keep the temperature 
about right. this generally is n't a problem when wearing thicker 
winter gloves .  . when i asked the dealer if they could fix it , i 
received a pat on the back , and their sincere apologies for 
the poor design  ( actually , i was told they worked just like they were 
suppose to) .  . 

vibration what 's that i ride a bmw twin .  . you can barely tell if 
the engine is fired up or not most of the time , smoother than silk 
sheets. 


ken wallich 
... ! ! amber ! ken 

from  ( charles sundheim ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
nntp posting host ursa 
organization calvin college 
lines 19 

 ( dan sorenson ) writes 

and copped heh an attitude when he was stopped speaking as a guy 
who recieved a verbal warning for in a 55 , i just have to laugh. 


hey dan , 
some potentially cool story stuff here .  .  .  . do share the details. 
i never get a break , probably most of us do n't either , so please , 
enlighten and , and let us live  . 

 for that story .  .  .  . 


erc .  . 
, mi , usa 

dod 1138 


from  ( alexander essbaum ) 
subject re exhaust coating 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host rchland . ibm . com . 
organization ibm rochester 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( nicholas s. coburn ) writes 
 ( alexander essbaum ) writes 


my 's black exhaust pipes are rusty and i researched getting them repaired .  . 
yesterday i bought a can of 1500 degree black header paint and spent an 
hour two of the header pipes by hand. sprayed on paint. thought 
about how clean i was able to get the metal with and determined that 
i would n't be at all suprised if the paint wore chipped off in a month. 

parts deleted 

axel 

axel , 

why not just purchase one of the exhaust for about 40 they 
look great and are cheaper than powder coating .  . (i had the same dilemma and 
opted for these. i am quite pleased . ) . 

ok. so what 's an exhaust bra i'm guessing it 's not a fabric thing that 
straps to the pipes .  .  .  . does it go over the chin fairing lowers in some way 
i usually do n't ride with the lower plastic .  .  .  . 

axel 

from  ( sebastian c sears ) 
subject re two questions  ( r80gs ) 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( sebastian c sears ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 37 

in article (erik x2773 ) writes 
hello folks , 
i'm very happy with my new  . my range is 238 miles on 4.8 gallons .  .  .  . 
that 's 50 mpg ! ! surprisingly , the bike is a real cruiser .  . i was expecting 
something rough .  . she 's a sweet honey .  . and i can go pretty much 
anyplace i 'd take my mountain bike. as far as shaft effect , it 's more a 
torque effect from the crankshaft in my opinion. rev it sitting still 
 ( when the is not moving ) and the bike a bit. maybe 
i do n't ride her fast enough to get a shaft effect , but in my opinion 

not to start another shaft effect discussion , but the twist you 
feel when revving sitting still is due to the larger fly wheels that 
the bmw r bikes  ( maybe k 's too , dunno) use. if you the throttle 
at stop lights , it 'll really rock the bike over  ( to the  . 

snip snip 
2) i run two lights , the standard plus a mounted on the 
crash bar. the illumination 's excellent that way , with a full beam coming 
out from the level of the motor  ( left side) the lamp beam is linear so 
that you get a bright streak of illumination from left to right , and it 
really picks up the periphery  ( deer lurking , etc . ) . combined with the 
on high you can see like day. but i 've heard that bmw alternators 
do n't crank out too much. do i need to shut down the when i'm 
around in the dirt at low rpm 

please post if you come to any conclusion on this. i am thinking 
of putting a light on each cylinder guard on my , and was 
wondering whether i was going to have to switch lights off every 
time i was under 5 , 000 rpm ) 

'90 550 zephyr (erik asphaug ) 



this is where i wanna sit and buy you a drink someday. temple of the dog 
sea bass sears dod 516 stanley , id. 
'79 yamaha '77 bmw '85 toyota 4runner nyc , ny .  . 

from (j hamilton ) 
subject re owners get hidden feature 
nntp posting host handel . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university , computer science department 
keywords lights 
lines 24 

in article  ( dave t dorfman ) writes 

well the actual ergonomics of the switch make it appear to be a 
2 position switch , but sure enough as deam expected , when 
you balance the switch in the center position both the high 
and low beams go on. 

this provides a very nice light coverage of the 
road. 


hmmmm i noticed sometime ago that i could do the same on my virago , and 
since i do n't read many schematics , i did n't really think aobut it too 
much. yes it does provide excellent coverage , but i figured it would 
probably draw a little too much current .  . i also figured that it was 
overlapped just to prevent a blank spot of no headlight .  . are you saying 
that these switches are designed for the hi lo combination 



jay with more chrome than a harley 
time to change the oil again ! ! ! 
dod 982 and 


from  ( charles sundheim ) 
subject re bikes 
nntp posting host ursa 
organization calvin college 
lines 14 

 ( jody levine ) writes 

i 've bike like jody levine dod 275 kv 
got a you can if you pf 
ride it toronto , ontario , canada 

do you know what syd meant when he wrote that line 

damn , am i in the wrong newsgroup again 


wrong newsgroup or no , what did syd mean when he wrote that line 

erc , the always curious. dod 1138 

from  ( steve mansfield ) 
subject re dogs 
organization uunet communications 
lines 71 
distribution world 
nntp posting host uu . net . 

in article ,  ( charles parr ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( curtis jackson ) writes 
in article  ( charles parr ) writes 
sheesh , even a trained attack dog is no match for a human , 
we have all the advantages .  . 

i agree with this 100 . 

me , too .  .  .  . for chihuahua 's .  . the police and the military do n't train 
and and use them as weapons because they are so 
easy for the average joe to defeat barehanded .  . you may have opposing 
thumbs , but the dog has teeth so effective some of yours are named for 
him. he has ir vision , better hearing and better smell than you do , 
and most likely faster reflexes .  . 

you 're on a motorcycle , he 's on paws .  . roll on and blow him off. he 
does n't even have net access. 

oh bull pucky , ed. they use dogs because a) many people are 
scared shitless of them and b) because of the nose and the 
vision and hearing .  . without their cop partner in attendance , 
the dog is so much meat in the hands of any human with 
a bad attitude and al ittle training in violent force. 

oh horse puckey .  . without their cop partner in attendance , they are less likely 
to be controllable without the use of force which would kill the dog. 


those teeth are n't very much good with an arm shoved into the 
back 
of the animals throat and held there , and the neck is not 

o.k. so you 've disabled the dog 's mouth , and given up use of your arm to do 
so. how them front and read paws , and the fact that to plug up that 
mouth you 've given the dog the advantage of balance .  .  .  . 

espcially strong. neither are the leg joints which can be 
easily snapped , or the skull easily crushed , on even the largest 
dogs. 

have you ever tried to snap leg or crush the skull of a dog without use of 
hardened instruments such as a baseball bat without the use of both arms and 
full cooperation of the beastie involved , it 's not that easy. oh , but wait , 
you 've got your arm shoved in the dogs mouth. you lose .  .  .  .  . 

your advice is correct , but a dog is still no match for a trained 
human in a fight. 

oh now you qualify you earlier statement by saying a trained human. 

sheesh , even a trained attack dog is no match for a human , 
we have all the advantages .  . 

most people here have not been trained to deal with a dog that wants to maul 
you. get a clue. 


regards , charles 

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time , 
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing 
gourd .  . unknown net . person . 

steve mansfield i was told theres a miracle for each day that i try. i was 
told there 's new love that born for each one that has died. 
1983 suzuki i was told there 'll be no one to call on when i feel alone 
dod and afraid. i was told if you dream of the next world 
you 'll find yourself swimming in a lake of fire. 
dream theater part i the miracle and the sleeper 

from  ( ken murphy ) 
subject re death of a 2 stroke why did it die 
organization array microsystems , colorado springs , co. usa 
lines 39 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

wrote 

now for those who have read this far 

why did it rev at idle like that is water in the fuel an 
acceptable or were they having me on 

sound like the pilot circuit was say lean clogged .  . i do n't think 
water would cause a problem like this , but 

apparently the oil pump is doing its job , and there was plenty 
of oil. why did it seize 

see above. were you by chance when it stuck on a two stroke 
you only have  ( substantial ) lubrication when you are giving the bike gas. 
if it was lean on the pilot , that 's why it stuck. 

oh , btw the motor had been rebuilt just before i left adelaide , so had 
done about 1600 miles when it blew .  . it was rebuilt because it had been 
seized at some time before we got it , and it looked like that seizure 
had happened at low mileage , because there were still marks in the 
bore .  . 

the rebuild we did consisted of a total tear down , new piston , rings , 
small end bearing , and new gearbox bearings .  . big end and rod judged 
ok. 


any ideas folks 

you mentioned an aftermarket carb (i deleted the text) looks like 
 ( to me) that 's where your problem is. 

dod 605 you do n't own an italian motorcycle 


o 
m 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 30 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , (andrew infante ) writes 

also , nc recently  ( last few years) decided that due to the fact there 
are constantly people on the road drunk driving , they will raise 
their awareness of it by making stricter laws , and as such , now i believe 
nc has the toughest laws for  ( while not necessarily increasing any 
amount of awareness , or kills on the highways meaning it 's 
only made a difference at sentencing ) 

automatic revocation of your license for a year. i'm not sure it 's the 
law around , but nc has absolutely no sense of humor with 
respect to driving laws , anyway. i think they put you in jail and sell 
your first child into slavery for passing a school bus .  .  .  . 

a bill through the nc house to lower the level 
from .1 to  . 08 .  . it faces stiff opposition in the senate .  . recently , 
the highway patrol took a few of the opposition senators out and gave 
them some shots , and when they hit  . 07 . , put them on a course dodging 
cones .  . they failed , and will probably change their votes as a result. 

for some bizarre reason , nc is the only state where the governer has no 
veto power over legislation coming out of the state congress , so his 
opinion on the matter is moot .  . 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( mark r. rabne ) 
subject insuring a 1992 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 39 
reply to  ( mark r. rabne ) 
nntp posting host slc12 . ins . cwru . edu . 



hey now , 

i'm having the roughest time getting a company to cover 
my new bike. here are some details about her and me 

i'm 

single 
23 
riding with a clean record 
a homeowner 
a  new  rider to most companies 
not a member of msf or ama yet 



she 's 

a '92 
got 150 miles 
got temp plates still 
one  bitch of a ride .  .  .  . 


can you get me some ideas we can take them to private 
email to lower the noise on the net. 

is a good mail address. i need to 
hear something soon so i can keep her on the road .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance , 
mark 

well weathered leather , hot metal and oil , the country air 
sunlight on chrome , the blur of the landscape , every nerve aware 
red 
straining the limits of machine and man .  .  .  . 

from  ( victor johnson ) 
subject re type  ( cb , , gt , etc . ) . 
organization dances with hawks 
lines 17 

in rec . motorcycles . ,  ( curtis jackson ) writes 

in article  ( frank ball ) writes 
honda a v designates a v engine street bike. vf for v 4 , vt for v twin .  . 

so how about my honda hawk  ( nt 650) it 's a twin , but not called a vt. 


that 's because they took the old vt 500 engine and stepped on it to make 
the plant for the hawk new twin . or does that only fly for microsoft 
nt  ( new technology) 

i 've been at this too long today ... 

cheers , 
victor dances with hawks johnson 


from  ( tony jones ) 
subject yamaha locks  ( was cobra lock ) 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 
organization cray research inc , , mn 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

has anyone any experience with the  ( new ) yamaha 

it looks like it uses the same hardened steel as a u lock , 
but unlike a u lock , it is hinged in 5 places and opens out to a large 
rectangle  ( longer length than any u lock i have seen , plus it folds down 
to real small) , so you could lock the rear tire to a steel post for example. 

i was curious as to how well the jointed sections would stand up to attack 

tony 

tony jones ,  .  .  . ! uunet ! cray ! ant ) 
group , software division 
cray research inc , lone oak drive , , mn 

from  ( dave cds ) 
subject re need parts info for 1963 scooter 
organization tektronix colorado data systems , , co 
lines 32 

in article  ( pete ashdown ) writes 

also looking for brakes or info on existing shoes. 

vintage brakes 
176 ave. 
newbury park , ca. 91320 
 ( 805)498 ) 5527 

they all types of obsolete motorcycle brake shoes with 
material. 

also any other owners anywhere to have contact with. 

place to try 

deutsches register 
grover place 
, la 
 ( club for all types of two wheeled german equipment , including 
 . i periodically see ads for scooter stuff in their 
newsletter . ) . 


dave dod you ca n't wear out 
151 an indian scout , 
'88 '48 indian chief 751 or its brother the chief .  . 
'75  ( r90s 151) '72 tr  ( 2b 751 ) ama they 're built like rocks 
'65 2  57 nsu max to take the knocks , 
1936 bmw r12  ( compulsive it 's the that 
my employer has no idea. joiner ) give you grief .  . 


from  ( lloyd carr ) 
subject re yamaha vs honda opinions 
reply to  ( lloyd carr ) 
organization the national capital freenet 
lines 31 


in a previous article , (p .  . ju ) says 

(keith p7625 ) writes 

a friend of mine  ( who 's probably reading this right now) just bought a new 
yamaha virago 750 .  . after spending 1 2 hours very late one evening 
watching him struggle with the bolts  ( had to remove the right peg , loosen 
the brake pedal , c. c . ) . i 've pretty much decided never to get this 
particular model unless he or someone else wants to change the oil filter 
for me. compared to the 5 minute change he was used to for his honda , this 
is just a design flaw oversight in my eyes. 


patricia 


sure do n't know what bike was being worked on but it sure was n't a 
virago .  . i 've owned both the 750 and 1100 and you can do the filter 
change in about 5 mins and nothing has to be removed. obviously the 
new bike was modified as the stock machine is simple to work on. 
watching for imitators ! ! 

lloyd 
carr dod 
on . can . ca . 

from  ( doug rinckes ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
nntp posting host 133 . 206 . 251 . 21 . 
reply to 
organization telecommunications systems support centre , new zealand 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( randy davis ) writes 
in article writes 
course , the only people who seem to be acting smug now probably have chain 
final drive (which , as we all know , is less efficient and has higher 
maintenance ) and probably did n't know the answer at the start of the thread. 

when did you go out and change the laws of physics ) according to some 
numbers i used to see bandied around , shaft drive is on the order of 95 97 
efficient , while chain drive is closer to 99 ... seems to me that this makes 
chain drive more efficient , hmmmmm 

and granted , shaft has a lot less maintenance , which is fine , if you do n't 
mind less performance .  .  .  . ) ) 

randy davis email 
zx 11 pilot uunet ! ucsd ! ! randy 

ok. and you regularly ride your bike to within 2 of it 's maximum capability 
 ( note any idiot can go flat out on a bike most of them do . ) . 

anyway , efficient at what a shaft drive is a much more efficient solid  ( erect ) lump 
of metal than a floppy  ( flaccid , unsatisfying ) chain. 

doug new zealand ltd 
1976 bmw 1960 bmw r60 1940 indian 


from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re moa members , another letter to read ! 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 8 

has anyone noticed that all this happened since chris perez was gifted 
with a membership 

anyone for rec . motorcycles . club . i know this might get 
confused with k , but maybe there 's a connection 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


from  ( norman hamer ) 
subject assorted ranting 
lines 40 
x id 



 . hate the bastard who picked the weather for today. 

went up to visit a friend overnight  ( about 45 minute  .  . rode up after 
work , only minor for the last 5 minutes of the ride .  .  .  . rest of the 
ride was very zen .  . 

got up this morning , needed to go home and get some disks stuff to work 
on her computers with , rainy as all hell. soaked and cold by the time i got 
home. 

since i did n't have another set of which were dry , i said to heck 
with it and drove my cage back up. 

lo and behold , those funny blue clouds were up in the sky and this warm 
yellow thing i have n't seen in quite awhile showed up when i was 10 minutes 
into the trip. 

and me in my cage .  . oh joy. 


happily , my right hand mirror finally showed up at the dealer  ( dropped the 
bike when i first got it , put on an replacement mirror .  .  .  . hated it the 
entire time that thing was on my bike because i could n't see a damned thing 
through it , plus it 's flat instead of convex like the stock mirrors , so you 
get a narrow angle  .  .  . and i got a replacement windshield for my 
fairing  ( dropped the original and chipped the front edge .  .  .  . cosmetic but 
 .  .  . so i spent half an hour happily unscrewing things and replacing 
them this afternoon. 

 bout the only thing i still hate about the bike  ( '75 cb360t ) is the damned 
2 d cell flashlight headlight .  . 

has anyone seen a good source for 25 watt halogen passing lights since 
the charging system on the ca n't handle continuous use of a 
halogen headlight , i was thinking about putting a couple passing lights 
on .  .  .  . that would give me of lighting for the rare night riding i do , 
but would n't drain the battery during normal use  ( chiefly day trips and 
to work and  .  .  . 

from (michael beavington ) 
subject re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
keywords wind 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization bnr ottawa , software design 
lines 15 

in article , (robert d castro ) writes 
when how do you decide that it is too windy to ride 


too easy. when you are dragging your pegs while driving in a 
straight line. 

actually i 've driven in 50 mph side winds with just a little 
difficulty .  . 


the mike dod 

my employer has no idea what i'm talking about ! 


from (i am the nighthawk ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 24 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ubvmsd . cc . buffalo . edu . 

course , the only people who seem to be acting smug now probably have chain 
final drive (which , as we all know , is less efficient and has higher 
maintenance ) and probably did n't know the answer at the start of the thread. 

anyway , i have laz 's solemn assurance that he she it was serious with the  only 
can pull true  assertion , whatever the hell that means. 

doug new zealand ltd 
1976 bmw 1960 bmw r60 1940 indian 

uh , doug , i do n't know what school of thought your from , but chain 
drive are much more efficient than  . end of story. period. 
but i will give you that are much less maintenance intensive .  .  .  . 


ethan 


ethan dod 682 1983 nighthawk 
hey .  .  .  . who cuts yer  hair man nothing clears the mind quite 
and chong like a maxed out tach and a 
a closed mouth contains no feet. buried speedometer .  . 
unknown me 


from (p .  . ju ) 
subject re new to motorcycles .  .  .  . 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 13 

writes 

 ( thread degenerated to comparative costs of msf courses deleted .  .  . ) . 

hey ! even at the highest price mentioned ( 140 us) the course is 

200 in , new jersey ( 

a bargain .  . worth every penny , and there are lots of things you 'll 
get related to your bike that wo n't feel that way about. 

patricia 


from  ( tom dietrich ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
distribution rec 
lines 56 
nntp posting host able . mkt . 3com . com . 

 ( brad warkentin ) writes 

in article  ( beth dixon) writes 

beth the one true beth dixon 
1981 yamaha excitable girl dod 
1979 yamaha spike the garage rat 

1992 ducati ama 
1963 ducati 250 restoration project 1.8 
i can keep a handle on anything just this side of deranged .  . 
zz top 


now just wait one cotton picking minute here .  .  .  .  . dod rule 417 . 1 . 2 . section 6 
paragraph 3 clearly indicates that multiple people ca n't lay claim to a bike 
in an obvious ploy to artificially increase the size of their stable .  .  .  . 

silly boy ! you read the rest of that jibberish ! go back and read rule 
1. 

so the question of the day is .  .  .  . is spike owned by a lady of true class and 
breeding  ( my definition any woman who rides ) ) or by tom the head 

ok , for the record , spike is jointly owned .  . the registration says or 
 ( uhhh , what does the title say , beth ) beth brought the ad to my 
attention , i 'd been half heartedly after an for years. i 
had successfully buying it by rationalizing that i did n't need 
to spend the on it. then beth piped up with i 'll pay for half of 
it ! i was beaten .  . 

i also note that you lay no claim to or ol sport.  ( like i said , 
obviously a lady of discriminating taste .  .  . ) . 

watch it buddy ! both of those are fine rides ! beth loves riding 
on the , true , the  ol sport is n't her cup of tea  ( she 
ca n't get it off of the side stand ) but she agrees that it 's a very 
fine ride. 

bored minds know. 

no  . sig . no  . plan . no . clue . dod 255 

i 'll buy that. i 'll even loan you a quarter to buy a clue. 



'86  .  .  .  . sophisticated . lady tom dietrich 
'72 sportster .  .  .  .  . sport for sale dod 055 
'79  .  .  .  . spike . , the garage rat ama 
for an m900 ! ! 
two and a gather , big fun ! 17.28 
ma bell (408) 764 5874 cool as a rule , but sometimes .  .  .  . 
e mail (h .  . lewis ) 
disclaimer 3com takes no responsibility for opinions preceding this. 


from  ( jim brewer ) 
subject re daytona 
nntp posting host dtc . hp . com . 
organization hp design technology center , santa clara , ca 
lines 4 

in article  ( jim brewer ) writes 
russell had major problems before getting onto the banking .  . 

and the was chuck graves , i believe. 

from  ( jon costa ) 
subject are other riders welcome to join group 
organization pacific bell 
lines 9 


when riding in a group , generally speaking , do most people mind when 
another rider along 

i had the distinct feeling i may not have been welcome when i tagged 
along with a group last weekend. 

jon 
faults are like car headlights .  . those of others seem more glaring than our own. 

from  ( neal howard ) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
organization inc. , richardson tx 
lines 16 

in article (andrew infante ) writes 
in article  ( jim small) writes 
in article (andrew infante ) writes 

stuff deleted 

oh my , a real honest to goodness flamewar fired up here .  .  .  .  .  . and it even has 
some relevance to  . amazing. 


neal howard '91 1200 dod 686 , inc  ( richardson , tx ) 
doh 
std disclaimer my opinions are mine , not 's .  . 
let us learn to dream , gentlemen , and then perhaps 
we shall learn the truth. august kekule   ( 1890 ) 


from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re , to know or not to know what is the question 
organization university of east 
distribution net 
lines 11 

 ( jerry lotto ) writes 


yes , it was specifically the ability or understanding of the 
technique which was absent .  . 

how did hurt measure the ability of riders to 





from  ( cookson ) 
subject re maxima chain wax  ( and mail order) 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 21 

in article  ( blaine gardner ) writes 
in article  ( cookson ) writes 
i 'd try it on the , but goddamn competition accessories has n't mailed my 
order yet. hell , it 's only been two weeks and i was ordering some pretty 
bizzare stuff. like a clear rf 200 face , and a can of chain wax .  .  .  . 
bastards .  . 

for what it 's worth , i got my can in three days from  . that 's 
ups ground from ca to ut ,  . the stuff seems to work , and it does n't 

i just called them and they said the order went out on the 13th .  . they 're 
putting a ups tracer on it. watch , it 'll be waiting for me at home 
tonight. ) 

dean 


dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

subject re shaft drives and 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 18 

in article , (andrew infante ) 
wrote 
my 5 will do because it 's a chain drive model. 


wow , is that custom made 

no , it is the stock setup. someone really ought to put an end 
to the confusion regarding bmw 's chain drive  . did n't 
someone post the faq on this some time ago in essence , it 
describes the problem bmw is having with their decision to 
settle down to a shaft drive as a standard. they 
and persist in the chain drive in various 
models. (r c) gosh .  . well , on with the crusade ! 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re bike for sale in ma , usa 
keywords wicked sexist 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 28 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article  ( sebastian c sears ) writes 
in article  ( jeff derienzo ) writes 
i 've recently become father of twins ! i do n't think i can afford 
to keep 2 bikes and 2 babies. both babies are staying , so 1 of 
the is going. 

1988 883 
4000 mi. (hey , it was my wife 's bike ) 


well that was pretty uncalled for. (no smile ) 
is our harley manhood feeling challenged 

jeff 



so , you 'd sell your bike , and let her 
ride around while you have to stay home with 
the kids 

geez , that 's a tough choice. 


andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 34 
nntp posting host north1 . acpub . duke . edu . 

in article  ( jean noel moyne ) writes 
in article , (ed green 
pixel cruncher ) wrote 

a bill through the nc house to lower the level 
from .1 to  . 08 .  . it faces stiff opposition in the senate .  . recently , 
the highway patrol took a few of the opposition senators out and gave 
them some shots , and when they hit  . 07 . , put them on a course dodging 
cones .  . they failed , and will probably change their votes as a result. 

did they try to do the course before having a few drinks 

i do n't see a senator that has is fat but driven around in a 
being a good driver no mater how many drinks he has had before. 



yeah , really , no shit ! 

like that jerk loch that could n't win an election 
as a democrat so he switches to republican the year before this 
past election and takes terry sanford out with his bitch 
and moan campaigning typical of nc senate house races .  . 

i swear , i 'd kick jesse helms in the head if i ever got the chance. 

maybe then he 'd get a fucking clue as to how the rest of 
the world lives. 


andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from  ( pat loughery ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
organization microsoft corp. 
keywords advice , , help ! 
distribution usa 
lines 68 

in article wrote 
i need some advice on having someone ride with me on my 750 ninja .  . 
this will be the the first time i 've taken anyone for an extended ride 
 ( read farther than around the block ) .  . we 'll be riding some twisty , 
fairly bumpy roads (the mines road mt . hamilton . loop for you sf bay  . 

this person is 100 lbs. and fairly small , so i do n't see weight as too much 
of a problem , but what sort of of advice should i give her before we go 

my  and i do quite a bit of sporty riding 2 up. i 'll tell you 
what we 've found and the systems we 've worked out. 

on starts , accelerate much slower than usual. it 's tough for the rider 
to judge how scary fast acceleration is , because we 're holding onto something 
and leaning forward. remember this. 

on turns , have her lean forward and at the same angle as you  ( normally 
this means she is n't leaning at all . ) . it 's very disconcerting to be leaned 
over and have your passenger leaning so that they 're sitting straight up. 
much balance is lost and this can be dangerous. 

on slowing and stopping , do so much slower than usual. again , it 's tough 
for the rider to judge how scary fast deceleration is , because we 're holding 
onto something and leaning forward. however , you 'll figure it out fast 
because braking too fast will shove the passenger forward into you , which 
you into the tank at an location. 

generally , have the passenger keep her knees against you and the bike , not 
out wide. this helps balance and gives her  . 

when you passenger is in fear , she will squeeze her knees against you. 
normally this means slow down , and do it now ! . 


turning so she leans with me , but what else are there traditional 
signals for slow down ! ! or go faster ! ! or i go pee ! ! etc. 

we only have a couple signals .  . slow down is her either tapping me on 
the back , or my helmet with all her might .  . depends on the urgency 
of the matter ) 

turn here is done by her pointing in the direction of an exit .  . this is 
also the sign for cool ! look at that. i pee is the same sign 
as turn here . i'm hungry is the same sign. go faster is usually 
done by her jumping up and down on her pegs in glee .  . i usually see slow 
down more often than go faster . 

i really want this to be a positive experience for us both , mainly so that 
she 'll want to go with me again , so any help will be appreciated .  .  .  . 

the best thing to do before the ride is to talk to a riding buddy , and 
on his or her bike. it 's incredibly frustrating , because you 're 
in almost no control. now , multiply that feeling times ten , because 
you as a rider know what your bike will do , and your passenger will likely 
feel you 're about to scrape hard parts all the time , or lock up the brakes 
at any moment , or go off the edge of a volcanic mountain , etc. 
yourself is good training to take somebody on your pad. 

also , remember that it 's much more draining and tiring to ride 2 up 
than by yourself , because you 're concentrating on much more , and 
in the zen of the moment less. remember this. 


pat seattle , wa 
dod 393 , ama , vme , , 2 . 53 . 
'91 , '91 nighthawk 750 , '82 650 turbo 
for sale 


from  . l. ranck ) 
subject re dogs 
organization virginia tech , blacksburg , virginia 
lines 25 
nntp posting host cc . vt . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

charles parr wrote 
oh bull pucky , ed. they use dogs because a) many people are 
scared shitless of them and b) because of the nose and the 
vision and hearing .  . without their cop partner in attendance , 
the dog is so much meat in the hands of any human with 
a bad attitude and al ittle training in violent force. 

one of the things that police dogs are used for is to 
take the bullet instead of the human police officer .  . 
as charles said , many people are scared of dogs and will 
panic when one goes on attack. they will then turn their 
weapon on the dog and this allows the police officer to 
take control. 

your advice is correct , but a dog is still no match for a trained 
human in a fight. 

a single person vs. a single dog in a face to face confrontation should 
really be no contest. the dog is no match for a human willing to fight. 
multiple dogs is a different story . . . 


bill (703) 231 
computing center , virginia inst. state univ. , blacksburg , va. 


from  ( jim brewer ) 
subject re daytona 
nntp posting host dtc . hp . com . 
organization hp design technology center , santa clara , ca 
lines 14 

in article  ( ramin taraz ) writes 
well , i watched the daytona race on tnn .  . boy for the people who saw 
it 
was the yamaha a lot faster than the or what on the last 
stretch the took of and left the in the dust. i am a 
rider and am disappointed in the ! 

it was n't that the lawson 's v h was faster. if you watch the tape 
again , russell had major problems before getting onto the banking .  . 
it does n't matter what bike you have , if you lose your drive , your hosed .  . 

the two bikes are almost identically fast. check out the qualifying times. 



from a . 
subject re story 
organization at t 
summary behavior 
keywords party ! ! ! ! 
lines 86 

in article ,  ( charles sundheim ) writes 
 ( lynn e. hall ) writes 

 ( lynn e. hall ) writes 

description of a pretty sounding party 

and still we wonder why they stereotype us .  .  .  . 

erc .  . 

mean  .  . they  ( whom ever  they  are) want to stereotype me 
as one that likes to drink beer and watch lovely ladies display their 
beautiful bodies i like that stereotype .  . 
if you were refering  stereotype  to infer a negative you noticed we 
did n't rape , pillage , or burn down the town. we also left mucho bucks as in 
money with the town. me thinks the town likes us. least they said so. 
lynn hall nos bros 


they bein  who tend to compose fair piece of the population 
bein the ones that regard as a loud , irresponsible , irreverent , 
 . 

does n't sound like they attended , though , does it in fact , if we riders 
need friends , it sounds a lot like we might have a whole from 
lynn 's description , especially if the same crowd gets invited back 
to party some more year after year. 

sure you did n't rape and pillage it 's a relief to know that you were 
such gentlemen but because you were not completely out of hand you 
justify your lesser some pretty distorted thinking , i 
should say. 

you seem to be one of very few bent out of shape over these lesser 
. if the towns people are n't by the 
and the are n't either , maybe the 
do n't amount to anything more threatening or damaging than harmless 
good natured among consenting adults. the only thing that 
really bothered me about the description was the knee deep empty beer cans 
in the street , but maybe the town had a plan to deal with that since they 
helped set up the party in the first place. if i lived there and the 
 previous visits had established a record of mutual cooperation 
and good intentions , i 'd certainly rather they stick around and party 
than go riding off into the night impaired and maybe get hurt or killed. 

oh i'm sorry , i just noticed that you left mucho bucks  ( as in money) .  .  .  . 
nevermind my criticism , i was out of line. i forgot that when one leaves 
mucho bucks  ( as in money) their behavior is permissable , perhaps even 
justified .  . 

if it does n't hurt anyone , and all the parties to the party benefit 
and consider the entire activity to be benign and harmless , then who 
needs to permit or justify it you why do you need to do that 

keep in mind that are the ones that could give a @ ! when 
a biker gets killed , when their elected officials institute further 
draconian legislation  ( helmet laws , gun controls , etc . ) . , the ones that do n't 
respect our rights on the roads because we do not respect theirs all the 
rest of the time .  .  .  . 

ironically , these particular probably are in the minority that 
do n't happen to fit the stereotype you describe .  . they 've developed a 
friendly long term mutually beneficial relationship with a group of 
, and are n't as burdened with mc ignorance as is the general 
population because of it. 

need i continue 

if such a need exists , it surely must come from within .  . 

so continue to wear your stigma as a badge , but the next time you are 
whining about them and the effect of their values on yours , remember 
that it was probably the behavior of self righteous like myself 
that kept them at bay for this long. 

well , you got the self righteous part right , anyway. 

chuck rogers 


you might have heard i run with a dangerous crowd , 
we ai n't too pretty , we ai n't too proud , 
we might be  a bit too loud , 
ah , but that never hurt no one , 
you know that only the good die young 

from  ( cookson ) 
subject re owners get hidden feature 
keywords lights 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 21 

in article  ( dave t dorfman ) writes 
i was enjoying lunch this saturday at in milford nh with an assortment 
of other folks when dean ( yes he has not left the 
country , yet) mentioned that the wiring diagram of the 
shows that the light switch is a three position switch. 

my does it too. the switch continuity section of the wiring diagram 
looks something like this 

hl l h 
x x low 
x x x  ( n ) 
x x high 

dean 


dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from  ( jim small) 
subject re story 
keywords party ! ! ! ! 
organization naval medical research development command 
lines 16 

in article  ( lynn e. hall ) writes 

i just got back from the 11th annual southern california harley dealers 
association run to the colorado river city of , nevada .  . 

aka the run 


i went there too. all i can say is 

too much trash . 



i hate the 3b2 
the 3b2 can bite me. 

from a . 
subject re , to know or not to know what is the question 
organization at t 
summary hurt study , braking , accidents 
lines 36 

in article , (mike sixsmith ) writes 
 ( jerry lotto ) writes 

the understanding and ability to was essentially absent among 
the accident involved riders in the hurt study. 

the average rider does not identify that alone 
provides the primary input to effect motorcycle lean by themselves , 
even after many years of practice. 

i would agree entirely with these three paragraphs .  . but did the hurt 
study make any distinction between an ability to and a failure 
to in most of the accidents and near accidents that i 've seen , riders 
will almost always stand on the brakes as hard as they dare , simply because 
the instinct to brake in the face of danger is so strong that it over rides 
everything else. hard braking and tend to be mutually exclusive 
did hurt draw any conclusions on which one is generally preferable 

apparently the instinct to brake in the face of danger is n't as strong 
as the instinct to freeze up and do nothing in the face of danger .  . hurt 
found that a surprising number of accident involved had n't 
used their brakes at all prior to impact. 

i think the only way you 'll ever use reliably and correctly in 
a crisis is to make it the only conscious method of directional control you 
ever use , and to practice it constantly , even when you have no need to do 
any turning .  . if you follow me down a long straight , and i seem to be 
wiggling back and forth randomly or suddenly without obvious need , it 's because 
i'm practicing and avoiding imaginary obstacles directly in 
my path. all of this practice may indeed be futile , but if i have even 
milliseconds to react , the most familiar tactic available  ( and hopefully 
the most automatic ) will be  . the same logic applies to braking 
with the front brake , of course. 

chuck rogers 


from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 18 

in article writes 
in article writes 

when did you go out and change the laws of physics ) according to some 
numbers i used to see bandied around , shaft drive is on the order of 95 97 
efficient , while chain drive is closer to 99 ... seems to me that this makes 
chain drive more efficient , hmmmmm 

well maintained chains , running in oil , without those little rubber  o  rings 
to cause losses , might reach 99 efficiency .  . the average open to 
the dust  o  ring motorcycle chain probably has a difficult job making 90 
efficient .  . 

how about some sources for all these numbers or is this more stuff that 
everybody knows 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


from  ( tony kidson ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
distribution world 
organization the modem palace 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 12 

why do you let such brain dead idiots drive in the us 


tony 


tony pgp 2.2 key by request voice 44 81 466 
morgan towers , the cat has had to move now e  ( mail(in order) 
morgan road , as i 've had to take the top 
bromley , off of the machine. 
england honda dod 


from () 
subject re where to put your helmet 
organization image analysis center , univ. hospitals of cleveland 
lines 13 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host max . uh . cwru . edu . 


in response to jerry 's post about not putting your helmet on your 
mirror or else risk damaging the padding from the inside. 

one of the major causes of mirror is impact with the pavement .  . 
laws mandating that all mirrors be protected by helmets might be in order. 
but seriously .  .  .  . 

one place to put a helmet is on a , preferably clean , , hanging from 
the chin guard , away from any hot pipes .  . 

ed 
dod 1110 

from  ( steve se southwest chicago) 
subject black reflector tape 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 20 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 

a few months ago , in one the the motorcycle mags , there was 
an article that mentioned reflector tape that was supposed to 
be available thru bmw .  . the idea was that the tape would look 
black in sunlight , and reflect in other colors at night to 
headlights .  . it sounded like a nice way to add nighttime 
visibility without turning the bike into a carnival attraction .  . 

i talked to the local bmw dealer about this. i was told that the 
only thing he had heard about this kind of reflector , was it being 
used in a coming line of bmw clothing  . he was n't aware 
of anything regarding self applied tape. 

has anyone come across this from bmw or any other source 

thanks , 


steve , sun microsystems dod 93 
, il ama 78 


from  ( laszlo nemeth ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
nntp posting host eclipse . cs . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado boulder , pizza disposal group 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( bill slack ) writes 

various posts about ca n't do 

no mike .  . it is due to the shaft effect. the effects 
of the rotating shaft counteract any tendency for the front wheel to lift 
off the ground 

good point john .  .  . a . buddy of mine told me that same thing when i had my 
bmw i dumped the clutch at 5 , (hey , revved to 7 or so) and 
you know what he was right ! 

uh , folks , the shaft does n't have to do with it. i can get 
the front wheel off the ground on my 5 , ! 

you may have been able to bounce the front up but not 
actually do a . see the shaft effect 
the rear and effectivly loads the front. 
this is why a shaft bike should accelerate if it starts 
scraping in a corner .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


laz 

from  ( frank ball ) 
subject re help me adjust my 
organization , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 
lines 20 

christopher g wrote 

if this is the same as adjusting the between cam and valve , i have 
the same question. do you buy a full set of before starting the 
adjustment process , or do you calculate the you need and then run 
off to the dealer in the cage to see if the right are in stock 
obviously the latter would be cheaper  ( what do cost ) , but are 
measurements of the shim need reliable enough to buy only the indicated 

only buy what you need. it would cost a lot to buy a full set , and 
you wo n't ever use most of them. i have had good luck with the 
calculation method. i have never had to change more than one size 
increment at a time (i never needed a change larger than the next 
size up down , usually down) .  . they cost a few each for a yamaha .  . 


frank ball m  ( 707 ) 794 work , 
hewlett packard  ( 707 ) 794 fax ,  ( 707 ) 538 3693 home 
1212 valley house drive , , 750 ,  62 f 100 , 
park ca 4999 , law , ama , dod , i'm the nra .  . 

from 
subject re touring the southwest 
organization college , ca 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( blaine gardner ) writes 

make sure you ride us 12 between capitol reef and bryce , it 's been on a 
number of top 10 roads lists. 

did they ever put in any gas stations on us 12 i rode through there in 
1987 , skipped a at bryce canyon and rode 100 miles before seeing 
a gas station at torrey .  . awesome road , i recall riding up a narrow ridge 
above 9 , 000 10 , 000 feet. 

bruce 

bruce tanner (310) 860 2451 x 596 
college , ca dod nomad 007 

from  ( tom dietrich ) 
subject re please tell me they 're not permenant scratches ! 
lines 25 
nntp posting host able . mkt . 3com . com . 

(mike sixsmith ) writes 

 ( bob morley ) writes 

in article , catherine barbara writes 
while on my fiance 's bandit , my hip pack rubbed against the tail 
and left a nasty dull finish and scratches .  . is there a way to get 
rid of these buff them out wax them out help ! 

makes a full line of compounds and  .  .  . read 
the and pick the one that matches the marks that you see on the 
paint. then do both you and your fiance a favor by putting a nice 
thick coat of the wax on the bike. after that those little 
scratches will just buff out. 


'86  .  .  .  . sophisticated . lady tom dietrich 
'72 sportster .  .  .  .  . sport for sale dod 055 
'79  .  .  .  . spike . , the garage rat ama 
for an m900 ! ! 
two and a gather , big fun ! 17.28 
ma bell (408) 764 5874 cool as a rule , but sometimes .  .  .  . 
e mail (h .  . lewis ) 
disclaimer 3com takes no responsibility for opinions preceding this. 


from  ( jim groh ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
organization florida state university computer science department 
reply to 
lines 32 

in article  ( kyle cassidy ) writes 
in article  ( charles sundheim ) writes 

i am assembling info for a film criticism class final project. 

man , every time this thread comes up , i start jumping up and down screaming ' 
easy wheels ! easy wheels ! ' but to date , it seems like i'm the only one who  
s ever seen this. it 's absolutely hysterical .  . basic plot is this 

reporter searching for a ring of is blow off the road by a ( 
very hot) gang of babe in leather. he is rescued from his wrecked car 
in the desert by a xtian biker band lead by an ex viet nam vet with a 
steel plate in his head that gives him visions from time to time. they soon 
discover that the gang 'o babes is kidnapping children to be raised by 
wolves (the reasoning behind this is complex ) , and they set out to stop them 
and restore justice and order to the world. 

it is one of the 5 funniest movies i have ever seen in my life. 


kyle cassidy 
fire all of your guns at once ! 
dod 760 

i actually saw this movie about three months ago , but it was n't called 
easy wheels. it was something else that escapes me at the moment but 
i did rent it from video and it was a , in the same 
class as plan 9 from outer space. 


jim dod hog new improved 
1959 900 1982 1989 883 1990 1200 smaller sig 

from  ( cookson ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 19 

in article  ( charles parr ) writes 
i bought it , i tried it 

it is , truly , the miracle  . 

my chain is , my wheel is clean , after  . 


i 'd try it on the , but goddamn competition accessories has n't mailed my 
order yet. hell , it 's only been two weeks and i was ordering some pretty 
bizzare stuff. like a clear rf 200 face , and a can of chain wax .  .  .  . 
bastards .  . 

dean 

dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from  ( bill ketzeback ) 
subject re yamaha locks  ( was cobra lock ) 
nntp posting host lynx . spa . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 11 

any lock including the are easy to break into if the person has 
the proper supplies and or motivation .  . 3 minutes and your bike is gone ! 
i would be glad to explain but i dont want to contribute to any unlawful 
activities. especially since i have a bike that i would hate to see ripped off 
by such a tactic .  . warning no lock alone is a safe deterent against theft , 
the thief doesnt need to be a locksmith or a lock picker to walk away with your 
property ! i personally think motion alarms in combination to a lock 
of this type is the way to go if in fact you are that concerned. 

bill 


from (erik x2773 ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
organization lunar planetary laboratory , tucson az .  . 
lines 10 

in article  ( cookson ) writes 
i found some great stuff to clean chain of wheels. it 's called 
goo gone and cleaned the off my rear wheel faster than the simple 
green cleaned the bug guts off my headlight .  . wonderful stuff. i recommend 
that we officially it a dod wonder (tm) product. 

i think you can get that at most head shops .  . i'm not kidding .  .  .  . although 
it seems more appropriate for them to be selling simple green. 

'86 (erik asphaug ) 

from (p .  . ju ) 
subject re yamaha vs honda opinions 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 20 

(keith p7625 ) writes 

i am in hte market for a new bike  ( been without for a few years) .  . 
the two main bikes i'm looking at seriously are 
the yamaha virago 535 and the honda shadow 583 .  . 
i am leaning towards the yamaha for its shaft drive , the honda is chain. 
insurance in fla. is more costly than i thought , so i am staying in this 
power range. thanks in advance for any opinions and or experiences 

a friend of mine  ( who 's probably reading this right now) just bought a new 
yamaha virago 750 .  . after spending 1 2 hours very late one evening 
watching him struggle with the bolts  ( had to remove the right peg , loosen 
the brake pedal , c. c . ) . i 've pretty much decided never to get this 
particular model unless he or someone else wants to change the oil filter 
for me. compared to the 5 minute change he was used to for his honda , this 
is just a design flaw oversight in my eyes. 


patricia 


from  ( temporary technical writer ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
keywords n 
distribution na 
organization plexus software , a division of rei 
lines 10 
nntp posting host 

because riding a passenger does n't really depend on the type of bike. 
the things you want a passenger to do not do is the same. ergo , if he 's 
asking advice , i reasoned he does n't have much practice , period. if 
you say he does , fine. i still would n't take the uninitiated up a 
road that 's all switch backs and reverse center , not 
to mention the and squids who will also be on that particular 
road. he asked for advice , and even though it was n't what he meant , 
i still consider it some of the best i 've read. 

lee 

from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re test ride on a 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 20 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( tim layman ) writes 

after signing the i will buy the bike if i wreck it and i will 
not sue you no matter what papers , they just pointed me at the bike and 
said have fun. i was a little nervous  ( well a lot nervous ) mainly because 
it is a very expensive bike and i would hate to have to buy a new one 
let alone a wrecked one ( 

are you sure harley 's disclaimer says , if you crash , we take care of 
the bike , you take care of you. 

if you were really responsible for the bike , did your insurance cover 
it 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 13 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( cookson ) writes 

i waved to a guy on a riding mower this morning. does that count 
btw , i live in the country .  .  .  . everyone waves out here ! 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
god is real , unless declared integer .  . 
i came , i saw , i deleted all your files. 
black holes are where god is dividing by zero .  . 
the world will end in 5 minutes. please log out. 
earth is 98 full .  .  .  .  . please delete anyone you can. 

from  ( carter edward a) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization university of toronto , engineering computing facility 
lines 19 

 ( jody levine ) writes 
has anyone , while driving a cage , ever waved at i get the urge , 
but i 've never actually done it. 

oh yeah , all the time. on a nice spring summer day , i roll down the window 
and drive around looking for bikes .  . when a bike motors by in the opposite 
direction , i stick my arm out and  . my arm feels like a million 
bucks when i'm doing this a h. i do the same thing with cyclists .  . 
the only problem with a is their always in the right hand lane .  . 
i roll down the other window and them on the back. oh well , i 
think they appreciate the thought. 

regards , ted .  . 


university of toronto computer engineering 

'89 i'm taking a ride with my best friend. dod 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re where to put your helmet 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 25 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , ryan  ( ryan cousineau ) writes 

another good place for your helmet is your mirror ( ! ) .  . i kid you not. if 
you own a typical standard or other bike with fairly average mirrors 
that screw into your handlebars , your helmet should fit over your mirror 
and be fairly stable 

be careful that you do not have any weight of the helmet resting on the 
mirror. it will depress the foam liner in the helmet .  . that is not the 
kind of foam that bounces back , like foam rubber .  . its purpose in life 
is to absorb energy in an impact as it is compressed by your noggin .  . 
if your mirror compresses it , there is that much less energy absorbing 
capacity left to your noggin in a crash. 

i found the right to be a good spot , if on the  . 
hang with the facing up , balanced across the grip and brake 
lever such that the weight of the helmet does n't compress any of the 
foam .  . this is more challanging with an open face helmet .  . 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( charles sundheim ) 
subject re story 
keywords party ! ! ! ! 
nntp posting host ursa 
organization calvin college 
lines 52 

 ( lynn e. hall ) writes 

 ( lynn e. hall ) writes 

allowed (yes , there is a god) .  . no open containers on the street was the 
signs in the bars. yeah , right ! the 20 or so cops on hand for the couple of 
thousand of in a 1 block main street were not citing anyone. the 
street was filled with empty cans at least 2 feet deep in the gutter .  . the 
crowd was  hell shows everywhere. can you say party 


and still we wonder why they stereotype us .  .  .  . 

erc .  . 

mean  .  . they  ( whom ever  they  are) want to stereotype me 
as one that likes to drink beer and watch lovely ladies display their 
beautiful bodies i like that stereotype .  . 
if you were refering  stereotype  to infer a negative you noticed we 
did n't rape , pillage , or burn down the town. we also left mucho bucks as in 
money with the town. me thinks the town likes us. least they said so. 
lynn hall nos bros 


they bein  who tend to compose fair piece of the population 
bein the ones that regard as a loud , irresponsible , irreverent , 
 . 
sure you did n't rape and pillage it 's a relief to know that you were 
such gentlemen but because you were not completely out of hand you 
justify your lesser some pretty distorted thinking , i 
should say. 
oh i'm sorry , i just noticed that you left mucho bucks  ( as in money) .  .  .  . 
nevermind my criticism , i was out of line. i forgot that when one leaves 
mucho bucks  ( as in money) their behavior is permissable , perhaps even 
justified .  . 

keep in mind that are the ones that could give a @ ! when 
a biker gets killed , when their elected officials institute further 
draconian legislation  ( helmet laws , gun controls , etc . ) . , the ones that do n't 
respect our rights on the roads because we do not respect theirs all the 
rest of the time .  .  .  . 
need i continue 

so continue to wear your stigma as a badge , but the next time you are 
whining about them and the effect of their values on yours , remember 
that it was probably the behavior of self righteous like myself 
that kept them at bay for this long. 

enjoy , 


erc .  . dod 1138 

from  ( charles sundheim ) 
subject re cables  ( was re cobra locks) 
nntp posting host ursa 
organization calvin college 
distribution usa 
lines 17 

to follow up , i had a bad experience w a lock too .  .  .  . 

last year i bought a cable ii (3 8 x3 4  long , something like that) 
that by all standards seemed like a decent piece. until i used it anyway .  .  .  . 
before i ever used it for security purposes , i used it for entertainment 
 ( minds out of the gutter , please) , which is to say that i sat fiddling w 
it while watching tv (the night i got it) .  . after three minutes of mindless 
fiddling  ( of course it was mindless , remember i was watching tv) the entire 
mechanism came out on the key ! not unlike that old georgie 
nursery rhyme .  . this left a very empty cylinder and a very non secure 
 ( read  in the breeze ) cable lock .  . 
kinda makes me wonder about any flat key style lock .  . one w a 
slide hammer and viola i'm making an insurance claim .  . 

anyone else have a similar experience (w the , not bike theft ) 

erc .  . 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re sans hands 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 24 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article (richard clarke ) writes 
so how do i steer when my hands are n't on the bars  ( open budweiser in left 
hand , camel cigarette in the right , no feet allowed . ) . if i lean , and the 
bike turns , am i is like only 
with a taller seat , so your feet are n't on the floor 

rick 

now , while i would n't recommend doing this while moving , 

 ( maybe mike beaverton can complain to you awhile ! ) 

you might not want to if you 're just sitting 
in the driveway .  .  .  . 

sounds of rick falling off bike , muttering , damn , coulda 
sworn that 's how they told me in the msf course ! ! 



andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 38 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article writes 
in article , (andrew 
infante ) writes 
you really expect a cop to answer these honestly 

 ( first you gotta expect a cop to be honest .  .  . that . 's another 
story .  .  . ) . 

yeah , everybody knows cops always lie .  .  . and . the people they deal with day in 
and day out always tell the truth .  .  .  . no sir , sir , i drinking 
tonight , i was just playing around back there .  .  .  . no sir , i was n't speeding , 
i was realy only going , it was that guy next to me .  .  . did . n't ya see 
him 

come on .  .  . stereotyping . cops is no better than those that stereo type us. 
what say we try to show the same open mind to those around us as we would 
ask for ourselves .  .  . i . know its a stretch .  .  . but . its worth a try. 


my reason for saying that was 'cause i , if i were a cop 
would n't go out of my way to tell people how to break the law. 

would you 

the part about honesty was a joke , sorta .  . 

obviously , people have had bad experiences with cops 
lying .  . obviously , nobody 's perfect and nobody 
always tells the truth about everything. 

 ( or are you god 1 4 ) 



andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from (michael maser ) 
subject re how to act in front of traffic jerks 
nntp posting host uvic . ca . 
reply to 
organization university of victoria , victoria , bc , canada 
lines 33 

21 apr 1993 10 28 02 e writes 

being a mere female , i have often found i ca n't really take the big offensive line with asshole car drivers , so i found a more subtle and 
ooops i mean nasty way to get back at them. if somebody cuts you up , just wait till they have pulled out past you , and then gently lean over and 
bend their aerial , every time i have done that it has eventually snapped 
off near the base which tends to go undetected for a while and is a bummer to replace .  . 




dear 

that is such a cool idea why did n't i think of it however , here 
in canada the  ( antenna ) are usually near the driver or passenger areas 
and i would surely be seen .  .  .  .  .  . but . i 'll give it a try anyway. 

thanks for the first truely useable piece of information i have heard in a long 
time  ( and you are by no means a mere female , as this way at getting back takes 
real guts to do) .  . 


mike dod squid rating 5 . 
pinetree rd. 
sidney , b.c. , can. excess 400 
wish list , mucho , 
home (604) 656 6131 , or 
work (604) 721 
joke of the month what did the gay say to the 
university of victoria indian chief 
news rec . motorcycles . answer can i bum a couple bucks 




from  ( tony kidson ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
distribution world 
organization the modem palace 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 23 

in article writes 

when did you go out and change the laws of physics ) according to some 
numbers i used to see bandied around , shaft drive is on the order of 95 97 
efficient , while chain drive is closer to 99 ... seems to me that this makes 
chain drive more efficient , hmmmmm 


well maintained chains , running in oil , without those little rubber  o  rings 
to cause losses , might reach 99 efficiency .  . the average open to 
the dust  o  ring motorcycle chain probably has a difficult job making 90 
efficient .  . 


tony 


tony pgp 2.2 key by request voice 44 81 466 
morgan towers , the cat has had to move now e  ( mail(in order) 
morgan road , as i 've had to take the top 
bromley , off of the machine. 
england honda dod 


from 
subject 1st time biker iso advice 
nntp posting host vaxc . isc . rit . edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 


i'm just starting out with motorcycles , i 've read up on the subject a bit , 
talked to many of my friends who own ride bikes and encourage me to do the 
same. but when i ask about what kind of bike i should be looking at .  .  .  . i get 
varied answers. 


i'm 6 3 , about 230 , large athletic build .  .  .  . i suppose that would help to 
determine the size bike i 'd want. i want something that 's going to be fast and 
powerful enough to satisfy certain once i'm used to it. i also want 
something that is not going to be like a my first time out. any ideas ! 




bill 

replys are prefered through e mail. thanks in advance. 

from (i am the nighthawk ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 40 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ubvmsb . cc . buffalo . edu . 

in article ,  ( laszlo nemeth ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( bill slack ) writes 

various posts about ca n't do 

no mike .  . it is due to the shaft effect. the effects 
of the rotating shaft counteract any tendency for the front wheel to lift 
off the ground 

good point john .  .  . a . buddy of mine told me that same thing when i had my 
bmw i dumped the clutch at 5 , (hey , revved to 7 or so) and 
you know what he was right ! 

uh , folks , the shaft does n't have to do with it. i can get 
the front wheel off the ground on my 5 , ! 

you may have been able to bounce the front up but not 
actually do a . see the shaft effect 
the rear and effectivly loads the front. 
this is why a shaft bike should accelerate if it starts 
scraping in a corner .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


laz 

sorry to be contradictory , but .  .  .  . i 've had my nighthawk at 45 
with the horizon and i was n't banked over in a turn .  .  .  . 
the hard part is getting the front in off the ground. i rev to about 
7 , 000 at drop the clutch .  . even harder is keeping it from coming up to far 
i use the back brake as well as the throttle .  . once its up , it 'll just 
like any other bike. 

ethan 

ethan dod 682 1983 nighthawk 
hey .  .  .  . who cuts yer  hair man nothing clears the mind quite 
and chong like a maxed out tach and a 
a closed mouth contains no feet. buried speedometer .  . 
unknown me 


from (ray hixon ) 
subject re v max handling request 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 26 

in article 3 . pica . army . mil .  ( tom coradeschi ) writes 
 ( jeffrey david earls ) wrote 

writes 
hello there 
can anyone who has experience on riding the yamaha v max , pls kindly 
comment on its handling . 
 ( vmax racing horror story deleted) 
portland international raceway is now 2 for 2 on v  . 

v max handling ferget it. 

actually , a racer , william , considered running a in 
a  . he took it out to for a practice day , and 
really annoyed the 600 riders they usually got caught behind a 
sideways in the corners , and if they passed him going in , he 'd 
blow by down the straight  ( usually  . needless to say , since 
he was 2 seconds faster on a 1977 , he decided against the  . 

too bad. 


ray 
623 expert 
a single minded guy 


from  ( sang shin ) 
subject re cables  ( was re cobra locks) 
summary love my cobra 
keywords 
nntp posting host lambada . oit . unc . edu . 
organization university of north carolina extended bulletin board service 
distribution usa 
lines 38 

hi. 

i'm not sure what the other guy (ca n't track down his post for his name) 
was talking about when he made the claim that are not adjustable .  . 
they are. there 's a space between each link where the teeth of the 
locking head notch in. thus , each link is a possible locking point. 

also ,  ( and this is not applicable to hard core thieves who cart around 
liquid nitrogen and acetylene torches ) the look a lot 
more effective than cable locks (imho) and i think the initial 
appearance effect is more relevant to bored nominally adept at 
cracking unsecured bike deterrence , as long as the lock is nominally 
functional .  . 

finally , i notice that when i ride with my , harness boots , and 
the slung across like a  ( btw , i 've crashed in the rain 
dressed like this and the lock did n't any vertebrae ) , give 
me a much wider berth , do n't hassle me , and tend to avoid any potentially 
inflammatory action at stoplights .  . 

i love my almost as much as i love my pre 80 's honda dinosaur .  . 
(i think i have a reflex i put the lock on (i . e .  . , on my 
body) and i can feel the bike already shaking  . 

my first post. what did i do wrong ) 

sang 
dod 0846 
'80 

p.s. any other owners out there please e mail me. got 
questions about the weird handling on my bike. 


the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of 
north carolina at chapel hill , the campus office for information 
technology , or the experimental bulletin board service. 
internet launchpad . unc . edu . or 152 . 2 . 22 . 80 . 

from (mike mitten ) 
subject re dogs 
organization the laughing software farm , atlanta , ga , usa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host noel . pd . org . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

speedy mercer wrote 
let fido have yer left arm. as he bites it , bring your right forearm down 
hard on the back of his neck while bushing back and up with the left arm 
in fido 's mouth. this will be followed by a dull crack and one limp dog. 
total cost to you , a couple of holes in your left arm if you ar n't wearing 
leather. 

so how does hold up with this procedure i'm ordering mine 
monday , may 3. and i'm happy about it , too. ) ) 

mike 

mike ... ! emory ! pd . org . ! ama dod 522 
irony is the spice of life. '90 '82 suzuki 
the revolution will not be televised .  . 

from (p .  . ju ) 
subject re help ! which bikes are short 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 20 

 ( gregory bean ) writes 

help ! i 've got a friend shopping for her first motorcycle .  . this is great ! 
unfortunately , she needs at most a 28 seat. this is not great. so far , 
the only thing we 've found was an old and unhappy looking  . 

i have been checking out bikes  ( hoping for seats ) for a few weeks. a 
honda  ( 250cc ) fit me well , a honda hawk  ( 400cc ) did not , the 
kawasaki sb sh (ca n't remember) looked like it would fit me well but 
the price tag was way too large .  .  .  . 

i seem to remember a thread with a point similar to this passing through 
several months ago. did anybody keep that list 

please post this list or mail me one too ! 

( 

patricia 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re a point for helmet law is a point for 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 37 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( terry cunningham ) writes 

i know of no law , either on the books or proposed , that bans motorcycles 
from any place that i want to go to. 

so you really see no problem with banning them from places to which you 
do n't want to go 

i have not heard , or discussed with non persons , or read of 
any popular movement , either in the country as a whole , or in any of the 
states , that is out to  get  motorcycles .  . 

talk to somebody in the insurance industry , particularly after a few 
drinks. then talk to my mom (no booze required) .  . ) 

one more thing , if the public is misinformed and misunderstands as you 
state , what are you and the others posting on this doing to correct the 
situation 

ever heard of the dod ) 

ever since i hit my teens i have found that there were 
terrible wrongs to right , attitudes to  .  .  . blah , blah , blah 

fortunately , i grew up ! ) 

nah , you just became that so long as your little quarter 
acre is safe , you get your little tax deduction , and no act of the 
government intrudes , in too direct and obvious a way , into your little 
day to day life , you just do n't give a shit. 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from (david svoboda ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group 
lines 19 

in article  ( allan hatcher ) writes 

well , here goes. after lurking for a long time , i 'll announce myself. yes , i'm 
the enemy .  . the enemy that also happens to ride an arrest me red 90  . 

i have a feeling that you are not the enemy . there are without a doubt 
dickhead cops .  . but there are at least as many dickhead , even here 
 ( you know who you are ) .  . i will certainly give you the same benefit of 
the doubt as any other biker here. welcome. 

i think i can speak for the entire dod in this. 


(hey guys , free ride in georgia ! ! ! ) 

dave svoboda i'm getting tired of 
90 1000  ( mmmmmmmmmm ! ) beating you up , dave .  . 
84 rz 350  ( ring ding )  ( woops ! ) you never learn. 
ama dod 0330 939  ( chicago ) beth bruiser dixon 

from  ( jesper buhl ) 
subject re owners get hidden feature 
keywords lights 
organization computer science department , aarhus university , denmark 
lines 22 

 ( cookson ) writes 

in article  ( dave t dorfman ) writes 
i was enjoying lunch this saturday at in milford nh with an assortment 
of other folks when dean ( yes he has not left the 
country , yet) mentioned that the wiring diagram of the 
shows that the light switch is a three position switch. 

my does it too. the switch continuity section of the wiring diagram 
looks something like this 

hl l h 
x x low 
x x x  ( n ) 
x x high 

and my '78 too i first thought it was the wiring diagram that did n't 
fit my machine ) 

dean 

jb 

from  ( chris pirih ) 
subject re first bike 
organization microsoft corporation 
lines 39 

in rec . motorcycles . james leo writes 
i am a serious motorcycle enthusiast without a motorcycle , and to 
put it bluntly , it sucks. i really would like some advice on what would 
be a good starter bike for me. i do know one thing however , i need to 
make my first bike a good one , because buying a second any time soon is 
out of the question. i am specifically interested in racing bikes ,  ( cbr 
600 f2 , gsx r  . i know that this may sound kind of crazy 
considering that i 've never had a bike before , but i am responsible , a 
fast , and in love. 

responsible and in love i believe that 's a contradiction 
in terms. 

unless you 're really brave  ( read reckless ) a sport 
bike will go way faster than you dare for at least your first 
year of riding .  . getting more than that really is overkill , 
as you 'll never even want to use it. the following bikes 
can be bought  ( and repaired ! ) cheaply , are easy for a novice 
to manage , and are plenty high performance 
kawasaki ex 500 
honda vf 500 
suzuki gs 

the 0 100mph time of the ex 500 at full throttle is way 
sooner than you 're ready for it . ) with something 
as small as a 250 , you 'd probably be wishing for more 
power pretty quickly  ( unless it 's a or rgv ) .  . 

now , i'm not saying that you 're 100 certain to kill 
yourself immediately with a or a 750 .  . plenty 
of people have started riding on those bikes and done 
just fine. what i am saying is that it 's a waste of 
money , and a waste of perfectly good plastic when you 
drop the thing learning how to balance while stopping .  . 
you 'll never get the throttle more than half open 
anyway , so why spend the extra 2000 bucks 


chris 

from  ( duncan d. sterling ) 
subject re '93 wing ding 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 9 

wing ding xv will take place in louisville , kentucky from 15 june 18 june .  . 
for more info , or to register , contact , p.o.box , phoenix , az , 
, tel. (602) 269  . 



duncan sterling , , 
university of maryland ! slim in dr. 
college park , md. 2 strokes are quicker than 4 anonymous 

from  ( bob pasker ) 
subject re a kinder , gentler bmw mailing list 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 10 

joe , i'm sorry you felt i was pissing on your list. no 
was intended and i would be most interested to know what i said that 
made you feel that way. i am not suggesting that your list is 
nor that it will not serve a need. i just would like not 
to see the boxer contingent split , but there is certainly enough net 
for more than one list. 

bob 



from  ( jonathan e. quist ) 
subject re battery charger 
keywords battery charger 
nntp posting host i88 . isc . com . 
organization lachman technology , incorporated , naperville , il 
lines 20 

in article  ( sanjay sinha ) writes 

i just noticed that my halogen table lamp runs off 12 volts .  . 
the big that plugs into the wall says 12 volts dc , 20ma 

the question is can i trickle charge the battery on my 
with it 

you could , but it would be considerably cheaper to spend 8 or so on 
a trickle charger from k mart , venture , or target , then it would be 
to replace the halogen lamp power supply after you fuse it trying to 
pump current into the battery .  .  .  . 

while charging , the charger should be putting out around 14 or 15 volts 
as well .  .  .  . 

jonathan e. lachman technology , incorporated 
dod 094 , , '71 k4 naperville , il 
there 's nothing quite like the patter of little feet , 
followed by the words daddy ! ! 

from  ( chris steinbroner ) 
subject re a kinder , gentler bmw mailing list 
reply to chris 
nntp posting host cup . hp . com . 
organization hp ux kernel lab , cupertino , ca 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 . 1 . 
lines 21 

sorry , had to take out tx . motorcycles . because 
my news server rejected it. 

bob wrote 
it would be a shame to split boxer riders between different lists 
unless , of course , the existing list failed to meet the readers  
needs. 

you presumed you needed to split out a gs list. 
by implication of your split , a plain ol' bmw 
list would n't meet the gs riders  needs. 

for the sake of not forcing the split issue , 
how about changing the charter and renaming 
your list from bmw gs to just bmw would that 
make everybody happy 

i think you 'd get better participation this way. 
and joe would n't have to burden his 286 .  . ) 



from (michael beavington ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization bnr ottawa , software design 
lines 27 

in article , (matt dennie ) writes 
in  ( cookson ) writes 

in article (paul blumstein ) writes 

i 've had people in cages wave at me or give me the thumbs up on 
occassion .  . (i always return the wave or thumbs up) .  . that never 
happened to me until i started riding , so that may have 
something to do with it. 

ever notice little kid wave more than other 


the reactions of little boys seems to be the most enthusiastic to 
a wave  ( and also good to see) .  . i always wave when i see a kid that 
has at least noticed my bike. i figure it helps the future of the 
sport. 

yeah , it 's impossible to be a tough biker when a 5 year old 
starts waving at you. 



the mike dod 

my employer has no idea what i'm talking about ! 


from  ( dave t dorfman ) 
subject re ride 
keywords heavy 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 86 

 ( frank perdicaro ) writes 


well i was wrong. as i sat on the st , both feet down , all i could 
think was big . then i put one foot up. heavy came to mind very 
quickly. with cindy on the back was she on the back hard to 
tell with seat three times as large as a hawk seat the bike seemed 
nearly out of control just idling on the side of the road. 

it is heavy , the 91 is mid 600 's dry , that is the one major drawback 
of the st. 

by 3000 rpm in second gear , all the weight seemed to  . even 

can you say monster the test drive sold me on the bike , 
lot 's of bite anywhere above 2500 in any gear. 

on bike with 4.1 miles on the odometer , slippery new tires , and pads that 

did you abs tcs version 

cindy has no difficulty with speed. 3rd gear , 4th gear , purring along 
in top gear. this thing has less low rpm grunt that my hawk .  . lane 
changes were a new experience. a big is required to move this 
thing. responds well though. no wallowing or complaint .  . behind the 
fairing it was fairly quiet , but the helmet buffeting was 

after market fairing windshield for 100.00 raises the bubble 6 inches 
above most heads , but hurts the looks of the bike. 

non trivial .  . top gear car passing at 85mph was nearly effortless .  . 
smooth , smooth , smooth. not sure what the v4 sound reminds me of , 
but it is pleasant .  . 

this is the essence of the bike , move the throttle and itr accelerates 
any gear anywhere anytime , i frequently find myself at the dod min 
during a casual passing maneuver .  . 

the jump on to 133 caused me to be less than impressed with the 
brakes .  . its a down hill , reversing camber , twice reversing radius , 
decreasing radius turn. a real squeeze is needed on the front binder .  . 
this is a function of the weight , you have to be aggresive with the brake 
, actually as tested by cycle world and an expert rider the st 
stopped faster then the comparable models from bmw , and yamaha even with 
the extra weight and gas . 
the section of 133 we were on was tight , but too urban .  . the st works ok 
in this section , but it shows its weight. we went by the clam shack 

you must the st for every turn and movement short 
of the classic pothole wiggle .  . just forget ever leaning into a 
turn again. it must be into every turn and then 
responds nicely. 

about half way through the , i yanked cindy 's wrist , our 
for hold on tight . head check left , time to find redline .  . second 
gear gives a good shove .  . third too. fourth sees dod speed with a 
short shift into top. on the way to 133 we saw no cops and very light 
traffic. did not cross into dod zone because the bike was too new. 
well , now it had 25 miles on it , so it was ok. tried some high effort 
lane changes , some wide sweeping turns .  . time to wick it up i went 
until the buffeting was to pull us off the seat. and stayed 
there. when i was comfortable with the wind and the steering , 
i looked down to find an indicated  . not bad for 2 up touring .  . 

faster then i 've ever gone , i 'd hate to buy this bike after your 
short break in period 


to thread the st through the cars to the edge of the concrete pad 
out front. heavy .  . it took way too much effort for cindy and i to put 
the thing on the center stand. i am sure that if i used the side 
stand the st would have been on its side within a minute. 

not true , the side stand is well designed for the weight and will hold 
the bike nicely on dirt .  . i am able to easily get the bike up on 
the center stand , just step down on the stand instead of pulling 
up on the bike. 

my demo opinion heavy .  . put it on a diet. smooth , comfortable , 
hardly notices the dod speed. i 'd buy on for about 3000 less than 
list , just like it is. too much for the bike as it is. 

keep looking the 91 left overs if available are going for 72 7700 .  . 
i love mine and i have n't found a better value then the st for 7500 .  . 
remember you get 3 years unlimited mileage warranty. 


from (ray shea ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 13 

in article  ( jean noel moyne ) writes 

what does stand for 

dancing with  . 




ray shea they wound like a very effective method. 
, inc. leah 
! some days i miss d. boon real bad. 
dod 0372 team '88 hawk gt 

from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re for (3) last 
organization university of east 
lines 18 

 ( pete young ) writes 

nick wrote 

tsk , tsk , tsk .  . another newbie bites the dust , eh they 'll learn. 

newbie .  . sorry to disappoint you , but as far as the internet goes i was 
in baghdad while you were still in your bag. 

based on your previous postings , apparently devoid of humour , sarcasm , 
wit , or the apparent capacity to walk and chew gum at the same time , i 
assumed you were serious. mea culpa .  . 

you cannot be serious ! ! personally i think nick 's postings are the 
best thing on wreck . moto .  . 




from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re zipper repairs  ( was  .  .  .  .  . ) . 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
reply to 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 44 

in article br . com .  ( carl paukstis ) writes 
 ( blaine gardner ) writes 

yep , it works like a charm. i had the same problem after about 7 8 years 
of constant use , and i was thinking of seeing how much eclipse would 
want to install a new zipper .  . but someone (i think it was chuck karish ) 
suggested i try that trick. it took a couple of tries to get the right 
amount of squish , but it 's been fine for about 3 years since i squished 
it. it should work for any of the nylon coil type  . 

otoh 
i tried this on my hg concord jacket thursday night. really , i just 
made a tiny adjustment type of squeeze .  . really. 

is  ( was ( ) your hg zipper the nylon coil type or the kind with 
molded plastic teeth i 've only tried it on the coiled nylon type , and 
it does n't take much squish to fix the problem. i found i was 
it (no broken parts , but the zipper was too hard to pull ) so after 
spreading the zipper pull jaws again , i tried with vice grips .  . no , not 
the usual grip of death technique , i adjusted the closed vice grips so 
they were snug on the zipper jaws , then released them and tightened the 
adjusting screw a bit. a couple of iterations and i had just the right 
amount of zipper squish (tm) .  . 

result i now know that in spokane will even consider trying 
to repair a broken zipper closer thingy , which must be a 0.30 part 
which needs a 20 tool to install. 

i 've had two zipper pulls fail on my suit  ( actually on the 
accessory ellipse ) , and they sent me a few replacement pulls free of 
charge. i do n't know what brand of hg uses , but parts are 
available for 's plastic  . replacement was pretty simple , just 
break and remove the plastic knob at the top of the zipper that keeps 
the pull from coming off the top end. slide on the new zipper pull .  . then 
crimp on  ( vice grips again ! ) a replacement zipper stop. 

you might try fabric stores such and see if they sell replacement 
parts. 

oh , for what it 's worth , the coil type on the eclipse 
are also  . 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


subject re posted gif of bmw 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 22 

in article , 
 ( sebastian c sears ) wrote 



went and played w columbia 's scanner and scanned in a bunch of 
pictures of my new  ( to me) 1977 bmw  . they are , however , not 
color , but 256 greyscale gifs .  . 

mind posting those to the euro archive we have a directory 
specifically for bmws .  . 

ftp 134 . 29 . 65 . 5 . msus . edu) . 
user euro 
pass 
cd bmw 

get and put as you please. 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from (mike sturdevant ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 23 
reply to (mike sturdevant ) 
nntp posting host slc10 . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , () says 

is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 



absolutely .  . early 's were very good at this. 


mike terry 
'82 virago 


do n't try it on your virago unless you already are good at 
it or like the smell of exploded clutch .  . 




go fast. take chances .  . 

mike s. 

from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 29 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , (robert d castro ) writes 
when how do you decide that it is too windy to ride 

when it 's too windy to stand. 

when you 're on the road in high winds , stay alert .  . even more alert 
than your alert 'cause you 're on a motorcycle and they 're out to kill 
you kind of alert .  . be aware of the terrain , and how it may funnel 
wind in sudden gusts  ( well , not gusts to somebody standing there , but 
it 's 'cause you ride through it) .  . if you are riding in a steady 
, be aware of a hill that will block the wind , and adjust your 
lean angle. be aware of passing trucks to your windward side , your 
lean angle will change dramatically both as you enter and as you leave 
their cone .  . reducing your profile may help , ie , lean on the 
gas tank and kiss the triple clamp .  . keep a nimble hand on the 
steering , be ready to into and out of sudden wind bursts .  . 
keep a larger than usual buffer zone , both ahead and behind , and to the 
side , you can easily be blown half a lane over before you can react by 
 . keep a close eye on traffic in your mirror , if 
someone is coming up wanting to pass , get out of their way early. stop 
often for short brakes , extensive riding in high winds is both mentally 
and physically fatiguing .  . 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re faq please post 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 23 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( noemi berry ) writes 

guess how you turn a horse look where you want 
to go ! and plan your turns and jumps .  . the best 
riders give refined , smooth inputs to the beast. 
lots of maintenance .  . leather looks cool. 
sound familiar 

black ones look better. none are truely to america , 
although some of the finest are produced here. gear is expensive , and 
you never seem have enough of it. volvos hit them. only idiots 
intentionally rear up the front half off the ground just to look cool. 
do n't ride them in the rain. they are dangerous on ice. loud 
ones are annoying , and too much chrome looks dumb. 

yep , sounds familiar ! 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( steve smead ) 
subject xs 850 never needs valve adjustments 
organization hewlett packard roseville site 
lines 12 
nntp posting host rose . hp . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1.3 

i bought a yamaha with 8k miles. over the last 2 years , i 've put 30k 
of miles  . valve adjustment intervals are suppossed to be every 
5k .  . well every 7 . 5k . or so , i 've checked the pad , and they never 
change ! if anything , the clearances seem to be getting a little smaller which 
makes no sense to me with the pad system the pads should wear until the 
clearances are too great right i know that threaded adjusters can tighten 
up , but i did n't think these kind could. 

bottom lines is that i have n't touched my valves for 30k on this bike and 
they are still nice and quiet and if anything , the clearances are tighter .  .  .  . 
what 's the deal any other yam triple owners notice extremely long valve 
adjustment intervals 

from  ( jorg klinger ) 
subject re its still cold , but .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host ccu . umanitoba . ca . 
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada 
lines 29 

in (michael robinson ) writes 

in article woodward ) writes 
why just the other day a large 
group of us where lamenting how much we admire and wish we could be just 
like those macho british studs we 've all grown up  . 

well , and i thought all yanks were parochial  . so some of you 
can at least aspire to better things .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

andy , when are you ever going to get it straight all yanks are 
self satisfied  . it 's the canadians that are parochial  . 


no , the yanks are. we are are midway through our invasion of 
florida and they are n't even aware of it yet. 


if you only new who 
arch .  . eng. services lost horizons i think i am. 
umanitoba , man. ca. the anonymous 









from  ( laura lemay ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
keywords advice , , help ! 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 65 

in article  ( bob wert ) writes 
i need some advice on having someone ride with me on my 750 ninja .  . 
this will be the the first time i 've taken anyone for an extended ride 
 ( read farther than around the block ) .  . we 'll be riding some twisty , 
fairly bumpy roads (the mines road mt . hamilton . loop for you sf bay  . 



an extended ride as a passenger on a 750 ninja .  . 

 . 

well , i hate to be a wet sock , but , well .  .  .  . 

i was a passenger on many bikes for the longest time before i started 
riding , and i grew to hate long rides on sport bikes .  . the passenger 
seats are not designed for long rides .  . the passenger positions are n't 
even usually designed for short rides .  . i ended up torturing my knees and my 
back by taking long rides as a passenger on sport bikes .  . one of the 
reasons i originally liked my current so much was he had 
a bmw .  . ) 

i 'd suggest a shorter extended ride at first a short turn in the mountains 
or some such. then see how much pain she 's in , and proceed from there. 

the best advice i 'd give a beginning passenger 

do n't get on the bike until the rider says its ok , and work out some sort 
signal for the rider to tell you when its ok to get off. after i get on 
the bike i squeeze my riders hips to tell that i'm ready , and at the stop 
he his head to show its ok for me to get off. 

keep your feet on the pegs at all times. do n't wiggle  ( unless your rider 
asks you to ) 

the best passengers are those which are  . echo the movements 
and lean of your rider .  . look over the shoulder thats most comfortable , 
but during turns look over the shoulder on the inside of the turn. 

get used to your rider 's shifting style  ( riders use a reasonably 
consistent shifting style) .  . avoid helmet bonk .  . helmet bonk is 
when your rider revs the bike up and then shifts and the sudden change 
in acceleration causes your helmet to bonk his hers. it 
gets old real fast. 

when pulling to a stop , put a hand or both hands on the tank to keep 
your weight from pushing your rider up onto the tank. putting your hands 
on the tank is also a good way to stretch your back if you 're in pain , 
but i'm told it gets harder to steer in turns if you leave them there. 

switch your hands to the guardrail to stretch your shoulders , but be 
sure and squeeze your thighs while you 're doing it so your rider knows you 're 
still there. ) the guard rail is n't as safe as holding onto your rider .  . 

do n't be afraid to ask for frequent stops if you 're in pain or 
losing feeling in your feet. passenger seats are not generally designed 
for comfort. work out some sort of pull over signal beforehand .  . 




laura lemay 
writer of trifles in shadows and blood 



from  ( rph ) 
subject bub pipes ! live free , with variable ! 
x posted from 
organization hog heaven 
lines 23 

after failing my state of new hampshire noise gestapo test with my hd 
slash cut pipes i installed my new (which i had been planning to 
do anyway) , went to a different in station , and passed with no 
problem at about 97 db .  . 

two points 

first , i do n't think the first dude did the noise test correctly. 
holding the meter close to his body probably caused a high reading , and 
doing it inside the garage with the door closed undoubtedly enhanced 
the db level ! so if any other nh riders need to get this done , make 
sure the inspection is done outdoors with the meter held well away from 
the body. 

second , these bub pipes are bloody terrific .  . at low revs or cruising 
through town , they as quiet as the stock pipes , but have a sound thats 
a more , purring , rumble .  . when you open her up to 3000 rpm 
they emit a wonderfully satisfying roar .  . best of both worlds ! 

russ hughes '92 dod  ( 6022(10e20 ) 
the chrome and steel she rides .  .  .  .  . with the very air she 
breathes .  .  .  . 
n. young 

from (i . d .  . benham ) 
subject wanted uk bmw tips 
nntp posting host bootes . cus . cam . ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge , england 
lines 14 

hi , 
i'm now in the market for buying a bmw . the . ideal would be an rs but i 'd be 
interested to here of any for sale  . age . is not a problem i'm more 
interested in a good example without a massive amount of miles and one which has 
been well maintained as i intend to keep it well and for some time. 

i would also like to know if anyone has any sound advice as regards to 
insurance old , licence for 9 years , no accidents claims convictions . am . i old 
enough to get bmw owners club insurance yet or will i have to wait until next 
year 

ian 

future owner 

from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re faq please post 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 67 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , (mike sixsmith ) writes 

1. all of us that argue about , etc. , throughly understand 
the technique of  . 

including all the ones who think that they all the way 
through a corner 

well .  .  .  . all the way through a decreasing radius corner , anyway .  .  .  . 

this is really the only thing we disagree on. maybe we should agree to 
disagree 

ok  ( but i'm right ! ) ) 

the official line here  ( though i do have my doubts about it) is that the 
front brake is applied first , followed by the rear brake , the idea being 
that you avoid locking up the rear after weight transfer takes place. 

if that 's the official line taught in those rider education classes 
you were refering to , that also do n't teach , i have to 
question the quality of the classes. the official line in msf 
curricula is as i described .  . maximum braking is achieved by applying 
both brakes equally , when the weight distribution is nominally even and 
both tires have equal normal forces , and off on the rear to 
prevent locking it , and increasing braking on the front , as more 
traction is available to the front due to increased normal force due to 
weight shift .  . 

the official line you have been taught seems ineffective on the face 
of it. applying the rear brake after the front is not taking advantage 
of all the traction available to the rear at time 0 , and is halving the 
available braking power by using only the front at time 0. 

saying , brake until the tire just begins to slide is next to useless 
advice to a newbie .  . he has to go out and slide the tire to find out 
where that is ! it also gives him zero information from which to 
develop a braking technique that changes as the braking and 
corresponding weight shift develop .  . 

if you do n't slide the tyre , you have no way of knowing whether you 've 
achieved maximum braking or not. i'm not suggesting that you should always 
aim to brake as hard as you possibly can but if you want to find the 
limits of the machine , you have to go beyond them. 

not necessarily true. the tire indicates impending lockup 
 ( on most surfaces ) , and serves as a good guide to newbies to indicate 
maximum braking .  . i agree that totally locking the front occasionally 
makes one a better rider , but it is a manuver best saved for an 
experienced rider , unless you have one of those bikes like 
code used to use. 

in any case , for maximum braking , if  ( as i suggested ) you aim to keep 
both wheels just on the point of sliding , then you 'll be doing 
exactly as you suggest ! ! 

true , but from the point of view of how to best teach riding skills 
(which is how this discussion started) , keep both wheels just on the 
point of sliding is nearly useless information. you need to teach a 
technique , or at least a strategy , to achieve this. 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from (erik astrup ) 
subject re what octane 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 26 

 ( jean noel moyne ) writes 
how do you know what kind of gas to buy depending on the compression 
ratio of your engine i heard. ok , but what kind of gas goes for what kind 
of compression .  . 

i'm asking this because i used to put 87 in my hawk gt and the other day , 
i changed because i wanted to see if there was a difference. and i do n't 
know if i'm being subjective or what , but it seems like the bike runs 
better ! 

run your bike on the lowest octane that it will run smoothly on. 
higher octane fuel is not better than lower octane gas. pick up the last 
american magazine. there 's a short article in there about 
octane and the misconceptions many people make about the subject. look at 
your owners manual. i believe it states 87 is just fine. 


erik afm 422 dod 683 

1993 cbr 1990 cbr 600 1990 1990 ninja 250 

this one goes to eleven nigel , lead guitar , spinal tap 





from () 
subject re dogs 
organization image analysis center , univ. hospitals of cleveland 
lines 30 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host max . uh . cwru . edu . 


in article ,  ( charles parr ) writes 
newsgroups rec . motorcycles . 
path usenet . ins . cwru . edu . ! lerc . nasa . gov . ! lerc . nasa . gov . ! news . edu . ! net . ! zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! sol . ctr . columbia . edu . ! destroyer ! cs . ubc . ca . ! unixg . ubc . ca . ! kakwa . ucs . ualberta . ca . ! acs . ucalgary . ca . ! parr 
from  ( charles parr ) 
subject re dogs 
message id 
date tue , 20 apr 93 19 39 58 gmt 
references ms kan . panda . com . 
nntp posting host acs3 . acs . ucalgary . ca . 
organization the university of calgary , alberta 
lines 26 

in article a . writes 

what , a dog weighs maybe , at max you ca n't handle it 

you have , i presume , thumbs grapple with it and tear it 's head 
off ! 

sheesh , even a trained attack dog is no match for a human , 
we have all the advantages .  . 


this was a recent discussion on rec . martial . arts .  . humans definitely do n't 
have all the advantages .  . dogs are strong and often bred for 
fighting of one sort or another. 

ed 
dod 1110 

from (michael robinson ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
organization institute of cognitive studies , u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 20 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cogsci . berkeley . edu . 
keywords advice , , help ! 

in article  ( pat loughery ) writes 
also , remember that it 's much more draining and tiring to ride 2 up 
than by yourself , because you 're concentrating on much more , and 
in the zen of the moment less. remember this. 

the first few times i someone whose safety was a great concern to 
me  ( as opposed to brothers , etc . ) . , i almost got us both killed on several 
occasions .  . 

i was surprised to discover that it is much safer to just drive than to 
distract yourself by trying to be unusually cautious and concerned. abruptly 
adopting a novel set of thought patterns and riding strategies while piloting 
a bike is just asking for trouble. 





michael robinson uucp ucbvax ! cogsci ! robinson 
internet 

from  ( dave cds ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
organization tektronix colorado data systems , , co 
lines 15 

silver dream racer frustrated brit club racer 's buddy dies , 
leaving him a built in garage revolutionary , experimental 500 gp bike. 
brit club racer uses machine to beat bad american on bad japanese 
factory bike at british gp .  . filmed at , i believe. pretty 
bad. 


dave dod you ca n't wear out 
151 an indian scout , 
'88 '48 indian chief 751 or its brother the chief .  . 
'75  ( r90s 151) '72 tr  ( 2b 751 ) ama they 're built like rocks 
'65 2  57 nsu max to take the knocks , 
1936 bmw r12  ( compulsive it 's the that 
my employer has no idea. joiner ) give you grief .  . 


from 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
organization bc systems corporation 
lines 6 

c'mon you guys. 
motorcycles booze do n't mix. 
nuff said. 

bruce clarke b.c. environment 
e mail 

from (robert d castro ) 
subject borderline ! 
nntp posting host cunixf . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to (robert d castro ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 18 

in article  ( derek franks ) writes 
i was wondering if anyone on the net knows where when the 1993 wing ding 
is if so , would you please e mail post the info 

i 've never been to one and have some free time this summer and 
am considering attending .  . anyone else 


this is my first post , so no dod . 

'82  ( 2nd one) 

getting close there ! 

o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
rob castro email live for today 
1983 phone (212) 854 for today you live ! 
dod nyc 1 new york , new york , usa rc (tm) 

from  ( jody levine ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
organization ontario hydro research division 
lines 23 

in article writes 
another to the list but with this one i felt the most helpless .  . i am sitting 
at a light about 1 2 car lengths behind a car , a wise  . suddenly i 
hear screeching tires. i dart my eyes to my mirrors and realize it 's the 
flying up right behind me , in my panic i pop my clutch and stall the 
bike. luckily the guy stops a foot behind my rear wheel. 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

i 've only ever done it in an automatic .  . i was sitting in my olds , in 
the winter , at a light , when i heard screeching behind me. i managed to 
dart into the left turn lane before the sliding jetta wound up half 
where i was and half in the parked car beside where i was. i 've never 
had occasion to do it on a bike , but i imagine that it would be even 
easier , because you could slip beside the car in front. giving a 
at the mirrors while at a light will give you time to get the clutch 
out smoothly when you notice trouble , instead of waiting for the 
screeching .  . 

i 've bike like jody levine dod 275 kv 
got a you can if you pf 
ride it toronto , ontario , canada 

from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 19 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article (ray shea ) writes 

in article writes 
... perhaps in is confined 
to liquor 

everything in louisiana is related to liquor eating , sleeping , walking , 
talking , church , state , life , death , and everything in between. 

how dare you make such an accusation ! there are many sober , non in 
this state ! if we n't so busy unloading the beer truck for the week end , 
i might just come up that and have a talk wit you ! b 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
hey ! where did they go 
you do n't think ....  . 


from (andrew infante ) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 27 
nntp posting host north1 . acpub . duke . edu . 

in article (andrew scott kc6sss ) writes 
(andrew infante ) writes 

since the occurance , i 've paid many 
dollars in , taken the drunk class , 
and , yes , listened to all the self righteous 
assholes like yourself that think your so above the 
rest of the world because you 've never had your 
own little dd  . 

the devil made me do it ! 


yeah ! 

i found inside a worm .  .  . yeah . , that 's it ! 

 ( actually it was vodka gordon 's if i remember correctly .  .  .  . 
i did n't even buy it  ( of course , that 's probably the reason 
i drank so much of it that night .  .  . never . again . ) . 



andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from  ( jim small) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
organization naval medical research development command 
lines 28 

in article (andrew infante ) writes 

since the occurance , i 've paid many 
dollars in , taken the drunk class , 
and , yes , listened to all the self righteous 
assholes like yourself that think your so above the 
rest of the world because you 've never had your 
own little dd  . 

some of us are n't that fucking stupid you cock sucking asshole. that 's why 
we have n't had our own little dd  . i'm soo impressed that you 've had 
to spend your own precious little dollars to make up for your own stupid 
act. now go fuck off. 



friends killed by drunk driving assholes like 2 
children friends by drunk driving assholes like 2 



now who 's the self righteous asshole , you weak willed fuck head 




i hate the 3b2 
the 3b2 can bite me. 

from  ( alan e. asper ) 
subject re boom ! dog attack ! 
organization usr lib news organization 
lines 11 
nntp posting host calvin . sbc . com . 

in article bong mac . stanford . edu .  ( eric bong ) writes 
nice  tex. i use the california dmv recommended technique 
slow as you aproach said dog and wick it up as you pass. i 've often 

this must be the standard strategy that is taught , cuz that 's what they told 
me to do in my illinois msf class. it works well , only you do n't get the 
satisfaction of kicking the shit out of some rabid hell beast. 

alan 



from  ( doug rinckes ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
nntp posting host 133 . 206 . 251 . 21 . 
reply to 
organization telecommunications systems support centre , new zealand 
lines 23 

in article , () writes 
in article  ( graeme harrison ) writes 
rec . motorcycles . 2 48 pm apr 19 , 1993 
is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

mike terry 
'82 virago 

i 've seen 'em , but the real question is , can one do a on a lead wing 
if so , how high would the front wheel be off the ground 

on lead wings are possible , but they ai n't easy , or so my 
 ( hhmmm , what is the relation ) great uncle several times removed tells 
me. as for how high , how high do you want 'em modulation is n't 
exactly the easiest thing in the world , or so says a guy 57 years old .  .  .  . 

well , apparently once you get past about 6 inches , all the luggage shifts back in the , the passenger slides back , and the dog ends up hanging onto the top rack , 
and they go all the way over until it 's flat on it 's ass , with the front wheel 
straight up in the sky. impressive , but hard on the tail lights. ) 

doug new zealand ltd 
1976 bmw 1960 bmw r60 1940 indian 


from (paul blumstein ) 
subject re dogs 
nntp posting host harley . com . 
organization black belt association 
lines 27 

in article  ( charles parr ) writes 
in article a . writes 

this tactic depends for its effectiveness on the dog 's conformance to 
a psychological norm that may not actually apply to a particular dog. 
i 've tried it with some success before , but it wo n't work on a charlie manson 
dog or one that 's really , really stupid. a large irish taught me 
this in my yard  ( apparently his territory) one day. i'm sure he was playing 
a game with me. the game was probably kill the very angry neighbor before 
he can dispense the terrible punishment .  . 

what , a dog weighs maybe , at max you ca n't handle it 

you have , i presume , thumbs grapple with it and tear it 's head 
off ! 

sheesh , even a trained attack dog is no match for a human , 
we have all the advantages .  . 

look , if you are worried about being attacked by a dog , just carry 
some spot with you ) .  . 

russian is fun 5 out of 6 times 

paul , , dod 36 , , ama , hog , doh 2 
, marc , arrl , platypus 240 , , , ,  ( cala905 ) 
transaction technology , inc. , santa monica , ca 

from  ( irwin arnstein ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
distribution na 
organization inc. , richardson tx 
keywords advice , , help ! 
lines 14 

in article (mike sixsmith ) writes 
if i'm riding i would far sooner have the hanging on to the bike , 
rather than me , because i find that their weight can cause me to move , 
and that can upset the balance of the bike. most of the i see 
over here hold the  . the really good ones do n't hang on to anything 
unless violent acceleration is taking place. 

 .  . do . n't you ride with your sweetheart 



 ( irwin ) i honk therefore i am richardson , tx 
dod  ( r75 6) 


from (michael taffe ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 20 
nntp posting host ucsd . edu . 

in article (david gibbs ) writes 

but , on a similar note for a while i drove a 1976 vw this 
is their camper van conversion .  . i found that other drivers of this 
same model would wave to me , and i waved back. maybe its because we 
were all driving a funny looking vehicle 

no , it is more because van drivers need a little support for driving 
such underpowered pathetic and truly utilitarian vehicles .  . me and 
my '71 used to wave and be waved at all across the country between 
nh and co. now that we live in so. cal. , though , i find you 'd have 
to damn near wave your arm off to keep up with all the van drivers ! 
this is truly vee dub heaven. 

peace , 



mike disclaim this ! 


from  ( brad warkentin ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
nntp posting host thor 
organization newbridge networks corporation 
distribution rec 
lines 24 

in article  ( beth dixon) writes 

beth the one true beth dixon 
1981 yamaha excitable girl dod 
1979 yamaha spike the garage rat 

1992 ducati ama 
1963 ducati 250 restoration project 1.8 
i can keep a handle on anything just this side of deranged .  . 
zz top 


now just wait one cotton picking minute here .  .  .  .  . dod rule 417 . 1 . 2 . section 6 
paragraph 3 clearly indicates that multiple people ca n't lay claim to a bike 
in an obvious ploy to artificially increase the size of their stable .  .  .  . 

so the question of the day is .  .  .  . is spike owned by a lady of true class and 
breeding  ( my definition any woman who rides ) ) or by tom the head 
i also note that you lay no claim to or ol sport.  ( like i said , 
obviously a lady of discriminating taste .  .  . ) . 

bored minds know. 

no  . sig . no  . plan . no . clue . dod 255 

from  ( neal howard ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
organization inc. , richardson tx 
lines 20 

in article (paul m. smith) writes 
in article (robert mugele ) writes 

i 've tried to locate a place that sells maxima chain 
wax in the dallas area. does anyone know of a retail outlet for it in 
this area or a mail order anywhere 
in the dallas area , i just bought a can (it 's for my best friend 's bike .  .  .  . a 
1986 , mines got a belt ! ! ! ) for 6 . 79 . ( 7 . 35 . with tax) at 
bates discount cycle parts on the i service road in farmers 
branch just a couple miles north of the i 635 i interchange .  . they have 
about a dozen cans left. 



neal howard '91 1200 dod 686 , inc  ( richardson , tx ) 
doh 
std disclaimer my opinions are mine , not 's .  . 
let us learn to dream , gentlemen , and then perhaps 
we shall learn the truth. august kekule   ( 1890 ) 


from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re live free , but quietly , or die 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 26 
nntp posting host 3 . pica . army . mil . 

(ed green pixel cruncher ) wrote 

 ( keeper of the 'tude ) writes 
(ed green pixel cruncher ) writes 
i know it sounds ludicrous for a biker to advocate restrictions on 
biking in a biking forum , 

do n't you mean former motorcyclist 

no. 

 . i can read this one of two ways 

1) ed  . 
2) motorcyclist is like alcoholic .  .  ( once you 're an alcoholic , you 're always 
an 
alcoholic at least that 's what 
friends in 
a position to know tell me) 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from  ( jeff deeney ) 
subject re re first bike and 
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa 
lines 14 

in rec . motorcycles . ,  ( speedy mercer ) writes 

buy an old dirt bike. find a vacant field  ( get owners permission ) and 
learn the basics .  . 
... 
when your done sell or trash the bike and move to the street. 

speedy , you 've got this all wrong. when you 're done , buy a better dirt 
bike , body armor , decent boots , and forget about the weenie street riding .  . 
) 

jeff dod '88 
ama '81 
dirt bike riding is perfectly safe i have the scars to prove it. 

from (michael robinson ) 
subject re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
organization institute of cognitive studies , u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 17 
nntp posting host cogsci . berkeley . edu . 
keywords wind 

in article rob castro writes 
when how do you decide that it is too windy to ride 

is n't that one of those self evident things like , how do you decide that 
you 're out of gas 

i have never experienced wind so severe it physically operation 
of a motorcycle .  . it 's more a matter of deciding whether the aggravation 
is more trouble than it 's worth. this of course , depends entirely on your 
own particular circumstances and personal disposition .  . 





michael robinson uucp ucbvax ! cogsci ! robinson 
internet 

from (james . 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization at t 
lines 11 

while on my bike i wave to anyone who looks. sort of like the small town 
or wide open spaces type thing that someone from louisiana mentioned.  ( like 
when i'm in arkansas or mt . ) . kids are especially fun both genders 
 ( watch it cliff ! ! ) ) 

in the cage i usually wave to  . they usually do n't wave back. my wife 
thinks it 's strange but i do n't care. 

jim 



from  ( joe senner ) 
subject re a kinder , gentler bmw mailing list 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization not 
lines 27 

 ( bob pasker ) writes 
it would be a shame to split boxer riders between different lists 
unless , of course , the existing list failed to meet the readers  
needs. 

nowhere did i see you mention k bikes , which , being made by bmw , are 
welcome on my list. in fact , you go out of your way to say 

most all boxer talk is welcome 

your list appears to to  . that 's great. my list to 
bmw 's , without any restrictions like you have. considering that the 
subscription count went to 29 within 18 hours of my initial post about 
the list (which was made around 10 00pm just before i went to bed ) , i 'd 
say that there is a need for a bmw list as opposed to just a gs boxer 
list. 

my motivation for setting up the bmw list came from an earlier post of 
yours announcing your boxer list. it did n't fit my needs. 

ok , we 've pissed on each other 's list. let 's get back to the regular 
net . noise . and read our respective lists. 


joe 
bmw mailing list 
austin area ride mailing list 

from  ( mark wallace ) 
subject re 1200 owners suggestions wanted 
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci .  . 
lines 24 

 ( blaine gardner ) writes 

in article  ( mar 
marten ) writes 

i am looking for a new tank bag now , and i wondered if you , as follow 
1200 owners , could make some suggestions as to what has , and has 
not worked for you. if there is already a file on this i apologize for 
asking and will gladly accept any flames that are blown my way ! 

with the fj 's large , flat gas tank , i 'd imagine that almost anything 
would work. personally , i'm quite happy with my eclipse standard tank 
bag. 


i think the only thing to watch for is the number of attachment 
straps .  . most come with 3 and some with 4 , i have a 4 strap 
and because the rear of the tank is so narrow the fit 
is not optimal .  . 

mark , castle rock , co 




from  ( bob morley ) 
subject re please tell me they 're not permenant scratches ! 
nntp posting host brimstone 
organization ltd. , 216 cambridge science park , cambridge cb4 , uk 
lines 20 

in article , catherine barbara writes 
while on my fiance 's bandit , my hip pack rubbed against the tail 
and left a nasty dull finish and scratches .  . is there a way to get 
rid of these buff them out wax them out help ! 

has he realised yet .  .  .  . or . are you hoping to fix it before he does 

if you 're planning to use t cut .  .  . be . careful. sunlight fades paint and t cut removes the surface layer , so if its a older bike or very sunny where 
you live then the colour of the t cut panel wont match the rest of the bike. 

bob 


bob morley  ( public ip exchange ) 
dod 549 216 cambridge science park 
milton road 
cambridge , cb4 
ely district mcc england 



subject re ignition problem 
from 
reply to 
organization taf dept.  . madrid .  . 
nntp posting host taf . es . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 17 
lines 17 

 ( eric nelson ) writes 
my 83 nighthawk has two  ( related ) problems with the ignition system 

it wo n't start when on cold mornings ( 10 c , 50 f or so) 
i always need to give it gas when starting it , even when using 
the clutch .  . 

this all still happens after a tune up and a new battery , 
any ideas on what could be wrong with the bike 

i think you have the choke  ( starter ) jet blocked and even the idle one. 

manuel velasco e mail 
zx 11 
calle , 61 dr 600 s 
madrid dod 1033 
tel. 341 do n't waste your time , express it 

from  ( carter edward a) 
subject re squids and dealers 
organization university of toronto , engineering computing facility 
distribution na 
lines 28 

in article l . writes 
stuff chopped 
here is the part that concerned me. the hg and those shop personel that were 
not busy with customers went back out , where said hg members fired up their 
rides and did the obligatory up of those 600 beasts .  . at this point , 
one decided to see how much rubber a 600 could deposit in the drive. 

squids , i thought to myself. but i was appalled that the manager 
not only condoned this behavior , but encourged it , to the point were they 
were betting how long he could keep it up and him on to pull a 
as he rode off onto a busy street around rush hour. the girl that was riding on another bike , seemed rather hormonal about this display , and urged her 
pilot to quickly catch up. the others followed , making sure there 
could be heard as well as felt .  . 

um , you gotta understand these as you call them. they look at 
it this way burn lotsa tire make lotsa money. i'm sure s he knew how 
stupid the hg was. would you seriously stop them from burning off 
a seasons worth of tire the squids probably would buy or some 
good low profile tire anyhow .  .  .  . 

yep .  . them sure a sneaky bastards ! ) 

regards , ted .  . 


university of toronto computer engineering 

'89 i'm taking a ride with my best friend. dod 

from  ( brad warkentin ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
nntp posting host thor 
organization newbridge networks corporation 
lines 25 

 ( jody levine ) writes 

has anyone , while driving a cage , ever waved at i get the urge , 
but i 've never actually done it. 

yup .  . do it whenever i am in the cage (which is not often if its riding weather 
... ie no  . i find arm out and down and kinda finger wave works best for 
sport bikes and arm out up works best for  . similar to how i wave when 
i am on the bike. 

let 's see how many posts it takes for someone to selectively quote this article 

yah mean like .  .  . 

i get the urge , but i 've never actually done it. 

done what why jody we would never , ever even dream of assuming that a young 
lady of such refined breeding and taste would even consider such things. i mean 
some matters do not even have to be discussed , by civilized beings .  .  .  . 

but , in confidence , just between the two of us , not even once. or perhaps 
got excited thinking about it. i know that i do .  .  .  . 

no  . sig . no  . plan . no . clue . dod 255 


from (michael nelson ) 
subject re insurance discount 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , san francisco ca 
lines 25 

in article (erik x2773 ) writes 

by the way , i'm moving to the bay area so i 'll be insuring the bikes 
there , and registering them. to ease me of the shock , can somebody 
guesstimate the cost of insuring a and a here in tucson 
they only cost me 320  ( full ) and 200  ( liability only) for the two , 
per  . 

my agent is daniel sui , and he 's done quite a good job 
for me. you might check with him , as he 's located in san 
francisco and specializes in bike insurance 

daniel sui insurance 
338 balboa street 
san francisco , ca 
1 415 752 

michael 




michael nelson 1993 
internet dod 


from  ( cookson ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 13 

in article  ( arturo vega ) writes 
has anyone else ever caught themselves waving at oncoming motorcycle riders 
while in a car 

i 've caught myself doing it while on my bicycle .  . does that count 

dean 


dean 617 271 dod 207 ama 
the mitre corp. burlington rd. , bedford , ma .  . 01730 
the road is my shepherd and i shall not stop '92 
sam , road hogs mtv 1993 '88 limited 

from  ( lissa shoun ) 
subject re respect 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 21 

in article 
 ( chris pirih ) writes 

generic bike riders actually seem to raise the hand entirely 
off the and wave it around , so it 's easy to tell 
when they 're waving .  . 

and are easily recognized by their own special wave .  . 
pay attention and i 'll tell you how to do it. hold your left hand out 
in front of you , fingers straight but apart like a vase .  . you may also 
use your right hand if you have a throttle lock or are stopped .  . bring 
your fingertips and thumb together , touch , and open back to the starting 
position. while you are doing this , move your hand slowly to the left. 
do it gracefully and with a waving motion. you are now imitating a 
squid propelling itself about underwater probably in search of food , 
drink , squids of the appropriate sexual orientation , or other squids to 
go riding with. 



(408) 926 

from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 22 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( jody levine ) writes 


has anyone , while driving a cage , ever waved at i get the urge , 
but i 've never actually done it. 

on every day. most do n't notice. 

let 's see how many posts it takes for someone to selectively quote this article 

in article ,  ( jody levine ) writes 

has anyone , ever done it 

what do i win 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from (robert d castro ) 
subject law order dod 
keywords dod 
nntp posting host cunixf . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to (robert d castro ) 
organization columbia university 
distribution usa 
lines 12 

anyone catch the tv show law order last night (at least here in 
nyc ) they the law enforcement people , needed to catch a member of 
dod  ( department of doom ) for inflicting a computer virus in a 
hospital 's mainframe which ended up killing two people because wrong 
amounts of medication were given to them. 

anyhow , is department of doom on the list 

o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
rob castro email live for today 
1983 phone (212) 854 for today you live ! 
dod nyc 1 new york , new york , usa rc (tm) 

from  ( victor johnson ) 
subject re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
organization dances with hawks 
lines 16 

in rec . motorcycles . , (robert d castro ) writes 

when how do you decide that it is too windy to ride 

when the bugs are on the side of my helmet instead 
of the  . when semis are on their side in the 
ditch .  . when i ca n't see the road for all the rolling 
past. when the airborne sand gravel is my paint job. 
when all of the above is happening at once in the middle of wonderful 
 . 

well , it was to 87 mph. 

cheers , 



from  ( lynn e. hall ) 
subject re story respect 
nntp posting host 
organization siemens pacesetter , inc. 
lines 48 


in article  ( lynn e. hall ) writes 

i just got back from the 11th annual southern california harley dealers 
association run to the colorado river city of , nevada .  . 

why is it that some people ca n't enjoy themselves without being assholes 

if you want to be treated with respect , you need to treat others , their 
property , and their towns with respect. 

several years ago , i was at the annual fly in of the experimental aircraft 
association  ( eaa ) near , wisconsin .  . although approximately 100 , 000 
people were in attendance , there was not a piece of litter anywhere. everyone 
was considerate enough to place their trash where it belonged .  . 

there 's no problem in having fun , raising hell , etc. but consideration 
and respect for others is critical we need to work with each other , not 
against .  . 

nudity , fine .  .  . loud . noise , fine .  .  . party . all night , fine .  .  .  . but at the right 
place and time. please , let 's not trample over other 's rights and then bitch 
because they do n't treat us like gods .  . 

michael menard 

you know , i was n't even going to respond to this typical anti party 
attitude message. trash was everywhere reason not enough 
for the massive crowd. was n't prepared for the vast 
number of people that showed up. 
btw michael , is the right place time. it 's called a run ! maybe 
you did n't read my comment that they loved us and i'm talking about the 
merchants and townspeople .  . the merchants that did n't want us their shops 
were closed. 
maybe i should have mentioned that when i left the trash was being 
picked up  ( aluminum sells ) by a crew assigned to the task. 
i think the bottom line here is do they want us back ! ! ! they do ! 
this  action  that went on at is typical on a predominatly harley 
run. it 's innocent fun. 
so since i enjoy typical harley fun at runs in your eyes that makes me 
an asshole. i 've already admitted i'm an asshole many times on the net. 
all my friends are assholes too  ( lyrics to a new song ) .  . so , you want a 
dime to call someone that cares 
it appears we have a difference of opinion. maybe you should look at the 
big picture before you pass judgement on others. 11th annual .  . that should 
tell you something. 
lynn hall nos bros 


from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization nec systems laboratory , inc. 
lines 24 

in article  ( blaine gardner ) writes 
in article  ( tommy marcus mcguire ) writes 
in article  . l. ranck ) writes 

and of course , you will get a moderate amount of flamage 
just for expressing an opinion , no matter what the opinion is somebody 
will flame you for it. 

hey , what the hell do you mean by that you suck. i have a god given 
right to express opinions , carry a gun and to not wear a helmet , goddamn 
it. everything you stand for is stupid. 

i 'd give it an 0.5 on a scale of 10. while not mentioning hitler or 
koresh weighs in your favor , you also neglected to mention 105 mph , tennis 
balls , little girls and  . another thing to consider is , 

 .  .  . or . , or weasel , or .... 

later , 

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d wide glide jubilee 's red lady 
1975 baby bike 
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. 

from  ( dave cds ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
organization tektronix colorado data systems , , co 
lines 17 

in article  ( dave edmondson ) writes 

eat the peach , two guys build a wall of death to alleviate boredom , get 
mixed up with the ira in the process. 

an excellent movie. not essentially about motorcycles , but 
a very poignant look at life in rural ireland .  . 


dave dod you ca n't wear out 
151 an indian scout , 
'88 '48 indian chief 751 or its brother the chief .  . 
'75  ( r90s 151) '72 tr  ( 2b 751 ) ama they 're built like rocks 
'65 2  57 nsu max to take the knocks , 
1936 bmw r12  ( compulsive it 's the that 
my employer has no idea. joiner ) give you grief .  . 


from (michael nelson ) 
subject re need maintenance tips 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , san francisco ca 
lines 20 

in article  ( christopher g karras ) writes 

after reading the service manual for my bike  ( suzuki 1990) i have 
a couple of questions i hope you can answer 

when checking the oil level with the dip stick built into the oil fill 
cap , does one check it with the cap screwed in or not 

most bikes i 've seen that use a dipstick rather than a 
sight glass are designed to check it without screwing it 
in. in the manual for my , they specifically 
state it should be done this way. 

michael 



michael nelson 1993 
internet dod 


from  ( neal howard ) 
subject re dogs vs. bikes 
organization inc. , richardson tx 
lines 28 


my first encounter with a dog chasing after my bike was on my first poker run. 
a big german shepard ran out into the pack of bikes i was riding with and tried 
to bite the right leg of the guy riding in front of me. he kicked the dog a 
couple of times  ( we were all only going about 10 15mph ) and just made the dog 
and got away by applying and outrunning the dog who then started 
after yours truly .  . at the time , i had open drag pipes  ( obnoxiously loud as hell ) 
and as soon as the dog was about 2 feet away from the right side of my bike , i 
pulled in the clutch and revved the motor up to about and the roar of 
the pipes frightened the dog away  ( probably made the dog 's ears hurt like hell ) 
and he did n't come back for the rest of the behind me either. 

my second encounter was with an already deceased road kill dog. i was n't paying 
very close attention to the pavement when the car in front of me the 
carcass .  . i looked down just in time to see what i was about to run over so i 
just held onto the handlebars and out. both wheels went squarely over 
the dog 's belly with a thump thump just like running over a piece of a 4x4 
lumber .  . the bike did n't lose any stability at all and i kept on going. after 
i got to my destination , i found bits of fur , meat , and blood stuck to 
the bottom of my motor and frame .  .  .  .  .  .  . gross .  . 


neal howard '91 1200 dod 686 , inc  ( richardson , tx ) 
doh 
std disclaimer my opinions are mine , not 's .  . 
let us learn to dream , gentlemen , and then perhaps 
we shall learn the truth. august kekule   ( 1890 ) 


from  ( lloyd carr ) 
subject re female  ( 40 's) looking for riding buddy ! 
reply to  ( lloyd carr ) 
organization the national capital freenet 
lines 35 


in a previous article , (david e ben jamin ) says 


i am a single , white female in 40s , looking for a 
man with a motorcycle to share fun 
trips from 1 to 6 days  ( or more) .  . 

i have a honda 700 and riding is my life but 
it 's hard to find people to ride with. 

this is my son 's account , so please respond to this 
address for more info. 
 ( phone number , etc . ) . 

thanks ! 




i do n't need a  . sig .  . 

you do n't mention your riding area. if you 're in the eastern part 
of ontario canada , i may be able to help. i love 1 day runs and 
more. more info needed. 

lloyd '86 my stallion .  .  .  . dod 814 
carr 
e mail 
ontario ham ip on . ca . na . 

from (ray shea ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 24 

in article  . l. ranck ) writes 
and of course , you will get a moderate amount of flamage 
just for expressing an opinion , no matter what the opinion is somebody 
will flame you for it. 

oh , bill , you are so full of shit. that 's the stupidest thing i 've ever heard. 




i happened to miss the discussion of frames , if there was 
one , because i actually needed to get some work done last week. so if anybody 
would care to repeat what got said  ( since i was the guy who asked , and i'm 
still ignorant ) could you email me thanks. 






ray shea 
, inc. 
! 
dod 0372 team '88 hawk gt 

from  ( ivan d. reid ) 
subject re re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
organization triumf tri university meson facility 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host erich . triumf . ca . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
brad thone writes .  .  .  . 
if you have n't done it before , it can be dangerous. it takes 
some getting used to. read ed 's list. 

yep .  . if ed 's list is over 45 degrees , the wind 's too strong to ride. ) 

ivan reid , paul institute , ch. 
,  . si 2 . 66 . american degrees not european ! dod 484 

from  ( dave cds ) 
subject re volvo attack ! 
distribution na 
organization tektronix colorado data systems , , co 
lines 19 

in article bd writes 
 ( cookson ) writes 

where can i get rocket launchers for the 

batf is having a fire sale in waco , tx .  . try there. 

you might try the rec . models . rockets . newsgroup .  . interesting stuff , 
some of it should probably be classified as artillery .  . 


dave dod you ca n't wear out 
151 an indian scout , 
'88 '48 indian chief 751 or its brother the chief .  . 
'75  ( r90s 151) '72 tr  ( 2b 751 ) ama they 're built like rocks 
'65 2  57 nsu max to take the knocks , 
1936 bmw r12  ( compulsive it 's the that 
my employer has no idea. joiner ) give you grief .  . 


from  ( joe senner ) 
subject re bmw heated grips 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization not 
lines 23 

 ( mark bergman ) writes 
to those of you who have the bmw heated 
are they comfortable do they transmit a lot of 
vibration how do they compare to the stock grips 
to foam grips 

i do n't have the grips , but have looked into getting them. it 's my 
understanding that the grips themselves are the standard european 
style grips now coming standard on the 93 bikes  ( k1100rs , , etc) .  . 
it 's also my understanding that the heater resides inside the bar 
itself so if anything i would suspect it would reduce vibration by 
providing more bar end mass. 

i do n't see why they would n't work with the old style foam grips aside 
from the fact that it might cause the foam to deteriorate or something. 
hard to belive considering they do fine in the 100 degree texas summers .  . 

 course , i do n't actually have them so you can save your flames .  . 


joe 
bmw mailing list 
austin area ride mailing list 

from  ( brice dowaliby ) 
subject re dogs 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 20 25 24 gmt 
reply to bd 
organization fluent inc. , lebanon nh 
distribution na 
lines 7 

(michael heathman ) writes 

professionals who train guard dogs , when polled , gave themselves a 
1 in 4 chance of survival tackling a trained dog unarmed .  . a trained guard 
dog is not to be with. an untrained may be another story. 

of course they 'd say that. they 're trying to sell their services. 

from  ( chris seabrook ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
keywords advice , , help ! 
distribution na 
organization open systems solutions inc. 
lines 29 
nntp posting host foucault . ossi . com . 

a few random thoughts on riding with a passenger 

there 's no substitute for a bike with sufficient power , having taken 
passengers very occasionally on the small  ( 125 etc) bikes i used to 
ride in the uk it was hard ! i'm now riding a and that 's great , 
even moving from my freinds i was riding recently. this may be due 
in part to the fact that neither i , nor my regular passengers , are 
particularly ! 

i always tell passengers , stay in line with the bike on corners , that makes 
their movements predictable .  . 

my regular passengers both tend to hold either the rack or nothing at all , 
i do n't really like having a passenger hold onto me except for short periods .  . 
again that may be biased by the fact that i 've had a couple of new passengers 
(a friend recently for her first time on a bike ) who hold on to me real tight , 
making any kind of maneuvering difficult. 

i 've also discovered that on longer trips i prefer a passenger who moves and 
shifts their weight a bit. i recently took a work collegue to a meeting  ( about 
a 1 hour ride ) and he sat totally still the whole way which left me also 
sitting very still and getting a sore back. 

we have a code system for turns , stop and for  i need to shift  . 

chris , fujitsu open systems solutions inc phone 1 510 652 
hollis street , emeryville , ca 2092 , usa fax 1 510 652 
dod 
per and or , a sun  . 

from  ( mark fox ) 
subject re battery storage why not charge and store dry 
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci .  . 
lines 12 


quite right , your batteries should be perfectly alright and retain 
most of their charge if drained and dried well , but i 'd throw out the 
electrolyte and buy some more when you need it. 


and before anyone says i'm wrong , remember that new batteries almost 
always come ready charged and dry , and they are perfectly ok even after 
several years' storage at the shop. 

mark fox 


from  ( curtis jackson ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
keywords advice , , help ! 
organization adobe systems incorporated , mountain view 
distribution na 
lines 61 

in article  ( bob wert ) writes 
i need some advice on having someone ride with me on my 750 ninja .  . 
this will be the the first time i 've taken anyone for an extended ride 
 ( read farther than around the block ) .  . we 'll be riding some twisty , 
fairly bumpy roads (the mines road mt . hamilton . loop for you sf bay  . 

unless she is really adventurous , do not take her on this route for her 
first extended ride ! that 's kinda like taking someone on a no show 10 way 
speed star competition as their first skydive .  . 

this person is 100 lbs. and fairly small , so i do n't see weight as too much 
of a problem , but what sort of of advice should i give her before we go 
i want her to hold onto me ) rather than the grab rail out back , and 
i 've heard that she should look over my shoulder in the direction we 're 
turning so she leans with me , but what else are there traditional 

1) if the ninja has adjustable suspension , adjust it to a stiffer 
setting so you do n't bottom out in bumpy curves .  . 

2) tell her the 3 cardinal rules are 

a) never ever ever ever put her feet down. not when you stop at a stop 
sign , not when she thinks you 're gonna crash , never. keep them on the 
pegs until you tell her to get off the bike. 

b) she is to hold onto your waist. she should hold on tightly enough 
that she wo n't slide off the bike if you twist the throttle a bit. and 
 ( added bonus for you here) , she should keep as close to your butt as 
possible so quick stops do n't make her slide into you and knock your 
balls up onto the gas tank. you decide how best to word this. 

c) just stay perpendicular to the bike straight up in the seat. do n't 
lean your body into curves , just go with the bike and stay perpendicular .  . 
do n't look over your shoulder. 

3) remember at all times that you have a passenger on the back. that 
means do n't pop the clutch , and try to corner and stop smoother than 
usual. be aware that if you jump on the brake , you 're going to have 
the equivalent of a 100 lb. dead weight crashing into you from behind , 
so be prepared for that. 

4) make sure she pisses before the ride even if she says she does n't 
have to go. no anti women stuff here i have a tiny bladder myself. 

5) remind her to look around while you 're riding .  . point to things 
of interest. it makes the ride more enjoyable to her  ( she wo n't get 
so focused on just looking at the back of your helmet ) , and it gives 
her ample excuse to squeeze you to show she saw what you pointed at. 

my wife and i tried the msf recommended look over the rider 's 
shoulder in curves bit , and it just did n't work. the timing of 
her weight shift was unpredictable  ( especially on the maxim because , 
unlike the ninja , the upright riding position really restricts the 
's view of the road  . next time i had her just remain 
perpendicular to the bike , and i could hardly tell there was someone 
else on the bike in curves , and she weighs substantially over 100 lbs. 

curtis jackson '91 hawk gt '81 maxim 650 
dod 0721 '91 black lab mix '92 golden george 
there is no justification for taking away individuals  freedom 
in the guise of public safety. thomas jefferson 

from (paul thompson ) 
subject changing oil on virago  ( was yamaha vs honda opinions ) 
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , california 
lines 19 
nntp posting host apple.com 

 ( lloyd carr ) writes 
in a previous article , (p .  . ju ) says 
(keith p7625 ) writes 

the brake pedal , c. c . ) . i 've pretty much decided never to get this 
particular model unless he or someone else wants to change the oil filter 
for me. compared to the 5 minute change he was used to for his honda , this 
is just a design flaw oversight in my eyes. 

sure do n't know what bike was being worked on but it sure was n't a 
virago .  . i 've owned both the 750 and 1100 and you can do the filter 
change in about 5 mins and nothing has to be removed. 

well , watching several 's dismantle laurie 's virago in an 
attempt to change the oil at the ride 'n feed a few years back was a 
pretty funny site. surely with the combined wisdom of all these folks 
they were n't doing things the hard way , were they 

paul thompson apple computer 

from  ( ivan d. reid ) 
subject re owners get hidden feature 
organization triumf tri university meson facility 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host erich . triumf . ca . 
summary light switch allows dual use of high and low beams 
keywords lights 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
 ( dave t dorfman ) writes .  .  .  . 
i was enjoying lunch this saturday at in milford nh with an assortment 
of other folks when dean ( yes he has not left the 
country , yet) mentioned that the wiring diagram of the 
shows that the light switch is a three position switch. 

high beam 
low beam 
both beams 

well the actual ergonomics of the switch make it appear to be a 
2 position switch , but sure enough as deam expected , when 
you balance the switch in the center position both the high 
and low beams go on. 

this provides a very nice light coverage of the road. 

this is true for the and the and i would expect for any 
other late model honda with the standard two position light switch. 

thanks to dean for reading the schematics , try it you 'll like it. 

be a bit careful doing this i used to balance the switch on my 
avec  h4 insert so that both beams were on. i eventually fried the 
main ignition switch , as it was n't designed to pass that sort of current .  . 

ivan reid , paul institute , ch. 
,  . si 2 . 66 . you porsche .  . me pass ! dod 484 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 37 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article writes 

so , take you own advice and you whining about 
flames .  . 


no brains and he ca n't spell either. 

 . edu . i hope you 're not a student at duke .  .  .  . 
you would be wasting your tuition .  . 



the mike dod 

my employer has no idea what i'm talking about ! 


, complaining about my spelling .  . 

i'm so hurt. 

no i'm not a student. i'm an alumnus .  . and an employee .  . 

so i can get my money back from these  . 

bnr , huh i hope you 're not a permanent , 
they 'd be wasting benefits on you. 

! 



andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from (michael beavington ) 
subject re yamaha locks  ( was cobra lock ) 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization bnr ottawa , software design 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( tony jones ) writes 
has anyone any experience with the  ( new ) yamaha 

oooo , i hope it 's nothing like i had on my turbo .  . 
i had locked up the back wheel and forgot about it. 
when i took off i heard a  clunk  , but i just drove away 
leaving the lock broken on the ground. real security 
in action. 



the mike dod 

my employer has no idea what i'm talking about ! 


from  ( joe senner ) 
subject re a kinder , gentler bmw mailing list 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization not 
lines 14 

 ( bob pasker ) writes 
joe , i'm sorry you felt i was pissing on your list. no 
was intended and i would be most interested to know what i said that 
made you feel that way. 

you did n't , i meant  pissing  like boxer owners  piss  on k bike owners 
and k bike owners  piss  on boxer owners and so forth. in the end it 's 
nothing more than co owner  . no was received or 
returned intentionally , sorry  bout the lack of ) 's .  . 


joe 
bmw mailing list 
austin area ride mailing list 

from (john little sun repair depot ) 
subject re so , do any police read this stuff 
organization sun microsystems technical centre japan .  . 
lines 15 
nntp posting host ale . japan . sun . com . 
summary finally spills the beans on the blue baron legend .  . 

in article 
 ( allan hatcher ) writes 

well , here goes. after lurking for a long time , i 'll announce myself. 
yes , i'm the enemy .  . 


sorry allan , but unless you happen to be the guy who watches t.v. 
while he 's driving a white toyota on route 129 between and 
, you 're not even close to being the enemy ! ! 



john little sun microsystems .  . , japan 


from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re death of a 2 stroke why did it die 
organization university of east 
lines 12 

 ( zebee johnstone ) writes 


loads of horrendous mz engine problems deleted 

any ideas folks 

yeah , buy a four stroke .  . 

) 



from  ( randy davis ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
reply to 
organization corporation , san diego , california 
lines 19 

in article writes 
course , the only people who seem to be acting smug now probably have chain 
final drive (which , as we all know , is less efficient and has higher 
maintenance ) and probably did n't know the answer at the start of the thread. 

when did you go out and change the laws of physics ) according to some 
numbers i used to see bandied around , shaft drive is on the order of 95 97 
efficient , while chain drive is closer to 99 ... seems to me that this makes 
chain drive more efficient , hmmmmm 

and granted , shaft has a lot less maintenance , which is fine , if you do n't 
mind less performance .  .  .  . ) ) 

randy davis email 
zx 11 pilot uunet ! ucsd ! ! randy 
dod 

but , this one goes to eleven ... nigel , spinal tap 


from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re bmw boxer tv ad ! ! 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 25 
nntp posting host 3 . pica . army . mil . 

(david karr ) wrote 

(mike sixsmith ) writes 

did anyone see the tv ad for the new bmw boxer on u.k. television 
at the weekend 

not me since i have no reception and no cable , i'm not likely to see 
any ads. and if i did they 'd most likely be have been taped in the us 
anyway. 

yeh .  . be tough to pick up uk in your situation 

no signs of type 259 ads in tv in the states yet , but i do n't watch much , 
so i'm not in a real position to comment. 

but ! i got my invite to the dealer introduction on the deck out back . 
rsvp is on the way ! ! ! ! ! ! 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from a . 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization at t 
summary oooh ! ! 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( blaine gardner ) writes 
flaming tutorial for the novice . another thing to consider is , 
that like mexican food , a lot of folks mistake heat for quality. subtle 
references to various personal qualities habits ancestry 
generally earn more points than four letter words or the caps lock key. 
and introducing a new word  ( strabismic , for example) is 

likely to insure that some small part of your flame will become 
immortal .  . 

! there 's a blast from the past indeed ! i 'd nearly forgotten 
about the strategic significance of in r . m . lore .  . it 's 
really good to see it proudly displayed again , although i'm sure 
by now that its carbs are o rama from long  . 

gosh , i'm tingling all over ! 

) 
chuck rogers 



from  ( tony kidson ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
distribution world 
organization the modem palace 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 31 

in article writes 


in a previous article ,  ( tom dietrich ) says 

 ( charles parr ) writes 

i bought it , i tried it 

it is , truly , the miracle  . 

my chain is , my wheel is clean , after  . 

i too have seen the miracle of maxima chain wax .  . not only does it lube 
and stay where it 's supposed to , but i swear i can ride faster now. yes , 
not only does it lube your chain , it makes you a better rider .  . and more 
attractive to members of the opposing sex. and smarter .  . and .  .  .  .  . 

works really well on my  bike too. 


tony 



tony pgp 2.2 key by request voice 44 81 466 
morgan towers , the cat has had to move now e  ( mail(in order) 
morgan road , as i 've had to take the top 
bromley , off of the machine. 
england honda dod 


from  ( roger walls ) 
subject re a point for helmet law is a point for mc b 
organization the wollongong group , palo alto , ca 
lines 18 

in article  ( terry cunningham ) writes 
in article , (david svoboda ) writes 

oh , banning motorcycles is not actually reasonable .  . it is only 
reasonable in the eyes of a misinformed and misunderstanding public. 

or , conversely , your attitude could seem blind and apathetic .  . 


i know of no law , either on the books or proposed , that bans motorcycles 
from any place that i want to go to. 


motorcycles are not allowed on th 17 mile drive at beach. 

jolly roger 



from  ( leigh dodd ) 
subject help on uk law please 
organization university of sussex 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 31 

greetings all , 
can anyone let me know status of uk law about riding motorcycles .  . 

i used to ride one about 12 years ago and never took my dot test ( one 
of a whole list of things i wished i had done when i was young ) , but i have passed 
my car driving test. i now travel from to brighton every day 
and i'm getting pissed off with the traffic road works. i thinking about getting 
a bike ( do n't laugh ) just to get and to take my test , then 
to get a bigger one ( 400 to 600 cc ) .  . 

now i have been told i do n't have to do the but what will i have 
to do to get a full licence 

thanks in advanced 

leigh 




leigh dodd 
engineering and applied science  ( eaps ) 
university of sussex , 
brighton , uk 
phone 44 273 ext. 2616 
fax 44 273 

janet 
internet 



from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re boom ! dog attack ! 
nntp posting host bambam 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 26 

in article bong mac . stanford . edu .  ( eric bong ) writes 
in article , 
a . wrote 

what worked for me on my was to lean towards the dog as i modulated 
throttle to keep my ankle just ahead of his teeth. after a few seconds of 
warm pipe firmly wedged on his shoulder he turned his face sideways to see 
what was so warm and got his mouth nose muzzle burned on the pipes .  . 

a bicycling technique i 've 
employed was to use my frame mounted tire pump to fend off dog 
attacks .  . 

one of my brothers had spent a lot of time practicing bizzare tricks on 
his bike. he said he once repelled a dog attack by 
picking up the rear of the bike and the dog in the side of the 
head with the rear wheel. the dog had no idea what hit him , and he 
fled quite rapidly .  . then again , he could jump garbage cans without a 
ramp , so i do n't think i 'd care to try this one on a motorcycle .  . 

the telephone worked much better than the tire pump. 

that 's almost unfair , i 've never seen a dog that could use a phone. ) 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re maxima chain wax  ( and mail order) 
organization nec systems laboratory , inc. 
lines 31 

in article  ( blaine gardner ) writes 
in article  ( cookson ) writes 
in article  ( charles parr ) writes 

i bought it , i tried it 
it is , truly , the miracle  . 
my chain is , my wheel is clean , after  . 

i 'd try it on the , but goddamn competition accessories has n't mailed my 
order yet. hell , it 's only been two weeks and i was ordering some pretty 
bizzare stuff. like a clear rf 200 face , and a can of chain wax .  .  .  . 
bastards .  . 

for what it 's worth , i got my can in three days from  . that 's 
ups ground from ca to ut ,  . the stuff seems to work , and it does n't 
attract like pj 1 blue does. i gave it the acid test , a full 
day 's worth of breaking in the 's new paddle tires down at the 
sand  . if there 's anything wet it will be coated with 
sand at the end of the day , but the chain looked pretty clean. 

i 'll third the recommendation as miracle  . 

do n't go to the dealer to get it or what happened to me might happen 
to you you put a deposit on a new bike. 

sigh , 

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d wide glide jubilee 's red lady 
1975 baby bike 
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. 

from (michael j conboy ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
keywords advice , , help ! 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution na 
lines 11 

one point not yet mentioned 
hands on the driver 's shoulders are a definite no no. it feels 
good for the passenger to stretch her arms , and a shoulder massage feels 
good too , but the shoulders are connected to the arms , and the arms to 
the handlebars .  .  .  . should you hit the brakes , the pressure on the shoulders 
can make steering interesting. 

bundle her up if it 's cold , make sure she has good gear  ( say it again) , 
an pat her thigh to let her know all is great. 

good luck ! mike 

from  ( rob griffiths ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
organization apple computer , inc. 
lines 48 

in article , wrote 

bdc driver nearly rams back of innocent biker .  .  .  . 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

glad to hear that the bozo managed to stop. i 've only been riding for 
about two years , but here are my rules for traffic light survival 

i try to never stop just over a hill behind a car. if i have 
to stop in such a location , i pull almost completely next to the 
car in front of me. if i'm the only one (ie no car in front ) , i 
turn the bike somewhat sideways across the lane , to increase my 
visibility to any oncoming vehicle. make sure to keep your 
taillight visible to traffic , though.  ( note my bike is bright 
white turning sideways on a black bike might not be as beneficial . ) . 

on a flat road , i stop with a bit of room ahead of me  ( usually 
about two or three bike  . this will (hopefully) give 
me room to pull forward and to the side as a car approaches .  . 

if you are the last in a line of vehicles , watch your mirrors 
constantly ! if you see a vehicle approaching , and ca n't see 
any evidence to indicate that he she is slowing down , get out 
of the way now ! 

flicker your brake light. if i'm the last vehicle in line , i 
will pull and release the brake as a car approaches from 
behind  ( noticed the car by watching my mirrors , of course ) .  . 
i vary the speed of the flicker , hoping to make the notice 
that there 's something in the lane ahead of him. 

now , with all that said , it 's the situation where you are first in line 
that i feel most defenseless .  . if you 're first in line , your forward escape 
route is seriously limited you can only move forward to the extent that 
you do n't enter the intersection .  . i leave some room behind the stop line 
 ( although around here , the @ ! light are always right up 
next to the stop line ! ) , and watch the mirrors .  . i think i 've decided 
that off the bike might be the best way out of this situation. 
any other ideas for being first in line with no traffic directly behind 
you 

rob .  . 


rob griffiths erasure . u2 . rem . smiths . 
faa certified cloud i wanna drive the zamboni ! 

from  ( matthew sheppard ) 
subject help me adjust my 
organization clarkson university 
lines 15 
nntp posting host sun . soe . clarkson . edu . 

well , just got all the parts replaced that needed 
 ( sprokets chain ) and notice that engine still taps like it did before. 
all our local 'experts' say it 's the that need some adjusting so 
i am soon to attempt that. i would like any advice anyone had. i do 
not have a shop manual but have read about the procedure in and 
in a few other places. is there anything i need to be 
of any problems anyone else has encountered 

i ride a 1981 yamaha  ( stop laughing , it 's tiny , but it 's 
shiny ) 


matthew sheppard clarkson university 
i 'd rather have a bottle in front of me than a frontal lobotomy . anon . 
i do n't want a  . dod 477 tep 477 ride free (8  .  .  .  . 

from  ( dances with federal rangers ) 
subject re it t for me ! 
organization university of virginia 
lines 20 

in article  ( speedy mercer ) writes 

i am confused  ( like that s a surprise ! ) , someone asked me for a copy of the 
faq via e mail. as i am not the , i was wondering what the proper 
responce is 

you should post his her email request , with proper attributes , of course , to 
the newsgroup .  . the request then becomes a matter of rec . moto . public record 
and warrants the ceremonial gang  . 

glad to help , 
ride safe , 

cliff weston dod '92 ii  ( tem ) 

this bike is in excellent condition. 
i 've done all the work on it myself. 

glen crash stone 


from (paul blumstein ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
nntp posting host harley . com . 
organization black belt association 
lines 24 

in article  ( jody levine ) writes 
in article  ( norman hamer ) writes 

waving at other makes more sense than just hey , how 's it going , 
nice to meet you on the road , have a good ride 

2) it keeps you in the habit of watching really carefully for bikes when 
you 're in a cage .  . this is a good thing. 

has anyone , while driving a cage , ever waved at i get the urge , 
but i 've never actually done it. 

i 've had people in cages wave at me or give me the thumbs up on 
occassion .  . (i always return the wave or thumbs up) .  . that never 
happened to me until i started riding , so that may have 
something to do with it. 

why not try waving what bad could happen 

russian is fun 5 times out of 6 

paul , , dod 36 , , ama , hog , doh 2 
, marc , arrl , platypus 240 , , , ,  ( cala905 ) 
transaction technology , inc. , santa monica , ca 

from (the beav ) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 26 

some real stupid remarks 
... 
you and the should lighten up (esp the  . i agree that 
... 
lots of serious dribble for no real reason 
... 

hey , i do n't really care , but when someone sends me 
email telling me to fuck off , i get rather pissed .  . if he posted 
to the net , i could really care less , but sending mail 
is just childish .  . mr.  ( infant(e ) is just that , an infant .  . give 
him a few more years to grow up and maybe he 'll learn some 
network etiquette .  . 

if you ca n't stand the flames , 
and you do n't have the brains , 
stay out of the newsgroup .  . 

kind of catchy n est pas 



the mike dod 

my employer has no idea what i'm talking about ! 


from a . 
subject re fortune barred from bars ! 
organization at t 
summary what god needs 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( nick pettefar ) writes 
charles parr , on the tue , 20 apr 93 21 25 10 gmt 
in article  ( nick pettefar ) writes 

if satan rode a bike  ( cb1000 ) would you stop to help him 

only if he was a true motorcyclist with the real riding attitude. as you 
probably are aware , there is a sure fire rec . moto . test for this attribute .  . 

god would ride a vincent white lightning with injection .  . 
he 'd wear a one piece leather suit with matching boots , helmet and gloves .  . 

why you think  ( s)he ) 's worried about road rash 

) 
chuck rogers 


from (mr .  . bill) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization the cafe at the edge of the universe 
lines 20 

(mike terry ) asks 
is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

(john r. daker ) replies 
no mike .  . it is due to the shaft effect. the effects 
of the rotating shaft counteract any tendency for the front wheel to lift 
off the ground. 

ugh ! who gave you guys your login names blech p 

john obviously never saw me ride a buddy 's , known as torque monster .  . 
i could pull the most beautiful with that bike ! unfortunately , the 
owner saw me do one. once. i never get to ride tm again .  .  .  . ( 

mr. bill 

bill , 224 '82 white lightning , '82 
'76 little honda , '68 lone star sick leave 
dod ama '69 impala convertible the incredible hulk , others 
hmmm , i thought bore and stroke was the technique ! michael bain , 757 

from  ( jonathan e. quist ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
nntp posting host i88 . isc . com . 
organization lachman technology , incorporated , naperville , il 
lines 35 

in article (matt dennie ) writes 
in  ( cookson ) writes 

ever notice little kid wave more than other 


the reactions of little boys seems to be the most enthusiastic to 
a wave  ( and also good to see) .  . i always wave when i see a kid that 
has at least noticed my bike. i figure it helps the future of the 
sport. 

do n't forget little girls ! my not quite 2 year old daughter now 
points and says motorcycle every time she sees one go 
past. i 've done my work.  ( of course , it helps that one of her 
books shows sir in a side car rig .  .  . ) . 

i have to admit that i usually try to do so without the parental 
figure noticing afraid that the kid will get yelled at for 
with anti societal types like us. 

can you think of a better way to convince the kid that someday , i 'll 
ride one of those things 

is it a genetic thing with little boys or what even three and four 
year old boys seem attracted to motorcycles of 
any sort  ( often to the dismay of thier mothers ) 

no , it 's a genetic thing with little humans .  .  .  . 

just do n't let them touch hot pipes .  . 

jonathan e. lachman technology , incorporated 
dod 094 , , '71 k4 naperville , il 
there 's nothing quite like the patter of little feet , 
followed by the words daddy ! ! 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re your opinion and what it means to me. 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 27 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article (david svoboda ) writes 

in my view , drunk driving should carry a mandatory prison sentence. 
it is one of the traffic offenses which is not a public funds issue , 
but a genuine safety issue. so if you bring up the subject on rec . moto . , 
admitting having been caught , and looking for sympathy over the 
consequences , do n't expect people to respond with warm wishes. 

dave svoboda i'm getting tired of 
90 1000  ( mmmmmmmmmm ! ) beating you up , dave .  . 
84 rz 350  ( ring ding )  ( woops ! ) you never learn. 
ama dod 0330 939  ( chicago ) beth bruiser dixon 

by not being able to drive for a year , it was close enough to jail .  . 

and , btw , where the hell did i ask for sympathy .  . 

i asked what to do about insurance , not about my life . 

fwiw , if everyone was honest on this group , i 'd 
others besides me that read this have had a too. 


andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from a . 
subject re boom ! dog attack ! 
organization at t 
lines 10 

what worked for me on my was to lean towards the dog as i modulated 
throttle to keep my ankle just ahead of his teeth. after a few seconds of 
warm pipe firmly wedged on his shoulder he turned his face sideways to see 
what was so warm and got his mouth nose muzzle burned on the pipes .  . one 
yip and he away , never to chase me again. 


neil kirby dod 
at t bell labs columbus oh usa (614) 860 
if you think i speak for at t you might have more lawyers than sense. 

from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization university of east 
lines 8 

 ( blaine gardner ) writes 

and introducing a new word  ( strabismic , for example) 

is too .  .  .  .  . 

) 


from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re are other riders welcome to join group 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 18 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( jon costa ) writes 


when riding in a group , generally speaking , do most people mind when 
another rider along 

i had the distinct feeling i may not have been welcome when i tagged 
along with a group last weekend. 

yer welcome to ride with me and my friends any time. just introduce your 
self at the earliest opportunity and say mind if i rid with you guys 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
hey ! where did they go 
you do n't think ....  . 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 19 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( jean noel moyne ) writes 

recently , 
the highway patrol took a few of the opposition senators out and gave 
them some shots , and when they hit  . 07 . , put them on a course dodging 
cones .  . they failed , and will probably change their votes as a result. 

did they try to do the course before having a few drinks 

dunno , the newpaper article i read did n't say (i was wondering the same 
thing) .  . i rather doubt it .  .  .  . 



ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from (david svoboda ) 
subject re sans hands 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group 
lines 35 

in article (david karr ) writes 
in article (david gibbs ) writes 

yes , even when steering no hands you do something quite similar 
to  . basically to turn left , you to a quick wiggle 
of the bike to the right first , causing a lean to 
occur to the left. 

this sounds suspiciously like black magic to me. if by quick wiggle 
to the right you mean that the handlebars turn toward the right 
before turning to the left , what is the input to the steering 
mechanism that makes this happen in the absence of the old 
shove shove 

well , as many a bored bike can tell you , the way to steer 
sans hans is to push your body off to the side you want to lean .  . 
say you want to turn left. you push your body off to the left. 
to do this , you have to push against something , and the only 
thing to push against is the ground  ( through the  . well , 
the apple guy  ( wozniak or was that churchill ) says that the 
ground will push you right back. so , you pushed yourself off to 
the left by pushing on the ground to the right , and the ground 
pushed back toward the left. well , that push is on both wheels. 
the rear wheel does n't care  ( unless you have serious bearing 
problems) (except of course on the , which 
had the revolutionary contra shaft drive rear end) , 
but the front wheel has trail. if the ground pushes the front wheel 
toward the left at the contact patch , the trail will cause the 
wheel to turn to the right. hey , there we are. no hands counter 
steering .  . 

dave svoboda i'm getting tired of 
90 1000  ( mmmmmmmmmm ! ) beating you up , dave .  . 
84 rz 350  ( ring ding )  ( woops ! ) you never learn. 
ama dod 0330 939  ( chicago ) beth bruiser dixon 

from  ( eerik j. villberg ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
distribution rec 
lines 22 

in (john stafford ) writes 

on 19 apr 93 21 48 42 gmt , said 
is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

yes , but the rear wheel comes off the ground , not the front. 
see , it just hops into the air ! figure. 

i know the roads up there in minnesota are pretty bad , but i doubt that 
they are that bad. i 've never realy tried to watch my back tyre but , my 82 
maxim 750 will pull the front wheel off the ground if i pop the clutch .  . 
admittedly , it is easier with someone on back , maybe that 's what keeps the 
rear tyre down. ) 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

j. p people for the 
e eating of 
4208 harris street t tasty 
ames ia 50010 a animals 

from (erik x2773 ) 
subject two questions  ( r80gs ) 
organization lunar planetary laboratory , tucson az .  . 
lines 44 

hello folks , 

i'm very happy with my new  . my range is 238 miles on 4.8 gallons .  .  .  . 
that 's 50 mpg ! ! surprisingly , the bike is a real cruiser .  . i was expecting 
something rough .  . she 's a sweet honey .  . and i can go pretty much 
anyplace i 'd take my mountain bike. as far as shaft effect , it 's more a 
torque effect from the crankshaft in my opinion. rev it sitting still 
 ( when the is not moving ) and the bike a bit. maybe 
i do n't ride her fast enough to get a shaft effect , but in my opinion 
a little buffeting by wind is of far greater consequence .  . okay , here are 
my questions 

1) any recommendations for a home made fairing i 'd like to keep the 
wind off my chest , and perhaps my helmet , for comfort at highway speeds 
(70 mph ) , yet do n't want to (a) screw up the stability or (b) block my 
vision too much for trail riding .  . anybody have luck with two piece 
i 'd like to make it myself out of  . 

2) i run two lights , the standard plus a mounted on the 
crash bar. the illumination 's excellent that way , with a full beam coming 
out from the level of the motor  ( left side) the lamp beam is linear so 
that you get a bright streak of illumination from left to right , and it 
really picks up the periphery  ( deer lurking , etc . ) . combined with the 
on high you can see like day. but i 've heard that bmw alternators 
do n't crank out too much. do i need to shut down the when i'm 
around in the dirt at low rpm 

3) this is embarassing i'm having trouble starting the bike first thing 
in the morning. i invariably flood the carbs , then go in and read a section 
of the paper , and then she starts right up. is this a zen thing 

4) the 's manual says do not under any circumstances use gasoline 
with alcohol additives .  .  .  . yeah , right. what do you folks due to keep 
the engine and carbs from being eaten by ethanol and methanol any 
particular brands of gas that are best additives 

thanks , 

b o d y i s t h e b i k e 

dod 
'90 550 zephyr (erik asphaug ) 
'86 bmw 
s o u l i s t h e r i d e r 

from  ( joe senner ) 
subject personal to michael 
reply to  ( joe senner ) 
distribution na 
organization not 
lines 8 

michael , you sent your inquiry to the bmw mailing list , but the sw 
replaces your return addr with the list addr so i ca n't reply or 
manually add you. please see my post re the list or contact me directly .  . 


joe 
bmw mailing list 
austin area ride mailing list 

from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re 1200 owners suggestions wanted 
organization nec systems laboratory , inc. 
lines 14 

in article  ( jody levine ) writes 
the nelson bag has 5 , and the side ones can be used or not , depending 
on the load. using just the three is super convenient , and the extra two are 
great for carrying beer concentrate , bricks or reports written by overpaid 
consultants .  . 

quit keeping us in who sells this remarkable bag 

later , 

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d wide glide jubilee 's red lady 
1975 baby bike 
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. 

from  ( henry prange ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
keywords advice , , help ! 
nntp posting host nickel . ucs . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
distribution na 
lines 12 

do n't find out if she has to pee by scaring it out of her. 

do n't the seat just before her first ride even if you think 
you will need its urine proofing qualities .  . 

henry biker renal 
physiology iu sch .  . med. ,  . , 
dod gsi 215 
ride '92 '91 rx 7 conv cage 2 '91 explorer cage 2 
the four tenets of all major religions 
1. i am right. 2. you are wrong. 3. hence , you deserve to be punished .  . 
4. by me. 

from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 10 

in article writes 
why do you let such brain dead idiots drive in the us 

because , unlike the uk , passing the average driving test over here 
usually only requires a pulse a single digit iq .  . every state controls 
their own licensing requirements , so it 's possible that there 's a test 
out there that actually requires some driving skills , but i doubt it. 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


from (ray shea ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 22 

in article  ( speedy mercer ) writes 
in article (ray shea ) writes 
everything in louisiana is related to liquor eating , sleeping , walking , 
talking , church , state , life , death , and everything in between. 

how dare you make such an accusation ! 

accusation i thought it was a recommendation .  . (i mean , i did grow up there , 
i oughta know) .  . 

if we n't so busy unloading the beer truck for the week end , 
i might just come up that and have a talk wit you ! b 

bring the truck and about 10 pounds of and we 'll talk. 




ray shea 
, inc. 
! 
dod 0372 team '88 hawk gt 

from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 63 

 ( charles sundheim ) writes 

some potentially cool story stuff here .  .  .  . do share the details. 

how to get a verbal warning for 146 in a 55 

it 's simple. first , it has to be the first really nice riding day 
of spring. the bike is back together again , and so are you. grab 
all your gear , put it on , and fill the tank with 94 octane premium 
or better. head out. 

in ames , there is a road that leads to the little town of 
gilbert .  . gilbert has one stop light , if that tells you something. 
having just gotten the bike back together , i thought i 'd take it 
for a short ride and check things out. heading out of town , i 
went into the at a slow pace , just under the speed limit , 
and started leaning around. the pace as everything felt 
just right. finally , the road straightened and i was ready for a 
bit of speed. grab third gear , open her up. at roughly 
grab fourth gear. look at as much of the bike as you can , and fail 
to notice a state trooper following a quarter mile behind. twist 
the throttle like a fool , grab fifth gear at 130 or so , and see 
just how well she 's been put back together. 

at 146  ( according to radar ) i noticed the front fender was 
a bit. thus , i slowed , pulled off the road , removed my 
helmet and gloves , the took kit i was carrying in a fanny 
pack , and was just starting to tighten that fender when the trooper 
pulled in all hot and  . 

have you any idea how fast you were going 
not precisely , no. i was paying attention to the bike and road , 
not the instruments .  . i just got her back together last night , and 
i'm just out here testing her out before i ride it in traffic. 
my radar says you were at over  . care to tell me why 
i should n't give you a ticket 
because i was testing the motorcycle away from population and 
traffic , on a strait and flat road , while wearing all the protective 
gear that safety demands  ( note i was n't quite that eloquent ) 
say , what kind of bike is that , anyway 
i was eloquent on my cafe racer replica honda 750 , a rat bike 
yeah , i have n't had my bike out of the garage in years. 
compare riding stories 
pack toolkit , having tightened that fender 
so why were you out here 
i figure every other idiot on the road is going to look right through 
me. if the bike fails somehow in a zone , i'm dead. if it holds 
up out here , then i know it will work right in traffic. i do this 
year when i rebuild her. 
not any more. you 'll find a better place than my highway 
to do those speeds .  . if i ever catch you speeding on my highway 
again i'm going to nail you for everything i possibly can. now get 
out of my sight before i write you a ticket. 
yes , officer .  . 
and kid , keep your eyes open out there .  .  .  . drives off 

and that , in a nut shell , is how to get a warning for 146 in a 55 .  . 
i do n't guarantee that it will work for you , but it worked for me. 

dan sorenson , dod 1066 
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

subject zx 11 
from 
nntp posting host taf . es . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 10 
lines 10 

what do you recommend for a zx 11  ( with standard mufflers ) instead of 
the standard one  ( idle 38 , main  . 
cheers .  . 


manuel velasco e mail 
zx 11 
calle , 61 dr 600 s 
madrid dod 1033 
tel. 341 do n't waste your time , express it 

from  ( kevinh ) 
subject re happy easter ! 
originator 
reply to 
organization ag 
lines 27 


in article ,  ( dave edmondson ) writes 
lotus looks set for a management  . gm were n't happy that the elan was 
late and too pricey .  . if they can write off the elan development costs the may 
be able to sell them for a sensible price. 

i read that gm wants to keep the design part of lotus but lose the car 
production. and , i seem to remember , that the main problem with the elan 
was caused by gm 's insistence that the elan be re designed  ( significantly ) 
for the us market which caused major design production headaches .  . 

i think there is a legal clause in the rr name , regardless of who owns it 
it must be a british company owner i.e. ba can sell the company but not 
the name. 



i do n't believe that ba have anything to do with rr .  . it 's a seperate 
company from the rr aero engine company. 

it 's vickers who own rolls cars. 

quite true brain fade on my part. 

david 



from  ( nick pettefar ) 
subject re happy easter ! 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr europe ltd , maidenhead , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 61 

dave , on the wed , 21 apr 1993 12 05 41 gmt 
nick wrote 
kevinh , on the tue , 20 apr 1993 13 23 01 gmt 

jonathan 

yes , it 's a minor blasphemy that u.s. companies would on the likes 
of a.m. , 
jaguar , or  ( sob ) lotus .  . it 's outright sacrilege for rr to have 
non british 
ownership .  . it 's a fundamental thing 

lotus looks set for a management  . gm were n't happy that the elan was 
late and too pricey .  . if they can write off the elan development costs the may 
be able to sell them for a sensible price. 


i think there is a legal clause in the rr name , regardless of who owns it 
it must be a british company owner i.e. ba can sell the company but not 
the name. 



i do n't believe that ba have anything to do with rr .  . it 's a seperate 
company from the rr aero engine company. 

it 's vickers who own rolls cars. 

and yes kevin it is posts , morgan use a sliding pillar front suspension .  . 

ob bike (at long bleeding last) when will that get a mail 
address so we can him on the list 

dave 

david 
queen mary westfield college dod guzzi le mans 1000 
this means the end of the horse drawn zeppelin .  . 


what , you mean like the one in my  signature ! 

hello ! 



nick (the connected biker ) dod 1069 concise oxford mail address 

 . 

nick , 
incarcerated at bnr , o o '86 bmw kay 
maidenhead , the united kingdom .  . o pres.  ( pbwasoh(uk ) , bs 0002 
( ) 








from  ( allen tobias ) 
subject re type  ( cb , , gt , etc . ) . 
nntp posting host hydra . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 33 

in article (michael robinson ) writes 
in article  ( curtis jackson ) writes 
in article  ( frank ball ) writes 
honda a v designates a v engine street bike. vf for v 4 , 
vt for v twin .  . 
so how about my honda hawk  ( nt 650) it 's a twin , but not called a vt. 


new technology 

yeah , and what about my honda  ( also a v twin , but in the other 
direction) 

cycle experimental 


got this from a mechanic at al lamb 's honda ! 

at 




0 0 

1991 
( ) allen tobias technical email ( ) 
( ) convex computer corp. marketing ( ) 
( ) 3000 parkway ( ) 
( ) richardson , tx ( ) 

this bike is awesome and i'm fearless .  . let 's go. jay gleason 


from 
subject re first bike honda 
organization penn state university 
lines 39 

in article ,  ( frank perdicaro ) 
says 

the ft is fun , i wanted to buy one. but i waited 10 years an bought 
a hawk instead. friends , owners of the former cycle shop on 125 in 
andover , bought one new , but several years old. cost him 995 .  . 
you should not pay too much for one. 

i hear they can be fitted with the front end of a , 
and thus have great brakes .  . sounds like fun. some dude on this 
forum has one thats all tricked out. 

second hand bike warns that they are fine up until 40 , 000 miles. 

the ft 500 is a good beginner 's bike with 
a reasonable seating position 
enough power to get you up and around , but 
not so much it 'll scare the out of you 
tips over well , and easy to pick up 
 ( do n't ask ) 
simple maintenance 

i 've had mine for four or so years , and have n't had any 
serious problems with it. i bought it used for 750 with 
about 8000 miles on it. 

just last week , someone in the neighborhood stopped by to 
ask me about it whether i thought it was a good beginner 's 
bike , is it comfortable and powerful enough , blah blah blah .  .  .  . 
seems he found one used for 500 with about 3600 miles on it. 

the trick mod i 've heard was to take the front end from 
a 600 hurricane and slide it in. this was from a guy who 
campaigns two in sos racing .  . he says they do pretty 
well too , once you strip off the starter , lights and other 
assorted street paraphernalia , its a pretty fast and light bike. 

andrew 


from state . edu .  ( arnie skurow ) 
subject re black reflector tape 
nntp posting host photon . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 18 

in article 
writes 
a few months ago , in one the the motorcycle mags , there was 
an article that mentioned reflector tape that was supposed to 
be available thru bmw .  . the idea was that the tape would look 
black in sunlight , and reflect in other colors at night to 


has anyone come across this from bmw or any other source 


terry , president of my local bmw club  ( buckeye beemers ) 
sells this type of tape. it comes as a strip approximately 3 x 12 
and can be cut to sizes needed. 

you can call terry at (614) 837 1960  ( columbus ,  . 

arnie 

from  ( stefan ruhl ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
lines 15 
organization university of waterloo 

just one little thing. last year , mid december , a cop pulled me over. it 
was about 10 centigrade , and it just started snowing (o . k .  . you are right , i 
live in canada) .  . the cop checked my license , insurance , ownership , looked at 
my frozen nose and fingers , told me to watch the speed limit more closely , 
and , entering his cruiser , told me , i was doing 68 instead of 50 km h. 
did n't ticket me , and i really slowed down after that ( i already mentioned 
it started to snow. ) 

safe riding , stefan .  . 


stefan 
german exchange student. 
... come out on a honda , 
if you can get it running. 

from (john r. daker ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 20 
reply to (john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 



in article  ( charles parr ) writes 


i bought it , i tried it 

it is , truly , the miracle  . 

my chain is , my wheel is clean , after  . 



i would like to nominate maxima chain wax as another 
official (tm) dod product of choice. 

dod 650 darkman 
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal champion 

from (richard sturges ) 
subject re help me adjust my 
reply to (richard sturges ) 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 16 

in rec . motorcycles . ,  ( matthew sheppard ) writes 
all our local 'experts' say it 's the that need some adjusting so 
i am soon to attempt that. i would like any advice anyone had. i do 
not have a shop manual but have read about the procedure in and 
in a few other places. is there anything i need to be 
of any problems anyone else has encountered 

i would recommend a factory service manual , and if you are not 
an experienced then get a or haynes (sp ) also. 
make sure the bike has cooled at least 6 hours since being run. 
read the books and if you have more questions you could mail me. 
also , be very careful when tightening valve cover bolts .  . they take 
very little torque and breaking one is disaster .  . 

rich 
falls church , va 

from  ( tommy marcus mcguire ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 63 
nntp posting host earth . cs . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( blaine gardner ) writes 
in article  ( tommy marcus mcguire ) writes 
... 
hey , what the hell do you mean by that you suck. i have a god given 
right to express opinions , carry a gun and to not wear a helmet , goddamn 
it. everything you stand for is stupid. 

i 'd give it an 0.5 on a scale of 10. while not mentioning hitler or 
koresh weighs in your favor , you also neglected to mention 105 mph , tennis 
balls , little girls and  . another thing to consider is , 
that like mexican food , a lot of folks mistake heat for quality. subtle 
references to various personal qualities habits ancestry 
generally earn more points than four letter words or the caps lock key. 
and introducing a new word  ( strabismic , for example) is 
likely to insure that some small part of your flame will become 
immortal .  . 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


aw , c'mon .  . the serious overreaction ought to be worth a couple of points , 
not to mention the bit condemning everthing the might ever say. 
the non sequitur about guns and helmets is just the proper flourish .  . 

i personally am of the opinion that there are two types of good flames .  . 
the first does trade , '' in the sense you mention , for heat. 
this has a certain surprise value and if done correctly , which i 
contend was done above , is reasonably entertaining. while it is true that 
the flame i posted does not mention anyone 's habitual velocity , friends , 
dinner , or entertainment , it says what it needs to with the appropriate 
flair and it is short. the weakness of this type of flame is actually 
that it can easily be taken too far , at which point it becomes trite and 
boring.  ( witness the thread recently .  .  .  . ) . 

the other type of flame , which you seem to be glorifying above , has 
a few weaknesses as well. in the first place , it can get verbose and 
tedious in the extreme , particularly if the reader does not already strongly 
identify with one side or the other. in the second , discussing someone 's 
personal qualities , habits , and so forth can quickly become libelous .  . 
 ( or is that slanderous i can never remember the difference . ) . this leads 
to a proliferation of lawyers , which is widely regarded as a bad thing. 
finally , introducing words is problematic .  . i ca n't haul my 
big  . around on my bike , and it would be bad form to use a word which 
actually turned out to have a meaning , especially one which ran counter 
to my use and flamage in general. 

in summary , , your score for that flame is incorrect .  . while it may 
be the flame , the weaknesses you point out are not necessarily 
weaknesses , and your suggested corrections are not always useful nor 
applicable .  . you also probably could n't outrun a tennis ball with a 
dog stapled to your posterior , and i 'll bet you and your 
motorcycle lean to the outside while turning .  . the same goes for anyone 
who looks like you , too. 



tommy mcguire 



 .  .  . i . will append an appropriate disclaimer to outgoing public information , 
identifying it as personal and as independent of ibm .  .  .  .  . 


from (james k. rye ) 
subject re where to put your helmet 
originator 
lines 30 
nntp posting host 
organization cray research , inc. 


in article ,  ( jody levine ) writes 
in article ryan  ( ryan cousineau ) writes 

another good place for your helmet is your mirror ( ! ) .  . 

this dents and dings the liner , sometimes quite a bit. 

i 've bike like jody levine dod 275 kv 
got a you can if you pf 
ride it toronto , ontario , canada 


it also works great to put under your on those really hot 
days when the tar gets really soft .  .  .  .  .  . 




jim rags rye senior technical support analyst 
86 harley davidson 
cray research inc , , mn .  . 

if you 're going to do something tonight that you 'll be sorry for 
tomorrow morning , sleep late. 


my opinions are mine and only mine , but for a small fee you may rent them. 



from  ( frank perdicaro ) 
subject hawk gt new seat review 
keywords 
lines 30 

unable to stand the pain anymore , my wife bought the 
and lady with passenger backrest for my hawk gt .  . 

it came with no instructions , but it came 2 weeks earlier than they 
said it would. installation would have been very easy , but the seat 
hardware was apparently always on the wrong sides with 
the stock seat ! it never was easy to put on. once i figured that 
out , the new seat went on the first try. the passenger backrest , though , 
does not fit as i thought it might .  . the supplied screw to set the 
backrest angle does not fit , and i have not yet found a suitable , 
hard , ( sae grade 8 , or perhaps 5 ) 1 4 20 bolt that fits .  . there is a 
a soft bolt in there now just do n't lean back. 

the driver 's section of the seat is a bit wider .  . seems comfortable 
enough , but then again i put about 5000 miles on the stock seat 
without a thought. the passenger 's section has about 8 times the 
volume of foam that the stock seat has , and from my short test it 
seems much more comfortable. the backrest helps a bit , but i 've not 
has enough time to really test it. the backrest also comes with a 
small pocket. its now more difficult to swing my leg up over the 
10 taller seat. 

if i go on the three notch ride soon ( , smugglers ) , 
i 'll give a more complete report , but in general it seems like an 
improvement. 

frank evan color systems 
legalize guns , drugs and cash .  .  . today .  . 101 drive 
, wakefield ma 
, 617 245 

subject re shaft drives and 
from  ( johnny roberts ) 
distribution rec 
organization univ of texas at san antonio 
nntp posting host eng . utsa . edu . 
lines 18 

in article 
writes 
is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

mike terry 
'82 virago 

yep ! i did one yesterday on my vision .  .  .  . i should mention 
that i had a that helped rotate the bike over ) . the was 
the result of a necessarily agressive acceleration through an 
intersection  ( damn san antonio tend to be really bad drivers) .  . 

however , i have done one by myself , it just takes a lot of 
pre clutch dump rev action. 

just a passing comment 



from a . 
subject re two questions  ( r80gs ) 
organization at t 
lines 75 

in article (erik x2773 ) writes 
hello folks , 

i'm very happy with my new  . my range is 238 miles on 4.8 gallons .  .  .  . 
that 's 50 mpg ! ! surprisingly , the bike is a real cruiser .  . i was expecting 
something rough .  . she 's a sweet honey .  . and i can go pretty much 
anyplace i 'd take my mountain bike. as far as shaft effect , it 's more a 
torque effect from the crankshaft in my opinion. rev it sitting still 
 ( when the is not moving ) and the bike a bit. maybe 

if the clutch is in , then a large chunk of counter rotating mass is not 
rotating .  . hence , at a light , makes it twist. shaft effect is the 
rear end rising under power or (the real problem) getting lower to the road 
when the throttle is snapped shut  ( say when you are cornering and the heads 
are real close to the  . new gs bikes with the shaft have 
almost no shaft effect. 

i do n't ride her fast enough to get a shaft effect , but in my opinion 
a little buffeting by wind is of far greater consequence .  . okay , here are 
my questions 

1) any recommendations for a home made fairing i 'd like to keep the 
wind off my chest , and perhaps my helmet , for comfort at highway speeds 
(70 mph ) , yet do n't want to (a) screw up the stability or (b) block my 
vision too much for trail riding .  . anybody have luck with two piece 
i 'd like to make it myself out of  . 

2) i run two lights , the standard plus a mounted on the 
crash bar. the illumination 's excellent that way , with a full beam coming 
out from the level of the motor  ( left side) the lamp beam is linear so 
that you get a bright streak of illumination from left to right , and it 
really picks up the periphery  ( deer lurking , etc . ) . combined with the 
on high you can see like day. but i 've heard that bmw alternators 
do n't crank out too much. do i need to shut down the when i'm 
around in the dirt at low rpm 

it 's a question of how long you spend at low rpm and how much you need the 
extra light. at low rpm , 3k and under , they do n't charge all that much if 
at all. the alternators put out sufficient wattage , it just that you need 
to be at 4k rpm to get it. 

3) this is embarassing i'm having trouble starting the bike first thing 
in the morning. i invariably flood the carbs , then go in and read a section 
of the paper , and then she starts right up. is this a zen thing 

full choke .  . open the gas taps .  . hit the starter and ever so slightly blip the 
throttle .  . it should fire. cranking should be done with minimal throttle .  . 
my r100 likes the to be raised just a bit off idle .  . 

it 's an experience thing. like zen , it 's hard to describe .  . it can be hard 
to learn if you are n't paying to the differences between success 
and failure. especially if you get really pissed off and flatten the 
battery while trying to get it to run. 

if my bike has been sitting for a few weeks , i give it a short while to 
start. if it does n't , i turn it off and wait a few minutes for things to 
in the fuel system and then it lights right off. i 've got dual 
plugs which make it easier to start. 

4) the 's manual says do not under any circumstances use gasoline 
with alcohol additives .  .  .  . yeah , right. what do you folks due to keep 
the engine and carbs from being eaten by ethanol and methanol any 
particular brands of gas that are best additives 

the big fix is the bing carb upgrade kit. it 's good for a few mpg and the 
parts are alcohol proof. the parts it replaces are n't alcohol proof. as 
long as the bike is n't going to sit for long periods of time , is 
nice since it helps keep ping away. if your bike does n't ping on cheap gas 
you ought to raise the compression !  ( half a smiley , the bmw twins of the 
80s and beyond have lowered compression to keep the epa happy. dual plugs 
and higher compression give back a big chunk of the lost  . 

neil kirby dod 
at t bell labs columbus oh usa (614) 860 
if you think i speak for at t you might have more lawyers than sense. 

subject re zeno 's paradox unveiled ! ! ! 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 14 

in article , 
wrote 

... therefore , there is a point 
in time when even though my front wheel is turned to the right 
i must be going straight ahead (the point when i go from the right 
turn to the  . ... 

what you are trying to describe is that transition point where 
the front wheel actually direction turns backwards. 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re v max handling request 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 30 
nntp posting host 3 . pica . army . mil . 

 ( jeffrey david earls ) wrote 

writes 
hello there 
can anyone who has experience on riding the yamaha v max , pls kindly 
comment on its handling . 


some guy came to the race school last weekend with number plates 
on his v max. he did n't get more than 2 practice laps in before he pushed 
the frame too hard and it drove him into the guard rail on the back 
straight. 

portland international raceway is now 2 for 2 on v  . 

v max handling ferget it. 

btw the rider was conscious and semi coherent when the ambulance 
carted him off. that 's all i know. 

i hate to pick on someone who may have been seriously injured  ( let 's hope 
not) , but semi coherent sounds like a good description of someone who 
shows up at the track w a in the first place 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from  ( laszlo nemeth ) 
subject re new to motorcycles .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host eclipse . cs . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado boulder , pizza disposal group 
lines 24 

in article , (matt dennie ) writes 
in  ( sanjay sinha ) writes 

in article (andrew infante ) writes 
curtis jackson pens .  .  .  . 

msf course .  .  .  . 140 

! 

the one here only costs 35 ! 

 ( izzat a deal or what ! ) 

they are free in philadelphia .  .  .  .  . ) 

who pays for these cheapie msf deals are your states subsidizing them 

here they are 25 for erc and 50 for msf .  . and no 
the state does n't subsidize ours at all. we do. 
1 for every motorcycle endorsed license. 


laz 

from  ( kyle cassidy ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
lines 12 
nntp posting host rowan . edu . 
organization rowan college of new jersey 

in article  ( arturo vega ) writes 

has anyone else ever caught themselves waving at oncoming motorcycle riders 
while in a car 

ha ! if i'm not on my bike , it 's because its broken and i'm . ( 
really the way it should be) 


kyle cassidy 
fire all of your guns at once ! 
dod 760 

from  ( rph ) 
subject re s vs. crane 
x posted from 
organization hog heaven 
lines 33 

in article 
 ( keeper of the 'tude ) writes 

i plan to switch to a single fire ignition in about a month and was 
curious if anyone has experience with the supposedly new crane single 
fire that with the s. the club wrench (not the wench ) has 
done s modules for several friends and i 'll get one also unless 
a bunch of folks say the crane is better. 

one guy just installed the mc power arc ignition but has not yet 
reported the results. it was not a simple bolt in replacement as new 
mounting holes had to be drilled .  . 

i recognize it 's more fun to discuss why chris needed to change brands of 
penis enhancer but how  bout some comments on single fire ignitions for 
a while .  .  .  . 

i just installed a mc power arc ii , and it seems to run great. i also 
used mc coils , and neither the ignition module or the coils required 
any new mounting holes to be drilled on my 92  . a little soldering 
and all was fine. static timing was real easy to set too. 

on the other side of the coin , my local wrench , whose opinion i 
invariably seek but do n't always adopt , thinks mc power arc is a piece 
of shit and says all them jap chips are gonna fail you one day . 
needless to say , he does n't like any electronic ignition modules , and 
recommends the s system. i think that 's the one with the 
hall effect timing  ( sensor(s ) , correct 

russ hughes '92 dod  ( 6022(10e20 ) 
the chrome and steel she rides .  .  .  .  . with the very air she 
breathes .  .  .  . 
n. young 

from (richard sturges ) 
subject re hawk gt new seat review 
reply to (richard sturges ) 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 10 

i , too , put a seat on my hawk .  . i got the solo seat (which 
could carry a passenger for a short distance ) and it is 100 
better than the stock seat. no longer does my voice after 
the ride to work. 


rich  ( h ) 703 536 
nswc division  ( w ) 301 227 1670 
i speak for no one else , and listen to the same. 


from  ( blaine gardner ) 
subject re 1200 owners suggestions wanted 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
organization evans sutherland computer corporation 
lines 25 

in article  ( mark wallace ) writes 
 ( blaine gardner ) writes 

in article  ( mar 
marten ) writes 

i am looking for a new tank bag now , and i wondered if you , as follow 
1200 owners , could make some suggestions as to what has , and has 

with the fj 's large , flat gas tank , i 'd imagine that almost anything 
would work. personally , i'm quite happy with my eclipse standard tank 
bag. 

i think the only thing to watch for is the number of attachment 
straps .  . most come with 3 and some with 4 , i have a 4 strap 
and because the rear of the tank is so narrow the fit 
is not optimal .  . 

good point , i 'd overlooked that. the eclipse has a 3 point mount , 1 at 
the rear and 2 at the front , and it 's very stable on the fj .  . i have seen 
some with that mount to the sides of the tank , and that would 
be a real problem on the fj .  . 

gardner @ evans sutherland 


from  ( dave t dorfman ) 
subject re type  ( cb , , gt , etc . ) . 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 4 

lets not forget 

st sports touring honda 


from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re please tell me they 're not permenant scratches ! 
organization university of east 
lines 22 

catherine barbara writes 

is there a way to wax out a dull finish  ( minor scrathes ) while 
on my fiance 's bandit , my hip pack rubbed against the tail 
and left a nasty dull finish and scratches .  . is there a way to get 
rid of these buff them out wax them out 
help ! 


car accessory shops here sell stuff called t cut , which is a very fine 
cutting paste for paint , and this will remove the dull finish and 
minor  . it will also remove all the traffic film and stuff that 
you probably do n't realise is there , and give your its original 
and shine .  . it can sometimes react badly with metallic paint , though , 
so try it out carefully before going to town with the stuff. afterwards 
apply wax polish , and all will be well again. 

btw do n't confuse t cut with the cutting paste used for grinding in 
valves .  .  . the . principle 's the same but the is vastly different .  .  .  . 

mike 


from  ( charles sundheim ) 
subject re newbie 
nntp posting host ursa 
organization calvin college 
lines 13 

yes , matt , dear newbie , best advice is read here foe a few days. 
this is your best source of info. 

 ( kinda makes me glad that i discovered r . m . well after i got into riding 
could i have possibly sounded like that otherwise ) . 

btw matt , despite the insults you are destined to face , great move 
on taking the msf course. it will save your butt. 

good luck , 

erc .  . dod 1138 


from 
subject none 
organization bc systems corporation 
lines 11 

i am thinking of going on a motorcycle tour in new zealand in the 
november january  . 

there are a few tour companies doing this , notably beach tours .  . 

can anyone who has done this let me know of their experiences , both good and 
bad 
thanks. 

bruce clarke b.c. environment 
e mail 

from  ( nick pettefar ) 
subject re paint jobs in the uk 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr europe ltd , maidenhead , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 31 

lisa rowlands , on the wed , 21 apr 1993 10 13 31 0000 
can anyone recommend a good place for reasonably priced bike paint jobs , preferably but not essentially in the london area. 

thanks 

lisa rowlands 

alex technologies ltd cp house 
97 107 uxbridge road 
tel 44  ( 0)81 ) 566 
fax 44  ( 0)81 ) 566 london 
email w5 


lisa , 

try pip on 081 590  . she does wonderful things with paint .  .  .  . 
i 've seen her work and it 's good. 

best of luck. 



nick (the well connected biker ) dod 1069 concise oxford boring paint job 

 . 

nick , 
incarcerated at bnr , o o '86 bmw kay 
maidenhead , the united kingdom .  . o pres.  ( pbwasoh(uk ) , bs 0002 
( 

from  ( wayne orwig ) 
subject re battery storage why not charge and store dry 
lines 19 
nntp posting host ncr . com . 
organization ncr corporation 
x newsreader  ( dos ) v1 . 0 . 

in article  ( mark fox ) says 

quite right , your batteries should be perfectly alright and retain 
most of their charge if drained and dried well , but i 'd throw out the 
electrolyte and buy some more when you need it. 


and before anyone says i'm wrong , remember that new batteries almost 
always come ready charged and dry , and they are perfectly ok even after 
several years' storage at the shop. 

mark fox 


makes sense to me , after all when steel is manufactured and stored they 
put oil on it so it wo n't rust .  . , when you store your bike , you 
must strip the paint and put oil on the metal to prevent rus 

from (andrew infante ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 10 
nntp posting host north1 . acpub . duke . edu . 

you really expect a cop to answer these honestly 

 ( first you gotta expect a cop to be honest .  .  . that . 's another 
story .  .  . ) . 


andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from  ( ha li ) 
subject re bonding with a cop 
distribution rec . motorcycles . , ba . motorcycles . 
organization float bowl chinese food 
lines 16 

 ( alyn kelley ) writes 

but as he drove past me , he actually turned all the way around in his 
car seat to see if i had noticed. i to him , and smiled .  . 
i ca n't for the life of me figure out why he was so friendly. 

it 's the dod license plate frame cops really like 'em .  . either that , or 
he mistook you for one of his friends , possibly an off duty cop .  . 

dave 


i need your clothes , your boots , and your motorcycle 

arnold schwarzenegger , t2 


from (michael james ) 
subject suzuki for sale 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 25 
nntp posting host sdsu . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

article crossposted from forsale . , rec . motocycle . 
author was michael james 
posted on 21 apr 1993 15 39 50 gmt 


i must sell my motorcycle .  .  .  . ( it is a '83 , tempter .  . 
it has 20k miles and runs well. 
includes a cover and tank bag .  .  . 

i'm asking 700 for it all. 

e mail me if you want to take a look at it. 


michael james 
pa 128 594 
294  ( 9845(h ) 




michael james 
pa 128 594 
 ( still no neat  . sig . oh well . ) . 


from  ( tony kidson ) 
subject re help me adjust my 
distribution world 
organization the modem palace 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 20 

in article writes 

and speaking of , why would the clearance of the valves get smaller , 
i.e. 
need the use of a thinner shim 


valve seat wear 


tony 



tony pgp 2.2 key by request voice 44 81 466 
morgan towers , the cat has had to move now e  ( mail(in order) 
morgan road , as i 've had to take the top 
bromley , off of the machine. 
england honda dod 


organization washington university , st. louis 
from brad thone 
to 
subject re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
lines 14 

a long time back  ( months ) , i think a similar question was asked .  .  .  .  . 

a suggestion , in addition to ed 's list , was to put your windward knee out 
away from the bike. 

i tried it , and it seems to help , actually. 


brad thone 
systems consultant 
systems service enterprises 
st. louis , mo 
@ wustl . edu . 
@ bitnet . 

from  ( alan e. asper ) 
subject re i need your advice !  ( i'm a new rider ) 
organization usr lib news organization 
lines 17 
nntp posting host calvin . sbc . com . 

in article ucs writes 
well , if i were to do that , i would never be going over 35 mph even in 
6th gear ! ! ! so my question is , will it hurt my new cycle to take it up 
in the 6 7000 rpm range so that i can at least go the speed limit 

i had the same inconvenience when i bought my ex 500 only i could at least 
go 50 mph during the initial break in. 

despite the high quality of motor oils and motorcycle engines these days , 
i would follow the instructions , and just keep to city street riding for 
the first 500 miles. heck , those miles go by fast , and it 's worth it to 
know you have n't possibly screwed up your engine. 

at the same time , this has all the makings of a 6 week long thread debating 
the whole break in topic. 

alan 

from  ( irwin arnstein ) 
subject re dod confessional 
organization inc. , richardson tx 
lines 23 

in article writes 
i ca n't help myself. 
i 've tried to be rational , 
to look the other way , 
but everytime it happens , 
its  . 

i hate pre 80s motorcycles .  . 

crud deleted .  .  .  . 


the mike dod 

my employer has no idea what i'm talking about ! 


you are missing out on a lot of neat old rides .  . 


 ( irwin ) i honk therefore i am richardson , tx 
dod  ( r75 6) 


from (andrew infante ) 
subject re new to motorcycles .  .  .  . 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 11 
nntp posting host north1 . acpub . duke . edu . 

apparently , the only place to take the msf course around 
here in nc is at a community college. 

that preclude some sort of state 
, then , no 


andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re first bike honda 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 22 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( nathan betz ) writes 

hi folks. 

i'm going to be buying my first bike and i'm considering an 82 
honda with less than 5k miles. does this sound like a 
reasonable choice is there anything special i need to know 

thanks. 

nathan 

nice bike. i loved riding my brother in law 's .  . 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
god is real , unless declared integer .  . 
i came , i saw , i deleted all your files. 
black holes are where god is dividing by zero .  . 
the world will end in 5 minutes. please log out. 
earth is 98 full .  .  .  .  . please delete anyone you can. 

from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re paint jobs in the uk 
organization university of east 
lines 13 

 ( lisa rowlands ) writes 

can anyone recommend a good place for reasonably priced bike paint jobs , preferably but not essentially in the london area. 

thanks 

lisa rowlands 

try dream machine ,  . i 've seen a few examples of their 
work and it looks pretty good. they 're in the though .  .  .  . 




from (keith a. schauer ) 
subject re dod confessional 
organization texas instruments information technology group 
lines 29 

in article writes 

i hate pre 80s motorcycles .  . 

at first i thought it was a phase .  . i though i would 
get used to them. it did n't happen. i tried gazing 
at and 900 customs , 

thats pretty hard since customs were n't introduced 
until 1980 .  . if you find a pre 80 one , hold onto it. it 
will be worth big bucks some day. 

what am i to do everytime i read a  . sig . containing 
some wheel wonder , i shudder and feel pity that 
the poor soul has suffered enough. 

mine has wheels. methinks you need to do 
your homework better. 

my employer has no idea what i'm talking about ! 


and obviously , neither do you. 


keith texas instruments plain o , texas 
80 custom 
dod 0901 in an insane society , the sane man must appear insane. 
ama my company disavows any knowledge of my actions .  . 

from (david karr ) 
subject re i need your advice !  ( i'm a new rider ) 
organization cornell univ. cs dept , ithaca ny 14853 
lines 23 

in article ucs writes 
the tachometer has a sticker right on it that says for the first 500 
miles do not go over 4 , 000 rpm 's , and for the next 500 miles , do n't go 
over 6 , 000 .  .  ( referred to as the break in period if you did n't know . ) . 

well , if i were to do that , i would never be going over 35 mph even in 
6th gear ! ! ! so my question is , will it hurt my new cycle to take it up 
in the 6 7000 rpm range so that i can at least go the speed limit 

but you already can go at the speed limit at 4000 rpm .  . all you need 
to do is to find a road with a 35 mph speed limit. 

this is n't quite as silly as it sounds. if you take a nice day trip 
over back roads ( not highways full of people trying seriously to get 
from here to there) then you might be able to hold 35 mph comfortably .  . 
you could easily do 500 miles over three different weekends. you 
might even get to enjoy some of the scenery .  . yes , i know this is 
probably not why you bought a 250 called ninja .  . 

david karr 
'80 bmw dod 0969 also , nra , aclu , et al. 



from  ( britt park ) 
subject power loss under load of a honda 
keywords honda power loss jets timing 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 24 

i have a 1974 honda which for most of my purposes runs well. 
however i a severe power drop at cruising speeds under load. 
that is , on a mild upgrade @ 50 mph in 4th or 5th i'm lucky if i can 
hold speed. if i try to add throttle much past 5000 rpm , power drops 
drastically .  . put simply , under load , the engine wo n't rev past 5000 
rpm .  . the top third half of the throttle range is dead. standing still 
the engine runs fine up to red line (9  . 

other at about the point that power loss kicks in , the 
engine becomes a little  . that is , at a steady throttle the 
engine speed goes up and down slightly .  . the bike has about 13000 miles 
on it and is in good tune , at least until it starts to balk .  . 

i would appreciate any suggestions as to what 's ailing the poor beast. 
my thoughts run toward clogged jets and or improper spark advance. i'm 
hoping it 's not something more drastic since the bike 's not really worth 
the hassle of any major engine work. 

thanks , 

park 
iris . stanford . edu . 



from (andrew scott kc6sss ) 
subject re drinking and riding 
organization the san jose , california , home for perverted hackers 
lines 18 

 ( jerry cats ) writes 

in article  ( andy woodward ) writes 
i generally find that after two or three decent hits of nitrous , my riding 
improves enormously .  . drinking is silly , your breath smells , it costs lots 
of money and the pigs can detect it with their machines. works for me , 
try it. 

and its free .  .  .  .  . just sit behind an old car in a jam , and breathe deeply .  . 

only if there is a dentist in the car ) 

otherwise you get out the back. 

me thinks you your gases confused. what comes out of cars is 
carbon monoxide .  . what comes out of is nitrous oxide .  . 
co 


from  ( allan hatcher ) 
subject re traffic morons 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 22 

in article (john stafford ) writes 
in article , 
 ( allan hatcher ) wrote 


you ca n't make a citizens arrest on anything but a felony .  . 

i'm not sure that 's true. let me rephrase you can file a complaint 
which will bring the person into court. as i understand it , a 
citizens arrest does not have to be the physical detention of 
the person. 
i think we just found the difference between a citizens arrest  ( physical 
detention of a suspect) and a report warrant .  . 


better now 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 



from  . l. ranck ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization virginia tech , blacksburg , virginia 
lines 27 
nntp posting host cc . vt . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

allan hatcher wrote 
well , here goes. after lurking for a long time , i 'll announce myself. yes , i'm 
the enemy .  . the enemy that also happens to ride an arrest me red 90  . 

i do n't generally consider police officers the enemy . i hope you do n't 
think in general have that attitude. stereotypes suck either way. 

i 'll entertain questions but my answers will reflect georgia law and may not 
apply in your state. 

p.s. anyone got a suit for sale 

you should n't get flamed for being a cop .  . i ca n't promise you wo n't because 
there are jerks on this newsgroup same as any other , but if you 've been 
lurking for a while you already know that. you might get lots of flames 
if you try to convince people that you know more than them just because you 
have a badge .  . and of course , you will get a moderate amount of flamage 
just for expressing an opinion , no matter what the opinion is somebody 
will flame you for it. 
so , have you ordered any official dod paraphenalia yet , 
, patches tell your boss your going undercover with a real 
biker gang .  . ) 


bill (703) 231 
computing center , virginia inst. state univ. , blacksburg , va. 


from (andrew infante ) 
subject re dogs vs. bikes 
organization duke university durham , n.c. 
lines 31 
nntp posting host acpub . duke . edu . 

in article (robert chambers ) writes 
in article , (andrew infante ) says 

if you ca n't you 've obviously waited too long , or are not putting 
much effort into it. 
my 80 lb dog (not always ) used to fart all the time. 
by making her notice it  ( of course the smell does n't 
bother her ! ) , and thence kicking her outside  ( somewhat 
literally ) , she came to realize that she shoudl n't do it 
(at least not around me) 
and now , two years later , she still does n't .  . 

so how big is this dog now about the size of cow ready to burst 

what 's that supposed to mean 

she 's 80 lbs. 

understand english 1 2 ) 

she let wind break cause i fed her cheap food , and not 
the same thing every time. so she had to adjust to 
each different brand for a while. 




andy you can listen to what everybody says , but the fact remains 
'71 bmw r60 5 that you 've got to get out there and do the thing yourself. 
dod joan sutherland 
my opinions , dammit , have nothing to do with anyone else ! ! ! 

from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 19 
nntp posting host 1 . pica . army . mil . 

(j .  . r. laferriere ) wrote 

i was just wondering if there were any law officers that read this. i have 
several questions i would like to ask pertaining to motorcycles and cops .  . 
and please do n't say get a vehicle code , go to your local station , or obvious 
things like that. my questions would not be found in those places nor 
answered face to face with a real , live in the flesh , cop .  . 
if your brother had a friend who had a cousin whos father was a cop , etc. 
do n't bother writing in. thanks. 

um .  . would you mind telling us what state municipality you live in there 
are different laws in different places , you know. 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from  ( alexander essbaum ) 
subject re v max handling request 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host rchland . ibm . com . 
organization ibm rochester 
lines 33 

in article 3 . pica . army . mil . ,  ( tom coradeschi ) writes 
 ( jeffrey david earls ) wrote 

writes 
hello there 
can anyone who has experience on riding the yamaha v max , pls kindly 
comment on its handling . 


some guy came to the race school last weekend with number plates 
on his v max. he did n't get more than 2 practice laps in before he pushed 
the frame too hard and it drove him into the guard rail on the back 
straight. 

btw the rider was conscious and semi coherent when the ambulance 
carted him off. that 's all i know. 


i hate to pick on someone who may have been seriously injured  ( let 's hope 
not) , but semi coherent sounds like a good description of someone who 
shows up at the track w a in the first place 

what does that make me for showing up with an old with worse 
brakes and handling  ( due to bent frame ) than a and i did n't even .  .  .  . 
uh .  .  .  .  . well , i was more than semi coherent when the ambulance .  .  .  .  . uh .  .  .  .  . 

nevermind .  . 


axel 


) 

from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re tracing license plates of 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 36 
nntp posting host 1 . pica . army . mil . 

 ( jonathan e. quist ) wrote 

in article writes 
a traffic citation is an accusation of having committed a crime .  . 
that 's why they have to go through the motions of having a trial if you 
want one , you are still innocent until proven guilty .  . cops are not the 
only ones who can accuse people of committing crimes , anyone who 
witnesses a crime can do so. 

go to the highway patrol and explain the situation , give them a 
description of the car and the license number , and tell them the 
specific violation of the law which you witnessed and wish to prosecute 
(ie , search the vehicle code and have the section number handy) .  . fill 
out the ticket and sign it. it will go through the same system any 
ticket a cop writes goes through. if contested , you will have to 
appear in court to prosecute .  . your word will not carry the same weight 
as a cop 's .  . 

and , indeed , the advice i got from a police officer when i had my 
close call was that , without additional impartial witnesses , it 
would be my word vs. the other driver 's , and that it was up to me 
to decide whether the time and inconvenience to me was worth the 
time and inconvenience to the other driver , and also whether any 
positive effect would result  ( beyond making me feel better) .  . 

my 0.02 worth i did this once. in a town car passed me on 
the right on a two lane road ! i memorized her license plate  ( this in the 
days before i carried pen and paper in my tankbag ) and went to the local 
police station. cops filled out the ticket. i signed it. she paid it ! 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from l . 
subject squids and dealers 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 47 

yesterday , a friend had asked me to accompany him to a local motorcycle 
dealer .  . it has been a while since he last rode ( 10 years) , and i myself 
have never bought a new bike from a dealer .  . what follows is an experience 
of that visit and of an observation of behavior by other 
customers and or sales personel 

background 

i ride with a group of friends , who mainly are into cruiser type bikes .  . my 
friend was hell bent on getting an intruder and had seen a few used ones. he 
wanted to see what the new ones were going for , so we happened upon a dealer 
that sold both suzuki and yamaha .  . 

the place was fairly busy , so we a bit. we happened upon a few 
intruders , most of which had sold signs on. my friend had been  . 

well the appeared and as my friend started chewing the fat , i 
on outside. the next thing i know , i see 3 or 4 sport bikes pull in. 
i could stereo type the type of riders  ( backward ball hat , oakley , iq 40 ) , 
but i wo n't .  . well they went inside , i did n't think much of it. i figured 
to each his own. i went back in to see if the had his 
firmly implanted into my friends back , when i noticed the hormone gang 
talking to other managers .  . lot 's of laughter , jokes etc. no big 
deal. 

here is the part that concerned me. the hg and those shop personel that were 
not busy with customers went back out , where said hg members fired up their 
rides and did the obligatory up of those 600 beasts .  . at this point , 
one decided to see how much rubber a 600 could deposit in the drive. 

squids , i thought to myself. but i was appalled that the manager 
not only condoned this behavior , but encourged it , to the point were they 
were betting how long he could keep it up and him on to pull a 
as he rode off onto a busy street around rush hour. the girl that was riding on another bike , seemed rather hormonal about this display , and urged her 
pilot to quickly catch up. the others followed , making sure there 
could be heard as well as felt .  . 

i felt embarassed at this point to be a motorcyclist .  . i felt the eyes of those 
in cages , witnessing this display , then glancing over to the dealers lot and 
damning all those on two wheels. needless to say , my friend felt a little 
uncomfortable and we left. 

i will now turn off my frustration and go ride .  .  .  . peacefully , to clear my 
anger .  . i only hope that the cop who is following me home , has an open 
mind and does n't associate me with them. 

btw , i ca n't afford a new bike .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( nick pettefar ) 
subject re well blow me down. yuk , yuk , yuk 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr europe ltd , maidenhead , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 26 

ivan d. reid , on the 23 apr 1993 06 05 pst 
in article , rob castro writes .  .  .  . 
when how do you decide that it is too windy to ride 

when even the seagulls are walking .  . ) 

ivan reid , paul institute , ch. 
,  . si 2 . 66 . you porsche .  . me pass ! dod 484 

when you can make no headway into the wind 

when you hear a dull booming noise after going down hill with the 
wind behind you and you 're  . 

be very careful during the above , as all the controls will have the 
opposite effect. 


nick (the mach 0.22 biker ) dod 1069 concise oxford 

 . 

nick , 
incarcerated at bnr , o o '86 bmw kay 
maidenhead , the united kingdom .  . o pres.  ( pbwasoh(uk ) , bs 0002 
( 

from  ( karen black) 
subject re touring the southwest 
organization advanced micro devices , santa clara , ca 
lines 21 

 ( blaine gardner ) writes 
 ( kim sharpe ) writes 
a few of us are touring utah in mid june to see the  . 
do any of you have some helpful hints on where to stay or 
things to see do avoid .  . plans are to see bryce , zion , arches .  . 
is the grand close at that point or is an additional trip required 

well , it 's closer to bryce than bryce is to arches .  . i 'd spend a lot 
of time studying the maps , there 's a lot of you ca n't get there from 
here in that area. you might want to hit the grand canyon on the way 
up from california , loop around to arches , and then 
back down towards bryce zion on the way home. 

make sure you ride us 12 between capitol reef and bryce , it 's been on a 
number of top 10 roads lists. 

highway 12 is a great road. be sure to stop by the anasazi (sp) village 
museum near boulder creek .  . interesting lifestyle ) .  . the views of dixie 
national forest are stunning .  . 

karen black 

from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re a point for helmet law is a point for 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 20 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( manish vij ) writes 

motorcycles are not allowed on th 17 mile drive at beach. 

what 

are there posted signs 

what do they cite you for 

they do n't .  . it 's a closed access road , you pay to get in  ( if you do n't 
have a resident sticker ) , and they simply do n't open the gates if 
you 're on a bike. 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


subject re shaft drives and 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( tony 
kidson ) wrote 

well maintained chains , running in oil , without those little rubber  o  rings 
to cause losses , might reach 99 efficiency .  . the average open to 
the dust  o  ring motorcycle chain probably has a difficult job making 90 
efficient .  . 


how about some citations or is this just speculation 
on your part 

for 30 years i 've been laboring under the delusion that chain drives 
were more efficient that shaft drives .  . chain drives are also stronger .  . 
 ( ever seen a successful no . ) . 

no flames , please ! i 've got both kinds of drives .  . 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from  ( tom coradeschi ) 
subject re traffic morons 
organization elect div , us army ctr , arsenal , nj 
lines 36 
nntp posting host 3 . pica . army . mil . 

ryan  ( ryan cousineau ) wrote 

from  ( niels michelsen ) 
subject how to act in front of traffic jerks 

the other day , it was raining cats and dogs , therefor i was going only to 
the speed limit , on nothing more , on my bike. this guy in his bmw was 
driving 1 2 meters behind me for 7 800 meters and at the next red light i 
calmly put the bike on its leg , walked back to this car , he rolled down the 
window , and i told him he was a total idiot  ( and the reason why) .  . 

did i do the right thing 

yours truly 

niels 

well , sounds great to me ! when i have a real me , 
i 've found that an effective strategy is to flash my brake light by 
pumping the pedal .  . you will , obviously need a bit of free play in your 
brake pedal to do this. it seems that even the most brain dead idiot can 
usually discern that a flashing red light directly in front of 
him her it may mean that something is wrong. 

sometimes yes , sometimes no. usually move back then. 
assholes just move closer.  ( something about 
testosterone stimulated behavior , i think . ) . it 's kinda like waving a red 
flag at a bull .  . all in all , if you ca n't move over and let the jerk by , 
it 's better than nothing .  .  .  . 

tom 

usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. 
gene , 1992 

from  ( henry prange ) 
subject re black reflector tape 
nntp posting host nickel . ucs . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
lines 12 

i got a sample of black reflector material , maybe from 
it is black but reflects silver if the angle of incidence is shallow .  . 
whoever it was i got it from sold sells kits that fit bmw  ( and other 
brands ) of luggage and fenders .  . do n't know what i did with the sample 
the kits seemed too expensive , as i recall .  . 

henry biker 
physiology iu sch .  . med. ,  . , 
dod gsi 215 
ride '92 '91 rx 7 conv cage 2 '91 explorer cage 2 
we all lie , cheat and steal , mostly a little , sometimes a lot. relax. 


from  ( godfrey digiorgi ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
distribution na 
organization apple computer 
lines 33 

i 've never ridden very much but recently had an excellent 
experience with dave at pilot while in london .  . 

i found that it upset the bike much less if i rode with the pilot , that 
is , if i looked over his shoulder and anticipated when i should hold on 
hard for braking or acceleration .  . i tried to always look over the 
inside shoulder on corners and move as little as possible , leaving 
dave to manage me and the bike as he normally would the bike and 
luggage .  . 

hard acceleration can be quite as the feeling of being spit 
off the back is hard to fight. similarly , i held on to the grab handles 
tightly when dave needed to brake so as not to mash him to a pulp  ( i'm 
a lot bigger than he is .  .  . ) .  . reaching around him and pushing off the 
tank seemed like it would be very awkward and make it even harder for 
him to manage .  . 

on the rare occasions when i carry a passenger myself , i absolutely 
refuse to carry anyone who is not properly for riding .  . that 's 
helmet , jacket , gloves , stout pants and shoes boots as a minimum. it 's 
not my responsibility to provide this gear , but it 's my responsibility 
to require it if they want to ride. 

and i agree with an earlier poster if you 've not had much experience 
carrying a particular passenger and especially if you 've not carried 
many passengers before , take a few gentler rides of some duration before 
you head off to a difficult road like mines mt. hamilton .  . that 's a 
nasty place to find yourself in trouble. 

godfrey dod 0493 ama 
rule 1 never sell a ducati .  . the street finds its own 
rule 2 always obey rule 1. uses for things. wg 
ducati toyota nikon sony apple 

from  ( brice dowaliby ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 18 45 30 gmt 
reply to bd 
organization fluent inc. , lebanon nh 
distribution na 
lines 7 

(michael beavington ) writes 

the down side is that when i'm in my cage , i have on numerous occasions 
slammed my hand into the rolled up window in an effort to wave at 
a passing biker .  . ow .  . 

should n't this be in the thread 

from (john little sun repair depot ) 
subject personal problems  ( was re so , do any police read  .  .  . ) . 
organization sun microsystems technical centre japan .  . 
lines 12 
nntp posting host ale . japan . sun . com . 

in article 
 ( tommy marcus mcguire ) writes 

i ca n't haul my big  . around on my bike .  .  .  . 


 .  .  . or . is it a boast 



john little sun microsystems .  . , japan 


from  ( roger collier ) 
subject re paint jobs in the uk 
organization sun microsystems 
lines 25 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host uk . sun . com . 

in article , (mike sixsmith ) writes 
 ( lisa rowlands ) writes 

can anyone recommend a good place for reasonably priced bike paint jobs , 
preferably but not essentially in the london area. 

try dream machine ,  . i 've seen a few examples of their 
work and it looks pretty good. they 're in the though .  .  .  . 


dream machine quality ai n't what it used to be 

kinetic art did some great paint jobs on  . do n't know if they are still 
around. 



o o 
(o o) sun microsystems , 
h coventry , england .  . 
u (44) 203 
dod 226 

keeper of the list. 


from (keith a. schauer ) 
subject re respect 
organization texas instruments information technology group 
lines 14 

in article  ( keeper of the 'tude ) writes 

the only consolation was that she had trouble scraping together the 35 
while 500 is not quite one week 's beer money for me .  .  .  . 



well know i know how you can afford a harley .  . 


keith texas instruments plain o , texas 
80 custom 
dod 0901 in an insane society , the sane man must appear insane. 
ama my company disavows any knowledge of my actions .  . 

from (erik x2773 ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
organization lunar planetary laboratory , tucson az .  . 
lines 21 

in article (michael nelson ) writes 
in article  ( chris behanna ) writes 

spray the chain wax onto the rollers and occassionally , and 
rust will not be a problem. 

i did. regularly. and it was. 

michael 

maybe you had accidentally sealed in some water i cleaned my chain 
thoroughly , took it on a short ride to dry it off and heat it up 
a bit , and the paraffin sank deep into the rollers and formed a good 
seal on the outside. no rust , but then again i live in tucson ! 

b o d y i s t h e b i k e 

dod 
'90 550 zephyr (erik asphaug ) 
'86 bmw 
s o u l i s t h e r i d e r 

from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re live free , but quietly , or die 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 19 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , (michael robinson ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( keeper of the 'tude ) writes 
do n't you mean former motorcyclist 

no. 

ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 

i'm sure there 's a perfectly reasonable explanation .  .  .  . 

yep .  . 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re i need your advice !  ( i'm a new rider ) 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 41 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article ucs writes 

i have a very important question that i have n't been able to find 
an answer to .  .  . i . 've asked mechanics and others about this , but no 
one can really give me an answer that satisfies me. 


i just bought a brand new kawasaki ninja 250 .  . i am a first time buyer 
as well as a first time rider and this bike seemed to satisfy all my 
needs. this may be the reason i do n't know the answer to this question 


the tachometer has a sticker right on it that says for the first 500 
miles do not go over 4 , 000 rpm 's , and for the next 500 miles , do n't go 
over 6 , 000 .  .  ( referred to as the break in period if you did n't know . ) . 


well , if i were to do that , i would never be going over 35 mph even in 
6th gear ! ! ! so my question is , will it hurt my new cycle to take it up 
in the 6 7000 rpm range so that i can at least go the speed limit 


any information that any of you could give me would be greatly 
appreciated ! ! ! ! just send the reply to my account , or if you 'd like , 
back to the net. 

thank you very much for taking the time to read reply 
to this. 

chris 

go the speed limit. as long as your not at the salt flats , you ar n't gonna 
yer ride. i would n't ride the dod minimum until it had 500 miles on 
it , but hell , i do that on a good weekend ! 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
hey ! where did they go 
you do n't think ....  . 


from (david svoboda ) 
subject locks and security  ( was re yamaha locks) 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group 
lines 73 

this is maybe not a pet peeve , but definitely a playmate peeve 

in article  ( bill ketzeback ) writes 
any lock including the are easy to break into if the person has 
the proper supplies and or motivation .  . 3 minutes and your bike is gone ! 
i would be glad to explain but i dont want to contribute to any unlawful 
activities. 

does this make anyone 's skeptic alarm (tm) go off no offense , bill , i 
do n't mean to say that you 're not being straight , but i wonder how you 
know about this have you actually every used your secret method to break 
all the different kinds of bike locks or are you taking someone 's word 
for it 

the fact is , it is unlikely that someone reading anything here is going to 
go into a successful bike stealing business because they read anything in 
rec . motorcycles .  . so please tell us what you are talking about. we ca n't 
even protect against an assault , or discuss methods , if you do n't come out 
with it. 

see , i have heard the ones about the pipes , and the liquid nitrogen , and the 
cordless tools , and a bunch of other ones. the most plausable method 
(i am not a bike thief , so i really do n't know for certain ) is just to put 
a rod through each wheel , and use four guys to just lift the bike into a 
truck. this works because most people do n't lock their bikes to anything. 
since that method is so easy , i figure a nice , visible chain or 
cable locking the bike to something is likely to make a lazy thief go on 
to the next bike. 

(hey , finally an advantage to the weight and high cg of the ! ) 

especially since i have a bike that i would hate to see ripped off 
by such a tactic .  . warning no lock alone is a safe deterent against theft , 
the thief doesnt need to be a locksmith or a lock picker to walk away with your 
property ! i personally think motion alarms in combination to a lock 
of this type is the way to go if in fact you are that concerned. 

what tactic are you referring to if we do n't know what you are talking about , 
we ca n't very well guard against it , can we 

for my money  ( literally ) i rely on a combination of a motion detector alarm 
with pager when i'm out of of the bike in a questionable area , c c 
insurance , and i try to park in obvious , visible areas with lots of people 
about.  ( see , if someone just plays with the bike without intention of 
stealing it , at least some eyes are on it , and if they get too , 
they 'll set off the alarm . ) . 

that 's for a nice bike. for a , the trick is to always keep its 
actual value well below blue book , so that it looks so crappy nobody would 
want to steal it , and even if they were stupid enough to , you would make 
a profit on the deal. ) 

seriously , if i  ( for instance) need to go on a business trip for a week , 
and  ( sadly ) have to leave the bikes sitting , they both get a shitty looking , 
but useable cover , locked on , and both bikes locked to each other and a 
curb bumper in the parking lot under the light. i usually rig the cable 
locks i use  ( aircraft cable) so that if anyone pulls on either bike or 
the cable joining them , the alarm goes off. and i have a friend 
come buy every day to have a look and make sure they 're still there. the 
only thing i have ever had stolen was a 60 cover , and that was over 
winter storage , with the battery out of the bike  ( and thus no  . 

oh , put your own into the cover for the locks to pass through , and 
place them so that they have to absolutely destroy the cover to get it off. 

that 's the best that i can think of. most of the locks i see people put 
on bikes look , well , not too mechanically sound. i like , since i have 
personally removed master locks from lockers with my boot. 

dave svoboda i'm getting tired of 
90 1000  ( mmmmmmmmmm ! ) beating you up , dave .  . 
84 rz 350  ( ring ding )  ( woops ! ) you never learn. 
ama dod 0330 939  ( chicago ) beth bruiser dixon 

from (paul blumstein ) 
subject re the best of times , the worst of times 
nntp posting host harley . com . 
organization black belt association 
lines 20 

in article  ( alex ridgway ) writes 
(paul blumstein ) writes 
my problem turned out to be a screw inside my 
carb .  . i keep hearing that one should keep all of the screws 
tight on a bike , but i never thought that i had to do that 
on the screws inside of a carb .  . at least it was 
fixable and i was on my way in hardly any time. 

gee , i always figured that it was the loose screws on in the rider 
that were most likely to cause any problems. did you check for that 
at the same time 

that is very true. however , screws have been loose on this rider 
for quite some time , so they had been taken into account. 

russian is fun 5 out of 6 times 

paul , , dod 36 , , ama , hog , doh 2 
, marc , arrl , platypus 240 , , , ,  ( cala905 ) 
transaction technology , inc. , santa monica , ca 

from  ( jonathan e. quist ) 
subject re dod confessional 
nntp posting host i88 . isc . com . 
organization lachman technology , incorporated , naperville , il 
lines 52 

in article writes 
i ca n't help myself. 
i 've tried to be rational , 
to look the other way , 
but everytime it happens , 
its  . 

i hate pre 80s motorcycles .  . 

hah .  . newbie bait .  . everyone knows the first motorcycle 
was n't built until there were no pre '80 's motorcycles ! 

at first i thought it was a phase .  . i though i would 
get used to them. it did n't happen. i tried gazing 
at and 900 customs , but each time i 
pictured them being hurled off of large precipice 
(i also picture a of german tourists cheering and 
taking holiday snaps , but i ca n't figure that part out) .  . 

you 've been watching too much northern exposure .  . 

what am i to do everytime i read a  . sig . containing 
some wheel wonder , i shudder and feel pity that 
the poor soul has suffered enough. 

why because our wheels are repairable 

i imagine the owner 
out his  ( or her) living in a discarded 
box , in next to their  . 

 . obviously , more bait .  . everyone knows you do n't discard 
boxes. even after they 've become uninhabitable , they 're 
make a great poor boy 's mechanic 's  . 



i'm hoping for some deliverance .  . 

okay. let 's hear you squeal like a pig .  . 

i had in the past loathed 
the milwaukee machine , but i can actually begin to understand 
some of the preaching .  . there must be hope. 

beware fanatical preaching , lest the residents of waco , texas set up 
a huge salad bar in your honor .  .  .  . 

jonathan e. lachman technology , incorporated 
dod 094 , , '71 k4 naperville , il 
there 's nothing quite like the patter of little feet , 
followed by the words daddy ! ! 

from  ( nick pettefar ) 
subject re type  ( cb , , gt , etc . ) . 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr europe ltd , maidenhead , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 33 

victor johnson , on the thu , 22 apr 1993 00 01 10 gmt 
in rec . motorcycles . ,  ( curtis jackson ) writes 

in article  ( frank ball ) writes 
honda a v designates a v engine street bike. vf for v 4 , vt for v twin .  . 

so how about my honda hawk  ( nt 650) it 's a twin , but not called a vt. 


that 's because they took the old vt 500 engine and stepped on it to make 
the plant for the hawk new twin . or does that only fly for microsoft 
nt  ( new technology) 

i 've been at this too long today ... 

cheers , 
victor dances with hawks johnson 



also the bmw stuff.  . k , rs really slow , 100 , i 
suppose that 's how much you have to spend each week to keep the damn 
thing on the road. 


nick (the pissed off with his bike again biker ) dod 1069 concise oxford 

 . 

nick , 
incarcerated at bnr , o o '86 bmw kay 
maidenhead , the united kingdom .  . o pres.  ( pbwasoh(uk ) , bs 0002 
( 

from a . 
subject re dogs 
organization at t 
summary relative size of dog vs. target 
lines 53 

in article ,  ( charles parr ) writes 
in article a . writes 

this tactic depends for its effectiveness on the dog 's conformance to 
a psychological norm that may not actually apply to a particular dog. 
i 've tried it with some success before , but it wo n't work on a charlie manson 
dog or one that 's really , really stupid. a large irish taught me 
this in my yard  ( apparently his territory) one day. i'm sure he was playing 
a game with me. the game was probably kill the very angry neighbor before 
he can dispense the terrible punishment .  . 

what , a dog weighs maybe , at max you ca n't handle it 

we were having a problem with instability in the universal gravitational 
constant that day the closer i got to those exposed  ( still dripping , 
no doubt , with the of the last foolhardy experimenter cum 
psychology ) the bigger and heavier the dog appeared to become .  . also , 
recall that the distribution of the is one five pound jaw teeth 
operated by two muscles driven by a  . 005 . ounce brain possessing an 
heuristic composed of equal parts of and ravening hunger .  . 
the other 5 lb is , of course , dog poop , but that varies all over the place 
as the dog deposits it regularly on the and tended 
of the dog 's owner 's neighbors  ( whilst continuously its 
supply , no doubt by consuming the likes of folks like me) .  . 

you have , i presume , thumbs grapple with it and tear it 's head 
off ! 

my very thought at the time , but as i looked down at these once formidable 
instruments of mayhem , i realized they had become weak and by too 
many sedentary hours tapping away at my ergonomically correct crt keyboard. 
there was only one option left i reached down to the toolbox near my 
car and grasped my craftsman 150 ft lb torque wrench , surely the bludgeon 
of dire necessity if ever there was one. to my amazement and 
confusion , the started shaking and rolling on the grass , then 
to its feet and vanished down the street , still quivering and occasionally 
looking back at me. 

seven at one blow ! i , my new found and brandishing 
my terrible weapon of as i the now secure environs 
of my domicile .  . it was only later that i found out what the dog apparently 
knew all along the wrench was defective , would no longer measure torque 
accurately , and sears would n't fix it or replace it. what i had interpreted 
as fear and were in fact hilarity and contempt .  . 

sheesh , even a trained attack dog is no match for a human , 
we have all the advantages .  . 

exactly nobody can look quite as silly as we can. 

) 
chuck rogers 


from  ( alexander essbaum ) 
subject exhaust coating 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host rchland . ibm . com . 
organization ibm rochester 
lines 29 

since at least one other person was interested in this 

my 's black exhaust pipes are rusty and i researched getting them repaired .  . 
yesterday i bought a can of 1500 degree black header paint and spent an 
hour two of the header pipes by hand. sprayed on paint. thought 
about how clean i was able to get the metal with and determined that 
i would n't be at all suprised if the paint wore chipped off in a month. 

soooo call a couple of places up in minneapolis and discover that powder 
coating , while extremely durable , will not handle over 600 degree 
temperatures .  . the place i talked to said they were experimenting with 
some new powder that is supposed to handle 1100 degrees but that it would n't 
be available for months at least. they directed me to another shop that 
specializes in header coating .  . 

the other shop said they have 2 available. one is aluminized that 
can do 1200 degrees and is comparable to powder coating for durability .  . 
the other is silicon (i think) based and can do 1800 degrees ( ! ) but is 
thinner and not as durable .  . both have a finish (not 
super smooth ) and should be cleaned with hot water and a brush .  . 

price for 4 1 foot header pipes and a 2 foot 4 2 1 collector was 100. i'm 
planning to take the parts up friday and get them back  ( ups ) next week maybe 
wednesday .  . 

sounds to me like this kind of coating stuff should be way better than paint 
considering how much abuse the pipes get from road crap rocks. 

axel 

from  ( nick pettefar ) 
subject re wanted uk bmw tips 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr europe ltd , maidenhead , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 35 

i.d. , on the wed , 21 apr 1993 17 11 39 gmt 
hi , 
i'm now in the market for buying a bmw . the . ideal would be an rs but i 'd be 
interested to here of any for sale  . age . is not a problem i'm more 
interested in a good example without a massive amount of miles and one which has 
been well maintained as i intend to keep it well and for some time. 

i would also like to know if anyone has any sound advice as regards to 
insurance old , licence for 9 years , no accidents claims convictions . am . i old 
enough to get bmw owners club insurance yet or will i have to wait until next 
year 

ian 

future owner 


my best advice would be to contact a local dealer  ( see the yellow 
pages under motorcycle dealers ) and ask for the address of the local 
section bmw owners club. the local bmw dealer will give you details 
of the bmw insurance terms and the club will help you with all 
details. getting a bike from the dealer is the best bet , if you can 
afford it. the warranty is fairly handy as bm bits are made from 
solid gold , apart from the parts made from ruby and platinum .  . apparently. 



nick (the perpetually broke bmw biker ) dod 1069 concise oxford no loot 

 . 

nick , 
incarcerated at bnr , o o '86 bmw kay 
maidenhead , the united kingdom .  . o pres.  ( pbwasoh(uk ) , bs 0002 
( 

from  ( charles sundheim ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
nntp posting host ursa 
organization calvin college 
lines 13 

(john r. daker ) writes 

i would like to nominate maxima chain wax as another 
official (tm) dod product of choice. 


is there an official dod products of choice list if so would the 
appropriate party please post it. 

erc .  . 

p.s. if its in the faq , keep them to yourself i got plenty .  . 
maybe i 'll go them now , just to be sure 

from 
subject re how to buy a first bike , etc. 
organization bc systems corporation 
lines 19 

in article , (michael seales ) writes 
in article , writes 
there have been a lot of posts lately about i wanna buy my first bike is a 
zx cbr a good bike to learn on etc. 

sure they are. here we can buy 






so what 's the problem small 's bikes .  . 

well , the problem just might be that you ca n't buy any of these bikes in 
north america .  . (except the 400 bandit 400) 

bruce clarke b.c. environment 
e mail 

from (david gibbs ) 
subject re sans hands 
organization qnx software systems , ltd. 
lines 22 

in article (david karr ) writes 
in article (richard clarke ) writes 
so how do i steer when my hands are n't on the bars  ( open budweiser in left 
hand , camel cigarette in the right , no feet allowed . ) . 

if i lean , and the 
bike turns , am i 

no , the bars would turn only toward the direction of turn in 
no hands steering .  . 

just in case the original poster was looking for a serious answer , 
i 'll supply one. 

yes , even when steering no hands you do something quite similar 
to  . basically to turn left , you to a quick wiggle 
of the bike to the right first , causing a lean to 
occur to the left. it is a lot more difficult to do on a motorcycle 
than a bicycle though , because of the extra weight.  ( ok , so my 
motorcycle is heavy .  . maybe is n't . ) . 

david 

subject re shaft drives and 
from (erik astrup ) 
distribution rec 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 16 

writes 
is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 


yes. 


erik afm 422 dod 683 

1993 cbr 1990 cbr 600 1990 1990 ninja 250 

this one goes to eleven nigel , lead guitar , spinal tap 





from berlin.de (ronald j. bartle ) 
subject low powered bikes  .  .  . ! 
organization public access unix system 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 18 


does anybody share my opinion that in big city traffic a bike can be so 
low powered that for example it cant accelerate out of trouble when 
necessary .  . the . screwed down versions of bikes sold on the german 
market with the different classes of liscence seems to make a lot of 
middle aged men putt putt around on 25 hr that are 
getting in the way of real traffic ! 

does anybody else have opinions on this topic ! 





email berlin.de ronald j. 
ron is looking for new work berlin  ( voice ) 49 . 30 . 
but i do rent rooms again ! fax 49 . 30 . 


from  ( arun vadlamani ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
organization usc department of computer science 
lines 9 

what about grease ii 

arun .  . 
cool rider .  . 


noe there 's a look in your eyes , 
like black holes in the sky. 
shine on you crazy diamonds .  . 

from  ( tony kidson ) 
subject re paint jobs in the uk 
distribution world 
organization the modem palace 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 25 

in article writes 

 ( lisa rowlands ) writes 

can anyone recommend a good place for reasonably priced bike paint jobs , 
preferably but not essentially in the london area. 

thanks 

lisa rowlands 

try dream machine ,  . i 've seen a few examples of their 
work and it looks pretty good. they 're in the though .  .  .  . 


can you say expensive 



tony pgp 2.2 key by request voice 44 81 466 
morgan towers , the cat has had to move now e  ( mail(in order) 
morgan road , as i 've had to take the top 
bromley , off of the machine. 
england honda dod 


from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
keywords advice , , help ! 
organization university of east 
distribution na 
lines 15 

 ( irwin arnstein ) writes 

in article (mike sixsmith ) writes 
if i'm riding i would far sooner have the hanging on to the bike , 
rather than me , because i find that their weight can cause me to move , 
and that can upset the balance of the bike. most of the i see 
over here hold the  . the really good ones do n't hang on to anything 
unless violent acceleration is taking place. 

 .  . do . n't you ride with your sweetheart 

only in my dreams .  .  .  .  . 

( 


from  ( christopher g karras ) 
subject re help me adjust my 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 17 

 ( matthew sheppard ) writes 

all our local 'experts' say it 's the that need some adjusting so 
i am soon to attempt that. i would like any advice anyone had. 

if this is the same as adjusting the between cam and valve , i have 
the same question. do you buy a full set of before starting the 
adjustment process , or do you calculate the you need and then run 
off to the dealer in the cage to see if the right are in stock 
obviously the latter would be cheaper  ( what do cost ) , but are 
measurements of the shim need reliable enough to buy only the indicated 

chris 


christopher g. 
internet 

from (joseph mocker ) 
subject dual sport 
organization sun microsystems inc. 
lines 15 
distribution rec 
nntp posting host watt . corp . sun . com . 


i am looking at buying a dual sport type motorcycle .  . this is my first 
cycle as well. i am interested in any experiences people have with 
the following motorcycles , good or bad. 

honda 
suzuki 
suzuki 
yamaha 

most xxx vs. articles i have seen in magazines pit the honda 
against another cycle , and the 650 always comes out shining .  . is it safe 
to assume that the 250 would be of equal quality 

thanks .  .  .  . joe 

from (george heinz ) 
subject what do i do with old gasoline help ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 23 

i have a '72 which i stopped riding about 2 years ago (i upgraded 
to an '84 sabre  . i parked it in the corner of my parking lot , and planned 
on draining the gas , spraying oil in the tank , etc. to get it ready to store. 
well , after a lot of procrastination , all i ended up doing was throwing a 
on it. 

well , now i have to move and want to clean up the 350 .  . i tried starting it 
 ( with someone else 's battery) and had no luck. my first guess is that it is 
the gas and so i plan on draining it and replacing it with new gas (i can only 
pray that i did n't trash the  . the question is , what do i do 
with this old gas i am not going to run it in my sabre , and i think that 
there is enough that i do n't want to burn it  ( campus police do n't think 
too kindly about  . dumping it is n't a great idea. 

thanks for any ideas , 
george heinz 


win the 1 , 000 , 000 question what does this c code do (no fair compiling it) 

int a  ( main(z , p , q , r )  ( for(p 80 q p 80 p 2 a p  ( for(z ) 9 z q ) 3 (r  ( time(0 ) 
r 57 ) 7 , q q q 1 q 2 1 p 79 1 0 p 79 77 1 0 p 1659 79 0 p 158 79 0 , q ! a p q 2 
a p a p q q q 0 0  ( for q  ( printf(q ) 79 c c n , ! a q 1 ) 

from  ( bob pasker ) 
subject re a kinder , gentler bmw mailing list 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 45 

 ( chris steinbroner ) writes 
sorry , had to take out tx . motorcycles . because 
my news server rejected it. 
bob wrote 
it would be a shame to split boxer riders between different lists 
unless , of course , the existing list failed to meet the readers  
needs. 
you presumed you needed to split out a gs list. 
by implication of your split , a plain ol' bmw 
list would n't meet the gs riders  needs. 

good point. the list actually started out as an extension of my gs 
v. fj shootout list , which is why it got that name. since inception , 
however , other boxer interested folks have joined and the conversation 
has not always been geared to gs pd st specific topics. 

for the sake of not forcing the split issue , 
how about changing the charter and renaming 
your list from bmw gs to just bmw would that 
make everybody happy 

when i raised the to expand or not to expand that is the question 
question on the list itself , there were mixed feelings. the list has 
always been open to anyone with a non bouncing from line and there 
has been general agreement that only boxer related stuff is 
appropriate. almost all of the subscribers own r100 gs st pd 
bikes , although some r , rt and rs owners are also on it. 

at this point , my main interest for the list is to preserve the peace 
and while at the same time providing as wide access as 
possible. the list is fairly technical , with how do i do this , 
what kind of that should i get kinds of questions. there has yet 
to be any non bmw bashing , k bike bashing , or any bmw mfg 'd after 
1962 is a piece of shit bashing .  . such posts are , by consent of the 
governed , proscribed .  . 

if the simple name change would make a significant difference to the 
net . boxer . owners . , then i am not going to stand in the way of progress. 

so , , let me turn the question around have you  ( or has anyone 
else) not joined the list because you felt your boxer was excluded 

bob 



from  ( jorg klinger ) 
subject re uh , der , 
nntp posting host ccu . umanitoba . ca . 
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada 
lines 24 

in  ( jim brewer ) writes 

in article  ( jorg klinger ) writes 
i beleive it 's called the frame. 

nothing some and paint wo n't fix. 

this from someone riding a gutsy .  . 

i was referring to their propensity to dent during a spill .  . 
they are of course a work of art. 


if you only new who 
arch .  . eng. services lost horizons i think i am. 
umanitoba , man. ca. the anonymous 









from  ( nicholas s. coburn ) 
subject re buying a 1992 suzuki advice wanted 
keywords suzuki 
nntp posting host spot . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 27 

(andrew white ) writes 

hello , net . readers .  . i am looking for a little net . advice .  . 

i 've got my eye on a '92 suzuki at a local dealer .  . the bike 's got 
3 , 200 miles on it and looks in mint condition. dealer is asking a bit 
less than 2 , 800 .  . good price i do n't have access to a blue book and am 
too lazy to go to the library. dealer is letting me test ride it 
this week. 

blue book says wholesale 2115 , retail 2895 
sounds like you are getting a pretty fair price  ( assuming it is in 
nice condition) 


andrew white univ of pennsylvania  ( edu breath ) 

dod 0584 '82 honda sabre 



nick dod 6425 ama 
  





from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re why i wanted police officers to answer my posting 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 26 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article  ( charles sundheim ) writes 

 ( dan sorenson ) writes 

and copped heh an attitude when he was stopped speaking as a guy 
who recieved a verbal warning for in a 55 , i just have to laugh. 


in , back when i was riding the purple water buffalo , i jumped an 
intersection in front of a cop who was waiting for the light ! the side of 
the street he was on was hidden buy a building on the corner and i did n't 
see him till i was airborne in the middle of the intersection .  . i was 
parked , had my off and my liscence out before he turned the corner. 
he chewed my ass out and let me go ! i will be the first to admit it was a 
very thing to do , jumping the intersection like that. the cop 
should have nailed me. i find that if you are polite , and 
honest , they will normaly let you get away with a lot of stuff. 

p.s. the shock mounts folded up the next day. i guess i deserved that ! 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
hey ! where did they go 
you do n't think ....  . 


from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re xs 850 never needs valve adjustments 
organization university of east 
lines 19 

 ( steve smead ) writes 

i bought a yamaha with 8k miles. over the last 2 years , i 've put 30k 
of miles  . valve adjustment intervals are suppossed to be every 
5k .  . well every 7 . 5k . or so , i 've checked the pad , and they never 
change ! if anything , the clearances seem to be getting a little smaller which 
makes no sense to me with the pad system the pads should wear until the 
clearances are too great right i know that threaded adjusters can tighten 
up , but i did n't think these kind could. 

bottom lines is that i have n't touched my valves for 30k on this bike and 
they are still nice and quiet and if anything , the clearances are tighter .  .  .  . 
what 's the deal any other yam triple owners notice extremely long valve 
adjustment intervals 

yeah , i had an that was the same. the valve seats tend to wear 
very slowly , and anything that might get taken off the pad (which should n't 
really wear ) will tend to compensate so it 's a sort of self 
system. 

from  ( charles parr ) 
subject re c with flames out the exhaust ! ! ! ! 
nntp posting host acs3 . acs . ucalgary . ca . 
organization the university of calgary , alberta 
lines 44 

in article  ( chris behanna ) writes 
in article dave dal writes 
reminds me of a great editorial by bruce reeve a couple months ago 
in cycle canada .  . 

he was so pissed off with cops pulling over in dangerous 
spots  ( and often blind corners ) that one day he decided to get 
revenge .  . 

cruising on a factory loaner test bike , he noticed a cop 
had pulled over a motorist on an on or off ramp with almost no 
shoulder. being a bright , he hit his bike 's kill switch 
just before passing the cop , who happened to be bending towards 
the offending motorist there by exposing his to the 
passing world. 

with his ignition system now dead , he pumped his two 
or three times to fill his exhaust canister 's with volatile raw fuel .  . 

all it took was a stab at the kill switch to re light the ignition 
and send a 10  flame in swell 's direction. 

i wonder if any cycle cops read cycle canada 

although i agree with the spirit of the action , i do hope that 
the rider up the 800 or so it takes to replace the exhaust system 
he just destroyed .  . the owner 's manual explicitly warns against such 
behavior for exactly that reason you can destroy your that way. 

one more good reason for straight pipes or megaphones ) 

regards , charles 
001 . 


ps does anyone know if opti oils sells direct by the case load 
my dealership is charging 12.99 for a jug of injector oil , 
and it 's breaking me ) 


within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time , 
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing 
gourd .  . unknown net . person . 

from (john r. daker ) 
subject re maxima chain wax 
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 20 
reply to (john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( tom dietrich ) says 

 ( charles parr ) writes 

i bought it , i tried it 

it is , truly , the miracle  . 

my chain is , my wheel is clean , after  . 

i too have seen the miracle of maxima chain wax .  . not only does it lube 
and stay where it 's supposed to , but i swear i can ride faster now. yes , 
not only does it lube your chain , it makes you a better rider .  . and more 
attractive to members of the opposing sex. and smarter .  . and .  .  .  .  . 

dod 650 darkman 
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal champion 

from (michael nelson ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
article i.d. ddx . 
distribution rec 
organization , san francisco ca 
lines 12 
nntp posting host com . 

in article writes 
is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

only on the front wheel. use the lever on the right 
to accomplish this. 

michael 


michael nelson 1993 
internet dod 


from 
subject dod pins .  .  . not . ! 
organization searle , skokie , il 
lines 34 

hi there kids and  .  .  . 


it your ol' pal the  ( keeper of the pin money ! ) 


i 've got good new and bad news .  .  .  . 

good news i got laid .  . er .  .  .  . 
the pins will be coming , to use the computer software phrase , real 
soon now 

bad news right after we placed our order , the company upped its 
minimum order for manufacturing .  . we got in under the wire  ( with 
an order of 115 or so pins) , but as a result of the low number of 
pins , we were relegated to the we 'll get to it in between other 
runs bin .  . as a result , it seems that it may be another 4 or 5 weeks 
until your beloved is guiding you along the blacktop .  .  .  ( and 
we thought on the dashboard were foolish hmmm , now , if that 
were madonna sitting on my dashboard , that could be dangerous .  .  . hell .  . 
i'm tough . ) . 

so .  .  . please . continue to be patient. as soon as they arrive , i 'll post 
the grand announcement , and rush our messiah on his way directly 
to your abode .  . in the meantime , if you need revised versions of the 
holy word of , please send 15 . 95 . cash or money order (no cod 's) 
to 

ranch  .  . er .  .  .  .  .  . , 305 cyberspace place .  .  .  . 

i'm off to msf class .  .  . hope . it 's not too boring .  .  . my . wife made me go 
with her ! 

michael menard 

from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re dogs 
organization university of east 
lines 13 

 ( curt howland ) writes 

in article ms kan . panda . com . , 
kan . panda . com .  ( mark crispin ) writes 
i'm a biker and a dog lover. 

no wonder have such a horrid reputation .  . 

in dog we thrust 

) 



from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re sans hands 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 23 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , (david svoboda ) writes 

well , as many a bored bike can tell you , the way to steer 
sans hans is to push your body off to the side you want to lean .  . 

also known as , leaning .  . 

say you want to turn left .  .  .  .  . 
severely confused rambling about the ground pushing .  .  .  . 
but the front wheel has trail. if the ground pushes the front wheel 
toward the left at the contact patch , the trail will cause the 
wheel to turn to the right. hey , there we are. no hands counter 
steering .  . 

refers to pushing the inside to effect a 
lean .  . no hands is an oxymoron .  . 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from (ray shea ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 15 

in article writes 
... perhaps in is confined 
to liquor 

everything in louisiana is related to liquor eating , sleeping , walking , 
talking , church , state , life , death , and everything in between. 

plus the food is good , too. 



ray shea they wound like a very effective method. 
, inc. leah 
! some days i miss d. boon real bad. 
dod 0372 team '88 hawk gt 

from  ( eerik j. villberg ) 
subject re ok , so i was a little hasty .  .  .  . 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 17 

in  ( jean noel moyne ) writes 

ok , hold on a second and clarify something for me 

what does stand for i thought it was dui for driving under 
influence , so here what does w stand for 



here in iowa it is has been  ( operating under the influence ) and 
 ( operating motor vehicle under the  . they  ( gov't ) changed it to 
so that people in motor boats could also be charged with drunk driving. 

j. p people for the 
e eating of 
4208 harris street t tasty 
ames ia 50010 a animals 

from  ( jerry cats ) 
subject re story respect 
reply to  ( jerry cats ) 
organization commodore , west chester , pa 
lines 29 

in article  ( lynn e. hall ) writes 
nudity , fine .  .  . loud . noise , fine .  .  . party . all night , fine .  .  .  . but at the right 
place and time. please , let 's not trample over other 's rights and then bitch 
because they do n't treat us like gods .  . 

michael menard 

you know , i was n't even going to respond to this typical anti party 
attitude message. trash was everywhere reason not enough 
for the massive crowd. was n't prepared for the vast 
number of people that showed up. 

i do n't think michael 's response was anti party but rather pro environmental .  . 
i agree that you gotta let us hogs out to roam every once in awhile. let 's 
hope that next year will be better prepared and that we all pick up 
after ourselves. 

an asshole. i 've already admitted i'm an asshole many times on the net. 
all my friends are assholes too  ( lyrics to a new song ) .  . so , you want a 
dime to call someone that cares 

well , i for one thought you told a good story , even if you say you are an 
a hole ! ) we need more biker written to news. it 's unfortunate 
that you got flamed for telling it , but we all know this is a controversial 
group. 

at any rate , keep up the good work and continue to post stories. 

jerry  ( '93 fxdl ) 

from (mike serafin ) 
subject re what is a squid  ( was re respect ) 
nntp posting host epcot 
organization ti semiconductor process and design center 
lines 20 

in article  ( dana h. myers ) writes 
in article  ( jerry cats ) writes 
in article (michael manning ) writes 

duck .  . squids do n't wave , or return waves ever , even to each 

excuse me for being an , but what are these. 


squids are everybody but me and you. chris behanna is especially a squid .  . 

a squid is the guy i saw back in december on cool 40 degree morning on my way 
to work. he was wearing knee length pants , light jacket , no gloves , though he 
was going considerably slower than dod nominal .  . 

a poser squid was the guy i saw yesterday on my way home. similar attire as 
above sans jacket (it is april in texas ya know) , but he is riding down the 
freeway , left hand on his side  ( kinda robinhoodlike ) , with his body turned 
slightly left. brings a whole new meaning to the term poser .  . 


from a . 
subject re 1200 owners suggestions wanted 
organization at t 
summary good 
lines 23 

 ( blaine gardner ) writes 
in article  ( mar 
marten ) writes 

i am looking for a new tank bag now , and i wondered if you , as follow 
1200 owners , could make some suggestions as to what has , and has 
not worked for you. 
with the fj 's large , flat gas tank , i 'd imagine that almost anything 
would work. personally , i'm quite happy with my eclipse standard tank 
bag. 

me too. even after i bought the 3 piece k2 set. now and then , 
dk puts them on sale for 50 or so to clear out inventory , but they 
never seem to to go away. they are the volkswagens of tank bags , i guess. 

btw , the late paul o' showed me a trick with a pair of pliers that 
will extend their life considerably .  . when the zipper starts to separate 
behind the pull  ( because of age and wear ) , squash the pull body with the 
pliers just a bit to tighten it back up. i would have tossed my bag three 
years ago , but this fixed it up and kept it secure and reliable .  . 

chuck rogers 


from  . l. ranck ) 
subject re bmw heated grips 
organization virginia tech , blacksburg , virginia 
lines 24 
nntp posting host cc . vt . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

mark bergman wrote 

to those of you who have the bmw heated 

what are they like during the summer yes , you 
, i mean while they are off ! 

are they comfortable do they transmit a lot of 
vibration how do they compare to the stock grips 
to foam grips 

do they really make a difference during the winter 

i just got a and had the heated grips installed. as far as i can 
tell the grips look and feel the same as the standard grips .  . 
they are not soft .  . last weekend i did a 500 mile round trip and 
got to a point where it was in the 30s and raining .  . those heated 
grips were great . i 've only had the bike a month and the heated 
grips are already one of my favorite features on the bike. 


bill (703) 231 
computing center , virginia inst. state univ. , blacksburg , va. 


from 
subject back breaker , near hit ! ! 
organization university of houston 
lines 11 
reply to 
nntp posting host rosie . uh . edu . 

about a year and half ago when i first started riding , i took a msf course. i 
have taken those lessons to heart. over the past year i have had only a few 
near collisions with traffic morons on four wheels. yesterday i got to add 
another to the list but with this one i felt the most helpless .  . i am sitting 
at a light about 1 2 car lengths behind a car , a wise  . suddenly i 
hear screeching tires. i dart my eyes to my mirrors and realize it 's the 
flying up right behind me , in my panic i pop my clutch and stall the 
bike. luckily the guy stops a foot behind my rear wheel. 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

from (ray shea ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 34 

in article writes 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

if you had been looking in your mirror , you would have seen the guy coming 
before you heard the screeching tires. 

when you 're stopped at a light 

1) stop so that you 're got space in front of you , and a quick easy escape 
route  ( between lanes , into a , up a driveway , somewhere) if someone 
decides they want to plow into you. 

2) keep the bike in first with the clutch in until at least a couple of cars 
are stopped behind you , so you do n't have to waste a second you do n't have 
trying to get it in gear if you need to move. 

3) watch your mirrors .  . in that situation , most of the hazards you are 
trying to avoid are coming from behind you. ( msf geek speak) 
is n't just for when you 're moving. and you 're less likely to panic and stall 
the bike if you 've got time to prepare before the guy 's tires lock up behind 
you.  ( you still get the scared out of you , but it 's more a feeling 
of quickly rising dread than a sudden jolt . ) . 






ray shea 
, inc. 
! 
dod 0372 team '88 hawk gt 

from  ( bob pasker ) 
subject re a kinder , gentler bmw mailing list 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 29 

 ( joe senner ) writes 
i know there 's already a bmw mailing list , but since it 's an r bike 
only list  ( and limited to the r100 bikes as well i believe) 

the list as chartered is geared toward r100 gs pd st riders , 
emphasizing the off road bikes , but there are numerous people on the 
list with other bmw twins as well , as well as the usual contingent of 
 . most all boxer talk is welcome. the main list has about 
50 subscribers there is also a digest version which has about 10. we 
run about 10 to 12 messges to day , mostly technical with little 
chatter and no flames .  . 

subscriptions can be had via e mail. in the text of a message , send 
the command 

subscribe 

to bmw gs for the main list and 
bmw gs digest for the digest version. your 
from address will be used to determine where you will receive the 
mail. 

it would be a shame to split boxer riders between different lists 
unless , of course , the existing list failed to meet the readers  
needs. 

bob 



from (michael nelson ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , san francisco ca 
lines 17 

in article  ( dave edmondson ) writes 
charles wrote 
folks , 

i am assembling info for a film criticism class final project. 

how  bout big and little with robert 
redford and that little guy that was in bonnie clyde .  . 

good flick , imho .  . 

michael 


michael nelson 1993 
internet dod 


from  ( rhett barnes ) 
subject zx 11 help ! 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 16 
nntp posting host sdcc14 . ucsd . edu . 

i need help getting my zx 11  ( c3 ) to behave .  . i 've managed to get 
the front suspension to be very happy , but the rear sucks. i ca n't 
do anything with it to make it feel ok. the bike is very stable 
through the corners (i think because i have the front just right ) , 
but when the straights get bumpy the rear is  . it feels 
like it actually amplifies the bumps .  . and the does n't seem 
to do anything in real life , although you can tell the difference 
when the bike is n't moving. i 've tried 4 5 cm of (from 
unloaded ) , but i do n't know which way to go. has anyone 
gotten the rear of this bike comfortable and if so , what kind of 
settings (esp .  . what sag ) did you use. i like to corner , but i also 
would like my kidneys to remain intact .  . this thing makes the new 
zx 7 feel  .  .  .  . 




from dave dal 
subject re contemplating ottawa san francisco ottawa trip 
x fri , 23 apr 93 15 47 14 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr ltd. 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d9 . 
lines 73 

in article david gibbs , 
writes 
greetings rec .  . 

coming up labour day weekend this year ,  ( world science fiction 
convention ) will be held in san francisco  . i am planning 
to attend and have been speculating on doing my trip there by motorcycle 
instead of by plane  ( as was my initial thought . ) . 

i live  ( and would be departing from) ottawa , ontario (canada) .  . 

i had planned to take two weeks for this trip , giving me 5 days travel 
time on either side of the weekend. 

this looks like a distance of about 2800 miles  ( 4500 km) .  . 

if your distance calc is correct for an on the road distance  ( and not 
as the crow flies ) , this is 900km a day for 5 days. if you spend the 
entire time on interstates , which would be a total waste of time , that 's 
at least 8 hours on the road every day not including eating peeing 
sight seeing etc. 

i was contemplating a similar trip , but from ottawa to la , or 
maybe ottawa to austin tx .  . 

i figured if i wanna do a trip of this magnitude and enjoy it , i 'd 
have to get my ass off the major interstates and spend lots of 
time enjoying the country around me i.e. stopping with a camera , 
meeting towns people , going to a few bars. no sense spending 2 weeks 
looking out a helmet with the closest human contact found at the gas 
pump. 

i estimated i 'd need at least 4 5 weeks to make the trip worthwhile .  . 

i am looking for input , opinions , comments , or remarks on 
1. my sanity .  . 

in question 8 ) 

2. suggested routes .  .  ( note , getting there is important , and my 
schedule does n't leave a lot of room for side trips , or circuitous 
routes ) 

try and stay off the interstates ! ! ! 

5. anybody who wants to join me on this trip.  ( for even part of the 
distance . ) . 

depending on your route and my plans , i may be heading that way as far 
as at least detroit .  . 

7. anything that comes to mind , and that you think might be relevant .  . 


call the  . they 're a book catering to 
 . they have a large number of books highlighting 
the best roads for along the general route 
you 're looking at. they carry listings of bed and breakfasts 
all through the states which accept  . order their free 
catalog and within you 'll probably find books covering absolutely 
all you needs for this trip. their 's in the motorcyclist and or 
cycle world classifieds .  . 

thanks for any input. 

david gibbs 
kawasaki dod 585 

o.k. 

dave d.f. 
it 's true they say that money talks .  . when mine spoke it said 
 buy me a drink ! ' .  . 

from  ( carl j. santora ) 
subject test ignore 
organization cleveland state university 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 3 

ignore 



from  ( alexander essbaum ) 
subject re mail order response time 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host rchland . ibm . com . 
organization ibm rochester 
lines 18 

in article , (richard sturges ) writes 
i have ordered many times from competition accesories and 
get 2 3 day delivery. once they had to backorder something , but they 
sent me a card to say it would be two weeks. came in 10 days or so. 


ordered 2 fork seals and 2 guide bushings from ca for my  . two weeks later 
get 2 fork seals and 1 guide bushing .  . call ca and ask for remaining guide 
bushing and order 2 slide bushings  ( explain on the phone which bushings are 
which the guy seemed to understand) .  . two weeks later get 2 guide bushings .  . 

sigh 

how much you wanna bet that once i get all the parts and take the fork apart 
that some parts wo n't fit 

axel 


subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
from (john stafford ) 
distribution na 
organization state university 
nntp posting host msus . edu . 
lines 15 

in article  ( ted lemon ) 
writes 

on a long ride with my ex girlfriend nancy , i would notice her 
drifting off every so often ... 

i swore off taking passengers over ten years ago , but i recall 
, 1981 getting some strange looks because my passenger 
was reading a book. she was so that she did n't even 
notice when we hit a to make the hit of the day 
with the riders behind us. 


john minnesota state university @ 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from (david karr ) 
subject re bmw heated grips 
organization cornell univ. cs dept , ithaca ny 14853 
lines 20 

in article  ( art campbell ) writes 
 ( mark bergman ) writes 

to those of you who have the bmw heated 

what are they like during the summer yes , you 
, i mean while they are off ! 

are they comfortable 
they 're a hard rubber like compound .  . i always wear some kind of glove 
 ( fingerless ) on the hottest days. given those two factors , 
they 're ok , but certainly not  . 

when i needed heated grips i made them from pieces of an old bicycle 
inner tube and a cheap electric heating pad from the drugstore , on top 
of foam grips soft and warm. cheaper by about a factor of 5 , too. 

david karr 



from  ( neal howard ) 
subject re c with flames out the exhaust ! ! ! ! 
organization inc. , richardson tx 
lines 13 


hey , the lone biker of the apocalypse  ( see raising arizona ) had flames coming 
out of both his exhaust pipes .  . i love to the kill switch on my sportster 
to produce flaming , especially underneath overpasses at night (it 's 
loud and lights up the whole ! ! ! 


neal howard '91 1200 dod 686 , inc  ( richardson , tx ) 
doh 
std disclaimer my opinions are mine , not 's .  . 
let us learn to dream , gentlemen , and then perhaps 
we shall learn the truth. august kekule   ( 1890 ) 


from  ( kyle cassidy ) 
subject funny thing happened at the dmv the other day .  .  .  .  . 
lines 34 
nntp posting host rowan . edu . 
organization rowan college of new jersey 


i saw this posted and it brings an interesting event to mind ..... 


in article (matt dennie ) writes 

the reactions of little boys seems to be the most enthusiastic to 
a wave  ( and also good to see) .  . i always wave when i see a kid that 
has at least noticed my bike. i figure it helps the future of the 
sport. 

i have to admit that i usually try to do so without the parental 
figure noticing afraid that the kid will get yelled at for 
with anti societal types like us. 


a few weeks ago i was in the dmv with ken .  . i was standing in a mile long 
line waiting for some really bored looking person to a bunch of 
people from some dough .  . ken was sitting on a chair next to our helmets 
wondering why everybody there looked to be about the social calibur of 
people you would find at a laundromat when some young woman walked in who 
required our attentions .  . he came over and stood in line with me 
while we watched her fill out some forms and then we noticed a little kid 
about 4 years old reach over the bench and touch our helmets , one at a time. 
i did n't particularly mind , and neither did ken  ( that the kid was touching 
our helmets that is) .  . but the helmets were n't on the most stable of 
platforms , so ken over there to resettle them and as soon as he 
touched the helmets , mother of said child started shrieking at her kid you 
stay away from those you shit ! and the brutally about the head 
and shoulders. 

i suppose it was our scary sex drugs and unix t shirts that sent such 
bouts of terror through her body. 


from  ( jack rogers waters ) 
subject re who thunk of it 
organization north carolina state university , project eos 
lines 19 

in article writes 
who gets credit for the perfectly descriptive name also does 
anybody know when the term was first used. 
thanks 

i do. 
yesterday. 

seriously , ada of lovelace gets the credit. she first used 
it in the late 80s .  . her bike the wonder. 


jack waters ii 
dod 1919 


i do n't fear the thief in the night. its the one that comes in the 
afternoon , when i'm still asleep , that i worry about. 


from  ( jonathan e. quist ) 
subject re looking for movies w bikes 
nntp posting host i88 . isc . com . 
organization lachman technology , incorporated , naperville , il 
lines 19 

in article  ( christopher douglas saady ) writes 
there 's also billy jack , the wild one , and the bandit 
(where jerry reed runs his truck over motorcycle gangs bikes) , 
and a video tape documentary on the hell 's angels i 
found in a rental store once 


do n't forget robert blake in glide in blue (where else do 
you get to see a full dress harley playing with dirt bikes ) .  . 
and if you 're going to count and the bandit , then you darn 
well better include pee wee 's big adventure . 




jonathan e. lachman technology , incorporated 
dod 094 , , '71 k4 naperville , il 
there 's nothing quite like the patter of little feet , 
followed by the words daddy ! ! 

from (richard acuff ) 
subject re first bike honda 
organization stanford university , california , usa 
lines 12 

 ( nathan betz ) writes 

i'm going to be buying my first bike and i'm considering an 82 
honda with less than 5k miles. does this sound like a 
reasonable choice is there anything special i need to know 

an '82 was my first bike i recommend it. if anyone 's 
interested , mine 's for sale. it 's in la currently , with a bum 
starter and around 10k miles. i 'd like a couple hundred for it. 

rich 


from  ( arturo vega ) 
subject re bonding with a cop 
distribution rec . motorcycles . , ba . motorcycles . 
organization informix software , inc. 
lines 22 

 ( alyn kelley ) writes 

... waving policeman , happy policeman , nice policeman ... 

has anyone else experienced this phenomenon , or am i somehow 
the only one to have been blessed with a cop 's good mood  ( insert 
mild sarcasm ) 


dod 875 
'92 ii 

well , not me. however , i would n't trade all the times i 've h h h h a 
close friend has been pulled over , cussed and shouted at , and finally 
let off with a verbal warning in exchange for a few waves smiles ! 

) if you like but i'm serious. 

later , 

art yes sir ... no sir ... sorry sir ... thank you sir ! 


from  ( brent s. stone ) 
subject re how to buy a first bike , etc. 
organization university of virginia 
lines 29 

in article (michael seales ) writes 
in article , writes 
there have been a lot of posts lately about i wanna buy my first bike is a 
zx cbr a good bike to learn on etc. 

sure they are. here we can buy 





the prob is that you 're wrong. 
newbie here. 
i just got off the phone with a salesman 
that showed by  . 

if i remember what he said correctly 
no such thing 
no. its  . 
no such thing. 

most sport bikes do n't have 250 versions. 


bs 





from  ( jeff nichols) 
subject re help me adjust my 
organization rice university , biochemistry 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( tony 
kidson ) wrote 

in article writes 

and speaking of , why would the clearance of the valves get smaller , 
i.e. 
need the use of a thinner shim 


valve seat wear 

okay , okay. i forgot about that.  . 

jeff nichols 
rice university 

from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re wanted advice for new 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 17 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article writes 
in article , ( 
jody levine ) writes so the question i have is how dangerous is 
riding 

i might only add two things .  .  .  .  . stupid road design  ( or poor , at least) and 

here in louisiana the state sign is caution sub standard . 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
god is real , unless declared integer .  . 
i came , i saw , i deleted all your files. 
black holes are where god is dividing by zero .  . 
the world will end in 5 minutes. please log out. 
earth is 98 full .  .  .  .  . please delete anyone you can. 

from a . 
subject re so , do any xxxx , i mean police officers read this stuff 
organization at t 
summary ah , the of youth ! 
lines 61 

in article ,  ( tommy marcus mcguire ) writes 
in article  ( blaine gardner ) writes 
in article  ( tommy marcus mcguire ) writes 
... 
hey , what the hell do you mean by that you suck. i have a god given 
right to express opinions , carry a gun and to not wear a helmet , goddamn 
it. everything you stand for is stupid. 

i 'd give it an 0.5 on a scale of 10. analysis and hints deleted 

aw , c'mon .  . the serious overreaction ought to be worth a couple of points , 
not to mention the bit condemning everthing the might ever say. 
the non sequitur about guns and helmets is just the proper flourish .  . 

nope .  . flames should be interesting . around here , guns helmets 
are the wallpaper .  . 

i personally am of the opinion that there are two types of good flames .  . 
the first does trade , '' in the sense you mention , for heat. 
this has a certain surprise value and if done correctly , which i 
contend was done above , is reasonably entertaining. 

not everyone in rec . is so easily amused .  . , as an elder , 
has seen the at their peaks  ( or depths , if you  . 
with that sort of incendiary backdrop , awarding your faltering a 
0.5 was the purest act of charity .  . 

while 
it is true that 
the flame i posted does not mention anyone 's habitual velocity , friends , 
dinner , or entertainment , it says what it needs to with the appropriate 
flair and it is short. the weakness of this type of flame is actually 
that it can easily be taken too far , at which point it becomes trite and 
boring. 

unless , of course , your audience has only seen several thousand similarly 
uninspiring attempts in this arena .  . in that case , the trite boring 
threshold tends to drift away from where you first set it , as yours will , 
eventually  ( or not) .  . 

the other type of flame , which you seem to be glorifying above , 
... blah , blah , blah ... 
in summary , , your score for that flame is incorrect .  . while it may 
be the flame , the weaknesses you point out are not necessarily 
weaknesses , and your suggested corrections are not always useful nor 
applicable .  . 

until you can the flame out of 's internet port before he 
can io  ( close( ) it , you are in no position to lecture him , grasshopper .  . 

you also probably could n't outrun a tennis ball with a 
dog stapled to your posterior , and i 'll bet you and your 
motorcycle lean to the outside while turning .  . the same goes for anyone 
who looks like you , too. 

oh please  ( yawn ) , you 're slipping further down the scale with each 
successive attempt .  . it 's so embarrassing to watch. say , you 're not 
from waco , are you 

chuck rogers 


from  ( jim trascapoulos ) 
subject 1982 yamaha maxim for sale  ( denver area) 
summary posting for my roomate 
keywords yamaha , motorcycle , 550 cc 
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci .  . 
lines 25 


 ( message posted by for roomate ) 

bike is in good condition , is black , has miles , mag wheels , 

front disk , rear drum , good front tire , new back tire , o ring chain , 

new battery , new starter and has that laid back look. bike runs 

real strong with all four carbs giving their best. buyer gets a 

cover  ( all weather , lockable heatproof ) , tank bag  ( non magnetic 

ca n't take disks along otherwise ! ) , cargo net manual. bike has 

origional tool kit matching yamaha lock .  . 



asking 1700 or best offer. i would like to sell this soon , so please 

call  ( voice !  ( (ack ) ! ) with any questions ! 

john silvia in (303) area  ( home ) 238  ( work ) 296 


from  ( alan duncan ) 
subject re windy days 
reply to  ( alan duncan ) 
organization department of computer science , university of edinburgh 
lines 25 



(robert d castro ) writes 

when how do you decide that it is too windy to ride 

if you get blown over riding your bike down your drive at home then 
it 's too windy to ride .  .  .  . 8 d. 

p.s. check nearby trees for wind strength and see how badly they are being 
affected by the wind. 
alan .  . 

alan duncan dept of computer science , 
ducati edinburgh university , scotland .  . 



s s 







subject re type  ( cb , , gt , etc . ) . 
from  ( jerry stubbs ) 
organization university of kansas computer science dept 
lines 13 

in article  ( frank ball ) writes 
olaf wrote 
can somebody tell me what all the letter on motorcycle models 
really mean. 

cb is a street bike with an parallel twin or inline 4 cylinder engine. 

frank ball m  ( 707 ) 794 work , 



hmmm ... . my first bike , a , was a single . . . 


from (david svoboda ) 
subject re where to put your helmet 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group 
lines 27 

in article ryan  ( ryan cousineau ) writes 

another good place for your helmet is your mirror ( ! ) .  . i kid you not. if 
you own a typical standard or other bike with fairly average mirrors 
that screw into your handlebars , your helmet should fit over your mirror 
and be fairly stable .  . 

butt , butt , then yu be able t0 ee the car ! g up behind yu and 
a t0 d ! and the chick dig it ! 

seriously , though , putting a helmet on a mirror is because 
you are then resting the weight of the helmet on the fragile foam 
liner that is expected to cushion your noggin .  . and once crushed , that 
foam never pops back. 

a variation of mirror hanging thing is what i do with the bike on the 
(hey , the is for maintenance ) i turn the wheel to 
the stop (left) and can hang the helmet by the chin bar on the right 
grip. there is no foam in the chin bar , and it is pretty 
secure on there  ( as long as the forks are  . if i have to leave 
the helmet with the parked bike  ( and the bags are n't on full ) , that is 
about the most stable place. 

dave svoboda i'm getting tired of 
90 1000  ( mmmmmmmmmm ! ) beating you up , dave .  . 
84 rz 350  ( ring ding )  ( woops ! ) you never learn. 
ama dod 0330 939  ( chicago ) beth bruiser dixon 

from  ( chuck smythe ) 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization center for atmospheric research , atmospheric chemistry 
lines 8 

is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

as the owner of a sabre  ( shaftie ) , i can answer from personal experience 

! 

chuck smythe  ( dod 50) 


from  ( ivan d. reid ) 
subject re electricty 
organization triumf tri university meson facility 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host erich . triumf . ca . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , (mr .  . bill) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( norman hamer ) writes 
nh 1) trying to figure out a way to put a halogen beam on my  .  .  . are 
nh there any easy ways to do this (i . e .  . a slip in bulb replacement ) 

no. the honda employed a sealed beam which was not interchangeable 
with anything else , so far as i could ever tell. i 've owned two 
over the years , and that was always one of my biggest nits .  . 

i'm not sure how far went , but on two of my bikes (the 
and , i think , the gt380m ) i was able to pop a  insert directly 
into the original housing  ( held in by those roughly w shaped springs) .  . the 
inserts used 55 60w halogen bulbs , and were great , although mr bill later 
indicates that this may be too much of a drain on your charging system. 

ivan reid , paul institute , ch. 
,  . si 2 . 66 . you porsche .  . me pass ! dod 484 

from woodward ) 
subject re dogs 
nntp posting host aber . ac . uk . 
organization university college of wales , aberystwyth 
lines 11 


 . for a second there i thought i was in rec . 

we 're not ! hell , i was wondering why there was all the pointless 
about motorcycles .  . 

so how do i find rec . i dont think our system 
takes it. 




from (richard tweedie ) 
subject re touring the southwest 
nntp posting host pioneer 
organization network equipment technologies 
lines 21 

in article  ( kim sharpe ) writes 
a few of us are touring utah in mid june to see the  . 
do any of you have some helpful hints on where to stay or 
things to see do avoid .  . plans are to see bryce , zion , arches .  . 
is the grand close at that point or is an additional trip required 
any help would be nice. thank you for your support. 


no , the grand canyon is not too far away. short side trips to 
 ( between cedar city and hurricane ) and pipe springs  ( on the way from 
hurricane to the grand canyon ) may be interesting they are right 
off the highway .  . pipe springs (a small fort ) gives you real insight 
into just how the pioneers lived .  . you have missed one major must 
see attraction cedar breaks in the mountains above cedar city. 
take lots of film they have a reason for calling this 
country. natural bridges in the four corners area is also very 
scenic , but may be too far off your route. monument valley is 
spectacular , but again may be too far away. 

rich 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 22 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , () writes 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 

an even better strategy is to leave less of a buffer between you and 
the car in front , but enough to manuver around it. keep the bike in 
1st gear with the clutch handle squeezed in  ( how 's that for 
engaged ) , until there are two cars stopped behind you. 

when the next comes in , simply ride up along side 
of the car in front of you. you do n't need to panic and do it , or you 
will pop the clutch and stall the engine. do is smoothly , just 
rapidly .  . the cage in front of you will provide much better protection 
than anything else  ( particularly empty  . 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from a . 
subject re shaft drives and 
organization at t 
summary another one bites the dust .  .  .  .  . 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( wayne orwig ) writes 

is it possible to do a on a motorcycle with shaft drive 

no mike .  . it is due to the shaft effect. the effects 
of the rotating shaft counteract any tendency for the front wheel to lift 
off the ground. 

well my last two motorcycles have been shaft driven and they will  . 
the rear gear does climb the ring gear and lift the rear which gives an 
odd feel , but it still  . 

feeding frenzy ! ! ! 

ah ,  tis april in rec . moto . and the newbies are  ! catch all you want , 
we 'll make more ! 

chuck rogers 


from (ed green pixel cruncher ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization sun microsystems , rtp , nc 
lines 14 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host laser . east . sun . com . 

in article , (matt dennie ) writes 

is it a genetic thing with little boys or what even three and four 
year old boys seem attracted to motorcycles of 
any sort  ( often to the dismay of thier mothers ) 

i think you just answered your own question .  .  .  . 


ed green , former i was drinking last night with a biker , 
and i showed him a picture of you. i said , 
dod  ( 919)460 ) go on , get to know her , you 'll like her ! 
(the grateful dead ) it seemed like the least i could do .  .  .  . 


from  ( allen tobias ) 
subject re advantages of slip ons 
nntp posting host hydra . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 56 

in article  ( dave schlotthauer ) writes 
quick question 

what are the advantages of slip on 's versus your stock exhaust versus 
aftermarket exhaust systems i do n't see many people using slip on 's 
but they are heavily advertised and half as expensive. 

thanks ! 
dave 


cost is lower than oem replacements and they weigh less. also , in most 
instances you do not have to the to get a little more 
performance. i replaced my oem canister with an ontario systems slip on. 
the mid range performance is better but i also notice a slight stumble at 
2 3k rpm .  . after talking to , the developer and manufacturer of 
the slip on , he thinks i might need larger pilot , idle , jets .  . was not suppose 
to but maybe where i live makes a difference. altitude , pressure .  .  .  . 
anyway , besides that minor glitch , i like the slip on performance and the sound , 
which is louder than stock , but not loud enough to annoy folks. the ontario 
slip on use some sort of sound baffling technique to reduce the sound at full 
throttle .  . 

just remember , every bike is a tuned system. when you change the intake or 
exhaust characteristics beyond the allowable delta of the manufacturer , you may 
have to change other areas to compensate .  . like a complete change of the exhaust 
system , header and muffler , changes the exhaust characteristic to the point 
which re is required to compensate for the new engine breathing pumping 
profile. 

talk with the folks who make the slip on you intend to use and ask them if 
they have used it on your particular bike. check with people who have the 
system also to see what they think about there slip on. 

also , as a last data point , in sport rider 's first issue , did a review on a 
group of header and exhaust systems for the  . they also included , as a 
side bar , the ontario slip on , the showed an increase from stock of at 
the rear wheel , 85 verses 91 .  . 

buyer beware , of outrageous claimed increases in horse power ! it may have been 
true in the past , but not today ! 

at 



0 0 

1991 
( ) allen tobias technical email ( ) 
( ) convex computer corp. marketing ( ) 
( ) 3000 parkway ( ) 
( ) richardson , tx ( ) 

this bike is awesome and i'm fearless .  . let 's go. jay gleason 


from (mike sixsmith ) 
subject re good reasons to wave at each other 
organization university of east 
lines 10 

(the angel levine ) writes 


has anyone , while driving a cage , ever waved at i get the urge , 
but i 've never actually done it. 

no , but i 've driven my cage to the bike park , thinking i was riding 
the bike .  .  .  .  . 



from  ( tony kidson ) 
subject re back breaker , near hit ! ! 
distribution world 
organization the modem palace 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 24 

in article writes 

bike. luckily the guy stops a foot behind my rear wheel. 

i understand why you theoretically stop so far behind a car but can you 
really in actuality avoid such an incident suggestions 


anybody who drove into somebody like that in this country would hopefully 
lose their licence .  . however , the avoidance is simple. do n't stop behind the 
cage .  . stop beside it , or better still , in front of it , so that it acts as a 
buffer .  . 


tony 



tony pgp 2.2 key by request voice 44 81 466 
morgan towers , the cat has had to move now e  ( mail(in order) 
morgan road , as i 've had to take the top 
bromley , off of the machine. 
england honda dod 


from m. burnham 
subject re advantages of slip ons 
x tue , 27 apr 93 09 38 18 gmt 
nntp posting host 130 . 57 . 72 . 65 . 
organization novell inc. 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d12 . 
lines 17 

in article paul thompson , writes 
it sure would be nice if someone would start making replacements 
for oem exhausts that were would be cheaper but not louder .  .  .  . 

i read about a system called e . a . r . that was supposed to be 
quiet enough to pass some european standards. apparently it 's not 
on the market yet .  .  .  . 

makes a few systems that are supposed to be kind of quiet. 
they are also really light. i'm planning on getting one of these 
systems soon , and will post the results. 

mark 

mark s. burnham ama dod 
alfa romeo 6 '90 ninja 750 


from  ( carl j. santora ) 
subject bmw 2 frame set up for sale .  .  .  . 
organization cleveland state university 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 26 

for sale or trade ! ! ! 

bmw frame and misc. , converted to fork .  . the package includes 

frame , and fork 
final  ( drive(27 8) 
rear fender , front fender , large tank 
steel wheels w ss spokes , one new rim , one ec used rim 
all brackets , brake , etc. 
the colour scheme used is the original bmw optional bristol grey 
items not painted are rigid  ( section(needs straightening , 
this rigid section was bent when i received it , not from 
being mounted to the frame ) , and the 
headlight shell .  . i have the was used and can 
finish the non painted items if desired .  . the 
was done by holt design. 
not included engine , gearbox , electrics , seat. 

this is a clean and project. the project was terminated due to lack of 
time and the  ( r69(35hp ) engine that was to be used was transferred 
to another project. i would prefer to sell the package as whole .  . 
i am negotiable as to what can be included in the package , i will 
not separate any of the painted items. i am willing to take 2 
spares in trade. 

e mail any inquiries .  . thanx .  . carl .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( kyle cassidy ) 
subject re question 
lines 11 
nntp posting host rowan . edu . 
organization rowan college of new jersey 
distribution usa 

in article  ( chris behanna ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( jonathan david fields ) writes 

this is probably a stupid question but as i am new to the motorcycle scene 
i do n't really know anything about it. what is dod 

this has to be a setup. same site as arnie  . 

probably just want to see how many faq 's they 'll get. oh well. here goes .  .  .  .  . 



from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re cobra locks 
organization nec systems laboratory , inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 33 

in article  ( tony jones ) writes 
steve se southwest chicago wrote 
i was posting to alt . about the best methods for securing 
a motorcycle .  . i got several responses referring to the cobra lock 
 ( described below) .  . has anyone come across a store carrying this lock 
in the chicago area 

any other feedback from someone who has used this 

what about the new yamaha 

it is far from new. it 's been around almost as long as dirt .  . 

from the photo in motorcyclist , it looks the same hardened steel as a 
u lock , except it folds in five places. 
it seems to extend out far enough to lock the rear tire to the tube of 
a parking sign or similar. 

anyone had any experience with them , how easy is it to attack the lock 
at the jointed sections 

i had one for one of my old bikes .  . worked fine. i'm sure , being 
rigid and , that the would yield instantly to the freeze 
and break routine. 

but then , for 40 , what do ya want 

later , 

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d wide glide jubilee 's red lady 
1975 baby bike 
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. 

from  ( speedy mercer ) 
subject re need advice for riding with someone on 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 29 
distribution na 
nntp posting host spc . engr . latech . edu . 

in article (craig powderkeg deforest ) writes 
turn dynamics sit so that you feel like you 're sitting upright .  .  .  . 
good advice. 

please , no sudden moves .  .  .  . 
my ol lady taps me on the shoulder to let me know she is 
uncomfortable .  . i , in turn , am prepared for her to move about on the 
back of the bike. 

trust is essential .  . ... 
we had 1 bad crash  ( nail in rear tire on left hand sweeper at crest 
of hill on pavement pea gravel road ) and her actions helped lessen 
the severity of it. as we were crashing , she stayed upright in the 
saddle with her feet on the pegs and her hands about my waist. i was 
able to get the bike slowed down 10 before we were high sided .  . 
she got off with a fair case of road rash and i had to have the doc 
remove a lot of rocks from my knee .  . had she panicked we would have 
probably crashed at greater speed causing greater injury .  . 
btw , as soon at the tire went flat , we went into violent tank 
 . this is what she rode out in a normal riding posture ! 

dod  . speed)  . not .  . student 

stolen  .  .  . 
god is real , unless declared integer .  . 
i came , i saw , i deleted all your files. 
black holes are where god is dividing by zero .  . 
the world will end in 5 minutes. please log out. 
earth is 98 full .  .  .  .  . please delete anyone you can. 

from  ( ramin taraz ) 
subject re '93 wing ding 
organization worcester polytechnic institute , worcester , ma 01609 2280 
lines 13 
nntp posting host bigwpi . wpi . edu . 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 22 22 06 gmt 


on wed , 21 apr 1993 22 22 06 gmt ,  ( derek franks ) said 

franks this is my first post , so no dod . 

would you like to know what dod is if you do , feel free to ask. 


fill up your is today 
tank and 1988 a good day 
go for a ride dod taurus pt to die 



from  ( nick pettefar ) 
subject re what is a squid  ( was re respect ) 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr europe ltd , maidenhead , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 24 

dana h. myers , on the tue , 20 apr 93 19 51 16 gmt 
in article  ( jerry cats ) writes 
in article (michael manning ) writes 

duck .  . squids do n't wave , or return waves ever , even to each 

excuse me for being an , but what are these. 


squids are everybody but me and you. chris behanna is especially a squid .  . 

dana h. myers 

i'm a bmw squid .  . two of my arms are longer , too. 


nick (the bs biker ) dod 1069 concise oxford longer arms 

 . 

nick , 
incarcerated at bnr , o o '86 bmw kay 
maidenhead , the united kingdom .  . o pres.  ( pbwasoh(uk ) , bs 0002 
( 
