from  ( felix the cat ) 
subject med school admission continued .  . 
organization public access unix , nyc 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 42 


hi all , i got several emails and a couple news replies and i guess i 
shoulda went into more detail .  .  .  . being my anxiety level is peaking and you 
folks have no clue who i am i may as well post the specifics and see what 
you people think regarding my previous post. 
to i applied to 20 schools total , 16 of which were md and 4 do. 

as it stands now i have had 13 rejects , 4  ( interviews 2 md and 2 do) , the 
results of which are 2 waiting lists (1 md and one do) 

3 schools i heard nothing from at all. 

i have contacted all institutions other than the rejects and they have no 
info whatsoever to tell me. 

i have taken a good mix to apply to .  .  . 2 3 top schools a bunch of middles 
and a few safety  ( funny that most of my safety schools were the first 
to reject me) 

my index is at like a 3.5 were p9 wq and p9 wr 
i couldnt get the damn reading score up .  .  .  . i never stuff like art 
history , politics etc 

ive done medical research at the undergrad level , done clinical lab work 
for years now , but unfortunately i have no patient contact experience. 

i cant think of what else i left out .  .  .  . but thats the summary .  . what 
percent of people are usually called from the waiting lists on an average 
i felt that my interviews went quite well yet i dont have a firm 
acceptance in my hand .  .  .  . anyone have any suggestions as to calm the 
mailbox anxiety 

if you out there or med students have any questions or comments 
for me feel free to send them down .  .  .  . typing is a form of anti anxiety 
) 



felix the cat 
0 0 the wonderful , wonderful cat ! 
@ 
! 

from 
subject precocious 
organization lamar university beaumont 
lines 17 

am looking for network access to recent research into treatments for 
precocious  . if you know of specifics , would appreciate email. 
i have plenty of general textbook type references. have a niece whose 
daughter is afflicted .  . the mother is an rn and has done a rather 
exhaustive search of printed material. 

pls email suggestions to 


thanx .  . 



dale parish orange , texas is the surface of a planet the 
lamar 's token perpetual student proper place for a developing 
 ( 409)745 )  ( vox)3899 )  ( rec)1581 )  ( dat(2507 ) industrial civilization 


from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re persistent vs chronic 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 39 

in article doyle  ( howard r doyle ) writes 
being a chronic carrier does not necessarily mean the patient has chronic 
persistent anything. persons who are chronic carriers may have no clinical , 
biochemical , or evidence of liver disease , or they may have chronic 
persistent hepatitis , chronic active hepatitis , cirrhosis , or 
 . 

most cases of chronic persistent hepatitis  ( cph ) are probably the result of 
a viral infection , although in a good number of cases the cause cannot be 
determined .  . the diagnosis of is made on the basis of liver biopsy .  . it 
consists of findings of portal inflammation , an intact limiting 
plate , and on occasion isolated foci of necrosis .  . but in contrast 
to chronic active hepatitis  ( cah ) there is no inflammation , 
bridging necrosis , or fibrosis .  . 

has , indeed , an excellent prognosis .  . if i had to choose between and 
there is no question i would also choose  . however , as david pointed 
out , the distinction between the two is not as neat as some of us would have 
it. the histology can sometimes be pretty equivocal , with biopsies showing 
areas compatible with both and  . maybe it is a sampling problem. maybe 
it is a continuum .  . i do n't know. 

darn .  . just when i think i understand something someone who knows the 
pathology has to burst my bubble ( we 'd better not start talking about 
diseases , then i 'll really get depressed .  . 

seriously though , i wonder how someone with would end up getting a 
biopsy in the first place my understanding  ( and feel free to correct me) 
is that the enzymes are at worst mildly elevated , with overall normal 
hepatic function. i would think that the only clue might be a history of 
prior infection and a positive  . or is it indeed on a 
continuum with , and the distinction merely one of pathology and 
prognosis , but otherwise identical clinical features 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host edith 
organization vanderbilt university school of engineering , nashville , tn , usa 
lines 16 

before more bandwidth gets wasted on this 

i apologize for my flame .  . 

first , because i distributed the message to so many newsgroups i did 
not check the of the article i followed up on. 

second , for not making my argument clear enough. i reacted to the tone 
of many of the anti kirlian posts , not to their content. right 
or wrong , i found the arguments set in arrogant and words 
 ( that includes jokes ) , which i still think is unwarranted .  . 

and , obviously , i should not have done the same. 

alex 


from  ( ella i baff ) 
subject is this a scam 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 32 
distribution world 
nntp posting host uclink . berkeley . edu . 

jim haynes wants to know the following is a scam .  .  .  .  . 

there 's a chiropractor who has a stand in the middle of a shopping 
mall , offering free examinations .  . part of the process involves a 
multiple jointed sensor arm and a computer that says in a computer 
sounding voice digitize left digitize right digitize 
c7 please stand with spine in neutral position . i'm wondering 
whether this does n't really measure anything and the computer voice 
is to impress the victims , or whether it is measuring something 
that chiropractors think is useful to measure. 

earth to sci . med .  .  .  . if . it looks like a duck .  .  . and . quacks like a duck .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

this is a total scam .  . since the beginning of , the chiropractor has 
tried to sell the subluxation as the problem and then sell themselves and 
their adjustments as the solution. the chiropractic subluxation is a delusional 
diagnosis and the adjustments of by extension constitute a 
delusional medicine. 

the wide spectrum of chiropractic techniques all have their own methods for 
detecting spinal demons and unique for them. the 
computer approach is an attempt to  sell with science  but this device is 
nothing more than a  high tech  subluxation detector .  .  .  .  . and . in the end .  .  .  . 
amazingly .  .  . it . will show the potential  patient  to suffer from .  .  . vs .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
subluxation .  .  .  . the . silent killer ! 

john , dc , ca 






organization penn state university 
from 
subject re lithium questions , doctor wants my 10 year old on it .  .  .  . 
distribution world 
lines 20 

in article pepper . east . sun . com . , 

i would like to know anything you folks can tell me regarding lithium .  . 

i have a 10 year old son that lives with my ex wife. she has been having 
difficulty with his behavior and has had him on , tofranil , and now 
wants to try at the local doctors suggestion. i would like to 
know whatever is important that i should know. i worry about this sort of 
thing and would like pros cons regarding lithium therapy. 

i have a booklet from the lithium information center based at the 
university of wisconsin , but feel that it is pro lithium and would be 
interested in comments from the not necessarily pro side of the fence .  . 

i am a concerned father and just wish to be well informed .  .  .  . 

i get about posts like this. is the concern more for son or about ex w 
the standard impartial procedure is to ask for a second opinion 
about son 's condition. 
then too , is son acting out games between divorced parents 

from doyle  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re persistent vs chronic 
organization pittsburgh transplant institute 
lines 31 

in article (kenneth gilbert ) writes 


seriously though , i wonder how someone with would end up getting a 
biopsy in the first place my understanding  ( and feel free to correct me) 
is that the enzymes are at worst mildly elevated , with overall normal 
hepatic function. i would think that the only clue might be a history of 
prior infection and a positive  . or is it indeed on a 
continuum with , and the distinction merely one of pathology and 
prognosis , but otherwise identical clinical features 



chronic persistent hepatitis is usually diagnosed when someone does a liver 
biopsy on a patient that has persistently elevated serum months 
after a bout of acute viral hepatitis , or when someone is found to have 
persistently elevated on routine screening tests. the degree of 
elevation  ( in the serum transaminases ) can be trivial , or as much as ten times 
normal. other blood are usually normal. 
as a rule , patients with have no clinical signs of liver disease. 
chronic active hepatitis can also be or minimally symptomatic , at 
least initially , and that 's why it 's important to tell them apart by means of 
a biopsy .  . the patient with only needs to be  . the patient with 
needs to be treated .  . 



howard doyle 
doyle 



from  ( melissa n. matusevich ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 5 

speaking of educational systems , i recently had a colleague 
tell me that the reason one of our fifth grade students is so 
physically developed is because she was sexually abused as a younger 
child. this , she went on to say , kicks the pituitary gland into 
action and causes  . 

from  ( daniel prince ) 
subject re placebo effects 
lines 12 

to  ( russell turpin ) 

rt o those administering the treatment do not know which subjects 
rt receive a placebo or the test treatment. 

it seems to me that many drugs have such severe side effects that 
it might not be possible to keep the doctors from knowing who is 
getting the true drug .  . this is especially true of the drugs used 
for mental illnesses .  . 

... my cat is very smart. he has me well trained .  . 
origin one world los angeles 310 372 0987 32b (1 102 129 . 0) . 

from  ( grant edwards ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host aquarius 
reply to  ( grant edwards ) 
organization rosemount , inc. 
lines 16 

writes 

as you know all ready , it is the pattern in the energy 
field that is significant .  . 

no , i did n't already know that. i 've never even heard of a 
energy field. care to explain it it 's been a few years 
since my last fields class so i may have forgotten  ( or maybe i skipped 
that day) .  . anyway , as ross perot said , i'm all ears. well , eyes in 
this case. 


grant edwards yow ! is something violent 
rosemount inc. going to happen to a garbage 
can 


from randy 
subject urine analysis 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma .  . 
lines 36 
nntp posting host m72 . eng . stratus . com . 





someone please help me. i am searching to find out  ( as many others may ) 
an absolute  cure  to removing all detectable traces of marijuana from 
a persons body. is there a chemical or natural substance that can be 
ingested or added to urine to make it undetectable in urine analysis. 
if so where can these substances be found. 

if you know this information , please email me directly 

thank you kindly for your support , 


randy 





















from 
subject re opinions on allergy  ( hay fever ) shots 
reply to () 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 9 


i have just started taking allergy shots a month ago and is 
still wondering what i am getting into. a friend of mine told 
me that the body change every 7 years  ( whatever that means) 
and i do n't need those building allergy shots at all. 
does that make sense to anyone 

btw , can someone summarize what is in the consumer report 
february , 1988 article 

from (john werner ) 
subject re help with antidepressants requested .  . 
organization uc berkeley school of education 
lines 39 
distribution world 
nntp posting host soe . berkeley . edu . 

in article , 
 ( gordon taylor ) wrote 

the prozac gave very bad anxiety and , it was impossible to 
sit still for more than a minute or so. 

i tried prozac a few months ago , and had some insomnia from it , but no 
anxiety or  . i probably could have lived with the insomnia if the 
prozac had done any good , but it only provided a tiny benefit .  . maybe 
because the person who prescribed it did n't know much and gave up after a 
20mg dose did n't work. 

now i'm seeing a psychiatrist who has put me on zoloft  ( another 
inhibitor like  . one pill day  ( 50mg ) seemed to help some. 
now i'm trying 100mg day. zoloft has fewer and side effects than 
prozac .  . i think my doctor said that only 4 of the people taking zoloft 
have to discontinue it because of side effects. the only problem i'm 
having is some minor gi distress , but nothing too annoying. hopefully the 
zoloft will work. maybe your friend should try this one next. 

my psychiatrist 's strategy seems to be to first try one of the 
drugs , usually prozac .  . if that works , great. if it works but has too many 
side effects , try zoloft or maybe paxil .  . if the drugs do n't work 
at all , try one of the like  . 

 .  .  . suggestions . as to the next step 

having a doctor who knows something about antidepressants can make a big 
difference. my psychiatrist claims that most gps and fps do n't have much 
experience in this area , and from what i 've seen i'm inclined to believe 
him. i think i know more about antidepressants than the people at my 
family practitioner 's office. 

disclaimer i'm not a doctor what i know about this comes from talking to 
my psychiatrist and reading sci . med .  . 


john werner 
uc berkeley school of education 510 596 5868 

from  ( anastasia defend ) 
subject physical therapy students 
nntp posting host camelot . bradley . edu . 
organization bradley university 
lines 13 



i am interested in finding other physical therapy students on the 
net .  .  . if . you are one , or you know anyone could you get into contact 
with me via email , my address is 




thankyou 




from  ( christopher j. henrich ) 
subject re photography 
lines 32 
organization concurrent computer corp. , falls , nj 
lines 31 

in article (e . a .  . story) writes 
in article writes 
greg flame definitely intended here. bill was making fun of the misspelling .  . 
go look up the word krill .  . also , the correct spelling is kirlian .  . it 
involves taking photographs of corona discharges created by attaching the 
subject to a high voltage source , not of some aura .  . it works equally well 
with inanimate objects .  . 

true .  .  . but what about showing the missing part of a leaf is this 
corona discharge 

i think i can explain the missing part of a leaf story. 

i have actually seen a reproduction of that particular kirlian 
photograph , in a book compiled by people who were enthusiasts of 
kirlian photography. that particular photograph ... that 's 
right , the effect has been observed only once. even the writers of 
the book were inclined to disbelieve in it. 

i conjecture that the maker of that photograph began by placing 
a whole leaf between two plates and taking its kirlian photo .  . 
for his next experiment , he cut the leaf in half , put one half down 
between the same two plates , and took another k. p. the 
missing half effect was created by water , oils , etc. left behind 
after the first photo .  . 

this explanation must be tentative , because after all i was n't there 
when it happened. 

regards , 
chris 

from  ( picl account 25) 
subject re cats and pregnancy 
organization florida state university school of higher thought 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
reply to 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( klaus  ( 6663 ) writes .  .  .  . 
i heard that a certain disease  ( toxoplasmosys ) is transmitted by cats which 
can harm the unborn fetus .  . does anybody know about it is it a problem to 
have a cat in the same apartment 

the disease you are talking about is toxoplasmosis .  . it is a that 
lives and multiplies within cells. in cats , the multiplies in the 
intestinal cells and eggs are shed in the cat 's feces .  . the can 
cross the to infect the fetus .  . the disease may be 
after the baby is born , or it may be very severe .  . may cause blindness 
and mental retardation .  . 

having a cat in the same apartment should not be a problem however , pregnant 
women should not scoop or change the cat 's  . in addition , whoever 
does empty the should thoroughly wash his her hands before handling 
anything else , especially food. 

information came from the manual , 15th ed. 

i hope this information is helpful to you. 

elisa 



from  ( picl account 25) 
subject re what 's a bone scan 
organization florida state university school of higher thought 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
reply to 
lines 42 

in article ,  ( cindy windham ) writes .  .  .  . 
my mother has been advised to have a bone scan performed what is this 
procedure for , and is it painful she 's been having leg and back pain 
which her gp said was  . her oncologist listened to her symptoms 
and said that it did n't sound like , and she should get a bone 
scan .  . 

do i assume correctly from the above aricle that your mother has a 
of cancer i was just , since you mentioned she has an 
oncologist .  . 

a bone scan is a nuclear scan .  . the scan is a 
dose of a radioactive tracer , and an imaging device is used to track the 
distribution of the tracer the body. the tracer is usually given 
intravenously .  .  ( iv ) this means that the physician or his assistant will 
insert a needle into a vein and inject medicine into the vein .  . 

after a few minutes has passed for the tracer to circulate through the 
body , the person is scanned with an imaging device to detect high 
concentrations of the tracer .  . the radiologist or doctor is looking for 
areas that take up more of the radioactive tracer or less of it. 

as far as pain , the only pain comes from the needle stick that is required 
to start the iv line. 

what the doctor is probably looking for are changes in the bones that may 
have resulted from cancer. this is also why i was wondering if your mother 
has had cancer , since cancer can spread from one site and wind up in the 
skeletal system. 

i hope i have answered some of your questions. feel free to e mail me if 
you have more questions related to the bone scan or anything else related 
to your mother 's care. i'm a newly graduated nurse , and i enjoy sharing 
information with other people to help them understand things that they did 
not know about before. 

my thoughts are with you both. 

elisa b. hanson 
the chief function of the body is to carry the head around. 
albert einstein 


from (george kimeldorf ) 
subject re opinions on allergy  ( hay fever ) shots 
nntp posting host heath . utdallas . edu . 
organization univ. of texas at dallas 
lines 20 

in article  ( eric ) writes 

i am interested in trying this desensitization ( ) method 
against hay fever .  . 
what is the state of affairs about this. i went to a doctor and 
paid 85 for a 10 minute interview 3 scratches , leading to the 
diagnostic that i am allergic to  ( june and timothy ) grass .  . 
i believe this. from now on it looks like 2 shots per week for 
6 months followed by 1 shot per month or so. each shot costs 
20. talking about soaring costs and the health care system , i would 
call that a racket .  . we are not talking about rare amazonian grasses 
here , but the garbage which grows behind the doctor 's office. 
apart from this issue , i was somewhat disappointed to find out 
that you have to keep getting the shots forever. is that right 
thanks for information. 


go to your public library and get the february , 1988 issue of consumer 
reports. an article on allergy shots begins on page 96 .  . this article 
is must reading for anyone contemplating allergy shots. 

from  ( gary taylor ) 
subject umbilical hernia 
organization wits university electrical engineering 
lines 9 

could anyone give me information on umbilical  . 
the patient is over weight and has a protruding hernia .  . 

surgery may be risky due to the obesity .  . 
what other remedies could i try 

thanx in advance 

dr. gary taylor 

from  ( chip dunham ) 
subject re use of haldol in elderly 
reply to 
organization university of albany , suny 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( will estes ) writes 
does anyone know of research done on the use of haldol in the elderly does 
short term use of the drug ever produce long term side effects after 
the use of the drug my grandmother recently had to be hospitalized 
and was given large doses of haldol for several weeks. although the 
drug has been terminated , she has changed from a , slightly 
senile woman into a virtual vegetable who does not talk to anyone 
and who cannot even eat or brush her teeth without assistance. it 
seems incredible to me that such changes could take place in the 
course of just one and one half months. i have to believe that the 
combination of the hospital stay and some  ( drug(s ) are in part 
for this. any comments 


will estes internet 

haldol , one of the wonder drugs that works wonders .  . if you 're a carrot that 
is. 

henry dunham  ( chip ) emt d , 
coordinator of ems operations 
houston field house ems 



from 
subject vitamin a and infection 
lines 217 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

i 've sent gordon r. my posts on protein , vitamin c and vitamin a prior to 
posting on internet as a professional courtesy .  . somehow i 've managed to 
delete my vitamin a post from my text file. gordon r. had promised to send 
it back to me but he 's pretty mad at me right now so i 'll just it. 
since digging through all my references is very time  ( consuming(took me all 
day for that pms post) , i'm not going to cite any  ( references(gordon r. has 
them) .  . i'm going to include some of the material from and 
morgan 's new nutrition  ( textbook(which was not in my original material) to 
point out that what i'm going to say has some support in the medical 
community. 

diet has been know to affect the immune system of man for a very , very long 
time. protein has always had the biggest role in infection and i 've 
already covered the role of protein in protecting you against infection .  . 
now i'm going to hit what i consider to be the most important nutrient in 
the u.s. as far as infection is  ( concerned(vitamin a) .  . 

when vitamin a was originally discovered , it was commonly referred to as 
the anti infection vitamin .  . many  ( people(linus being one) have 
decided to take this title away from vitamin a and give it to vitamin c 
(which i 've already  . big  ( mistake(in my opinion) .  . vitamin a is 
also getting a reputation as an anti cancer  ( vitamin(with good  . 
the nci currently has numerous clinical trials in progress to see if 
vitamin a can not only prevent cancer but cure it as well. it 's role in 
both cancer and infection is almost  ( identical(but not  . 

vitamin a comes in two completely different  ( forms(retinol and 
beta  . is the animal form and it 's toxic , beta carotene 
is the plant form and it 's completely nontoxic .  . both and beta 
carotene display good absorption in the human gut if bile is present 
 ( 60 80 ) .  . the liver stores all of your and it out for other 
tissues to use by binding  . a normal human 
adult liver should have 500 , to 1 , 000 , of stored .  . we 
are born with 10 , in our liver .  . u.s. autopsy has shown that about 
30 of americans die with the  ( same(or less) amount of vitamin a as they 
were born with. if you do n't believe that nutritional  ( reserves(like that 
of in the liver ) are important , then this low vitamin a reserve is 
not going to affect you. but if you  ( believe(like i do) that the nutrient 
reserves are important , then there is a problem with vitamin a in the u.s. 

the u.s. rda for vitamin a in an adult male is 1 , 000 re or 5 , of 
vitamin a. for adult its 800 re or 4 , of vitamin a. diet 
surveys show that most americans are getting this amount of vitamin a 
 ( either or beta carotene ) from their diet. but the  ( nrc(national 
research council ) was going to release a new rda table in 1985 that had the 
rda for both vitamin a and vitamin c  ( raised(c to per day and a to 
7 , per day for adult  . that report and it 's recommendations was 
killed. why concern over the increasing supplementation was the main 
reason. are set to prevent clinical disease , not to keep nutrient 
reserves full. many scientist in the u.s. feel that the time has come to 
move away from the prevention of clinical pathology concept and move 
towards the promotion of optimum health concept , especially since we have 
some very good data now that show that nutrient reserves are extremely 
important during periods of stress. the won that 
battle and a new group of scientist were collected to come out with the 
1989 rda list which lowered the rda for several nutrients and moved the 
dietary guidelines back to where they were when we first started in the 
1940  ( 's(get enough to prevent clinical pathology , but not enough to fill 
the  . 

we know from autopsy that only about 10 of americans have a liver with a 
normal vitamin a  ( reserve(500 , to 1 , 000 ,  . i preach nutrient 
reserves to my students and tell them to measure them in their patients .  . 
but for vitamin a , only a liver  ( biopsy(or autopsy data) will tell you how 
much somebody has stored .  . we can tell very easily if someone has 
his or her liver with vitamin a by measuring the 
 ( level(levels above dl are highly suggestive that you have filled your 
liver with vitamin a and it 's time to stop taking  . the normal 
range of serum will be 20 dl .  . a is 
diagnosed with a serum level of 2 , dl or  ( higher(interpretation 
of diagnostic test , wallach , m.d. , a little brown series book) .  . this level 
of vitamin a in blood means that medical attention is necessary due to 
vitamin a toxicity .  . and morgan take a much more conservative 
approach to vitamin a toxicity than does wallach , as you will see later in 
this post. between dl and 2 , dl you should have plenty 
of warning that it 's time to eliminate the from your  ( diet(headache , 
of the skin , hair loss , joint  . 

i tell all my students that will use vitamin a in their practice that they 
had better monitor the serum level and stop when there are clear 
signs that the liver is full. you will never really know if the patient 
needs the vitamin  ( a(because you can not measure the pool in liver ) but you 
will always know when it 's time to  ( stop(just like in those vitamin a for 
pms studies) .  . 

beta carotene can be taken to fill up your liver with and you will 
never have to worry about toxicity because the conversion of beta carotene to 
that occurs in both your gut and your liver will slow  ( down(stops in the 
liver and slows down in the gut) when your liver is full of  . but 
taking beta carotene as the source of takes a very long time to 
fill the liver  ( up(i 've seen estimates of 20 30 years) if you are in the 30 
that only has as much as you were born with in your  ( liver(10 ,  . one 
other problem with beta carotene , if you have a zinc deficit , you will not 
convert as much beta carotene to in the gut or the liver because the 
that does this conversion requires zinc .  . in addition , the release of 
from the liver is a zinc dependent process so a zinc deficit will 
cause a vitamin a deficit even if your liver has plenty of vitamin a. 

now what does vitamin a do in cancer and infection protection the body 
uses vitamin  ( a(retinol ) for many different things.  ( vision(the first to be 
nailed down and where you see overt clinical pathology ) uses the 
 ( retinal ) and  ( alcohol(retinol ) form of vitamin a. reproduction uses the 
form and some retinal .  . infection and cancer protection uses 
acid .  . how do you convert  ( retinol(which your white blood cells 
and the mucosal cells get from blood) to acid you use enzymes , 
one of which requires vitamin  ( c(this is why has tried to pull the 
title of anti infection vitamin away from vitamin a) .  . vitamin c does play 
a role in  ( infection(interferon production for example) but it 's biggest role 
is the conversion of to acid .  . if you increase your intake 
of vitamin c , you will increase your formation of acid .  . but 
acid can not be converted back to  ( retinol(as retinal can) and once 
it 's formed , it 's used and then lost to the body. this is why the 1985 nrc 
group wanted to increase both vitamin c and vitamin a rda 's .  . 

most people taking large amounts of vitamin c really think that they are 
helping themselves. if they do n't have much vitamin a in their liver and 
they are not also increasing their intake of vitamin a , they actually do 
themselves more harm than good. 

acid functions in white blood cells to promote formation .  . 
in the mucus membrane , it is the main factor in promoting good mucus 
production and a good cell barrier to prevent infectious agents from 
entering the blood system. the mucus membrane is referred to as the first 
line defense against infection .  . for cancer , acid has been shown 
to act as a cell  ( brake(it the effect of cell which 
stimulate cells to  . cancer has two distinct steps , dna alteration 
and cell promotion .  . for cells that normally divide all the time , 
are not that important. but for lung and breast tissue which does not 
normally divide , are real important in the process. 
this is the major reason why the nci has so many different clinical trials 
in progress using and or beta carotene .  . 

chronic  ( infection(irritation ) of the mucus membranes is a signal that 
vitamin a may not be adequate .  . i tell my students that any patient who 
walks into their office with a complaint of chronic infection has to be 
worked up for vitamin  ( a(along with the other factors that medicine already 
has on it 's list of causes for chronic infection) .  . i drive this home in my 
course at the osteopathic college in tulsa , when i teach at the 
medical school in  ( tulsa(ou 's branch campus) and when i give cme lectures .  . 

dark adaptation is the best clinical test for vitamin a status since night 
vision is impacted when liver drop to 50 , of  . the 
serum level of can also be used , but it does not drop until liver 
reserves drop below 10 , 000 to 20 ,  . asking a patient if they have 
trouble seeing at night is a good initial  ( screen(if are ruled 
out) .  . in one study done on u.s. spanish americans where serum levels 
were measured , 25 of the sample population had a serum level below 
dl .  . 

as more studies are done on serum levels in population groups of 
the u.s. that have had a history of high infection rates , we will probably 
see a much correlation between infection incidence rates and low 
serum levels. 

what do and morgan have to say about vitamin a here are excerpts 
from their book 

vitamin a functions in vision in the of , it is for 
growth and of tissue , and is required for 
reproduction , development , and bone growth .  . protein 
malnutrition and zinc deficiency may impair the absorption , transport , and 
metabolism of vitamin a. is converted to acid , 
which has biological activity in growth and in cell but not 
in reproduction or vision .  . the most common procedure to evaluate vitamin a 
status is to measure the level in plasma or serum .  . the normal 
range for vitamin a content for a child is 20 to dl .  . lower values are 
indicators of deficiency or body stores. serum levels greater 
than dl are indicative of toxic levels of vitamin a. dark adaptation 
tests and measurements are also useful but difficult to 
perform on young children. rapidly tissues are sensitive to 
vitamin a deficiency and may revert to an undifferentiated state. the 
tract , skin , system , gastrointestinal 
tract and sweat glands are adversely affected .  . a daily intake of more than 
7 . 37 , 000iu ) of is not advised and chronic use of amounts 
over  ( 20mg(100 , 000iu ) can result in a dry and itching skin , , 
, hair loss , joint pain , lips , 
 ( bony depositis ) , headaches , , and fatigue .  . 

they recommend 30mg of via im injection in children for vitamin a 
deficiency but do not discuss treatment for adults. their toxic serum 
level is very conservative .  . i recommend that my students try 25 , in 
adults that are having problems with chronic infection .  . they have to rule 
out a zinc deficit first by getting an zinc  ( run(or if their clinical 
lab ca n't run it , i tell them to do what and morgan suggest , give 
them the zinc along with the vitamin a. at 25 , per day , toxicity 
should not be a problem and you will not have to worry about pulling the 
patient into the office on a regular basis to run a serum  . 

both elaine and jon found doctors who used a much higher dose of vitamin a. 
recall that the pms papers were using 100 , to 200 , of vitamin a. 
i do n't suggest that my students use these high doses .  . if you wanted to 
fill the liver up  ( fast(as part of a clinical trial ) and were monitoring the 
serum level , then you would be okay. but my knowledge of the 
vitamin a literature suggests to me that 25 , for patients with a 
demonstrated vitamin a  ( deficit(dark test or serum retinol ) will 
provide a good and steady  ( improvement(as long as zinc and vitamin c status 
are good) without having to worry about toxicity .  . if they want to get more 
agressive , fine if they follow my advise to check the serum  . but 
vitamin  ( a(retinol ) should never be given in high dose to women who could 
become pregnant since vitamin a shows towards the human 
fetus .  . the dose needed to show this effect on the developing fetus is 
18 , of per day. beta carotene will never have this effect on 
the human fetus .  . 

could just taking beta carotene instead of supplements help yes 
but the effect will take a long time to develop .  . my advise is to use 
to fill the liver up and then switch to beta carotene to keep it 
full. vitamin a is probably one nutrient that is better off left to 
prescription by doctors .  . but when we have the m.d. 's in this newsgroup 
jumping all over me and other doctors that propose the use of vitamin a 
supplements for treating patients with chronic sinus and gi distress , i 
think that the most prudent option is to keep vitamin a in the otc market 
but require to provide package inserts to educate the general 
public about the dangers of vitamin a supplementation .  . 

marty b. 


from  ( thomas lapp ) 
subject re nose picking 
organization , newark , de , u.s.a. 
lines 22 

(stephen montgomery smith) writes 
1) does it cause the body any harm if one picks one 's nose for example , 
might it lead to a loss of ability to smell 

2) is it harmful for one to eat one 's nose 

i 've seen children do this and wondered about something. if the 
mucus in one 's nose collects  ( filters ) particles going into the 
, if a child then picks and ingests this material , might 
it have a effect , since if the body ingests airborne 
diseases or other  stuff  on the mucus , the body might generate 
antibodies for this small invasion 

maybe this is why some children do n't get sick very often ) 
tom 

internet ! or thomas  ( home ) 
 ( work ) 
osi c us a mci s lapp d id 
uucp ucbvax , , uunet ! udel ! ! thomas 
location newark , de , usa 


from  ( prakash das ) 
subject re is msg sensitivity superstition 
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh 
lines 20 

in article  ( julie kangas ) writes 

i get tired of people saying  do n't eat x because 
it 's bad ! ' well , x may not be bad for everyone. and even if 
it is , so what give people all the information but do n't ram 
your decisions down their throats .  . 


it is evident you did not read my post carefully .  . i was n't 
trying to tell you not to eat msg products and produce , nor was i 
arguing for or against msg .  . i was simply questioning the logic of 
your statement that simply because 
(a) one is not allergic to something , and 
(b) likes eating that 
it follows that one could keep eating whatever it is. 
in my post , i had clearly said that i do n't know enough about msg .  . 
the statement do n't eat x because its bad is just your 
interpretation of nutritional info out there. 

prakash das 

from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re deficiency 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 18 

 ( andrea bruno ) writes 


in article 
 ( eileen bauer ) writes 
controls energy production which explains , , 
and weight gain .  . there is also water retention  ( possibly around heart) , 
changes in vision , and hair and skin among other things. 

is there any relation between thyroid deficiency and depression 


there can be. but depression is not of thyroid deficiency .  . 
thyroid blood tests are easy , cheap , and effective in diagnosing thyroid 
deficiencies .  . 

jackie 


from (david rind ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization beth israel hospital , harvard medical school , boston mass. , usa 
lines 18 
nntp posting host enterprise . bih . harvard . edu . 

in article 
writes 
i do n't like the term quack being applied to a licensed physician david .  . 
questionable conduct is more appropriately called  ( unethical(in my opinion) .  . 

3. using to treat cancer patients when such treatment has 
been shown to be ineffective and  ( dangerous(cyanide release) by 
the nci .  . 

hmm .  . this is certainly among the things i would refer to as quack 
therapy and would tend to refer to any practitioner who prescribed 
laetrile  ( whether licensed or not) as a quack .  . there are unethical 
behaviors  ( such as ordering unneccessary tests to increase fees ) 
which i would not as , but prescribing known ineffective 
therapies seems to me to be one of the hallmarks of a quack .  . 

david rind 


from  ( renee linda roberts ) 
subject muscle spasms post surgically 
organization the portal system (tm) 
distribution world 
lines 18 

i had ankle reconstruction  ( grafting the 
to the lateral side of the ankle , along with a video 
of the ankle  ( interesting to watch , to say the 
least) .  . since then , i have had periodic muscle spasms (not 
, but twitching that is very fast) in some of the 
muscle groups along the lateral side , and along the top of 
my foot. 

tx with sulfate produced ringing in my ears , but did 
help with the spasms .  . 

i am on now , but no discernable help with the spasms .  . 

any ideas 

one thing i am in a short leg cast , so heat is not the answer. 

roberts 

from  ( rich haller ) 
subject hearing aid theory as i understand it 
organization university of oregon 
lines 41 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . uoregon . edu . 

the following is based on copies i was given of some articles published in 
hearing instruments .  . i would appreciate any comments about this and other 
 new  technology for hearing aids .  . 

the system was developed on the basis of some research at at t and 
appears to take a different approach from other aids .  . it appears to me that 
a new  programmable  aid like the just uses a more flexible  ( and 
programmable ) version of the classical approach of amplifying some parts of 
the spectrum more than others and adding some compression to try and help 
out in 'noisy' situations. 

the major difference in the approach is that it divides the 
spectrum into low and high frequencies  ( splitting point is programmable ) , 
apparently based on the fact that lots of vowel information can be found in 
the low frequencies , while the important consonant information 
(unfortunately for me) is in the high frequencies .  . the two bands then are 
treated with different compression schemes which are  . they have 
also developed a new fitting algorythm that builds on what they call 
 abnormal growth of  . 

this latter is interesting and fits my own personal experience , though i 
think the phrase is  . what appears to be the case is that as you 
exceed the minimum threshold for a person with hearing loss , the deficit 
becomes less compared to normals and by the time you reach 
the  too loud  point the sensitivity curves appear to converge .  . this means 
that if you just boost all sound levels , you are overloading at the high 
end for people with hearing losses .  . hence what you want is progressively 
less amplification as the signal get closer to the maximum tolerable point. 
you want to boost low volume sounds more than high and do so potentially 
differently for the low and high frequency parts of the spectrum  ( specially 
for someone like me who is relatively normal up to 1000 cps and then falls 
off a  . 

aids with simple compressors do n't between energy in the low 
and high frequencies and can therefor  compress  useful high frequency 
information because of high volume of low frequency components .  . 
particularly impressive was the performance with whispered speech 
and in simulated restaurant noise situations. 

rich haller university of oregon , eugene , or , 
usa 

from (scott ballantyne ) 
subject re 's antineoplastons 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 22 16 24 est 
lines 44 
organization research 

in article  ( josh schwimmer ) writes 

any opinions on 's antineoplastons or information about the current 
status of his research would be appreciated. 

's work is not too promising .  . none of his a 1 through a 5 
antineoplastons have been shown to have effects against 
experimental cancer. the nci conducted tests of a 2 and a 5 against 
leukemia in mice , with the result that doses high enough to produce 
toxic effects in the mice were not effective in the growth 
of the tumor or killing it.  ( these were in 1983 and 1985) 

claims that a 10 is the active factor common to all of a 1 
and a 5  ( something which he has not shown , a 10 has only been 
extracted from a 2. he also has n't shown that a 1 through a 5 are actually 
distinct substances) .  . the nci conducted a series of tests using a 10 
against a standard panel of tumors that included different cell lines 
from tumors in the following classes leukemia , non small cell and 
small cell lung cancer , colon cancer , cancer of the central nervous 
system , melanoma , ovarian cancer and renal cancer. a 10 exhibited 
neither growth nor at the dose levels tested .  . 

it is necessary to process a 10 since it is not soluble  ( burzynski 's 
theory requires soluble agents ) , but this basically it to 
(which he calls as 2 . 5) .  . is not an information carrying 
, something which claims is necessary for 
activity. as 2.1  ( also derived from a 10) is a 4 1 
mixture of pa and  . pa  ( also not a peptide ) can be purchased at a 
chemical supply houses for about 0.09 a gram .  . a 10 is chemically 
extremely similar to and , both of which are 
habit forming and can cause peripheral  . the nasty effects 
of are widely known. in spite of this similarity , a 10 
does not appear to have been tested for it 's potential to induce 
or peripheral  . 

many of 's statements about the origin of his theory , early 
research , past and present support by others for his work have been 
shown to be untrue .  . 


sdb 




from (david rind ) 
subject re quack quack  ( was re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction ) 
organization beth israel hospital , harvard medical school , boston mass. , usa 
lines 44 
nntp posting host enterprise . bih . harvard . edu . 

in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
in article (david rind ) writes 

do you believe that any quacks exist how about quack diagnoses is 
being a licensed physician enough to guarantee that someone is not 
a quack , or is it just that even if a licensed physician is a quack , 
other people should n't say so 

i would say there are also significant numbers of unscrupulous doctors  ( of 
the squeaky clean , traditional crew cut , talk to the ama before starting 
any treatment , kind) 

umm , were n't you the one objecting to someone who is a licensed 
physician being called a quack or is it just that being a licensed 
physician is a good defense against charges of quackery when the 
physician agrees with your system of beliefs 

lately i 've seen the word quack bandied about recklessly .  . 

actually , i almost never use the term quack .  . when i discuss 
systemic yeast syndrome , however , i always point out that 
mainstream medicine views this as a quack diagnosis  ( and i agree 
with that  . 

let me put it another way to make my point clear quack is a nebulous word 
lacking in any precision .  . 

really i bet virtually everyone reading these posts understands what 
steve dyer , gordon banks , and i am implying when we have talked about 
systemic yeast syndrome as a quack diagnosis .  . would you prefer the 
word charlatan (i do n't happen to think that all quacks are 
charlatans since i suspect that some believe in the diseases they 
are diagnosing . ) . 

(p . s .  . , may i suggest seriously that if the doctors and wanna be doctors on 
the net who refuse to have an open mind on alternative treatments and 
theories , such as the yeast theory , should create your own moderated group. 

why is there some reason why you feel that it should n't be pointed out 
in sci . med . that there is no convincing empirical evidence to support the 
existence of systemic yeast syndrome 

david rind 


from  ( janice price) 
subject any credence to it 
lines 5 


i saw a printed up flyer that stated the person was a 
licensed and 
what are your opinions 
how much can you tell about a person 's health by looking into their eyes 

from  ( bob mcqueer ) 
subject re 
lines 34 

in , 
dated 29 apr 93 15 43 10 gmt , 
 ( leon traister ) writes 
(stephen montgomery smith) writes 

what is the healthiest way to deal with should one just leave 
it in your ear and not mess with it , or should you clean it out 
every so often can cleaning it out damage your 
are there any tubes in your ear that might get blocked 

assuming that the wax is causing hearing loss , congestion or popping 
in the ears , you can try some cautious water irrigation with a 
bulb syringe , but it is awkward to do for oneself and may not work or 
may even make things worse.  ( my wife would disagree , she does it 
successfully every six months or so . ) . in any case do not attempt 
anything with q tips ! ! ! 

i 'll agree with your wife. while i was a student , i had doctors remove 
rather surprising amounts of wax from my ears by flushing them out a couple 
times , usually because they were examining my ears for some other reason , and 
said something like gee , you 've got a lot of wax in there . in my case , 
removal of these large wax did noticeably improve my hearing , and 
i 've since gotten in the same habit as your wife of flushing them out with 
warm water from a little rubber bulb every few months. you can buy little 
bulbs together with ear drops for this express purpose from the drug store 
i do n't notice that the drops accomplish much of anything. 

one question i do have a doctor who flushed out my ears once also advocated 
a drop of rubbing alcohol in them afterwards to flush out any remaining 
trapped water said he told swimmers to do this after swimming , too. it 
works , but it stings like the devil , so i 've always been content to let any 
water in my ears from swimming or flushing them out figure out how to get 
out by itself if shaking my head a few times wo n't do the trick. any 
comments 

from  ( infospunj  ( dan field ) 
subject re please , help a patient ! ! ! 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 27 

in article writes 
mail 
subject please , help ! ! ! 
dear ladies and gentlemen ! 
we should be grateful for any information about address and  ( or ) 
e mail address of linda hospital  ( approximate position usa , 
california , near town , 60 miles from los  . 
a patient needs consultation in this clinics before operation. 
with respect , igor v. 
quit 

this is also being replied to via e mail. i dialed my university 
librarian , and he looked it up 

linda university medical center 
linda , ca 

i do n't know an internet address for them , but they can be reached by 
telephone at (714) 824 4300 .  . 

good luck. 


daniel r. field , aka infospunj never believe any experiment until 
it has been confirmed by theory. 
biochemistry , biotechnology arthur 
california polytechnic state u tongue in cheek or foot in mouth 

from  ( kiran wagle ) 
subject re is msg sensitivity superstition 
organization the syllabub sea 
lines 26 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

i wrote 
kw if you do n't like additives , then for , 
kw get off the net and learn to cook from scratch .  . sheesh .  . 

mary allison 
ma excuse me ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
ma why ca n't people learn to cook from scratch on the net. 
ma i 've gotten lots of recipes off the net that do n't use additives .  . 

because one simply ca n't cook on the net , nor can one cook while on the 
net. cooking is best done in a kitchen , on a stove .  .  ( gotcha ! grin ) 

(i said this out of general frustration at people (not anyone in particular) 
who seem to expect packaged food to conform to their tastes .  . in other 
words , if packaged foods are not to your liking , prepare foods that are . ) . 

ma if you like additives then get off the net and go to your local 
ma supermarket , buy lots of packaged foods , and you get off the net ! ! 

i do n't have strong feelings about additives , as long as i ca n't taste 'em .  . 

 ( as for the rest of your reply to me , i am sorry it it seemed as if i was 
picking on you. i was n't trying to do so. please accept my apologies . ) . 

kiran 


from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
keywords pregnency sex 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 22 

in article  ( jennifer scheiber ) writes 
in article (kenneth gilbert ) writes 
sounds to me like someone was pulling your leg. there is only one way for 
pregnancy to occur intercourse .  . these days however there is also 
artificial insemination and implantation techniques , but we 're speaking of 
natural acts here. it is possible for pregnancy to occur if semen is 
deposited just outside of the vagina (i . e .  . interruptus ) , but that 's 
about at far as you can get. through clothes no way. better go talk 
to your biology teacher. 

what is the likely hood of conception if sperm is deposited just outside 
the vagina ie. chance. 


hmmm .  .  .  .  . i really do n't know. probably quite low overall. why do n't we 
get a couple hundred willing couples together and find out 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from 
subject re sinus surgery 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 39 

in article , (george kimeldorf ) writes 
in article  ( jay keller ) writes 

(i 've already heard from a couple who said they had it and it did n't 
really help them) .  . 

i am a moderately severe  . ent doc says large percentage see some 
relief of their asthma after sinus surgery. also he said it is not unheard of 
that migraines go away after sinusitis is relieved .  . 



did your ent also tell you that this procedure may remove warts from the soles 
of your feet and improve your sex life 



you probably were trying to be facetious but just for the record partial nasal 
obstruction is correlated with a number of chronic disorders such as migraine , 
, asthma , ulcer , , and lack of ( ) ) 
riga in. rev d oto neuro 1957 24 325 335 , cardiac symptoms 
jackson rt. annals of 1976 85 65 70 mh , v. 
1980 18 47 50 mh .  . 1980 18 67 81 , and fever , inadequate 
oral intake and electrolyte imbalance fairbanks  . head 
and neck surgery 1986 94 412  . 

so before you post your inane comments it would be nice if you 'd run a medline 
search on the topic say back to 1966 .  . there 's been extensive literature on this 
for over a 100 years. 

i may be in cardiology but i 've had a very good working relationship with 
my colleagues from ent .  . 

josh 







from  ( susannah gort ) 
subject allergies and stuff  ( was is msg sensitivity superstition ) 
nntp posting host 
organization maths institute , warwick university , uk .  . 
lines 37 


unless i plan on getting sick i wo n't eat the stuff without my 
 . and did i ever learn to read labels .  . 

it might not please a medical researcher but it pleased my own 
personal physician enough for him to give me allergy medicine 

allergy medicine , huh is this just to get rid of the resultant migraine or 
whatever , or does it actually suppress allergic reactions (i . e .  . like an 
antihistamine does ) as far as doctors over here are concerned , if you slip up 
and eat something you 're allergic to  ( even if they wo n't test you to tell you 
what to avoid ) then tough if a cheap medicine will alleviate your symptoms , 
then fine , otherwise you just suffer .  . one doctor did prescribe me  ( costs 
the nhs 48 for 6 tablets ) after having to me because i 'd been throwing 
up for four solid days and could n't even drink water but i got taken off it 
again when i moved and had to change doctors .  . reasoning they did not know what 
the side effects were because it was new. ok , fine but it has passed the 
safety tests to get on the prescription list , and anyway i was prepared to take 
the risk to have quality of life now. the only alternatives i have is to get it 
prescribed privately , which i cannot afford , or to pay a private allergy 
specialist to test me and tell me what to avoid .  . i am fairly certain i am 
allergic to more than one chemical additive , as a lot of things i ca n't eat have 
nothing in common except things i know are safe , so testing myself is n't really 
an option there are too many permutations .  . 

i'm not saying i never consume anything with msg .  . i 've noticed that i 
have a certain tolerance level like a (small) bag of bbq chips once 
a month or so it not a problem but that same bag of chips will 
bother me if i also had chicken yesterday and lunch at one of 
the chinese restaurants the day before. 

yes , i 've noticed that and i can work it up by eating just under the tolerance 
level fairly regularly. if i do n't eat anything except home cooking for a month 
or so i lose it and have to work it up from scratch .  .  .  . a bad experience. now i 
know what the early warning symptoms are , though , i can usually tell whether i am 
allergic to food before i 've eaten too much of it .  .  .  . usually .  .  .  . 


from  ( greg pivarnik ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host maestro . mitre . org . 
reply to emporium ) 
organization the mitre corporation , mclean , va 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( bill dowding ) writes 
(brian m. huey ) writes 

i think that 's the correct spelling .  .  . 
i am looking for any information supplies that will allow 
do it yourselfers to take pictures. i'm thinking 
that education suppliers for schools might have a appartus for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the companies. any info is greatly 
appreciated. 

photography involves taking pictures of minute decapods resident in 
the seas surrounding the antarctic .  . or pictures taken by them , perhaps. 

bill from oz 



bill , 
no flame intended but you 're way , way off base. in simple terms kirilian 
photography registers the fields around objects , in simple , 
it takes pictures of your aura .  . 



greg 

be still , be silent .  .  . the . rest is easy. 

from  ( eileen bauer ) 
subject re deficiency 
nntp posting host mvs . draper . com . 
organization draper laboratory 
lines 49 

in article , 
(erik the viking ) writes 

hi. 

my wife has aquired some (sp ) deficiency over the past year 
that gives symptoms such as needing much sleep , and 
to gaining weight. she has been to a doctor and taken the ordinary ( ) 
tests and her values were regarded as low. the doctor  ( and my wife) are 
not very interested in starting medication as this the 
gland , giving life long dependency to the drug  ( hormone ) .  . 

... 
my questions are has anyone had heard of success in using this approach 
her values have been  ( slowly but ) steadily sinking , any comment on the 
probability of improvement although the doctor has told her to  eat 
normally  , my wife has vigorously to keep her weight as she feels 
that is part of keeping an edge over the illness condition , may this 
affect the treatment , development 


there are several different types of thyroid diseases which would cause 
a condition  ( reduction in the output of the thyroid , mainly 
 . except for ones caused by infections , the treatment is 
generally pills. conditions caused by infections 
usually disappear when the infection does .  .  . this . does n't sound like the 
case with your wife. 
orally does shut down the thyroid through a feedback loop 
involving the pituitary (i believe) .  . the pituitary thinks that the 
correct amount of is being produced so it does n't have to 
tell the thyroid to produce more. this process is ! i have 
's  ( an condition) and was on 
for approx 6 mo when my endocrinologist suggested i not take the pills 
for 6  . when i was for levels , they were normal. 
i still get tested every because the condition might reappear .  . 
the pills are safe and have very few side affects ( those mostly at 
beginning of  . having a baby might be a problem and would at 
least require closer monitoring of hormone levels. 
controls energy production which explains , , 
and weight gain .  . there is also water retention  ( possibly around heart) , 
changes in vision , and hair and skin among other things. 

i am not a doctor , so i'm sure i something , but the important 
thing is that thyroid problems are usually easily corrected and if they 
are n't corrected can cause problems in the rest of the body. get a 
second opinion from a good endocrinologist and have him her explain 
things in detail to you and your wife. 

eileen bauer 

from  ( karen m grenus ) 
subject 
summary does the new diet pill work 
keywords diet pills brown fat 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 10 

hi , 
i'm an avid dieter and the new miracle drug seems to involve 
 . the drug is claimed to stimulate the brown fat to burn food 
creating eat as opposed to the fat being stored .  . there are all sorts of 
warnings about fevers , elevated blood pressure and heart rate , ect .  .  . 
the silver lining is that apparently some weight loss does not 
require a change in diet. is this possible are the pills dangerous or just 
hoaxes 

karen 

from (david rind ) 
subject re quack quack  ( was re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction ) 
organization beth israel hospital , harvard medical school , boston mass. , usa 
lines 23 
nntp posting host enterprise . bih . harvard . edu . 

in article 
 ( ken miller) writes 
so , if you have any evidence against the hypothesis for example , 
controlled double blind studies showing that the anti fungals do n't do any 
better than sugar water then let 's hear it. if you do n't , then what we 
have is anecdotal and uncontrolled evidence on one side , and 
disbelief on the other. 

i do n't have any evidence against water from lourdes curing ms 
i'm sure there is anecdotal evidence that it does. do you really think 
that in the absence of a double blind study i should be indifferent 
to the hypothesis that water from lourdes cures ms 

for what it 's worth , i know of only one double blind study of nystatin 
for candida syndrome .  . it was published in the 
new england journal (i think 1990) and showed no benefit on systemic 
symptoms  ( though i think it reduced vaginal yeast infections , not 
 . as i recall , the yeast crowd had some major objections 
to the study , though i do n't remember what they were. 


david rind 


from (john stanley ) 
subject re photography 
organization university computing services oregon state university 
lines 7 
nntp posting host oce . orst . edu . 

in article node . hub . org . node . hub . org . writes 
in article , alexander p. zijdenbos writes .  .  .  . 
i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
but no one  ( or at least , not many people) are trying to pass off god 

will you please keep this crap out of sci . image . processing . 


from  ( ravi or menon ) 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
nntp posting host beagle . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 29 

( ) writes 

scene navy boot camp 

di son , you awful ! dont you ever clean that thing 
recruit no sir ! 
di why the hell not ! 
recruit your not to touch down there 
di why 
recruit cause thats the eye of god down there , an  your not s posed to touch it .  .  .  . 

this did not happen 40 years ago , it happened 2 years ago. 

i think americans are quite hung up about sex and the involved plumbing ! 

cute anecdote , but hardly indicative of the population .  . from the responses 
i 've received to that post  ( all from men , by the way) i get the impression 
that unless a person is willing to drop down and masturbate whenever the 
need or desire strikes , then that person is very hung up on sex. 

with tv programs about  ( seinfeld ) and masturbation  ( again seinfeld ) 
and with condoms being handed out in high schools and with the teenage 
pregnancy rate and the high abortion rate here in the states , i would 
not assume that we american 's are frightened of sex. rather we are a bit 
stupid about it. healthy sexuality does not require or 
promiscuity .  . it requires responsibility .  . 




from (scott ballantyne ) 
subject re 's antineoplastons 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 93 16 54 32 est 
lines 28 
organization research 


in article writes 

a good source of information on 's method is in the cancer industry 
by pulitzer prize nominee ralph moss .  . 

interesting. what book got moss the pulitzer nomination none of the 
flyers for his books mention this , and none of the cancer chronicle 
newsletters that i have mention this either. 

also , a non profit organization called people against cancer , 
which was formed for the purpose of allowing cancer patients to 
access information regarding cancer therapies not endorsed by the 
cancer industry , but which have shown highly promising results  ( all 
of which are non toxic) .  . 

moss is people against cancer 's director of communications .  . people 
against cancer seems to offer pretty questionable information , not 
exactly the place a cancer patient should be advised to turn to. most 
 ( maybe all) of the infomation in their latest catalogue concern 
treatments that have been shown to be ineffective against cancer , and 
many of the treatments are quite dangerous as well. 

sdb 






from  ( felix the cat ) 
subject re a good place for back surgery 
organization public access unix , nyc 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
distribution usa 
lines 24 

gary . wrote 


hello , 

just one quick question 
my father has had a back problem for a long time and doctors 
have diagnosed an operation is needed. since he lives down in 
mexico , he wants to know if there is a hospital anywhere in 
the united states particulary famous for this kind of surgery , 
kind of like houston has a reputation for excellent doctors 
in eye surgery. any additional info or pointers will be 
appreciated a whole lot ! ... 

there is one hospital that is here in new york city that is famous for its 
orthopedists , namely the hospital for special surgery. they are located on 
the upper east side of manhattan .  . if you want their address and phone let 
me know , i 'll get them , i dont know them off hand. 


felix the cat 
0 0 the wonderful , wonderful cat ! 
@ 
! 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re needle 
organization the portal system (tm) 
lines 4 

scientific american had a nice short article on the history of the 
about 10 or 15 years ago. prior to liquid , 
there were paddle like needles used to implant a tiny pill under the 
skin. 

from  ( jakob hilmer ) 
subject need values for aorta ! 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 28 
reply to 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


we need following data for human aorta 

tear and shear stress for aorta .  . 
a plot of the aortic cross sectional area. 
stroke volume at the aortic root .  . 
approximate distribution of blood through the major arterial 
branches of the aorta .  . 
flow velocity of blood in aorta .  . 

we have various values for flow velocity , if you have any data remember to 
give us the references too include in our report 


stud .  . fax ( 45) 45 93 34 34 
hus 7.1 gr. 8a 
university , denmark 
260 
dk 4000 










from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re any credence to it 
organization the portal system (tm) 
lines 6 

is descendant from a 19th century theory which mapped certain 
diseases to sectors of the iris of the eye. there 's enough natural 
variation in color that a skilled examiner can find indicators of 
virtually any disease. 

modern scientists consider it to be complete bunk .  . 

from  ( alice sanders ) 
subject re antihistamine for sleep aid 
organization eastern illinois university 
lines 10 

but after you have taken antihistamines for a few nights , does n't it start 
to have a paradoxical effect i used to take one every night for 
allergies and could n't figure out why i developed bad insomnia .  . finally 
figured out it was the antihistamines .  . i would fall asleep for a few 
minutes but would awaken at the drop of a pin a little later and could not 
get back to sleep. i do n't have that problem since i stopped the 
antihistamines at bedtime .  . 

alice 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject re med school admission 
lines 1 

then there are always osteopathy colleges .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( steve lamont ) 
subject re photography 
organization university of calif. , san diego microscopy and imaging resource 
lines 20 
nntp posting host pitstop . ucsd . edu . 

in article  ( eli brandt ) writes 
in article  ( mark meyer ) writes 
besides , kirilian photography is actually photography of my 
friend 's two year old son  . perhaps you meant kirlian 

i think it was a typo for photography , which is the 
practice of taking pictures of either finns or russians , depending 
on whom one asks .  . 

think we can lose the sci . image . processing . group from this thread , 
folks 

thanks bunches .  . 

spl 

steve lamont , (619) 534 7968 
san diego microscopy and imaging resource uc san diego la jolla , ca 92093 0608 
my other car is a car , too. 
bumper strip seen on i 805 

from (j .  . porter clark ) 
subject annual inguinal hernia repair 
keywords inguinal hernia 
nntp posting host msfc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa msfc 
lines 27 

last year , i was totally surprised when my annual physical disclosed an 
inguinal hernia .  . i could n't remember doing anything that would have 
caused it. that is , i had n't been lifting more than other people do , 
and in fact probably somewhat less. eventually the thing became more 
painful and i had the repair operation. 

this year i developed a pain on the other side. this turned out to be 
another inguinal hernia .  . so i go back to the hospital monday for 
another fun 8 ) operation. 

i do n't know of anything i'm doing to cause this to happen. i'm 38 
years old and i do n't think i'm old enough for things to start falling 
apart like this. the surgeon who is doing the operation seems to 
suspect a congenital weakness , but if so , why did it suddenly appear 
when i was 37 and not really as active as i was when i was younger 

does anyone know how to prevent a hernia , other than not lifting 
anything it 's rare that i lift more than my 16 month old or a sack 
full of groceries , and you may have noticed that your typical grocery 
sack is fairly small these days. is there some sort of exercise that 
will reduce the risk 

of course , my wife thinks it 's from sitting for long periods of time at 
the computer , reading news .  .  .  . 

j. porter clark or 
nasa msfc flight data systems branch 

from  ( edwin barkdoll ) 
subject re 
organization university of pennsylvania 
lines 14 
nntp posting host psych . upenn . edu . 

in article  ( mark robert thorson ) writes 
first off , if i'm not mistaken , only animals have brown fat , 
not humans. 

human infants do have fat deposits while adult humans are 
believed not to have brown fat. 
also while brown fat may play an important role in 
, it is definitely not limited to animals it 
is a common energy source for  . 


edwin barkdoll 



from  ( ashwin ram) 
subject how often do kids fall sick etc. 
reply to  ( ashwin ram) 
organization georgia institute of technology , college of computing 
lines 35 

our 20 month son has started falling sick quite often every since he 
started going to day care. he was at home for the first year and he did 
not fall sick even once. now it seems like he has some sort of cold or 
flu pretty much once a month. most of the time the cold leads to an ear 
infection as well , with the result that he ends up being on antibiotics 
3 weeks out of 4. i know kids in day care fall sick more often , but we 
are beginning to wonder how often more often really is , whether our 
son is more susceptible or has lower immunity than average , what the 
longer term effects of constantly being sick and taking antibiotics are , 
and what we can do to build up his resistance. he really enjoys his day 
care and we think it 's great too , but we are beginning to wonder whether 
we should think about getting a nanny .  . 

are there any studies that can help answer some of these questions 

how often do kids in their first , second and third years fall sick 
how often do they get colds , , ear infections is there any data on 
home care vs. day care 

does being sick build immunity  ( leading to less illness later) , 
does it make kids weaker  ( leading to more illness later) , or does it 
not have any long term effect 

does taking antibiotics on a regular basis have any negative long 
term effects 

how does one tell if a child is more susceptible to illness than 
normal , and what does one do about it 

is there any way to build immunity and resistance 

any data , information or advice relating to this would be much 
appreciated. thanks a lot. 

 . 

from  ( leon traister ) 
subject celery and hypertension 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 11 

somewhere or other i read that when a person of chinese heritage was 
told that he had high blood pressure he responded by eating celery 
(sorry , i do n't recall the dosage ) .  . apparently this is supposed to 
work in reducing hypertension .  . 

can anyone out there verify this and if it does work , does anyone 
know the appropriate amounts and possible side effects 

thanks , 
leon 


from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re and milli 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 16 
nntp posting host saltillo . cs . utexas . edu . 


in article  ( rebecca snyder ) writes 
does anyone know how and are ... 

the 's around here  ( austin ) have no sting .  . some of the 
do. the question rebecca snyder asks is much like 
asking how are snakes one either wants to ask which 
snake or point to some reference on the many different species 
of snake .  . similarly , there are many different species of 
and  .  ( these are different families 
have two pairs of legs per body segment , while 
have but one pair . ) . 

sorry if this information is not useful. 

russell 

organization arizona state university 
from 
subject re 's antineoplastons 

lines 37 


in article , (scott ballantyne ) says 

in article writes 


moss is people against cancer 's director of communications .  . people 
against cancer seems to offer pretty questionable information , not 
exactly the place a cancer patient should be advised to turn to. 

and where do you advise people to turn for cancer information 


most 
 ( maybe all) of the infomation in their latest catalogue concern 
treatments that have been shown to be ineffective against cancer , and 
many of the treatments are quite dangerous as well. 

it seems to me you 've offered a circular refutation of moss 's organization. who 
has shown the information in the latest book of to be questionable could 
it be those  regulatory  agencies and medical industries which moss is showing 
to be operating with major vested interests .  . whether one believes that these 
vested interests are real or not , or whether or not they actually shape medical 
research is a seperate argument. if one sees a possibility , however , that these 
interests exist , then the  fact  that some of the information put out by 
has been refuted by the medical industry does n't hold much weight. 

as for the ineffectiveness of , the fact that the nih did n't 
find them effective does n't make much sense here. of course they did n't ! i 
tend to have more faith in the word of the patients who are now alive after 
being told years ago that they would be dead of cancer soon. they are fighting 
like hell to keep that clinic open , and they credit his treatment with their 
survival .  . anyone who looks at the nih 's record for investigation of  alterna 
tive  cancer therapies will easily see that they have a strange knack for find 
ing relatively cheap and nontoxic therapies dangerous or useless. 

gn 

from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re photography 
organization hst wide field planetary camera 
lines 37 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sol1 . gps . caltech . edu . 

in article , 
 ( greg pivarnik ) writes 
in article ,  ( bill dowding ) writes 
(brian m. huey ) writes 

i think that 's the correct spelling .  .  . 
i am looking for any information supplies that will allow 
do it yourselfers to take pictures. i'm thinking 
that education suppliers for schools might have a appartus for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the companies. any info is greatly 
appreciated. 

photography involves taking pictures of minute decapods resident in 
the seas surrounding the antarctic .  . or pictures taken by them , perhaps. 

bill from oz 



bill , 
no flame intended but you 're way , way off base. in simple terms kirilian 
photography registers the fields around objects , in simple , 
it takes pictures of your aura .  . 

greg flame definitely intended here. bill was making fun of the misspelling .  . 
go look up the word krill .  . also , the correct spelling is kirlian .  . it 
involves taking photographs of corona discharges created by attaching the 
subject to a high voltage source , not of some aura .  . it works equally well 
with inanimate objects .  . 

carl j lydick internet nsi sol1 carl 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from stephen dubin 
subject re pregnency without sex 
nf id r cdp 000 1159 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! apr 26 10 47 00 1993 
lines 20 


i think you must have the same teacher i had in 1955 .  . there 
is a story about the civil war about a soldier who was shot in the 
groin .  . the bullet , after passing through one of his , then entered 
the abdomen of a young woman standing nearby .  . later , when she (a young 
woman of virtue ) was shown to be pregnant the soldier did 
the honorable thing of marrying her. according to this story , they lived 
happily ever after. 
perhaps the most famous of mr. 's classes was the time he would come 
into class brandishing an aluminum turning  ( tapering from about 
3 8 to 1 2 over a 10 inch length) .  . he would say , boys , do you know 
what this is it 's a medical instrument called a  cock  and it 's 
used to your penis when you have vd .  . they just ram it up there 
without an anesthetic ! needless to say this had a chilling effect. 
i did n't have thoughts for at least an hour. later in life 
as i medical instrument and saw the flexible 
sounds that are actually used , i could not escape thinking 
that i might one day see , , cock  ( style of rau ) . 



from  ( jeff silva ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization hp sonoma county  ( srsd mid ) 
lines 25 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 9 . 

michael covington wrote 
in article  ( jeff silva ) writes 
wrote 

move a little , the pain will be excrutiating .  . i was told by my doctor 
at that time that the pain was comparable to that of childbirth .  . (yes , 
by a male doctor , so i'm sure some of you women will  . i 'd 
really like to know the truth in this , so maybe some of you women who 
have had a baby and a kidney stone could fill me in. 

one more reason for men to learn the breathing techniques , in order 
to be able to get some pain reduction instantly , wherever you are. 

michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

it would have been pretty difficult to practice my hee hee 's while i was 
over my guts out though. 



jeff silva 


from  ( eileen bauer ) 
subject re deficiency 
nntp posting host mvs . draper . com . 
organization draper laboratory 
lines 43 

in article , 
 ( andrea bruno ) writes 


in article 
 ( eileen bauer ) writes 
controls energy production which explains , , 
and weight gain .  . there is also water retention  ( possibly around heart) , 
changes in vision , and hair and skin among other things. 

is there any relation between thyroid deficiency and depression 

perhaps the caused by thyroid deficiency could mimic 
depression , or feeling unable to do anything could cause one to get 
depressed , but i know of no specific effect on the brain caused by the 
thyroid that would cause depression .  . note that weight gain is usually 
a symptom of both. simple blood tests would indicate if a thyroid 
condition is present. 

i do n't know if depression would cause a reduction in thyroid output , 
but i would tend to doubt it. as far as i know clinical depression is 
caused by a chemical imbalance in the brain , and that chemical 
imbalance has no direct effect on any other part of the body. a regular 
everyday depression imho should not cause a chemical imbalance in the 
body at all. 

the pituitary bases its secretions of thyroid stimulating hormone  ( tsh ) 
on the level of circulating  ( there are two types t3 and t4 
one is used as a reserve and is changed into the other active form in 
the  . the ratio of t3 t4 can be affected by a number of other 
hormones  ( estrogen , for example) .  . naturally , changing activity of the 
body 's cells would cause changes in availabilty of free , but 
the liver and a healthy thyroid should be able to balance things out in 
short order. 

good sources for info on the thyroid are the merk manual (a physician 's 
reference book ) although reading it is enough to get one depressed ) 
and the encyclopedia  ( should be available in your local 
library) .  . 

i hope this has been of some help. 

eileen bauer 

from  ( mark meyer ) 
subject re photography 
organization ti dseg , spring creek , plano , tx .  . 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 12 04 17 gmt 

lines 16 

in article ,  ( bill dowding ) writes 
photography involves taking pictures of minute decapods 
resident in the seas surrounding the antarctic .  . or pictures taken by 
them , perhaps. 

in article  ( greg pivarnik ) writes 
no flame intended but you 're way , way off base. in simple terms 
kirilian photography registers the fields around 
objects , in simple , it takes pictures of your aura .  . 

greg , no flame intended , but you have no discernible sense of 
humor. what bill wrote was intended to be funny. it 's called a 
joke , greg .  . look into it. 
besides , kirilian photography is actually photography of my 
friend 's two year old son  . perhaps you meant kirlian 


mark meyer 
texas instruments , inc. , plano tx 
every day , jerry is grateful that i do n't speak for ti .  . 
you have triggered primary defense mechanism .  . blast ! affirmative .  . 

from (paul houle ) 
subject antihistamine for sleep aid 
article i.d. nmt . 
organization electrical eng. dept. new mexico tech 
lines 46 
nntp posting host baltic 


for a very long time i 've had a problem with feeling really awful 
when i try to get up in the morning. my sleep latency at night is also 
pretty long , ranging from 30 min to an hour. i get about 7 hours of 
bedtime  ( maybe 6 of actual sleep ) a night and more on the weekends. i 
will spend two or three hours laying in bed after this if i can , because 
i feel so tired when i wake up , even more tired than i was when i 
went to bed , which is usually too tired to work. 

anyway , i recently had a really bad flu , so i called a friend to 
get me some cough with both an and a nasal 
but he got formula 44m which has everything but an  . so 
i used that anyway , and the three nights i used it , i fell asleep rapidly 
and felt that i got really good quality sleep that is , i actually 
felt refreshed the next morning. 

so , i am now trying to look into , both in the literature and 
experimentally , the use of antihistamines as sleep aids , since i am 
presuming that it was the antihistamine that caused the effect. the 
antihistamine in formula 44 is , so i bought 
some generic tablets of that , and tried one last night and did n't 
notice any improvement. i might try one with a little alcohol  ( about 
1 beer ) to see if it is a synergism effect. also , library research 
seems to show that is the antihistamine with the strongest 
sedative effect of what is availible otc .  . so i might also buy a generic 
form of that and try that the pdr seems to suggest that 50 mg is a good 
dosage level to try. 

for other medical information , i have allergies but rarely have 
an allergic reaction living in new mexico .  . i also have chronically dry 
eyes , which get horrible if i try to use most  . i did 
guess that my problem might be caused by hypoglycemia , so i made some 
changes in my diet consistent with that , and it did n't help , so i 
went back to a normal diet  ( pretty diverse , also taking vitamin supplements ) 

anyway , i am looking for advice for the use of 
antihistamines as sleep aids , and if there are any dangers of such use 
 ( seems safe to me since they are used chronically for allergies by 
millions) .  . i do n't want to try , because bz addiction seems to be 
a serious threat , and from what i hear , bz sleep quality is not good , 
whereas antihistamine sleep quality seems to be better for me. i have 
tried some dietary tryptophan loading stuff , and that also seems to 
lower sleep quality , i seem to wake up around 4 00 or so and be in some 
kind of mental haze until 7 00 or 8 00 .  . also , i would be interested in 
any other advice for helping my problem.  ( although i 've already tried 
many of the non solutions ) 

from  ( steve x44304 ) 
subject re request gyro  ( souvlaki ) sauce 
organization compaq computer corp. 
distribution usa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 32 

michael trofimoff wrote 

hi all , 

would anyone out there in  net land  happen to have an 
authentic , sure fire way of making this great sauce that 
is used to adorn gyro 's and souvlaki 

thanks , 

i have a at home that was posted to me by one of our fellow 
netters about a month ago. i am recalling this from memory but 
i think i'm fairly close (by the way it was great ! ) 

1 pint of plain yogurt 
1 2 med. sized cucumber finely shredded 
3 cloves of garlic  ( more or less by taste ) 
1 4 weed 

the yogurt is dumped into a lined with a coffee 
filter and allowed to drain at least 2 hours  ( you can 
adjust the of the sauce by increasing this time 
up to 24 hours) 

the shredded is drained the same way 

mix it all together and let it steep for at least 
2 hours (it 's better the next day) and enjoy ! 

steve 



subject needle 
from  ( becky olsen ) 
organization calif state univ electronic information services 
lines 7 

hi , i am doing a term paper on the syringe and i have found some 
information. it is said that charles has invented the 
needle , but then i have also found that alexander wood has invented it. 
does anyone know which one it is , of if it was anyone else if there is 
anymore information that is out there could you please send it to me. 
thank you very much. 
olsen 

from (james arbuckle ) 
subject drop your drawers and the doctor will see you 
organization temple university 
lines 26 
nntp posting host vm . temple . edu . 

organization temple university 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 

last week i went to see a  . i had never met this 
doctor before , and she did not know what i was there for. as soon as i 
arrived , somebody showed me to an examining room and handed me a  . 
they told me to undress (from the waist down , to be exact ) and wait for the 
doctor. is this the usual drill when you go to a doctor for the first 
time i do n't have much experience going to doctors  ( knock on wood ) , but 
on the couple of occasions when i 've gone to a new doctor , i met him 
with my clothes on. first , he introduced himself , asked what i was there 
for and took a history , all before i  . 

are patients usually expected to get naked before meeting a doctor 
for the first time personally , i 'd prefer to meet the doctor on 
something remotely resembling a condition of parity and to establish an 
identity as a person who wears clothes before dropping my drawers .  . if 
nothing else , it minimizes the time that i have to spend in the self 
conscious , ill at ease and vulnerable condition of a person with a bare 
bottom talking to somebody who is fully clothed .  . 

does anybody besides me regard this get naked first and then we can talk 
attitude as insensitive also , is it unusual 


james email 

from  ( thomas trusk ) 
subject re photography 
reply to 
organization medical college of wisconsin  ( milwaukee , wi ) 
lines 24 
nntp posting host pixel . mcw . edu . 
medical college of wisconsin 


in article  ( alan morgan ) writes 
in article 
 ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

 . bad example. i'm an atheist .  . 

this is not flame , or abuse , nor do i want to start another thread  ( this 
is , after all , supposed to be about image processing) .  . 

but , to say you 're an atheist is to suggest you have proof there is no god. 
to be a politically correct skeptic , better to go with agnostic , like me ! ) 

dr. thomas 
dept. of cellular biology anatomy email to 
medical college of wisconsin 
milwaukee , wi 
(414) 257 


from  ( dale hall ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
summary none 
keywords none 
nntp posting host mitre . org . 
organization research computer facility , mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

in article gabriel d. underwood gabe writes 
i heard a great civil war story .  .  .  . a guy on the is shot 
in the groin , the bullet continues on it 's path , and lodges in the 
abdomen of a female spectator .  . lo and behold .  .  .  .  . 

as the legend goes , both parents survived , married , and raised the child. 


 .  .  .  . who . turned out to be a real son of a gun. 


from wiesel  ( elisha wiesel ) 
subject info and purification 
organization yale university science engineering  ( unix(tm ) , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host minerva . cis . yale . edu . 

recently i 've come upon a body of literature which promotes colon 
cleansing as a vital aid to preventive medicine through nutrition .  . in 
particular , dr. bernard in his book colon cleansing for 
health and longevity the title actually escapes me , but it is very 
similar to that claims that regular self administered , 
along with certain orally ingested debris agents , 
the immune system to a significant degree. 

he also plugs a unique appliance called the board , which 
facilitates the self administration of  . it sells for over 
100 from a california based company. he also plugs tox 
products as his chemical agents of choice these include volcanic ash , 
supposedly for its electrical charge , and powder , for its 
 . 

if anyone knows anything about colon cleansing theory , its 
particulars , or the board and related products , i 'd be very 
interested to hear about research and personal experience. 

this article is crossposted to alt . magick . as the issue touches upon 
fasting and cleansing through a ritual system of purification .  . 

eli 



! elisha wiesel , davenport college '94 yale university ! 
! (203) 436 1338 school (212) 371 home ! 


from  ( marie e tysoe ) 
subject 
distribution usa 
organization oregon health sciences university 
lines 1 
nntp posting host 

ideas for the relief of  . please respond to my e mail 

from donald mackie donald 
subject re needle 
organization um anesthesiology 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 141 . 214 . 86 . 38 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d9 . 
x id addr . arpa . 
x sun , 25 apr 93 15 47 15 gmt 

in article olsen , 
writes 
hi , i am doing a term paper on the syringe and i have found some 
information. it is said that charles has invented the 

needle , but then i have also found that alexander wood has invented 
it. 
does anyone know which one it is , of if it was anyone else if 
there is 
anymore information that is out there could you please send it to 
me. 
thank you very much. 
olsen 

looking in the evolution of by m . h .  . armstrong davison 
(pub williams wilkins , baltimore 1965) i found the following 
chronology 

1853 .  . charles gabriel  ( 1791 1853 ) , inventor of the 
, describes a glass syringe with tapered nozzle .  . this 
syringe was intended to be used with a special for injecting 
chloride into , and thus to heal them by  . 

1853 .  . alexander wood  ( 1817 84) of edinburgh invents the 
needle and 's syringe for use with it. 

you might also be interested to read about the experiments of sir 
christopher wren in , described by in the 
philosophical transactions of the royal society in  . using a 
sharpened and a pig 's bladder he injected opium , wine and beer 
into the veins of dogs. 

don mackie 
um anesthesiology will disavow 

from  ( harry matthews ) 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
organization suny oswego 
lines 3 

bullshit ! ! ! 



subject health effects on women 
from  ( eric skagerberg ) 
organization santa rosa junior college , santa rosa , ca 
keywords woman women contraception sterilization men health 
summary what might a do to a female partner 's long term health 
nntp posting host nermal . santarosa . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 16 

does anyone know of any studies done on the long term health effects of a 
man 's on his female partner 

i 've seen plenty of study results about 's effects on men 's health , 
but what about women 

for example , might the wife of a man become more at risk for , 
say , cervical cancer adverse effects from sperm antibodies changes in the 
vagina 's ph yeast or bacterial infections 

outside of study results , how about informed speculation 

thanks in advance for your help ! 

eric 
santa rosa , california telephone  ( 707 ) 573 1460 

from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 16 

in article  ( harry matthews ) writes 
all right , listen up .  .  .  .  . what are the possibilities of transmission through 
swimming pool water especially if the is n't up to par 

i 've heard of community swimming pools refered to as public so what 
else is going on 

no dice .  . as soon as the sperm cells hit the water they would virtually 
explode .  . the inside of the cell is , and since the membrane is 
water would rush in and cause the cell to burst .  . 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from (david nye ) 
subject re  ( spelling ) 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 21 

reply to cruz . ca . u . 

i recently heard of some testing of a new migraine drug called 
(i have no idea of the actual spelling) that supposedly 
utilizes a chemical that trips neuro transmitters .  . my mother has 
regular migraines and nothing seems to help does anyone know anything 
about this new drug is it in a testing or anywhere near 
approval does it seem to be working 

i just got back from the american academy of neurology annual meeting , 
where the consensus was that sumatriptan  ( imitrex ) has no advantages 
over dhe 45 nasal spray , which is much less expensive , has fewer side 
effects , is as effective , and works more quickly (5 10 minutes vs. 30) .  . 
besides , who wants to give themselves a shot  ( sumatriptan ) when a nasal 
spray works dhe nasal spray is not widely available yet it has to 
be mail ordered from one of a few pharmacies in the country but most 
neurologists now know about it and know how to order it. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( jeff poupore ) 
subject re barbecued foods and health risk 
organization university of waterloo 
lines 18 

hi , 

thought i 'd add something to the conversation. 

my girlfriend used to work in a lab studying different natural carcinogens .  . 
she mentioned once about the cancerous effect of barbecued food. 
basically , she said that if you eat barbecued foods with 
(a natural carcinogen) the slight carcinogenic properties of both 
cancel out each other. 


jeff 



jeff 



from  ( steve kirchoefer ) 
subject result misc . health . diabetes . passes 155 14 
organization naval research laboratory  ( electronics science and technology division) 
lines 221 
nntp posting host rodan . uu . net . 

voting for creation of the newsgroup misc . health . diabetes . ended at 
23 59 gmt on 29 apr 93 .  . at this time , the total response received 
consisted of 155 votes for newsgroup creation and 14 votes against 
newsgroup creation. under the guidelines for usenet group creation , 
this response constitutes a passing vote. 

there will be a delay to allow time for the net to respond to this 
result , after which the newsgroup misc . health . diabetes . should be 
created. 

please check the vote acknowledgement list to be sure that your vote 
was received and properly credited .  . any inconsistencies or errors 
should be reported to by email. 

i want to thank everyone who participated in the discussion and vote 
for this newsgroup proposal .  . 

the following is the voting summary 

votes received against newsgroup creation 

ernest a. cline 
mike coleman 
eric j. olson 
rusty harold 
ed mcguire 

herbert m. petro 
joyce morris 
julian 
rob 
stephen lau 
gerry 
bill owens 
richard h. miller 

votes received for newsgroup creation 

bill 
jim williams 
colin 
axel dunkel 
jesus sanchez pe a 

ramakrishna reddy 
robert w. apps 
alicia r. perdue 
dave bain 
morris 
bryan 
norman p. bernstein 
brian gaines 
bob 
bjorn b. larsen 
bob 
muenster . de . dirk 
bruce stephens 
brian spencer 
coyne 
compass da . com . ! da . com . thomas donnelly 
diane 
charles 
! stephanie bradley swift 
m brenda 
david barton 
deborah lynn 
douglas bank 
dale r. 
david e. 
edward reid 
ed moore 
elizabeth 
enrico 

gregory c. franklin 

gabe 
isaac 
gavin 

gail gurman 
gregory g. woodbury 
gary 
gonzalez 
leila thomas 
grm gretchen miller 
carol 
phil handel 

hubert 

kathleen 
herman rubin 
ingrid b. hudson 
edward j. huff 
gary huffman 
huynh minh huynh 

james 
jamie 
john a. myers 
jerry 
james 
randell jesup 
mcgowan 
joe 
john e. burton , jr. 

keith 
joey p. sum 
john maynard 

peter kaminski 
kerry raymond 
aaron l. dickey 
jennifer lynn kolar 
marc 
laurie j. key 
lee boylan 
lia m. 

stephen g. roseman 
marilyn beamish 
maurice h. rich 
peter maas 
marilyn m. tucker 
mark 
michael 
michael c. 
c. day 

reid 
mauricio f. contreras 
martha 
michael holloway 
misha 
manish butte 
margaret o' flanagan 
david muir sharnoff 
n. d. 
n. j. c. 
nancy block 
ndallen@r node . hub . org . nigel allen 
nigel lemur 
nathan 
pam sullivan 
paul prescod 
pam 
phil lindberg 
christopher pilling 
peter kane 
pauline 
glenn 
aaron 
pat watkins 
ken robinson 
state . edu . roger 
robyn kozierok 
stuttgart . de . rolf schreiber 

joan stout 
scott 


stuart c. squibb 
sharan 
sharen a. rund 
matthew t. thompson 
floyd s. shipman 
tim shoppa 
stephen joseph smith 
susan lillie 
steven w. orr 
chandra 
steven kirchoefer 
s liz 
taryn l. 
thomas e. taylor 
timothy d. 
tony samuel 
mary jacobs 
vanessa stern 
james 
greg 
douglas waterfall 

william grant 
brian wing 

ralph e. yozzo 
sharma 
molly hamilton 
bjoern u. 

the charter for misc . health . diabetes . appears below. 



charter 

misc . health . diabetes . unmoderated 

1. the purpose of misc . health . diabetes . is to provide a forum for the 
discussion of issues pertaining to diabetes management , i.e. diet , 
activities , medicine schedules , blood glucose control , exercise , 
medical breakthroughs , etc. this group addresses the issues of 
management of both type i  ( insulin dependent ) and type ii  ( non insulin 
dependent ) diabetes .  . both technical discussions and general support 
discussions relevant to diabetes are welcome. 

2. postings to misc . heath . diabetes . are intended to be for discussion 
purposes only , and are in no way to be construed as medical advice. 
diabetes is a serious medical condition requiring direct supervision 
by a primary health care physician .  . 

 ( end of charter ) 

steve kirchoefer (202) 767 2862 
code 6851 
naval research laboratory microwave technology branch 
washington , dc 20375 5000 electronics sci .  . and tech. division 

from (kenneth carver ) 
subject isolation amplifiers for eeg cheap 
organization new mexico state university , las cruces , nm 
lines 9 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host dante . nmsu . edu . 

i have several isolation amplifier boards that are the ideal interface 
for eeg and  . isolation is essential for safety when connecting 
line powered equipment to electrodes on the body. these boards 
incorporate the burr brown isolation module that currently sells 
for 133 , plus other op amps to produce an overall voltage gain of 
350 400 .  . they are like new and guaranteed good. 20 postpaid , 
schematic included. please email me for more data. 

ken carver 

from  ( amir anthony jazaeri ) 
subject re heat shock proteins 
organization university of virginia 
lines 8 

by the way ms. olmstead dna is not degraded in the stomach nor 
under ph of 2. its degraded in the under approx. 
neutral ph by enzymes by the pancreas .  . my 
point check your facts before yelling at other people for not 
doing so. just a friendly suggestion. 


4 26 93 

from  ( empress i) 
subject oops .  . silly me. 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 16 

sorry. my friend 's address who wants the faq and info is 

sorry about that folks. 
jody 




jody rebecca colby college majors history sociology 
class o' '94 
e mail 


fantasy , music , colors , and animals will lead this society out of oppression .  . 



from  ( russ brown) 
subject re  .  .  . 
organization winco 
lines 17 

in article  ( yau felix chung ) writes 

hi. does anyone know the possible causes of 
and what are the chances of it being hereditary 

cancer is  ( roughly , do n't have references at hand ) 20 30 
times more prevalent in chinese than , particularly those chinese 
from southern china .  . one province  ( or region ) has an extraordinary excess .  . 
the chinese and others have done major studies. some association with 
the epstein barr virus has been noted .  . 

also , in the cases , what is the general procedure to 
reduce the pain the area as it prevents the patient from eating 
due to the excessive pain of swallowing and even talking 

is used. 


from  ( leon traister ) 
subject vitamin b6 doses 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 16 

forgive me , but just the other day i read on some newsgroup or other a 
physician 's posting about the theraputic uses of vitamin b6 .  . i ca n't 
seem to locate the article , but i recall there was mention of some safe 
limits .  . 

i looked at a balanced 100 time release formulation from 's 
and noted that the 100 mg of b6 was some thousands times the rda .  . is 
this safe ! . 

also what was the condition that b6 was theraputic for 

mail would be just fine if you do n't want to clog the net. 

thanks , 
leon 


from  ( brenda peters ) 
subject re allergic reactions against laser printers 
reply to  ( brenda peters ) 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 34 

in sci . med . , garching . mpg . de .  ( reinhard drube ) writes 
hello , 

does anyone know about allergic reactions caused by the developer toner 
of laser printers what chemical stuff is involved 

thanks in advance ! 

reinhard 

email garching . mpg . de . 


do i ever ! ! ! ! ! ! after 2 years of having health problems that had been 
cleared up w allery shots , and not knowing why , i went and was re tested .  . 
i actually did better than when i had been tested 2 years ago .  .  .  .  . 
then putting 2 2 together , i realized that it all started back up 
when the laser printer came into the office. i kept track of the usage , and 
on hi use days , i was worse. i got better over the weekends .  .  .  .  . 

the laser printer is gone , i'm 100 better ! ! ! ..... whether it is the toner 
dust or chemicals , i dont know (i am highly allergic to dust .  .  . ) . , but 
it definitely was the laser printer .  .  .  .  . 



brenda peters 
div , nswc , david taylor model basin 
bethesda , md 20084 

e mail 
or 



from 
subject re cure for dry skin 
distribution world 
organization pbs public broadcasting service , alexandria , va 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( alex mou ) writes 
hi all , 

my skin is very dry in general. but the most serious part is located 
from knees down. the skin there looks like segmented .  . the segmentation 
actually happens beneath the skin. i would like to know if there is any 
cure for this. 

at the supermarkets or pharmacies , there are quite a lot of stuffs for 
dry skins , but what to chose 

thanks in advance for all and hints .  . 

reply by email preferred .  . 

alex 



as a matter of fact , i just saw a dermatologist the other day , and while i 
was there , i asked him about dry skin. i 'd been spending a small fortune 
on various creams , , and other dry skin treatments .  . 
he said all i needed was a large jar of vaseline .  . soak in a lukewarm tub 
of water for 10 minutes  ( only 10 minutes ! ) then massage in the vaseline , 
to trap the moisture in. that will help. i have n't tried it yet , but you 
can bet i will. the hard part will be finding the time to rub in the 
vaseline properly. if it 's not done right , you remain greasy and stick 
to your clothes. 
try it. it 's got to be cheaper then spending 30 for 8 oz. of  natural  
 . 

jane 


from (david rind ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization beth israel hospital , harvard medical school , boston mass. , usa 
lines 22 
nntp posting host enterprise . bih . harvard . edu . 

in article 
writes 
 ( oxygen(just like it does in the vagina) .  . as much stuff as there is in the 
lay press about l. acidophilus and vaginal yeast infections , i'm really 
amazed that someone has not done a clinical trial yet to check it out. 

i 've mentioned this study a couple of times now ingestion of yogurt 
containing lactobacillus acidophilus as prophylaxis for 
vaginitis , annals of internal medicine , 3 1 92  ( 116(5 ) 353 7. do you 
have a problem with the study because they used yogurt rather than 
capsules of lactobacillus  ( even though it had positive results) 

the study was a crossover trial of daily ingestion of 8 ounces of 
yogurt .  . there was a marked decrease in infections while women were 
ingesting the yogurt .  . problems with the study included very small 
numbers  ( 33 patients enrolled ) and many protocol violations  ( only 
21 patients were  . still , the difference in rates of infection 
between the two groups was so large that the study remains fairly 
believable .  . 

david rind 


from  ( henry melton ) 
subject chromium as dietary for weight loss 
summary wife needs net . wisdom . 
organization sps 
lines 12 
nntp posting host 222 . 1 . 248 . 94 . 


my wife has requested that i poll the of usenet to see what is 
known about the use of chromium in weight control diet  . 
she has seen multiple products advertising it and would like any kind 
real information. 

my first impulse was yuck ! a metal ! but i have zero data on it. 

what do you know 


henry 

from  ( jennifer scheiber ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
keywords pregnency sex 
organization purdue university computing center 
lines 33 

in article (kenneth gilbert ) writes 
in article (stephen montgomery smith) writes 
when i was a school boy , my biology teacher told us of an incident 
in which a couple were very passionate without actually having 
sexual intercourse .  . somehow the girl became as sperm 
cells made their way to her through the clothes via  . 

was my biology teacher misinforming us , or do such incidents actually 
occur 

sounds to me like someone was pulling your leg. there is only one way for 
pregnancy to occur intercourse .  . these days however there is also 
artificial insemination and implantation techniques , but we 're speaking of 
natural acts here. it is possible for pregnancy to occur if semen is 
deposited just outside of the vagina (i . e .  . interruptus ) , but that 's 
about at far as you can get. through clothes no way. better go talk 
to your biology teacher. 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


what is the likely hood of conception if sperm is deposited just outside 
the vagina ie. chance. 




j e n n i f e r s c h e i b e r 
email school of nursing purdue university 


from 
subject therapy 
organization cornell university 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 128 . 253 . 111 . 135 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d7 . 
x mon , 26 apr 93 13 59 09 gmt 

does anyone here know anything about therapy using my 
uncle has , and a doctor wants to try it on him. we are 
wondering if 

1. is there any evidence therapy is beneficial for his 
condition , or any condition 

2. what possible side effects are there. how can they be 

please respond via e mail to 

thanks , 


from  ( jon noring ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
lines 47 

in article writes 

 .  .  . i'm . not asking anyone here to buy into the yeast connection book 
because i do n't know what 's in that book , plain and simple. and to be honest 
with you , i'm beginning to wish that it was never written. 

i agree with this consensus that it should not have been written the way 
it was. my doctor who claims to have introduced dr. crook to the 
possibility of candida causing diffuse symptoms way back in 
1961 (i have no reason to doubt him on this) does not like the book 
because 1) it makes too many unfounded claims , and 2) is horribly written 
from a scientific viewpoint .  . on the other hand , my doctor has always kept 
an open mind on the subject and does believe in aspects of the yeast 
connection . 

but , i believe there is some truth to the book. hopefully the right 
clinical studies can be done to separate the fact from the fiction. in 
the meantime , i 'd still encourage people who have incurable chronic sinus 
problems  ( especially if they overused antibiotics) , to find a doctor to 
administer a systemic type anti fungal such as itraconazole  ( along with 
liver panels before , during and after treatment just to play it  . it 
is an empirical approach for sure , but when all else fails , and your ent 
says sorry , you 'll just have to live with it , it is time to step out and 
try an empirical approach backed up with significant anecdotal evidence 
(dr .  . ivker ) , supported by plausible theories  ( outlined by  . at 
this stage you have little to lose , particularly if you use itraconazole and 
have the proper monitoring the health risk has been shown through extensive 
clinical studies both in europe and the u.s. to be very minimal with 
relatively healthy (i . e .  . , non aids ) patients .  . i'm glad i did this , since i 
saw remarkable results after only one week on sporanox  . of 
course , your mileage may vary a lot everyone is different so it may not 
work for you. talk to your doctor. 

jon noring 



charter member infj club. 

if you 're dying to know what infj means , be brave , e mail me , i 'll send info. 

jon noring 
international ip 192 . 100 . 81 . 100 . fred s gourmet chocolate 
1312 carlton place phone (510) 294 8153 chips world 's best ! 
livermore , ca 94550 v mail (510) 417 4101 

who are you read alt . psychology . personality . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( jon noring ) 
subject re sinus surgery 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
lines 45 

in article (george kimeldorf ) writes 
in article  ( jay keller ) writes 

(i 've already heard from a couple who said they had it and it did n't 
really help them) .  . 

i am a moderately severe  . ent doc says large percentage see some 
relief of their asthma after sinus surgery. also he said it is not unheard of 
that migraines go away after sinusitis is relieved .  . 

did your ent also tell you that this procedure may remove warts from the soles 
of your feet and improve your sex life 

actually , severe headaches due to stopped up sinuses  ( plugged ostia ) are 
possible , and sinus surgery which the ostia from the normal 2 
mm to about 10 mm should relieve this. there are non surgical ways , 
however , to keep the ostia open  ( however , in a few individuals , their 
ostia are naturally very small) , and dr. 's book talks about this. 
the underlying cause of chronic sinusitis is not cured by this kind of 
sinus surgery , though. 

about asthma , that 's a little more controversial .  . dr. , in his book , 
sinus survival , speculates  ( and says it 's not proven ) , that many cases 
of asthma are triggered by chronic sinusitis due to the excessive drainage 
 ( postnasal drip ) from the sinuses .  . he 's had many patients who 've found 
relief from asthma when the chronic sinusitis is reduced or eliminated 
not clinical proof , but compelling anecdotal information of this speculation .  . 

before doing any sinus surgery , first get the book it discusses surgery , 
as well as a good non surgical treatment program for chronic sinusitis .  . 

jon noring 



charter member infj club. 

if you 're dying to know what infj means , be brave , e mail me , i 'll send info. 

jon noring 
international ip 192 . 100 . 81 . 100 . fred s gourmet chocolate 
1312 carlton place phone (510) 294 8153 chips world 's best ! 
livermore , ca 94550 v mail (510) 417 4101 

who are you read alt . psychology . personality . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( pam draper ) 
subject re opinions on allergy  ( hay fever ) shots 
organization gte government systems , federal systems division , chantilly , va 
lines 15 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host gnd1 . wtp . gtefsd . com . 
news software vax vms 1.3 4 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 

you might look for an allergy doctor in your area who uses sublingual 
drops instead of shots for treatment.  ( you are given a small bottle of 
3 drops are placed under the tongue for 5 minutes . ) . my 


this homeopathic remedies .  . i tried the one for a month. 15 drops 
three times a day. i did n't notice any change whats so ever. how long 
were you using the drops before you noticed a difference 

for me this treatment is more expensive because my insurance will cover 
medicine. 



from (robert hartman ) 
subject re info and purification 
organization informix software , inc. 
lines 41 

in article wiesel  ( elisha wiesel ) writes 
recently i 've come upon a body of literature which promotes colon 
cleansing as a vital aid to preventive medicine through nutrition .  . 

no doubt the sci . med . folks are getting out their  . i'm 
rather certain that the information you got was not medical literature 
in the accepted academic scientific journals .  . so , the righteous among 
them will no doubt jump on that. 

also , insofar as it does n't conform to the accepted medical presumption 
that it just does n't matter what you eat , and that we can think of the 
gi tract as a black box in which nothing ever goes wrong (except for 
maybe cancer and ulcers ) , the righteous will no doubt jump on that too. 

then there 'll be the ones who call your doctor a raving quack , even 
though he , like linus , is lucid and robust well into his 
nineties but nevermind about that. he should n't charge for his 
equipment and supplies , since they 're no doubt not approved by the 
fda .  . of course , with fda approval an md or pharmaceutical company can 
charge whatever they can get for such safe and effective treatments as 
 . but nevermind about that either. 

unfortunately , you dared to step into the sacred turf of net . medical .  . 
discussion without a credential and without understanding that the 
righteous among them will make certain that you are suitably denounced 
before dismissing you as a fool .  . 

but maybe somebody without such a huge chip on their shoulder will 
send you some reasonable responses by e mail. 

1 2 ) 

1 2 ( 

oh yes , i did have a point. a few years ago an md with a thriving 
practice in a very wealthy part of silicon valley once recommended that 
i take such treatments to clear up a skin condition. (not through his 
office , i might add . ) . although i'm sure that 's not conclusive , it was 
sure an unusual prescription ! 

r 

from lawrence curcio 
subject re use of haldol in elderly 
organization doctoral student , public policy and management , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 34 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

i 've seen people in their forties and fifties become disoriented and 
demented during hospital stays .  . in the examples i 've seen , drugs were 
definitely involved. 

my own father turned into a vegetable for a short time while in the 
hospital. he was fifty three at the time , and he was on 21 separate 
medications .  . the family protested , but the doctors were , telling 
us that none of the drugs interact .  . they even took the attitude that , if 
he was disoriented , they should put him on something else as well ! with 
the help of an md friend of the family , we had all his medication 
discontinued .  . he had a seizure that night , and was put back on one drug .  . 
two days later , he was his old self again. i guess there are n't many 
medical texts that address the subject of 21 way interactions .  . 

i do n't mean this as a cheap shot at the medical profession .  . it is an 
aspect of hospitals that is very frightening to me. docs seem to believe 
that , because they have close control of you , it 's quite all right to 
take your bodily into their own hands. that control reduces 
the chance that the patient will make a mistake , but health care 
providers can make mistakes too , and mistakes can be deadly under those 
circumstances .  . 

i grant you that sometimes there 's no choice. nevertheless , i suggest 
you procure a list of the drugs your grandmother is getting , and discuss 
it with an independent doc. her problems may not be the effect of haldol 
at all. haldol may have been used validly , or it may have been 
prescribed because other medication confused her , and because the 
hospital normally haldol for the confused elderly .  . 

just my opinion , 

larry  ( obviously not a doc) c. 



from 
subject can i sell my tens unit 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 10 
nntp posting host vm . cc . latech . edu . 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 


sci med people 

can i sell my tens unit or does it have to be sold by a physician or 
other person 

doug 




from (andrew mears ) 
subject sheep in cardiac research 
organization university of technology , sydney 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host iris . bio . uts . edu . au . 
keywords sheep arrhythmias cardiac 


dear news readers , 

is there anyone using sheep models for cardiac research , specifically 
concerned with arrhythmias , pacing or i would like 
to hear from you. 

many thanks , 
andrew 

please email me 

andrew h 61 2 
crc for cardiac technology , uts w 61 2 
st , gore hill f 61 2 
n . s . w . email 


from (stephen montgomery smith) 
subject nose picking 
keywords nose picking 
organization university of missouri 
lines 9 

i have two to ask 

1) does it cause the body any harm if one picks one 's nose for example , 
might it lead to a loss of ability to smell 

2) is it harmful for one to eat one 's nose 

stephen 


from  ( jay keller ) 
subject re proventil inhaler 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 15 

in article  ( rick marsico ) 
writes 

does the proventil inhaler for asthma relief fall into the steroid 
or nonsteroid category looking at the product literature it 's 
not clear. 

non steroid .  . proventil is a brand of , a  . 

regards , 

jay keller 
 ( asthmatic proventil head) 



from  ( jason x640 ) 
subject cancer of the 
organization university of western sydney , 
lines 4 

could someone give me some information on the cause , and 
clinical manifestations and treatment of this type of cancer. 

thank you in advance , jason .  . 

from  ( felix the cat ) 
subject med school admission 
organization public access unix , nyc 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 17 


hi all , ive applied for the class of 93 at quite a number of schools (20) 
and have gotten 13 rejects , 4 interviews and 3 no responses. 
any one know when the heck these people send out their acceptance letters 
according to the med school admissions book supposed to send out 
the number of their class in by mid march .  . whats going on .  .  .  . i 
am losing my sanity checking my mailbox every day. 

also does anyone have some useful alternatives in case i dont get in , i 
kind of looked into chiropractic and podiatry but they really dont 
interest me. thanks. 


felix the cat 
0 0 the wonderful , wonderful cat ! 
@ 
! 

from (n . m .  . humphries ) 
subject re photography 
organization computer science , liverpool university 
lines 31 
nntp posting host goyt . csc . liv . ac . uk . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

thomas wrote 

in article  ( alan morgan ) writes 
in article 
 ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

 . bad example. i'm an atheist .  . 

this is not flame , or abuse , nor do i want to start another thread  ( this 
is , after all , supposed to be about image processing) .  . 

but , to say you 're an atheist is to suggest you have proof there is no god. 

that means that there cannot be any atheists since there is no way that you 
can prove that there is no god. atheists are people who believe that there is no 
god , most not only believe , but also are damn sure that there is n't a god  ( like 
me) .  . 


the cursor , aka nick , , at your service. 

what 's the use of computers they 'll never play why pay money to see 
chess , draw art or make music. jean  . bad films stay home 
intelligence is n't to make no mistakes , but how and see bad tv for 
to make them look good. brecht .  . free. sam  . 


from 
subject re vitamin a and hearing loss 
lines 24 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 
distribution sci 

in article ,  ( claude bowie ) writes 
i heard a news report indicating research showing improved 
hearing in people taking vitamin a. the research showed that new 
growth replaced damaged nerves .  . has anyone heard about 
this 

claude , i 've not heard or read anything that would suggest that vitamin a( 
retinol ) could reverse hearing loss due to nerve  ( damage(usually caused by 
high sound levels , but also occassionally due to severe infection) .  . the 
types of cells that vitamin a are the general cells 
and these cell types are not the ones that function in the ear hearing 
process. the hair cell nerve like cells in the ear may respond 
to vitamin a during cellular  ( differentiation(embryogenesis ) but i do n't 
know if they are still capable of responding in adults. if they are 
capable of responding with new hair growth , this would be a very major 
breakthrough in hearing loss. with all of the medical interest in vitamin 
a , it would not be too surprising if a clinical study was done using 
vitamin a to reverse hearing loss. but with only a news announcement to go 
 ( on(and this type of communication is notoriously bad ) , i ca n't comment on 
your question anymore than i already have. if one study has been done , 
more will need to follow to firm up a link between vitamin a and hearing 
loss if there really is one. 

marty b. 

from  ( julie kangas ) 
subject re is msg sensitivity superstition 
nntp posting host eddie . jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca 
lines 42 

in article  ( prakash das ) writes 
in article  ( julie kangas ) writes 

as for how foods taste if i'm not allergic to msg and i like 
the taste of it , why should n't i use it saying i should n't use 
it is like saying i should n't eat spicy food because my neighbor 
has an ulcer .  . 

julie , it does n't necessarily follow that you should use it  ( msg or 
something else for that matter) simply because you are not allergic 
to it. for example you might not be allergic to  ( animal ) fats , and 
like their taste , yet it does n't follow that you should be using them 
 . msg might have other bad  ( or good , i am not up on 
knowledge of msg) effects on your body in the long run , maybe that 's 
reason enough not to use it. 

perhaps i should quit eating mushrooms , soya beans , and cheese 
which all have msg in them. it occurs naturally .  . 

i'm not going to quit eating something that i like just because 
it might cause me trouble later or causes problems in some 
people. i would much rather avoid stress by not worrying over 
what goes in my mouth and not spending every day reading conflicting 
reports of what is good bad for you. 

i may eat some things in quantities that may not be good for me. 
fine. i 've made my decision and i do n't think it 's appropriate 
for anyone to try to  convert  me. it 's for your own good are 
the most obnoxious and harmful words , imo , in the english  ( or 
any other) language. 


 your example of the ulcer is funny , it is n't an 
appropriate comparison at all. 

i think it is. i get tired of people saying  do n't eat x because 
it 's bad ! ' well , x may not be bad for everyone. and even if 
it is , so what give people all the information but do n't ram 
your decisions down their throats .  . 

julie 
disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

from (dr .  . foo meng how) 
subject how to gain access 
organization foo 
lines 11 

to whomever who can help me , 

i am a doctor from , , malaysia .  . i have recently hooked up my 
private home computer to email via the local telephone company. i am really interested 
in corresponding with other doctors or medical researchers through email. i also hope 
to be able to subscribe to a news network on medicine. 

can someone please tell me what i should do i am completely new to this and have no 
idea about the vast capabilities of email. 

thank you for your attention. 

from 
subject herpes question 
organization university of louisville 
lines 11 
nntp posting host ulkyvx . louisville . edu . 

i am looking for some clarification on a subject that i am trying to find some 
information on. 

how is hsv 2  ( herpes ) transmitted i currently know that it can be transmitted 
during inflammation but , what i am looking for is if it can be transmitted 
during in other periods .  . also , i want to know if you can be accurately tested 
for it while you are not showing 

if you can help i would greatly appreciate it. 



from  ( antonella dalessandro ) 
subject epilepsy and video games 
organization di informatica , universita  di 
lines 23 

there have been a few postings in the past on alleged pathological 
(esp .  . neurological ) conditions induced by playing video games 
(e . g .  .  . apparently , there have been reported several cases of 
epilepsy , due to the flashing of some 
patterns and the strong attention of the  ( young ) players. 
one poster to comp . risks . reported some action from 
the british government. 

a quick search in a database reported the following two published 
references 

1. e.j. hart , nintendo epilepsy , in new england j. of med. ,  ( 322(20 ) , 1473 
2. tk et al. , dark warrior epilepsy , bmj 1982 284 2. 

i would appreciate if someone could post  ( or e mail) 
any reference to  ( preferably published ) further work on the subject. 
any pointer to other information and or to possible technical tools 
 ( if any) for reducing the risks are appreciated. 

many thanks , 

d alessandro , 
italy .  . 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
article i.d. spdcc . 1993apr27 . 
organization s.p. dyer computer consulting , cambridge ma 
lines 24 

in article writes 
neither of these bacteria are with are 
much more important in dealing with the diarrhea problem. 

the diarrhea problem what diarrhea problem first , overgrowth is 
not a frequent problem during antibiotic therapy , and not all cases of 
antibiotic related diarrhea have anything to do with candida .  . but a case 
of vaginal candidiasis or oral thrush after antibiotic therapy is n't going 
to surprise anyone either. that 's not what people are disagreeing with. 

anti fungals , a low carbohydrate diet and vitamin a 
supplementation may all help to minimize the local irritation until the 
good bacteria can take over control of the food supply again and lower the 
ph to basically starve the candida out. 

oh , really where 'd you come up with this you know , it 's really 
appalling to see you try to comment authoritatively on clinical matters 
in a bizarre synthesis from reading reports in the literature. 
bobbing for citations in the research literature is n't medicine. 
i hope you 're not giving the wrong idea to your medical students. 


steve dyer 
major . spdcc . com . aka ima , harvard , , linus , m2c ! spdcc ! dyer 

from  ( franklin antonio ) 
subject re ear thermometer 
nntp posting host qualcom . qualcomm . com . 
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 39 

in article  ( ashwin ram) writes 
does the instrument really work it is supposed to give you a 
fast and accurate temperature reading in the ear. how far in the ear does 
one have to insert the instrument is it worth the 100 it is currently 
selling for 

no , they do not work well. my doctor started using one recently , and i 
thought the concept was so amazing that i bought one too. 

the thing works by reading the infrared emissions from the ear drum .  . 
the ear drum is hotter than the ear canal walls , so you have to point 
the thing very carefully .  . this means tugging on the top of the ear 
to straighten out the ear canal , then inserting the thing snugly , then 
pushing a button. unfortunately , there are many things that can go wrong. 
it is almost impossible to aim the thing correctly when you do it on 
yourself. i get readings which differ from each other by up to 2 degrees , 
and may differ from an oral thermometer by up to 2 degrees. 

i talked to one of the nurses in my doctor 's office recently about this , 
and she said she did n't like them either , for same reasons. she did give 
me some instruction on how to tug on my ear , and what correct insertion 
feels like , but she said she thought it was impossible to do correctly 
on one 's self. she also said that she and other nurses had complained to 
the company about inaccurate readings , and that someone from the company 
had told them to take great care to clean the infrared window at the end 
of the probe with alcohol from time to time. she demonstrated this prior 
to reading my temperature , and managed to get a reading within 0.5 degree 
of the oral temperature i took at home before driving to the dr 's office. 

i have also noticed tha some nurses click the button , then remove the 
probe immediately. this causes wrong readings .  . in my experience , you 
have to leave the probe in a good 1 to 2 seconds after clicking the button 
to get a good measurement .  . the nurse i talked with agreed. i suspect 
that many people do n't realize this , and therefore get bad readings for 
yet another reason. 

in short , it 's a great idea. it may work for some folks , but i believe 
it does n't work well for a person who wants to take his own temperature .  . 


from ( heather ) 
subject re 
organization university of vermont division of emba computer facility 
lines 20 

hi stephen 
ear wax is a healthy way to help prevent ear infections , both by preventing 
a barrier and also with some antibiotic properties .  . too much can block the 
external auditory canal (the hole in the outside of the ear ) and cause some 
hearing problems. it is very simple , and safe , to remove excess wax on your 
own , or at your physician 's office. you can take a syringe (no needles ! ) and 
fill it with 50 warm water  ( cold can cause fainting ) and 50 otc hydrogen 
peroxide .  . then point the ear towards the ceiling ( about 45 degrees up) 
and insert the tip of the syringe  ( helps to have someone else do this ! ) and 
firmly expell the solution. depending on the size of the syringe and the 
tenacity of the wax , this could take several rinses .  . if you place a bowl 
under the ear to catch the water , it will be much drier ) .  . you can buy 
a syringe with a special tip at your local pharmacy , or just use whatever 
you may have. if wax is old , it will be harder , and darker .  . you can try 
adding a few drops of olive oil into the ear during a shower to soften up 
the wax .  . do this for a couple days , then try again. it is also 
safe to point your ear up at the shower head , and allow the water to rinse 
it out. 
good luck 
heather 

from (steven d. litvintchouk ) 
subject re antihistamine for sleep aid 
in reply to 's message of fri , 30 apr 1993 20 28 08 gmt 
nntp posting host rigel . mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 

lines 25 


in article  ( alice sanders ) writes 

but after you have taken antihistamines for a few nights , does n't it start 
to have a paradoxical effect i used to take one every night for 
allergies and could n't figure out why i developed bad insomnia .  . 

insomnia is a known , but relatively infrequent , side effect of 
diphenhydramine .  . 

for most people , this does not occur .  . on the other hand , most people 
can build up a tolerance to an antihistamine with extended use. 
 ( allergy sufferers are often switched from one antihistamine to 
another to avoid this . ) . 



steven 
mitre corporation 
202 burlington road 
bedford , ma 01730 1420 

fone  ( 617)271 ) 
arpa 
uucp linus ! 

from  ( diane mayronne ) 
subject fever blisters 
lines 5 

cause and cures for fever blisters respectfully requested .  . 
thanks ! 
d 

origin another kit (1 109 232 ) 

from (brian kantor ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization the avant of the now , ltd. 
lines 12 
nntp posting host ucsd.edu 

as i recall from my bout with kidney stones , there is n't any 
medication that can do anything about them except relieve the pain. 

either they pass , or they have to be broken up with sound , or they have 
to be extracted surgically .  . 

when i was in , the x ray tech happened to mention that she 'd had kidney 
stones and children , and the childbirth hurt less. 

demerol worked , although i nearly got arrested on my way home when i 
all over the police car parked just outside the er .  . 
brian 

from uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . ! (stephen holland ) 
subject re 
organization gastroenterology univ. of alabama 
lines 26 

in article , 
 ( kiong beng kee ) wrote 


my wife had during the first two months 
of her pregnancy .  . my son (3 months old) , breast fed , 
now has the same symptoms .  . she has been to a skin specialist , 
but he has merely prescribed various medicines  ( one 
each visit as though by trial and error )) 

anti worked on both of them , but looks like 
becoming less effective. 

are there other solutions thanks. 

beng kee 
dept of information systems and computer science 
national university of singapore 
lower kent ridge road , singapore 0511 

food products can get through breast milk and cause allergies in the 
young. since the son is allergic it would be best not to go to 
bottle , but rather eliminate foods from mother 's diet. your 
pediatrician should be able to give you a list of foods to avoid .  . 

good luck , steve 

from  ( marc anderson ) 
subject re discussions on alt . psychoactives . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 38 
nntp posting host spot . colorado . edu . 

in article charles d. nichols writes 
from  ( hanan herzog ) 
subject discussions on alt . psychoactives . 
date 20 apr 1993 19 16 25 gmt 

could the people discussing recreational drugs such as mj , lsd , , etc. , 
take their discussions to alt . drugs . their discussions will receive greatest 
contribution and readership there. the people interested in strictly 
smart drugs (i . e .  . nootropics ) should post to this group. the two groups 
(alt . drugs . alt . have been used lately. 
i do think that alt . psychoactives . is a deceiving name. alt . psychoactives . 
is supposedly the smart drug newsgroup according to newsgroup lists on 
the usenet .  . should we establish an alt . or alt .  ( smart drugs 
nutrients ) i have noticed some posts in sci . med . nutrition . regarding 
smart nutrients .  . we may lower that groups burden as well. 

i beg to disagree with you on this subject. if i recall correctly , 
alt . drugs . was being by posts like how do i grow mj how do i 
use a bong wow , man , i just had the coolest trip etc .  .  .  . there were 
quite a few people out there who were versed in and biology 
who wanted to discuss centrally active at a higher level 
without all the other crap filling the bandwidth .  . i would suggest 
that you proceed to create a newsgroup dedicated to if you 
must have one dedicated to them , and leave alt . psychoactives . to the 
discussion of psychoactives  ( including , which are but a small 
portion of the realm of centrally active substances) .  . 

i was wondering if a group called 'sci . would be relevent .  . 
this would be used for a more formal discussion about 
issues  ( pharmacodynamics , , etc . ) . 

just an informal proposal (i do n't know anything about the net . politics . 
for adding a newsgroup , etc . ) . 

more alt . psychoactives . stuff deleted 

marc 


from donald mackie donald 
subject re insensitive technicians 
organization um anesthesiology 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 141 . 214 . 86 . 38 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d9 . 
x fri , 30 apr 93 22 38 51 gmt 

in article john eyles , 
writes 
friend 's unpleasant experience ct scan deleted 
is there anything i can do about these pigs 

i 'd suggest writing a detailed letter about the incident to the 
hospital administrator .  . specify the date and time. if possible the 
names of the technicians .  . 

send a copy to the under whose care your friend was 
admitted .  . i say this because , though your friend has no argument 
with the doctor , i have found that administrators sometimes ignore 
complaints until the patient becomes  . clinicians may not 
have been informed of the complaint and are very surprised to find 
themselves named in a suit. 

if there is no response within a week send a follow up letter. 
attach a photocopy of the original letter. do this weekly until you 
do get a response. 

cat scans are non invasive but they can be very scary. the scanner 
can be a bad place for the  . there was an interesting 
study in the bmj , about 10 years ago , which found that around 10 of 
people who had cat scans found it so unpleasant that they would 
never have another. this compares with 15 who said the same about a 
lumbar puncture .  . 

don mackie his opinions 

from 
subject biological alchemy 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 103 
important info it is humbly suggested by robert 's fans that you redirect all 
followups into alt . fan . robert . mcelwaine . , or at least consider doing so. 



biological alchemy 

( another form of cold fusion ) 

( alternative heavy element creation in universe ) 

a very simple experiment can demonstrate  ( prove ) the 
fact of biological transmutations  ( reactions like mg o 
ca , si c ca , k h ca , n2 co , etc . ) . , as 
described in the book biological transmutations by louis 
, 1972 edition is best. , and in chapter 17 of the 
book the secret life of plants by peter and 
christopher bird , 1973 

(1) obtain a good sample of plant seeds , all of the same 
kind. some kinds might work better that others. 

(2) divide the sample into two groups of equal weight 
and number. 

(3) sprout one group in distilled water on filter paper 
for three or four weeks. 

(4) separately both groups. 

(5) weigh the residue from each group. the residue of 
the group will usually weigh at least 
several percent more than the other group. 

(6) analyze quantitatively the residue of each group for 
mineral content. some of the mineral atoms of the 
group have been into heavier 
mineral elements by fusing with atoms of oxygen , 
hydrogen , carbon , nitrogen , etc .  .  . 


biological transmutations occur routinely , even in our 
own bodies .  . 

ingesting a source of organic silicon  ( silicon with 
carbon , such as extract , or radishes ) can speed 
healing of broken bones via the reaction si c ca ,  ( much 
faster than by merely ingesting the calcium  . 

some mineral deposits in the ground are formed by micro 
organisms fusing together atoms of silicon , carbon , nitrogen , 
oxygen , hydrogen , etc .  .  . 

the two reactions si c ca , by micro organisms , 
cause stone sickness in statues , building bricks , etc .  .  . 

the reaction n2 co , by very hot iron , 
creates a carbon monoxide poison hazard for welder operators 
and people near  ( even properly sealed ones) .  . 

some bacteria can even neutralize radioactivity ! 


all of these things and more happen , in spite of the 
currently accepted laws of physics ,  ( including the law 
which says that atomic fusion requires extremely high 
temperatures and pressures . ) . 



biological transmutations , and their applications in 
chemistry , physics , biology , ecology , medicine , 
nutrition , , geology , 
1st edition , 
by c. louis , active member of new york academy of 
science , 
1972 , 
163 pages , illustrated , 
swan house publishing co. , 
p.o. box 638 , 
binghamton , ny 


the secret life of plants , 
by peter and christopher bird , 
1973 , 
402 pages , 
harper row , 
new york 
chapters 19 and 20 are about radionics . entire book is 
fascinating ! 


for more information , answers to your questions , etc. , 
please consult my cited sources (the two books) .  . 



un altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
important information is encouraged .  . 


robert e. mcelwaine 
b.s. , physics and astronomy , uw ec 



from nigel allen 
subject results of heart attack study to be released friday 
reply to nigel allen 
organization canada remote systems 
distribution sci 
lines 61 


here is a press release from medical science communications .  . 

results of heart attack study to be released friday 
to assignment desk , medical writer 
contact jim augustine of medical science communication , 
703 644 , or steve hull or tracy , 
800 477 or april 29 30 , 202 393 2000 or 
202 662 (j . w .  . marriott) 

news advisory 

results of the largest heart attack study ever undertaken , 
the global utilization of and t pa for 
coronary arteries trial  ( gusto ) , will be presented friday , april 
30 , at the clinical research meeting. 
a press conference will be held at 12 30 p.m. 
evaluates the most aggressive emergency room treatment 
strategies available to clear blocked heart arteries and restore 
blood flow to the heart , a process called  . the 
strategies compared in use powerful drugs to break 
up blood clots in heart vessels quickly and prevent clots from 
recurring .  . these strategies have never been compared directly in a 
large scale clinical trial until  . the results are expected to 
have an important impact on heart attack treatment worldwide .  . 
the press conference will be held at two locations live at the 
national press club , main lounge , 13th floor , 529 14th st. , n.w. , 
washington d.c. , and via satellite at the hotel , 145 w. 
street , 4th floor , new york city , between broadway and 6th avenue .  . 
results will be presented by eric m.d. , study 
chairman , professor and chairman of the department of cardiology at 
the cleveland clinic foundation robert , m.d. , clinical 
director , coordinating center and associate professor of 
medicine at duke university medical center and allan ross , m.d. , 
coordinator of the and professor and 
director of the division of cardiology at the george washington 
university medical center. 

editorial notes attention television the press conference may be 
viewed in its entirety via satellite starting at 12 30 p.m. (edt) 
c band 302 , transponder 2v  ( dual audio 6.2 , 6 . 8) . or , 
transponder 8. following the press conference , there will be a news 
package and b roll feed. camera ready illustrations also will be 
available at the press conference. 
telephone hook up to the press conference is planned. 
availability is limited please call mcs for more information. 
for reporters who will be at the sheraton washington attending the 
clinical research meeting on friday morning , transportation 
will be provided to the press conference. the bus will depart at 
12 p.m. it also will be available for return to the sheraton 
after the press conference. 
for more information , contact steve hull or tracy of mcs , 
for the study group , at 800 477 or at the j.w. marriott 
april 29 to april 30 at 202 393 2000 or 202 662  . for more 
information about the clinical research meeting , contact jim 
augustine of medical science communications at 703 644  . 

30 

canada remote systems toronto , ontario 
416 629 7000 629 7044 

from 
subject cs gas and allergic response ques .  . 
lines 6 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

this question derives from the waco incident 
could cs ( gas ) particles create an allergic response which would 
result in and especially in children. 

dnc in ok. 
osu com will disavow my opinion , and my existence , if necessary. 

from 
subject re robert 's biological alchemy 
lines 106 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

robert , 

i'm so glad that you posted your biological alchemy discussion. i 've 
been compared to the famous robert mcelwaine by some readers of sci .  . med. 
i did n't know how to respond since i had not seen one of your  ( posts(just 
like i have n't read the yeast connection ) .  . 

let me just start by stating that the authors of the cold fusion papers of 
recent years are now in scientific  ( exile(i believe that one has actually 
left the  . scientific fraud is rare .  . i'm still not sure that if a 
review of the research notes of the cold fusion scientists actually 
proved fraud or just very shoddy experimentation .  . 

your sources do not seem to be research articles. they are more like lay 
texts designed to pique human interest in a subject  ( area(just like the food 
combining and life extension  . robert , i try to keep an open mind. 
but some things i just ca n't  ( buy(one is taking sod orally to prevent 
oxidative damage in the body) .  . 

your experiment , if conducted by readers of this news group , would prove 
that you are  ( right(more ash after seed than before) .  . unless you 
use a muffle and obtain a very high  ( temperature(above 600 degrees 
i believe) , you will get organic residue in the ash .  . even the residue in 
commercial incinerators contains organic residue .  . i remember doing this 
kind of experiment in my organic chemistry in college but i 
could n't find a temperature for mineral ash formation so i'm really 
guessing at 600 degrees f , it may actually be much higher. the point is 
that no one in their home could ever get a high enough temperature to 
produce only a mineral ash .  . they also could not measure the minerals so 
they could only weigh the ash and find out that you appear to be correct. 

chemical reactions abound in our body , in our atmosphere , in our water and 
in our soil .  . are these fusion reactions yes many of them do involve 
fusing oxygen , nitrogen and sulfur to both organics and  . do we 
really have the transformation of silicone to calcium if carbon is fused with 
silicon not in my book robert .  . 

silicon is the most abundant mineral on our planet. i 've seen speculation 
that man could have evolved to be a silicon based rather than a carbon 
based life form. i like reading science fiction , as many people do. but i 
know enough about  ( biochemistry(and nutrition ) to be  ( able(in most cases) to 
separate the fiction from the fact. 

silicon may be one of the trace elements that turns out to be essential in 
humans. we have several grams of the stuff in our body. what 's it doing 
there only the lord knows right now. but i will tell you what i do know 
about silicon and why , as you state , it helps bone  ( healing(and it is not 
because silicon is transformed into  . 

almost all of the silicon in the human body is found in the connective 
 ( tissue(collagen and  . there have been studies published which show 
that the very high silicon content in may be an important protective 
factor against  ( atherosclerosis(the higher the silicon content in , 
the more resistant the is to a an age related loss of 
which may play a role in the increase in blood pressure that is often seen as 
part of the process in  . 

for bone fracture healing , the first step is a matrix into which 
calcium and phosphate are pumped by  . a high level of silicon 
in the diet seems to speed up this matrix formation .  . this first step in the 
bone healing process seems to be the hardest for some people to get going. 
currents have been used in an attempt to get the matrix forming 
cells oriented in the right direction so that the matrix can be formed in 
the  ( gap(or gaps ) between the ends of the broken bone .  . a vitamin c deficiency 
(by slowing formation as well as causing the of 
defective collagen ) does slow down both bone and wound healing .  . zinc is also 
another big player in bone and wound healing .  . and so is  ( silicon(in an 
undetermined role that most likely matrix formation and not 
transformation of silicon to  . for you to take this bone healing 
observation and use it as proof that silicon is transformed into 
calcium is an interesting little trick. 

but robert , i have the same problem myself when i read the lay  ( press(and 
yes even some scientific  . is the explanation reasonable without 
a very good science knowledge base , you and most readers of this news group 
are flying  ( blind(you have to take it on faith because you do n't know any 
better) .  . 

if the explanation seems to make sense to me based on my knowledge base , 
i'm inclined to consider  ( it(this usually means trying to find other sources 
that come to the same conclusion) .  . if the  ( idea(like a candida bloom ) seems 
to make sense to me , i tend to pursue it as long as any advice that i'm 
going to give is n't going to really mess somebody up. if this makes us 
kindred souls robert , then i guess i 'll have to live with that label. 

for the physicians who have decided to read my response to robert 's 
interesting post , i hope that you saw the segment on the pediatric 
neurosurgeon last night on u.s. tv. i ca n't remember the network or his 
 ( name(like many nights , i was on my computer and my wife was watching tv in 
our den where i have my computer setup) .  . this neurosurgeon takes kids with 
brain tumors that everyone else has given up on and he uses unconventional 
 ( treatments(his own  . he says that he has a 70 success rate. the one 
case that i heard him discussing would normally use  ( radiation(conventional 
 . he was going to go in and cut. you guys complain about the 
cost of the anti fungals .  . what do you think the cost difference between 
radiation treatment and surgery is guys 

i'm going to ask you guys one more time , why blast a physician who takes the 
chronic sinus  ( sufferer(like jon ) and the chronic gi  ( sufferer(like elaine ) 
and tries to help them using unconventional treatments treatments which 
do not result in  ( death(like those that the neurosurgeon uses ) .  . is it 
because candida blooms are not life threatening while brain tumors are 
how about quality of life guys may the candida demon never cross your 
sinus cavity or  ( gut(if it does , you may feel differently about the issue) .  . 

marty b. 

from (michael covington ) 
subject re legality of placebos 
nntp posting host aisun3 . ai . uga . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 18 

in article  ( jack hamilton ) writes 

actually , i do n't know know anyone who has actually gotten a sugar pill . 
... 

it 's more common to prescribe a drug which is effective for something , just 
not for what you have. antibiotics for viral infections are the most 
common such placebo .  . 

and presumably this is a matter of degree it must be common to prescribe 
a drug that has some chance of giving some benefit , but not a high 
probability of it , and or not a large benefit .  . right 


michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

from (stephen montgomery smith) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
keywords pregnency sex 
organization university of missouri 
lines 21 

in (mike quigley ) writes 

in article i write 
when i was a school boy , my biology teacher told us of an incident 
in which a couple were very passionate without actually having 
sexual intercourse .  . somehow the girl became as sperm 
cells made their way to her through the clothes via  . 

was my biology teacher misinforming us , or do such incidents actually 
occur 

 . here we go again. and one wonders why the american 
education system is in such abysmal shape 

actually , this was a school in england .  . this same biology teacher also 
told me that the reason that stars twinkle is that the small spot of 
light on the retina sometimes falls between the light cells. 
so his info was suspect from the start. 

stephen 


from ( chul hee cho ) 
subject prohibit for spiral meningitis 
organization ibm korea 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software usenet 3.1 
lines 5 

i like to know how effective prohibit is to prevent spiral meningitis 
for a child who is five years old. i heard it 's from canada .  . 
what sort of side effects , etc. 

chul hee cho 

from  ( jay keller ) 
subject re can men get yeast infections 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 12 

can men get yeast infections spread them what kind of symptoms 

my ent doctor told me that it is not uncommon for the wife to get a vaginal 
yeast infection after the husband takes antibiotics .  . in fact this recently 
happened to my wife. explanation is that the antibiotics kill the yeast 's 
competition , they then thrive and increased yeast around the penis spread 
the infection during intercourse .  . i was on ceclor for 30 days , then my wife 
got the yeast .  . 

jay keller 



from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re is msg sensitivity superstition 
organization hst wide field planetary camera 
lines 29 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sol1 . gps . caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( mary e. allison ) writes 
which was why i started checking every time i got sick. and every 
time i got sick msg was somehow involved in one of the food products. 

which points up the studies made by amateurs did you also check every time 
you did not get sick no , you say why not check every thing you eat when 
you do n't get sick and find out how much msg you 're actually consuming 

all that 's needed now is that final step , a double blind study done 
on humans. there is n't even an ethical question about possible 
harm , as this is a widely used and approved food additive .  . 

but some say that only 2 of the population has a problem with msg 
some say it 's more like 20 but let 's say that it 's 5 . how many 
people would have to be tested that would have a problem also i 
know i have a problem with it , and i would n't volunteer for a test. 

if you knew enough about what the test was about to decide that you did n't want 
to participate because it involved msg , you 'd 've already made yourself 
ineligible  ( since msg is detectable by  . how can anybody be so clueless 
as to what double blind studies are all about 

carl j lydick internet nsi sol1 carl 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host edith 
organization vanderbilt university school of engineering , nashville , tn , usa 
lines 23 

flame on 

reading through the posts about kirlian  ( whatever spelling) 
photography i could n't help but being slightly disgusted by the 
narrow minded , i know it all , i do n't believe what i ca n't see or 
measure attitude of many people out there. 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

i am convinced that it is a serious mistake to close your mind to 
something , anything , simply because it does n't fit your current frame 
of reference. history shows that many great people , great scientists , 
were people who kept an open mind and were ridiculed by sceptics .  . 

especially the usa should be grateful after all , columbus did not 
drop off the edge of the earth. 

flame off , or end sermon ) 

alex 

from 
subject re and milli 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 
lines 24 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 

in article , (g t clark ) writes 
 ( rebecca snyder ) writes 

does anyone know how and are if someone 
was , how soon would medical treatment be needed , and what would 
be liable to happen to the person 

 ( just for clarification i have not been by one of these , but my 
house seems to be infested , and i want to know 'just in ) . 

rebecca 


, i understand , are vegetarian , and therefore almost 
certainly will not bite and are not poisonous .  . are 
, and although i do n't have any absolute knowledge on this , i 
would tend to think that you 're in no danger from anything but a 
concerted assault by several million of them. 

g. 
not sure of this but i think some cause a toxic reaction  ( sting 
so i would not assume that they are not dangerous merely on the basis of 
, after all wasps are vegetarian too. 
dnc .  . 

from  ( claude bowie ) 
subject vitamin a and hearing loss 
keywords hearing loss vitamin a 
article i.d. banana . 
distribution sci 
organization federal express corp. 
lines 11 

i heard a news report indicating research showing improved 
hearing in people taking vitamin a. the research showed that new 
growth replaced damaged nerves .  . has anyone heard about 
this 

thanks , 
claude 

claude bowie voice  ( 901)797 ) 6332 
federal express corp fax  ( 901)797 ) 6388 
box 727 , memphis , tn email 

from  ( len ramirez ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host 147 . 145 . 69 . 20 . 
reply to 
organization lsi logic corporation 
lines 2 

very good. 


from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re  ( cholistasis(sp ) fat free diet pregnancy ! ! 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 85 

 ( jacquelin aldridge ) writes 

i decided to come back and amend this so it quotes me and has added 
comments .  .  .  . 

 ( g ) writes 

hi , 

it started to hurt when i lay on my right side , and then it hurt 
no matter what position i was in. next , i noticed that when i 
ate greasy or fatty foods i felt like my entire abdomen had 
turned to stone , and the pain in the area got worse. however if 
i ate sauerkraut or vinegar or something to  cut  the fat it 
was n't as much of a problem. 

so the doctor says i have , and that i should avoid 
fatty foods. this makes sense , and because i was already aware 
of what seemed to me this cause and effect relationship i have 
been avoiding these foods on my own. but i'm still able to eat 
foods with ricotta cheese for instance and other low fat foods. 

but doc wants me to be on a non fat diet. this means no meat 
except fish and chicken w o skin (i do this anyway) .  . no nuts , 
fried food , cheese etc. i am allowed skim milk. she said i 
should avoid anything sweet (e . g .  . bananas) .  . also i must only 
have one serving of something high in carbohydrates a day ( 
potatoes , pasta , rice ) ! she said i ca n't even cook vegetables in 
a little bit of oil and that i should eat vegetables raw or 
steamed .  . i'm concerned because i understand you need to have 
some fat in your diet to help in the digestive process. and if 

g 

for one week , she probably wants to see how you react to the diet. if it 
changes anything. 

you can live on the diet but you need to up your non fat calories .  . where 
before you had a pat of butter , now you need a medium apple  ( probably microwave 
 . smaller meals but more of them. not terrific amounts of meat , it 's 
hard to digest anyway. first , even fish , fowl and breads have fat. second , 
the body will make fat out of carbohydrates if it needs them. third , your 
body , like most peoples , was n't bred to live on a high fat , modern diet. 
if you read texts about ancient and people you will read about 
the luxury of eating fat , how people enjoyed it. this was because it was so 
rare .  . even cows did n't put out nearly the amount of in milk that 
they do now. 

for comfort and to make the carbohydrate meal last longer eat pasta or 
rice which give their calories up slowly rather than bread or corn .  . maybe 
smaller meals as you may be getting less room in the stomach area. is the 
baby still coming up. is it starting to push or rub under your ribs how 
tight are your clothes. you should n't be wearing any clothing that compresses 
your middle. be sure not to suck in your stomach when sitting , again it 
will put pressure on the digestive tract .  . 

try laying on your sides , back , 
and stay in positions for the many hours you are being inactive .  . 
easier on your legs  ( circulation ) as well. you might try letting the baby 
turn or at least not be forced under the ribs during the last months. 
when you are it 's easy for that baby to end up right under the 
diaphram , especially if you have tight abdominal muscles .  . if i had my 
second one to do over again i think i 'd have tried to loosen up since he 
did n't turn sideways until late and the relief was enormous .  . 


maybe this doctor does have a thing about weight gain in pregnancy or maybe 
she just all her patients this way. especially if she 's young. 
but this whatever problem that might be coming up is something 
to be avoided if possible. you do n't want to become ill with it while you 
are pregnant. if you are lucky you can work on getting rid of it after the 
baby. (it is said that doctors have less surgery than the rest 
of the population , a good part of it is that they are willing to do the 
dieting , etc that helps them avoid surgery. also , i do n't think the surgery 
lets a person go back to eating a high fat diet. ) 

nausea , etc. can vary from person to person and with each pregnancy .  . my 
first pregnancy was miserable .  . during the second i had very little trouble. 
some articles have said that women with nausea had a statistically better 
chance of carrying their baby.  ( grain of salt here) 

good luck 

jackie 


from (george kimeldorf ) 
subject re opinions on allergy  ( hay fever ) shots 
nntp posting host heath . utdallas . edu . 
organization univ. of texas at dallas 
lines 20 

in article () writes 

i have just started taking allergy shots a month ago and is 
still wondering what i am getting into. a friend of mine told 
me that the body change every 7 years  ( whatever that means) 
and i do n't need those building allergy shots at all. 
does that make sense to anyone 

btw , can someone summarize what is in the consumer report 
february , 1988 article 

i am reluctant to summarize it , for then you will have my opinion of what the 
article says , rather than your own opinion. i think it is important enough 
for you to take the trouble to go to the library and get the article. the 
title is the shot doctors and it appears on pages 96 100 of the february , 
1988 issue of consumer reports. the following excerpt from the article may 
entice you to read the whole article 
too often , shots are overused .  .  .  .  .  . when you put a patient on 
shots , you 've got an for life , a former president of 
the american academy of allergy and immunology told cu .  . page 97 

from  ( cindy windham ) 
subject what 's a bone scan 
nntp posting host 128 . 200 . 129 . 76 . 
organization university advancement , university of calif. , irvine 
lines 7 

my mother has been advised to have a bone scan performed what is this 
procedure for , and is it painful she 's been having leg and back pain 
which her gp said was  . her oncologist listened to her symptoms 
and said that it did n't sound like , and she should get a bone 
scan .  . 

cindy w. 

from  ( lori k herold ) 
subject re kidney stones 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host e40 008 9 . mit . edu . 
keywords kidney infection 

if the student has a kidney infection , she ought to be on antibiotics .  . 
kidney infections left can cause permanent damage to 
the kidneys .  . i was hospitalized with a kidney infection a while ago 
and i was very sick. 

in article ,  ( alice sanders ) writes 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
also , she is told that are 300 ! surgery patients ahead of her 
and that they cannot do surgery until august or so. it is now april .  .  .  . 
she is supposed to rest a lot and drink fluids .  . but she has to go to 
classes. she wonders why they have given her no medicine. she plans to 


from lawrence curcio 
subject athlete 's heart 
organization doctoral student , public policy and management , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 

i 've read that exercise makes the heart pump more blood at a stroke , and 
that it also makes the heart slower , in order to make up for the 
greater volume. my internist , who diagnosed my av block , slow heart rate 
and pvc 's , told me something different. she says that heart rate is 
associated with the electrical properties of the hear muscle , not its 
size. exercise lowers heart rate and increases stroke volume , but the 
effects are unrelated except for their common source. the av block , she 
asserts , is another electrical effect , which is even when 
exercise is  . pvc 's are also common in runners .  . 

so my ekg puts me in a class with trained athletes and also with heart 
patients .  . is n't that strange , though are there any not so beneficial 
aspects to athlete 's heart is it all good 

not worried , just curious , 
larry c. 

from doyle  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re umbilical hernia 
article i.d. blue . 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 21 

in article  ( gary taylor ) writes 
could anyone give me information on umbilical  . 
the patient is over weight and has a protruding hernia .  . 

surgery may be risky due to the obesity .  . 
what other remedies could i try 


unless the patient has a very short life expectancy , the possible complications 
from a hernia that has n't been repaired far outweigh the risks of surgery. 
the risks of surgery , anyway , are minimal .  . unless they are exceedingly large , 
can be fixed under local anesthesia .  . 
do n't forget that are one the leading causes of small bowel obstruction .  . 
and the smaller the hernia is , the higher the chances that a loop of bowel will 
become incarcerated or  . 




howard doyle 
doyle 

from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject meaning of atheism , agnosticism  ( was photography ) 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 23 
nntp posting host saltillo . cs . utexas . edu . 


sci . med . removed from followups .  .  ( and i do not read any of the 
other newsgroups . ) . 


in article  ( grant edwards ) writes 
as a self proclaimed atheist my position is that i believe that 
there is no god. i do n't claim to have any proof. i interpret 
the agnostic position as having no beliefs about god 's existence .  . 

that 's fine. these words have multiple meanings .  . 

as a self proclaimed atheist , i believe that some conceptions 
of god are inconsistent or in conflict with fact , and i lack 
belief in other conceptions of god merely because there is no 
reason for me to believe in these. i usually use the word 
agnostic to mean someone who believes that the existence of 
a god is unknown inherently unknowable .  . note that this is a 
positive belief that is quite different from not believing in a 
god i do not believe in a god , but i also do not believe the 
agnostic claim .  . 

russell 

from  ( gary skiles ) 
subject re deadly 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 39 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article (robert e. schmieg ) writes 

partial deletion 

potentially fatal from hepatic necrosis .  . if i recall 
correctly , the metabolism of at high doses 
involves n to n , which 
is a highly reactive intermediate , which then reacts with 
groups of proteins and  . when hepatic 
is used up , this intermediate then starts 
attacking the hepatic proteins with resulting hepatic 
necrosis .  . the insidious part of toxicity is the 
delay (2 4 days) between ingestion and clinical signs of liver 
damage. this is not a nice way to die. 

nice explanation except that it is n't n that causes the 
formation of the n p  ( napqi ) , but rather a 
direct two electron oxidation .  . in addition , there is one school of thought 
that contends that oxidative stress rather than of protein 
is the more critical factor in the of  . 

as far as drug go , has and continues to be one 
of the most intensely scrutinized .  . an excellent recent review of the topic 
can be found in 

, and van de  . 
molecular aspects of induced and its 
mechanism based prevention .  . drug metabolism reviews ,  ( 24(3 ) 367 
407 (1992) .  . 

 ( acetaminophen is known as in europe) 

i could n't agree with you more about what an awful way to die a toxic 
dose of causes .  . i 've heard a number of descriptions by 
physicians associated with poison control centers , and they describe a 
very painful death. 

gary 


from (the thespian ) 
subject re request gyro  ( souvlaki ) sauce 
article i.d. rat . 1993apr26 . 
organization humanity 
lines 13 
nntp posting host csc . calpoly . edu . 

i got this recipe from a on the greek island of  . 
they use it as a spread for bread there is excellent on 
gyro 's as well. by the way , the actual name is  . 
here is the recipe 

yoghurt , chopped garlic , peeled chopped cucumber , salt , white 
pepper , a little olive oil and a little vinegar .  . 

i would love to hear of any other good greek recipes out there. 


jon walker 


from  ( nigel ballard ) 
subject re mind machines 
distribution world 
organization infamy inc. 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 29 


i use a mind machine as bought in the usa last year. although 
it 's no wonder cure for what ail 's you. it is however very good at 
stopping you thinking ! 

sound strange well suppose you 're tired and want to go to bed sleep. 
but your head is full of problems to resolve , you lay in the 
bed , and quickly they all come to the surface , churning around from one 
unresolved thing to the next and then back again. been there , bought 
the t shirt 

i slip on the and select a soothing pattern of light sound , and 
quickly i just ca n't concentrate on the previous stuff. your brain 's 
cache kinda get 's flushed , and you start on a whole new set of stuff. 

a useful addition , is the facility to feed the output of a tape player 
or cd through the box , i use new age elevator to enhance the 
overall effect. 

better than a pill .  . 

cheers nigel 


nigel ballard int i'm pink 
bournemouth uk cis 100015 . 2644 . radio therefore i'm spam 




from (g t clark ) 
subject re and milli 
lines 19 

 ( rebecca snyder ) writes 

does anyone know how and are if someone 
was , how soon would medical treatment be needed , and what would 
be liable to happen to the person 

 ( just for clarification i have not been by one of these , but my 
house seems to be infested , and i want to know 'just in ) . 

rebecca 


, i understand , are vegetarian , and therefore almost 
certainly will not bite and are not poisonous .  . are 
, and although i do n't have any absolute knowledge on this , i 
would tend to think that you 're in no danger from anything but a 
concerted assault by several million of them. 

g. 

from ( ) 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
organization open systems solutions inc. 
lines 53 
nntp posting host nym . ossi . com . 

 ( ravi or menon ) writes 

vu . uiuc . edu . () writes 

the cancer thing has been completely  .  . she . must be 
going to school on a south pacific island. tell her to check the journal 
or urology for circumcision articles. i remember at least 1 on an old 
jewish man  ( cut at birth) who developed cancer .  .  .  . i . mean , if the 
cancer risk was that great , the europe who have been circumcising like 
crazy , too. teaching a boy how to keep his clean is the issue a 
little proper goes a long way americans are just too hung up on 
the penis to consider cleaning it that 's just way too much like 
 . so you have surgical intervention that is basically 
unnecessary .  . 

peter 
university of illinois at urbana champaign 

as i recall , it is a statistical anomaly because of the sample involved in the studies. 
i am certain that if it were true the europeans would be cutting kids right left. 

first off , use some decent terms if ya do n't mind. this is sci . med . , not 
alt . sex .  . 

secondly , how absolutely bogus to assume that american 's are just too hung 
up on the penis .  .  .  . blah . , blah . i think most american 's do n't care about 
anything so as that. they just think it looks nicer . ask 
a few of them and see what response you get. others still opt for 
circumcision due to religious traditions and beliefs .  . some think it is 
easier to clean. still others do it because daddy was . 

i think alot do it blindly because dad had it done. but there are many 
who get into it with the bogus cancer thing. awhile back some 
quack told a friend of mine that it would help prevent aids .  . 

yeah .  .  . right . !  ( sarchasm ) 

dont  be so naive as to think american 's are afraid of sexuality .  . 

oh yeah 

scene navy boot camp 

di son , you awful ! dont you ever clean that thing 
recruit no sir ! 
di why the hell not ! 
recruit your not to touch down there 
di why 
recruit cause thats the eye of god down there , an  your not s posed to touch it .  .  .  . 

this did not happen 40 years ago , it happened 2 years ago. 

i think americans are quite hung up about sex and the involved plumbing ! 

from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject sweet 's syndrome 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 28 


my brother 's affine has recently been diagnosed with sweet 's 
syndrome .  . also called steroid resistant sweet 's syndrome .  . 

this syndrome started after she had had iodine 131 treatment for 
 . she 'd been reluctant to have treatment for the 
for many years and apparently started to show 
from it. 

i understand that she may still be testing high in thyroid level 
but she 's is n't being treated by an endocrinologist .  . her previous 
endocrinologist out when she entered the hospital. she entered the 
hospital because of the sweet 's syndrome symptoms  ( skin  . 

i 've looked through the last two years of medline and did n't find an 
abstract mentioning a correlation between thyroid and sweets .  . . 

i checked a handbook which said that sweet 's was associated with leukemia .  . 

i 'd like a for experts who are in new york city or who travel 
to new york city. for the sweets and perhaps for the endocrinology .  . 

any information that might help. apparently there has n't been much 
improvement in her condition over the past several months. 

jackie 



from (david dodell ) 
subject medical news part 3 4 
reply to (david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 707 

cut here 

once a year .  .  . for . a lifetime video kit. this kit 
includes a 25 minute vhs videotape that presents common 
misconceptions about  . it tells of the 
benefits gains by the early detection of breast cancer. 
jane and are the  . kit 
includes a guide , poster , flyer , and pamphlets on 
 . this kit is available directly by writing 
to modern , 5000 park street north , st. petersburg , fl 
 . 



additional resources 


combined health information database  . a computerized 
bibliographic database developed and managed by agencies of 
the u.s. public health service. it contains references to 
health information and health education resources. the 
database provides bibliographic citations and abstracts for 
journal articles , books , reports , pamphlets , , 
product descriptions , hard to find information sources , and 
health promotion and education programs under way in state 
and local health departments and other locations .  . in 
addition , provides source and availability information 
for these materials , so that users may obtain them directly .  . 

at present , there are twenty one on  . the 
national cancer institute created the cancer patient 
education in 1990. it serves as a resource for the 
user who is interested in identifying patient education 
programs for specific cancer patient populations , as well as 
for the user who is trying to locate educational resources 
available for patient or family cancer education. citations 
include the contact person at cancer centers , so the user 
can follow up directly with the appropriate person. 

to access , check with your local library. most medical 
school , university , hospital , and public libraries subscribe 
to commercial database vendors .  . 

medical newsletter page 28 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 


final report an integrated oncology workstation  ( revised 
5 92) .  . this book provides a conceptual overview of what a 
clinical information system for practicing might 
include a database of electronic patient chart records 
combined with access to a knowledge base of information 
resources such as pdq , , and medline an 
integration of data and knowledge combined to create a 
clinical oncology workstation .  . the concept was developed 
as a means to assist the oncologist and his or her office 
staff in the daily management of patient care and clinical 
trials .  . this book can be obtained by contacting dr. 
robert , project officer , computer communications 
branch , building 82 , room 201 , bethesda , md 20892 .  . 

scientific information services of the national cancer 
institute .  .  ( 91  . this booklet from the international 
cancer information center  ( icic ) describes each product 
or service , including scientific journals  ( journal of the 
national cancer institute and nci monographs ) , specialized 
current awareness publications  ( cancergrams , and oncology 
overviews ) , and online databases  ( pdq and  . to 
obtain copies of the booklet , write to international cancer 
information center , dept. , national cancer institute , 
bldg. 82 , rm. 123 , bethesda , maryland 20892 or fax your 
request to 301 480  . 



















medical newsletter page 29 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

publications for patients available from the nci (1 93) 

free copies of the following patient education materials are available  ( in 
single copy or bulk ) by calling the nci 's publication ordering service , 1 800 
4 cancer. 


cancer prevention 

chew or snuff is real bad stuff. this brochure , designed 
for seventh and eighth graders , describes the health and social 
effects of using smokeless tobacco products. when fully opened , 
the brochure can be used as a poster. 

clearing the air a guide to quitting smoking .  . this 
pamphlet , designed to help the smoker who wants to quit , offers a 
variety of approaches to cessation .  . 24 pages 

diet , nutrition cancer prevention the good news. this 
booklet provides an overview of dietary guidelines that may 
assist individuals in reducing their risks for some cancers .  . it 
identifies certain foods to choose more often and others to 
choose less often in the context of a total health promoting 
diet. 16 pages 

why do you smoke this pamphlet contains a self test to 
determine why people smoke and suggests alternatives and 
substitutes that can help them stop. 


early detection 


breast exams what you should know. this pamphlet provides 
answers to questions about breast cancer screening methods , 
including , the medical checkup , breast self 
examination , and future technologies .  . includes instructions for 
breast self examination .  . 10 pages 

cancer tests you should know about a guide for people 65 
and over. this pamphlet describes the cancer tests important for 
people age 65 and older. it informs men and women of the exams 
they should be requesting when they schedule with their 
doctors .  . it provides a checklist for men and women to record 
when the cancer tests occur , and it describes the steps to follow 

medical newsletter page 30 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

should cancer be found. 14 pages 

do the right thing get a  . this brochure targets 
black women age 40 or older. it describes the importance of 
regular in the early detection of breast cancer. it 
states the nci guidelines for  . 

once a year for a lifetime. this brochure targets all women 
age 40 or older. it describes the importance of regular 
in the early detection of breast cancer. it states 
the nci guidelines for  . 

questions and answers about breast lumps .  . this pamphlet 
describes some of the most common noncancerous breast lumps and 
what can be done about them. includes instructions for breast 
self examination .  . 22 pages 

questions and answers about choosing a facility .  . 
this brochure lists questions to ask in selecting a quality 
facility .  . also discusses typical costs and coverage. 

testicular self examination .  . this pamphlet contains 
information about risks and symptoms of testicular cancer and 
provides instructions on how to perform testicular self 
examination .  . 

the pap test it can save your life ! this easy to read 
pamphlet tells women the importance of getting a pap test. it 
explains who should request one , how often it should be done , and 
where to go to get a pap test. 


general 


research reports. in depth reports covering current 
knowledge of the causes and prevention , symptoms , detection and 
diagnosis , and treatment of various types of cancer. individual 
reports are available on the following topics 

bone marrow transplantation 
cancer of the colon and rectum 
cancer of the lung 
cancer of the pancreas 
melanoma 

medical newsletter page 31 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

oral cancers 

the immune system how it works. this booklet , written at 
a high school level , explains the human immune system for the 
general public. it describes the sophistication of the body 's 
immune responses , the impact of immune disorders , and the 
relation of the immune system to cancer therapies present and 
future. 28 pages 


what you need to know about cancer. this series of 
pamphlets discusses symptoms , diagnosis , treatment , emotional 
issues , and questions to ask the doctor. includes glossary of 
terms and other resources. individual pamphlets are available on 
the following topics 

bladder 
bone 
brain 
breast 

colon and rectum 
dysplastic nevi 

hodgkin 's disease 
kidney 
larynx 
lung 
melanoma 
multiple 
non hodgkin 's 
oral cancers 
ovary 
pancreas 
prostate 
skin 

uterus 


patient education 

drug information sheets in spanish english. two 
sided fact sheets  ( in english and spanish ) provide information 
about side effects of common drugs used to treat cancer , their 

medical newsletter page 32 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

proper usage , and precautions for patients .  . the fact sheets were 
prepared by the united states convention , inc. , for 
distribution by the national cancer institute .  . single sets only 
may be ordered .  . 

advanced cancer living each day. this booklet addresses 
coping with a terminal illness by discussing practical 
considerations for the patient , the family , and friends. 30 
pages 

chemotherapy and you a guide to self help during 
treatment. this booklet , in question and answer format , addresses 
problems and concerns of patients receiving chemotherapy .  . 
emphasis is on explanation and self help. 64 pages 

eating hints recipes and tips for better nutrition during 
cancer treatment. this cookbook style booklet includes recipes 
and suggestions for maintaining optimum nutrition during 
treatment. all recipes have been tested .  . 92 pages 

facing forward a guide for cancer survivors .  . this booklet 
presents a concise overview of important survivor issues , 
including ongoing health needs , concerns , insurance , 
and employment .  . easy to use format includes cancer survivors  
experiences , practical tips , forms , and resources. 
it is recommended for cancer survivors , their family , and 
friends. 43 pages 

patient to patient cancer clinical trials and you. this 
15 minute provides simple information for patients 
and families about the clinical trials process  ( produced in 
collaboration with the american college of surgeons commission on 
 . 

questions and answers about pain control a guide for 
people with cancer and their families. this booklet discusses 
pain control using both medical and methods. the 
emphasis is on explanation , self help , and patient participation .  . 
this booklet is also available from the american cancer society. 
44 pages 

radiation therapy and you a guide to self help during 
treatment. this booklet addresses concerns of patients receiving 
forms of radiation therapy. emphasis is on explanation and 
self help. 52 pages 

medical newsletter page 33 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 


taking time support for people with cancer and the people 
who care about them. this written booklet for 
persons with cancer and their families addresses the feelings and 
concerns of others in similar situations and how they have  . 
68 pages 

what are clinical trials all about this booklet is 
designed for patients who are considering taking part in research 
for new cancer treatments .  . it explains clinical trials to 
patients in easy to understand terms and gives them information 
that will help them decide about participating .  . 24 pages 

when cancer recurs meeting the challenge again. this 
booklet details the different types of recurrence , types of 
treatment , and coping with cancer 's return. 28 pages 


breast cancer education series 

breast biopsy what you should know. this booklet 
discusses biopsy procedures .  . it describes what to expect in 
the hospital and while awaiting a diagnosis .  . 16 pages 

breast cancer understanding treatment options. this 
booklet summarizes the biopsy procedure and examines the 
pros and cons of various types of breast surgery. it 
discusses and radiation therapy as primary 
treatment , adjuvant therapy , and the process of making 
treatment decisions. 19 pages 

a treatment for breast cancer. this booklet 
presents information about the different types of breast 
surgery. it explains what to expect in the hospital and 
during the recovery period following breast cancer surgery. 
breast self examination for patients is also 
described .  . 25 pages 

after breast cancer a guide to followup care. this 
booklet is for the woman who has completed treatment. it 
explains the importance of checking for possible signs of 
recurring cancer by receiving regular , getting 
breast exams from a doctor , and continuing monthly breast 
self exams .  . it offers advice for managing the physical and 
emotional side effects that may accompany surviving breast 

medical newsletter page 34 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

cancer. 15 pages 

pediatric cancer education series 

help yourself tips for teenagers with cancer. this 
magazine style booklet is designed to provide information 
and support to adolescents with cancer. issues addressed 
include reactions to diagnosis , relationships with family 
and friends , school attendance , and body image. 37 pages 

hospital days , treatment ways. this oncology 
coloring book helps orient the child with cancer to hospital 
and treatment procedures .  . 26 pages 

managing your child s eating problems during cancer 
treatment. this booklet contains information about the 
importance of nutrition , the side effects of cancer and its 
treatment , ways to encourage a child to eat , and special 
diets .  . 32 pages 

talking with your child about cancer. this booklet is 
designed for the parent whose child has been diagnosed with 
cancer. it addresses the health related concerns of young 
people of different ages it suggests ways to discuss 
disease related issues with the child. 16 pages 

when someone in your family has cancer. this booklet is 
written for young people whose parent or sibling has cancer. 
it includes sections on the disease , its treatment , and 
emotional concerns .  . 28 pages 

young people with cancer a handbook for parents. 
this booklet discusses the most common types of childhood 
cancer , treatments and side effects , and issues that may 
arise when a child is diagnosed with cancer. offers medical 
information and practical tips gathered from the experience 
of others. 86 pages 


spanish language publications 

si con un en informacion el 
cancer , por favor al 1 800 422 (1 800 4  . 

cancer prevention 

medical newsletter page 35 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 


a time of change de nina a  . this bilingual 
was developed specifically for young women. it discusses 
various health promotion issues such as nutrition , no 
smoking , exercise , and pelvic , pap , and breast examinations .  . 
34 pages 

el de y para 
de  . this bilingual pamphlet describes the health 
risks of smoking and tips on how to quit and how to stay 
quit. 8 pages 

para de  . this booklet is a full color , 
self help smoking cessation booklet prepared specifically 
for spanish speaking americans .  . it was developed by the 
university of california , san francisco , under an nci 
research grant .  . 36 pages 


early detection 

la pap  .  . por . su y su 
familia .  . this bilingual brochure tells women why it is 
important to get a pap test. it gives brief , clear 
information about who needs a pap test , where to go to get 
one , and how often the pap test should be done. 

un una al ano .  .  . para . una vida .  . 
this bilingual brochure describes the importance of 
in the early detection of breast cancer. it 
gives brief information about who is at risk for breast 
cancer , how a is done , and how to get one. 

la pap un para cancer del 
del  . this booklet in spanish answers questions about 
the pap test , including how often it should be done , 
significance of results , and other diagnostic tests and 
treatments .  . 16 pages 

lo que usted saber los de los  . 
this booklet in spanish explains the importance of the three 
actions recommended by the nci to detect breast cancer as 
early as possible requesting regular , getting 
an annual breast exam from the doctor , and performing a 
monthly breast self exam .  . 6 pages 

medical newsletter page 36 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 


y la de un centro de 
 . this brochure lists questions and answers to 
ask in selecting a quality facility .  . 

patient education 

drug information sheets in spanish english. two 
sided fact sheets  ( in english and spanish ) provide 
information about side effects of common drugs used to treat 
cancer , their proper usage , and precautions for patients .  . 
the fact sheets were prepared by the united states 
convention , inc. , for distribution by the 
national cancer institute .  . single sets only may be ordered .  . 

el de contra el 
cancer. this flyer in spanish provides a brief introduction 
to cancer chemotherapy .  . 12 pages 

el de para el 
el  . this booklet in spanish addresses 
the concerns of patients receiving radiation therapy for 
cancer. emphasis is on explanation and self help. 48 
pages 





















medical newsletter page 37 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 




aids news summaries 


aids daily summary for april 19 to april 23 , 1993 

the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) national aids 
clearinghouse makes available the following information as a public service 
only. providing this information does not constitute endorsement by the cdc , 
the cdc clearinghouse , or any other organization. reproduction of this text 
is encouraged however , copies may not be sold. copyright 1993 , information , 
inc. , bethesda , md 


april 19 , 1993 

absence of hiv transmission from an infected orthopedic surgeon journal of 
the american medical association (04 14 93) vol. 269 , no. 14 , p. 1807  ( von 
, c. fordham ) 

the risk of hiv transmission from an hiv positive surgeon to patient is 
extremely low , provided that the surgeon strictly adheres to universal 
infection control procedures , write c. fordham von et al. of the 
dartmouth hitchcock medical center in lebanon , n.h. the researchers contacted 
2 , 317 former patients on whom an hiv positive orthopedic surgeon performed 
invasive procedures between january 1 , 1978 and june 30 , 1992. the 
orthopedic surgeon voluntarily withdrew from practice after testing positive 
for hiv .  . a total of 1 , 174 former patients underwent hiv testing , 
representing 50.7 percent of patients on whom the orthopedic surgeon 
performed invasive procedures during the 13.5 year period. patients were 
tested from each year and from each category of invasive procedure .  . all 
patients were found to be negative for hiv by enzyme linked 
 . two former patients reported known hiv infection prior to surgery. 
the examination of aids case registries and vital records neglected to detect 
cases of hiv infection among former surgical patients .  . the estimated cost of 
the initial patient notification and testing was 158 , 000 , with the single 
most expensive activity being counseling and testing. this accounted for 37 
percent of the total expense .  . the patient notification and testing were 
conducted while maintaining the confidentiality of the orthopedic surgeon who 
was an active participant in the planning and execution of the study. 
notifying patients of the infected surgeon 's hiv status is both disruptive 
and expensive and is not routinely recommended , the researchers conclude .  . 

investigation of potential hiv transmission to the patients of an hiv 
infected surgeon journal of the american medical association (04 14 93) vol. 

medical newsletter page 38 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

269 , no. 14 , p. 1795  ( smith rogers , audrey et al . ) . 

the risk of hiv transmission during surgery is so remote that it will be 
quantified only by gathering data from multiple , methodologically similar 
investigations , writes audrey smith rogers et al. of the johns hopkins 
university school of medicine in baltimore , md. the researchers identified a 
total of 1 , 131 persons in hospital databases who underwent invasive surgical 
procedures between 1984 and 1990 and for whom the hiv positive surgeon was 
listed as the operating surgeon .  . the aids case registries were reviewed for 
all patients having undergone invasive procedures and death certificates were 
obtained .  . among the 1 , 131 patients , 101 were dead , 119 had no address , 413 
had test results known , and 498 did not respond to the questionnaire .  . no 
study patient name was found in reported aids case registries .  . one newly 
detected , hiv positive patient was determined to have been most probably 
infected in 1985 during a transfusion .  . there was no hiv transmission in 369 
person hours of surgical exposure , suggesting that hiv transmission to 
patients is unlikely to occur more frequently than once per 1000 person hours 
of surgical exposure .  . the researchers determined there is no evidence to 
suggest that the surgeon failed to adhere to standard infection control 
guidelines over 50 percent of the patients with invasive procedures chose to 
be tested , and of those whose results were revealed , only one person was 
found to be infected with hiv .  . the study patient 's infection was probably 
the result of a tainted blood transfusion received in 1985 .  . as a result , 
there is no evidence that the transmission of hiv from the hiv positive 
surgeon to any patient transpired , the researchers conclude .  . 

april 20 , 1993 

drug concerns to share aids data new york times (04 20 93) , p. 
 ( kolata , gina ) 

a total of 15 major pharmaceutical companies have decided , in a highly 
unusual move , to share aids drugs and information while the drugs are 
undergoing early clinical testing. dr. edward , president of the 
research laboratory in , n.j. , arranged the collaboration .  . he 
said that cooperation between companies seemed increasingly significant as it 
had become clear that combinations of drugs were likely to be more effective 
in fighting hiv than any drug used alone. the researchers are hopeful that 
hiv , when faced with a combination of several drugs requiring mutation at 
different sites for resistance to develop , will be unable to evolve all the 
mutations at the same time. therefore , several drugs taken together or one 
after the other could halt the spread of hiv .  . currently , the drug companies 
do not know what other drugs their competitors are developing .  . the new 
agreement allows companies to routinely exchange animal data and safety data 
on new aids drugs. an agreement like this will greatly facilitate 

medical newsletter page 39 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

companies  ability to choose the best drug combinations much faster and in a 
much more efficient way , said  . he also said that the 
collaboration would not violate antitrust laws .  . in creating the agreement , 
spoke frequently to members of aids advocacy groups , including act up. 
dr. daniel hoth , director of the division on aids at the national institute 
of allergy and infectious disease said , we 're delighted to see the 
pharmaceutical industry take this step because we think that increasing the 
information flow will likely accelerate the discovery of better compounds for 
aids .  . related stories wall street journal (04 20) p. b1 philadelphia 
inquirer (04 20) p. a3 usa today (04 20) p. 1b 

the next step in aids treatment nature (04 08 93) vol. 362 , no. , p. 493 
 ( maddox , john ) 

although azt was found to be ineffective in prolonging the lives of 
people infected with hiv , the findings do not indicate that azt should not be 
administered in people with full blown aids , writes columnist john maddox .  . 
azt has been used in the united states in hiv positive people on 
the basis that administration of the drug appeared to the decline of 
t cell counts. however , a report in the lancet demonstrated that azt should 
not be used early in the course of disease. while the cd4 counts of the 877 
people given azt were consistently greater than those of patients receiving 
only placebo , the first three years of follow up have shown that the 
proportions of people in the two groups progressing to overt aids or even to 
death were not significantly different at roughly 18 percent. the 
conclusions are that azt is not an effective aids drug in hiv infected 
individuals , and that cd4 cell count may not be a reliable proxy for the 
progression to aids in infected people. but nothing is implied by the study 
of the utility of azt in the treatment of those in whom symptoms have already 
appeared there is no case for abandoning that treatment , at least on the 
evidence now available. it is much more alarming that the cd4 count has 
proven to be an unreliable mark of the efficacy of drug treatment in hiv 
infection .  . aids researchers should acknowledge hiv is alive from the 
beginning of infection and turn it into a workable of the progress of 
disease. the general application of such an will probably in itself 
provide a better understanding of the of aids , concludes 
maddox .  . 

and anti properties of from hiv 1 infected 
women lancet (04 10 93) vol. 341 , no. 8850 , p. 914  ( van de , philippe 
et al . ) . 

a vaccine preparation inducing a persistent immune response of the igm 
type in the mother 's body fluids could be valuable to prevent transmission of 
hiv 1 from mother to child , write philippe van de et al. of the 

medical newsletter page 40 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

national aids control program in ,  . the researchers hypothesized 
that transmission of hiv 1 through could be favored by the 
presence of infected cells , by deficiency of anti substances in 
, or both factors .  . a total of 215 hiv 1 infected women were 
enrolled at delivery in , milk samples were collected 15 days , 6 
months , and 18 months post  . hiv 1 , , and igm were 
by western , for the latter two after removal of with 
protein g. in the 15 day and 6 month samples , the researchers sought viral 
genome in milk cells by double chain reaction with three sets of 
primers  ( gag , pol , and  . at 15 days , 6 months , and 18 months post 
, hiv 1 specific was detected in 95 percent , 98 percent , and 97 
percent of samples in 23 percent , 28 percent , and 41 percent 
and igm in 66 percent , 78 percent , and 41 percent. in children who survived 
longer than 18 months the risk of infection was associated with lack of 
persistence of igm and in their mothers  milk. the presence of hiv 1 
infected cells in the milk 15 days post was strongly predictive of 
hiv 1 infection in the child by both and analysis. 
the combination of hiv 1 infected cells in and a defective igm 
response was the strongest predictor of infection .  . igm and anti hiv 1 in 
may protect against transmission of hiv , the researchers 
conclude .  . 

april 21 , 1993 

firms to share aids research in global venture journal of commerce 
(04 21 93) , p. 7a 

a total of fifteen u.s. and european pharmaceutical companies announced 
tuesday they will swap drug supplies and information on early stage aids 
research to hasten the search for combination therapies to fight hiv 
infection and aids .  . the companies said the unusual move resulted primarily 
from the increasing concentration of aids research on combination therapies 
since realizing that hiv is likely to develop resistance to every individual 
aids drug .  . edward , president of co. research laboratories , 
led the collaborative effort that took a year of negotiations to come 
together , said participants .  . in addition to , the other companies 
involved in the inter company collaboration for aids drug development are 
bristol myers squibb co. , burroughs wellcome , inc. , hoffman la , 
eli lilly co. , inc. , , ab astra , du pont , 
inc. , , miles inc. , and sigma tau .  . the 
participants said that all companies involved in aids drug development they 
were aware of had joined the collaboration , and that any company actively 
involved in hiv anti viral development may participate .  . said the 
collaborators would most likely meet every couple of months for a 
scientific meeting where they will review for one another their preclinical 

medical newsletter page 41 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

and early clinical data. the american foundation for aids research  ( amfar ) 
was pleased with the news of the collaboration , which it hopes will lead to 
the development of drug combinations that will reduce viral resistance. 
related story financial times (04 21) p. 1 

guidance over hiv infected health care workers lancet (04 10 93) vol. 341 , 
no. 8850 , p. 952  ( horton , richard ) 

the united kingdom 's department of health recently followed the advice 
of aids experts that there is no scientific reason for routine hiv testing 
among health care workers .  . following recent highly publicized reports of 
health professionals who contracted hiv , the department issued revised 
guidelines on the management of such cases. dr. kenneth , chief 
medical officer , said doctors , dentists , nurses , and other health care 
workers have an ethical duty to seek advice if they have been exposed to hiv 
infection , including , if appropriate , diagnostic hiv testing. he said , 
infected health care workers should not perform invasive procedures that 
carry even a remote risk of exposing patients to the virus .  . the guidelines 
end of part 3 


internet fax 1 (602) 451 1165 
bitnet fidonet 1 114 15 
amateur packet ax25 

from  ( joel broude ) 
subject vs. lopid vs. 
nntp posting host equalizer 
organization cray research inc. , san diego ca , usa 
lines 26 


i used to be on lopid .  . it did a good job of reducing cholesterol  ( 295 
down to around 214 ) , as well as ldl and triglycerides .  . then , i got 
pneumonia , and for some reason , the lopid stopped working very well 
cholesterol and triglycerides  . the levels might have stabilized 
over time , but a new doctor had me quit , wait a month , then switch 
to  . 

on , my total cholesterol was down to 207 , ldl was 108 , 
and hdl was 35 but the trig 's were still 
very high , around 318 , and my liver tests came back slightly abnormal , 
83 (n 1 35 ) ,  ( ggtp hard to read copy ) 42 (n 0  . 

he said the liver numbers were not enough to cause him 
concern , and the triglycerides are not as important as the cholesterol 
figures. he had me stop the to allow the liver to heal ( just 
to be extra cautious , though i'm sure it 's not a problem. ) , 
and wants me to go back on it after that. i suggested maybe lopid might 
be the better choice , and he said that he would n't object if that 's what 
i want to do. but lopid has one particular side effect i'm not fond of. 

should the above liver and trig figures be feared what happens to 
folks with high trig levels is my liver in danger with the above 
results would i be better off on lopid , despite its inconvenient 
side effect , or , perhaps , some other drug  ( niacin affected my 
liver , too) .  . 

from garching . mpg . de .  ( reinhard drube ) 
subject allergic reactions against laser printers 
organization der max planck gesellschaft in garching 
lines 10 

hello , 

does anyone know about allergic reactions caused by the developer toner 
of laser printers what chemical stuff is involved 

thanks in advance ! 

reinhard 

email garching . mpg . de . 

from (michael covington ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host ai . uga . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 16 

in article  ( jeff silva ) writes 
wrote 

move a little , the pain will be excrutiating .  . i was told by my doctor 
at that time that the pain was comparable to that of childbirth .  . (yes , 
by a male doctor , so i'm sure some of you women will  . i 'd 
really like to know the truth in this , so maybe some of you women who 
have had a baby and a kidney stone could fill me in. 

one more reason for men to learn the breathing techniques , in order 
to be able to get some pain reduction instantly , wherever you are. 

michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

from per  ( per melander ) 
subject help purification of from mice .  . 
organization university of , sweden 

lines 16 


hello ! 

i need a technique for separation of  ( pmn ) 
from the peripheral blood of mice .  . because of the low lymphocyte ratio 
(approx .  . 20 80) it s not just as easy as the corresponding technique used 
with human blood. 


yours , 

per 


ps. my e mail address is per ds .  . 


from  ( marie e tysoe ) 
subject natural alternatives to estrogen 
organization oregon health sciences university 
lines 2 
nntp posting host 

need diet for disease 
and ideas for gastrointestinal distress 

from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re persistent vs chronic 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 29 

in article doyle  ( howard r doyle ) writes 
chronic persistent hepatitis is usually diagnosed when someone does a liver 
biopsy on a patient that has persistently elevated serum months 
after a bout of acute viral hepatitis , or when someone is found to have 
persistently elevated on routine screening tests. the degree of 
elevation  ( in the serum transaminases ) can be trivial , or as much as ten times 
normal. other blood are usually normal. 
as a rule , patients with have no clinical signs of liver disease. 
chronic active hepatitis can also be or minimally symptomatic , at 
least initially , and that 's why it 's important to tell them apart by means of 
a biopsy .  . the patient with only needs to be  . the patient with 
needs to be treated .  . 

i just went back to the chapter in cecil on chronic hepatitis .  . it seems 
that indeed most cases of are persistant viral hepatitis , whereas 
there are a multitude of potential and probable causes for  ( viral , 
drugs , alcohol , , etc . ) .  . physicians seem to have a variety of 
thresholds for electing to biopsy someone 's liver .  . personally , i think 
that if the patient is , with only slight and 
normal and pt , one can simply follow them closely and not add the 
potential risks of a biopsy .  . others may well biopsy such a patient , thus 
providing these samples for study. it would be interesting to see if 
anyone 's done any decision analysis on this. 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( jim haynes ) 
subject re poisoning with heavy water  ( was re too many mris ) 
organization university of california santa cruz 
lines 12 
nntp posting host hobbes . ucsc . edu . 


all i can remember is that there was an article in scientific american 
maybe 20 years ago. as someone else noted rats or mice fed nothing 
but heavy water eventually died , and the explanation was given. 




ya can talk all ya wanna , but it 's dif  rent than it was ! 
no it aint ! but ya gotta know the territory ! 
meredith willson the music man 


from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 25 
nntp posting host im4u . cs . utexas . edu . 


in article  ( gunnar blix ) writes 
i need information on the medical  ( including emotional ) pros and 
cons of circumcision (at birth) .  . ... 

i pity those who hope that medical knowledge can resolve issues 
such as this. this issue has been in sci . med . time and 
time again. the bottom line is this in normal circumstances , 
both the medical advantages of and the medical risks of 
circumcision are minor .  . this means that the decision is left to 
the religious , cultural , ethical , and aesthetic mores of the 
parents , at best , or to the habit of the concerned hospital or 
, at worst. 

as  ( prospective ) parents , you should do what you want in this 
regard and not worry about it too much. in terms of decisions 
you make for your child , it will have far less importance than 
many such as which schools you choose that most parents 
think about only a little. 

this question will undoubtedly push the buttons of people who 
feel that the decision to circumcise your infant or not is a 
medical decision. it is not. 

russell 

from doyle  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re what 's the origin of stat 
organization pittsburgh transplant institute 
lines 16 

in article  ( infospunj  ( dan field ) writes 
the term stat is used not only in medicine , but is a commonly used 
indicator that something is urgent .  . 

does anyone know where it came from my dictionary was not helpful. 




from the word    ( latin , i think) , meaning immediately. 




howard doyle 
doyle 

from  ( lau hon wah ) 
subject copper  ( sabona by dr. john sorenson ) 
reply to  ( lau hon wah ) 
organization the national capital freenet 
lines 25 


i have seen copper by the name of created by dr. john 
sorenson .  . i am looking for literature on the effectiveness of copper 
in dealing with arthritis .  . 

i know in one case a 70 year old person developed bruise at the base of her 
left thumb after wearing the copper on her left wrist for several 
months. she was told the bruise is normal and would disappear .  . 

is the bruise reason to be concerned 
should the person discontinued wearing the copper 
could anyone kindly point me to literature on copper 
what are the other information on copper 

your response would be very much appreciated. 

thank you. 

lau hon wah 


from cruz . ca . us . 
subject  ( spelling ) 
keywords migraine 
reply to cruz . ca . us . 
lines 19 


i recently heard of some testing of a new migraine drug called 
(i have no idea of the actual spelling) that supposedly utilizes a chemical 
that trips neuro transmitters .  . my mother has regular migraines and nothing 
seems to help does anyone know anything about this new drug is it in 
a testing or anywhere near approval does it seem to be working 

any information would help. 

please feel free to e mail rather than take up bandwidth if you prefer .  . 

thanks in advance , 



cruz . ca . us . 


virtue is a relative term. 

from  ( elizabeth glaser ) 
subject net address for who 
organization mit laboratory for computer science 
lines 18 

i am looking for the email address of the world health organization , 
in particular the address for the department of nursing or the chief 
scientist for nursing dr. miriam hirschfeld .  . the snail mail address i 
have is the following 

world health organization 
20 avenue 
1211 geneva 27 
switzerland 

please respond directly to me. thank you for your assistance. 





elizabeth glaser , rn 


subject experts on edward jenner .  .  . look . ! ! ! 
from  ( philip kwok ) 
organization calif state univ electronic information services 
lines 5 

i am a student from san leandro high school. i am doing a research 
project for physics and i would like information on edward jenner and the 
vaccination for small pox .  . any information at all would be greatly 
 . thank you. 


from  ( ken miller) 
subject re quack quack  ( was re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction ) 
organization california institute of technology 
lines 59 
nntp posting host isis . cns . caltech . edu . 

in article (david rind ) writes 
in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
(p . s .  . , may i suggest seriously that if the doctors and wanna be doctors on 
the net who refuse to have an open mind on alternative treatments and 
theories , such as the yeast theory , should create your own moderated group. 

why is there some reason why you feel that it should n't be pointed out 
in sci . med . that there is no convincing empirical evidence to support the 
existence of systemic yeast syndrome 

i do n't know the first thing about yeast infections but i am a scientist .  . 
no scientist would take your statement no convincing empirical evidence 
to support the existence of systemic yeast syndrome to tell you 
anything except an absence of data on the question. noring has pointed out 
the catch 22 that if the crazy theory were true , you probably could n't 
find any direct evidence of it that you could n't observe those 
beasties with present methods even if they were there. noring and the 
fellow from oklahoma (sorry , forgot your name) have also suggested one set 
of anecdotal evidence in favor based on their personal experiences 
namely , that when people with certain conditions are given anti fungals , 
many of them appear to get better. 

so , if you have any evidence against the hypothesis for example , 
controlled double blind studies showing that the anti fungals do n't do any 
better than sugar water then let 's hear it. if you do n't , then what we 
have is anecdotal and uncontrolled evidence on one side , and 
disbelief on the other. in which case , please , there is no point in yelling 
back and forth at each other any longer since neither side has any 
convincing evidence either positive or negative. 

and i understand that your disbelief is based on the existence of 
people who may get famous or make money applying the diagnosis to everything 
in sight , making wild claims with no evidence , and always refusing to do 
controlled studies. but that has absolutely no bearing on the apparently 
sincere experiences of the people on the net observing anti fungals working 
on themselves and other people in certain specific cases. there are also 
quacks who sell oral superoxide dismutase , in spite of the fact that it 's 
completely broken down in the guts , but this does n't change the genuine 
scientific knowledge about the role of superoxide dismutase in fighting 
oxidative damage. same thing. just cause there are candida quacks , that 
does n't establish evidence against the candida hypothesis .  . if there 's some 
other reason  ( besides the quacks ) , if only anecdotal , to think it could be 
true , then that is what has to be considered , that is what the net people 
have been talking about. 

but again , there is no point in arguing about it. there is anecdotal 
evidence , and there is no convincing evidence , and there are also some 
candida quacks out there , i hope everyone can agree on all of that. thus , 
it appears to me the main question now is whether the proponents can 
marshall enough anecdotal evidence in a convincing and documented enough 
manner to make a good case for carrying out a good controlled double blind 
study of antifungals  ( or else , forget convincing anybody else to carry out 
the test , just carry it out themselves ! ) and also , whether they can 
adequately define the patient population or symptoms on which such a study 
should be carried out to provide a fair test of the hypothesis .  . 

ken 



from  ( kiong beng kee ) 
subject 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 16 


my wife had during the first two months 
of her pregnancy .  . my son (3 months old) , breast fed , 
now has the same symptoms .  . she has been to a skin specialist , 
but he has merely prescribed various medicines  ( one 
each visit as though by trial and error )) 

anti worked on both of them , but looks like 
becoming less effective. 

are there other solutions thanks. 

beng kee 
dept of information systems and computer science 
national university of singapore 
lower kent ridge road , singapore 0511 

subject calcium deposits on heart valve 
from (john greze ) 
distribution world 
organization the executive network information system 
lines 6 


a friend , a 62 year old man , has calcium deposits on one of his 
heart valves . what causes this to happen and what can be done about 
it 



from (john carey ) 
subject med school 
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa 
lines 27 

actually i am entering vet school next year , but the question is 
relevant for med students too. 

large amounts has never been my strong point academically .  . 
since this is a major portion of medical education anatomy , 
histology , pathology , , are for the most part mass 
i am a little concerned. as i am sure most 
med students are. 

can anyone suggest techniques for this type of i 
have had reasonable success with and memory tricks like 
thinking up little stories to associate unrelated things. but i have 
never applied them to large amounts of data . 

has anyone had luck with any particular books , memory systems , or 
cheap software 

can you suggest any helpful organizational techniques being an 
older student who returned to school this year , organization  ( another 
one of my weak points) has been a major help to my success. 

please no about how all you have to do is learn the material 
conceptually .  . i have no problem with that , it is one of my strong 
points. but you ca n't get around the fact that much of medicine is 
 . 

thanks for your help. 

from  ( laurie bechtler ) 
subject re urine analysis 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 29 
nntp posting host roll 


in article , (michael covington ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article randy writes 

someone please help me. i am searching to find out  ( as many others may ) 
an absolute  cure  to removing all detectable traces of marijuana from 
a persons body. is there a chemical or natural substance that can be 
ingested or added to urine to make it undetectable in urine analysis. 
if so where can these substances be found. 

you could do what i do never go near the stuff ! ) 




there 's always the old  . 

my brother works at a dialysis clinic .  . they were interviewing 
candidates for a technician job  ( mainly electronics tech ) , and a 
urine screen was part of the interview. the bathroom was across 
the hall from a lab. one candidate managed to switch his urine 
sample with one he grabbed from the lab. (no one was in it at 
the time . ) . 

most inner city dialysis patients have quite a few medical problems , 
so it was immediately obvious what had happened. my brother 
considered telling the candidate , i'm sorry but you 
are very ill and need medical attention immediately. they offered 
him another well monitored chance and he declined .  . 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re 
organization the portal system (tm) 
lines 18 

first off , if i'm not mistaken , only animals have brown fat , 
not humans. 

secondly , your description sounds just like 2 , 4  . this is an 
of respiratory chain oxidative  . put in layman 's 
terms , it short circuits the , causing food energy to be 
turned into heat. 

2 , 4 was popular in the 1930 's for weight reduction .  . in controlled 
amounts , it raises body temperature as the body for the 
reduced amount of useful energy available. it is very dangerous. 
it would be wiser to adjust to your present body form , rather than 
play around with 2 , 4  . 

but if you insist , i suggest you look up the literature in your own 
university library. you can obtain 2 , 4 by taking a first year 
organic chemistry lab course and it from the supplies (it 's 
a commonly used  . 

from 
subject legality of placebos 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host w20 575 2 . mit . edu . 



how is it that placebos are legal it would seem to me that if , as a patient , 
you purchase a drug you 've been prescribed and it 's just sugar  ( or whatever) , 
there 's a few legal complications that arise 

1. 
if you have been diagnosed with a condition and you are n't given accepted 
treatment for it , it seems like intentional medical malpractice .  . 

2. 
a placebo should fall , legally , under the label of quackery  ( why not ) 

3. 
getting what you pay for.  ( deceptive bait and switch to an extreme .  .  . ) .  . false 
advertising  ( what if mcdonalds did n't put 100 pure beef in their hamburgers ) 


so i'm mystified .  . are these assumptions erred if they are n't , why the 
hell can a doctor knowingly or unknowingly prescribe a placebo 

thanks 


from (david c. kibbe ) 
subject quality management 
nntp posting host pelham . med . unc . edu . 
organization unc ch school of medicine 
lines 1 



from nigel allen 
subject new method for diagnosing 's disease discovered 
reply to nigel allen 
organization canada remote systems 
distribution sci 
lines 113 


here is a press release from huntington medical research institutes .  . 

new method for diagnosing 's disease discovered at 
huntington medical research institutes results to be reported 
to national desk , health writer 
contact john or belinda , 310 444 7000 , or 
800 522 , for the huntington medical research 
institutes .  . 

los angeles , april 28 a new method for diagnosing 
and measuring chemical imbalances in the brain 
which lead to 's disease and other has been 
discovered by researchers at the huntington medical research 
institutes  ( hmri ) in pasadena , calif. results of their research 
will be reported in the may issue of the scientific journal , 
radiology .  . 
using an advanced form of magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri ) 
called magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs ) , a research team led 
by brian d. ross , m.d. , d. phil .  . , conducted a study on 21 elderly 
patients who were believed to be suffering from some form of 
 . the exams used standard mri equipment fitted with special 
software developed at called clinical proton mrs. clinical 
proton mrs is easily applied , giving doctors diagnoses 
in less than 30 minutes. an automated version of clinical proton 
mrs called proton brain examination  ( probe ) reduces the examination 
time yet further , providing diagnoses in less than 10 
minutes. by comparison , the current standard of care in testing 
for 's disease calls for lengthy memory function and 
tests , which can be very upsetting to the 
patient , are not definitive and can only be confirmed by autopsy .  . 
in addition to 's disease , the new clinical proton mrs 
exam may have applications in diagnosing other , including 
aids related , parkinson 's disease and huntington 's 
disease. 
we 've developed a simple test which can be administered quickly 
and relatively inexpensively using existing mri equipment fitted 
with either the mrs or probe software , said dr. ross , adding , 
this will help physicians to diagnose 's earlier and 
intervene with therapeutics before the progression of the disease 
causes further damage to the delicate inner workings of the brain. 
dr. ross and his team measured a family of chemicals in the 
brain known as , and  ( mi ) acted as a marker 
in the study. in comparison to healthy patients , those diagnosed 
with 's showed a 22 percent increase in mi , while their 
level of another chemical called n  ( naa ) was 
significantly lower , indicating a loss of brain stimulating neurons 
believed to be associated with the progression of the disease. 
current drug therapy for 's disease is widely 
considered to be inadequate .  . this is attributable , dr. ross 
believes , to the theory that 's is caused by an 
interruption in the transmission of the chemical to 
the nerve cells. this belief has been to over the last 15 
years , and consequently , most drugs to treat 's were based 
on the changing receptors for  . 
physicians have a real need for a test to differentiate 
's from other , to provide the patient and his or 
her family with a firm diagnosis and to monitor future treatment 
protocols for the treatment of this disease. for this reason , we 
consider this test a major advancement in medicine , said bruce 
miller , m.d. , a noted neurologist at harbor ucla , mrs researcher 
and a co author of the study. 
other members of the research team included rex a. , 
ph.d. , , b.s. , thomas ernst , ph.d. , and suzanne woolley , 
r . n .  . the probe software can be fitted on the approximately 1 , 200 
general electric mri units currently in use in the united states , 
and will be configured for other manufacturers  mri units soon. 
for interviews with dr. ross , advance copies of the radiology 
may issue , and other information , please contact john or 
belinda for at 310 444 7000 or 800 522  . 

q a on 's disease 

what is 's disease and how is it caused 
's disease  ( ad ) is an incurable degenerative disease of 
the brain first described in 1906 by the german 
alois  . as the disease progresses , it leads to loss of 
memory and mental functioning , followed by changes in personality , 
loss of control of bodily functions , and , eventually , death. 
how many people does it affect 
's disease affects an estimated 4 million adults in 
the united states and is the fourth leading cause of death , taking 
approximately 100 , 000 lives each year. while 's 
its victims , it is equally devastating , both 
emotionally and financially , for patients  families. ad is the 
most common cause of in adults. symptoms worsen every 
year , and death usually occurs within 10 years of initial onset .  . 
what are its signs and symptoms 
although the cause of ad is not known , two risk factors have 
been identified advanced age and genetic predisposition .  . the risk 
of developing ad is less than one percent before the age of 50 
old , but increases in each successive decade of life 
to reach 30 percent by the age of 90 .  . in patients with familial 
ad , immediate family relatives have a 50 percent chance of 
developing ad. one of its first symptoms is severe forgetfulness 
caused by short term memory loss. dr. herman of the school 
of medicine at new york university says whether forgetfulness is 
a serious symptom or not is largely a matter of degree and 
suggests the following criteria 

forgetting the name of someone you see infrequently is 
normal. 
forgetting the name of a loved one is serious. 
forgetting where you left your keys is normal. 
forgetting how to get home is serious. 

doctors suggest that people with severe symptoms should be 
evaluated in order to rule out 's disease and other forms 
of  . 
30 

canada remote systems toronto , ontario 
416 629 7000 629 7044 

from (robert e. schmieg ) 
subject re med school admission 
organization university of virginia 
lines 79 

writes 
hi all , ive applied for the class of 93 at quite a number of schools (20) 
and have gotten 13 rejects , 4 interviews and 3 no responses. 

three possible results after interview 
1) rejection outright 
2) acceptance outright 
3) the infamous  wait  .  .  . 

if you are on a  wait list  , your entrance into medical school 
is dependent upon some other applicant withdrawing their 
acceptance .  . this can happen as late as day 1 of starting 
classes. 

any one know when the heck these people send out their acceptance letters 
according to the med school admissions book supposed to send out 
the number of their class in by mid march .  . whats going on .  .  .  . i 
am losing my sanity checking my mailbox every day. 

you can always call the admissions office. the secretaries 
should have some idea of when a decision might be made on your 
application. be calm , respectful , and friendly secretaries 
have more power than you might realize , and you never know 
could be the dean of admissions answering the phone. 

also does anyone have some useful alternatives in case i dont get in , i 

if you do n't get in this year , sit down and re evaluate 
yourself your motives , desires , and goals that are directing 
you into medicine your academic and 
accomplishments .  . make a decision about whether you really 
want to be a medical doctor. i had classmates who dropped out 
in the first semester of med school because they found it was 
not what they wanted to do i have friends who applied four 
years in a row before they were accepted. medicine as a 
career is a choice you must make for yourself don't be 
pushed into it because of your parents family significant 
other. 

if you still want to be a medical doctor , determine how you 
can improve your application. a letter of recommendation from 
a professor who knows you well and can give an honest positive 
recommendation is far better than one from a  big shot  famous 
professor who only vaguely remembers your face. also , do n't 
be afraid to ask these people if they can give you an honest 
and positive recommendation give them a chance to say  no , 
sorry  instead of the medical school saying  no ,  . i 
have turned down writing recommendations for some students 
because i did not know them well enough to make any meaningful 
comments , and some because i honestly could not recommend them 
at that point. 

rewrite your personal statement take it by an english 
professor or some other friendly person with skill and 
experience in writing and proof reading and get their 
criticism , both about what you are saying as well as how you 
say it. 

review your academic accomplishments .  . if your grades are poor 
in some area , do n't be afraid to spend some time in further 
coursework .  . evidence of determined committment will help 
here. if you filled your pre medicine curriculum with gut 
courses , it usually shows. 

look at your  . participating in 
local philanthropic or service organizations is a plus 
substantial leadership roles in an organization help also. 
beware of  resume padding  such things are not difficult to 
spot and weed out. 

overall , a clear conception of where you wish to head and why 
you want to get there , combined with an honest self appraisal 
of skills and aptitude , will be the best path to take in 
applying to any program , medical or what have you. 

good luck with the process as tom petty says , 'the waiting 
is the hardest part  , at least emotionally .  . ) 

bob 

from  ( rebecca snyder ) 
subject and milli 
organization new mexico tech 
lines 10 

does anyone know how and are if someone 
was , how soon would medical treatment be needed , and what would 
be liable to happen to the person 

 ( just for clarification i have not been by one of these , but my 
house seems to be infested , and i want to know 'just in ) . 

rebecca 



from  ( jay keller ) 
subject sinus surgery 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 31 

my ent doctor recommended surgery to fix my sinuses .  . i have a very deviated 
nasal  ( probably the result at least partially from several  . 
one side has approximately 10 15 of normal flow. of course i have known this 
for years but recently discovered that i suffer from chronic sinus infection , 
discovered during an mri after a severe migraine .  . a ct scan subsequently 
confirmed the problems in the sinuses .  . 

he wants to do sinus surgery on the , , frontal , 
and , along with nasal  . 

he explained the procedure , and the risks .  . what i would like to know is if 
there is anyone out there who can tell me i had this surgery , and it helped 
me 

(i 've already heard from a couple who said they had it and it did n't 
really help them) .  . 

i am a moderately severe  . ent doc says large percentage see some 
relief of their asthma after sinus surgery. also he said it is not unheard of 
that migraines go away after sinusitis is relieved .  . 

i am 42 .  . 

any relevant information is appreciated. 

regards , 

jay keller 
sunnyvale , california 



from ame  ( terrance j. dishongh ) 
subject strain gage applications in vivo 
organization university of arizona 
lines 14 

greeting 

i am starting work on a project where i am trying to make strain 
bond to bone in vivo or a period of several months. i am currently 
using back , and i have tried m bonding the 
to the bone .  . apart from those two application methods there does n't 
seem to be much else in the literature. i have only an engineering 
background not medical or biological .  . i would be interest in any 
ideas about how to bone growth on the surface of cortical bone .  . 

thanks for help in advance. 

terrance j 
ame 

from  ( cecilia henningsson ) 
subject q wasps 
summary how do i repel wasps 
keywords wasp 
organization acs at university 
lines 43 

 ( this is a cross post to rec . gardens . and sci . med .  . set the follow up 
 ( line in the header , depending on what kind of advice you give , or 
(e mail directly to me 

i have a problem with wasps they seem to love me. last summer i 
could n't spend more than ten to fifteen minutes at a time in my garden 
before one or several wasps would come for me. i am asking for advice 
on how to repel wasps .  . 

this year the wasps have built their nest under a stone next to one 
of my tiny ponds .  . the  ( poor fellow ! ) will have to take care 
of them , and that will give me a head start on them. last year we 
could n't find any nest .  . even after the has gassed the nest 
in my tiny garden of 30 square meter , other wasps will most likely vie 
for the territory .  . is there anything i can grow , rub on my skin or 
spread on the soil that will repel the black and yellow bastards 
never mind if it turns my skin purple or kills off all my beloved 
plants , i want to be able to spend time in my garden like everyone 
else. 

would it help to remove the ponds and the bird bath the wasps seem 
to come to drink at them , and i suppose that their prey will breed in 
them. the black seem to be afraid of the wasps , because as soon 
as the wasp season starts , they stop coming to have their bath. 

even when i am not trying to win back my patio from 15 20 wasps , they 
seem to love me. the advice i usually get when i ask what to do about 
wasps , is to stand still and not wave my arms. i 've got some painful 
stings when trying to follow that advice. i have also tried to use 
products without , to no avail. they still love me , 
and come for me , even when i'm in the middle of a crowd. so far only 
two things seem to work to kill it dead or to run into the house and 
close all doors and windows. 

nb i do n't have a problem with bees or bumble bees , just wasps .  . 
patronizing advice redirected to dev null .  . 




the number of rational hypotheses that can explain any given 
phenomenon is infinite .  . 
 law from rm 's zen and the art of motorcycle maintenance 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re info and purification 
organization the portal system (tm) 
distribution world 
lines 8 

were a health fad of the 19th century , which persists to this day. 
except for certain medical conditions , there is no reason to do this. 
certainly no normal person should do this. 

frequent use of can lead to a condition in which a person is unable 
to have normal bowel passage , essentially a person becomes addicted to 
 . as i understand it , this is a very unpleasant condition , and it 
would be best to avoid it. 

from  ( picl account 25) 
subject re use of haldol in elderly 
organization florida state university school of higher thought 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
reply to 
lines 41 

in article , lawrence curcio writes .  .  .  . 
i 've seen people in their forties and fifties become disoriented and 
demented during hospital stays .  . in the examples i 've seen , drugs were 
definitely involved. 

my own father turned into a vegetable for a short time while in the 
hospital. he was fifty three at the time , and he was on 21 separate 
drugs .  .  .  . 

no wonder he became confused ! with so many drugs , it is almost impossible 
to know which one is causing the problem. and because some drugs 
potentiate the effect of each other , they can make the side effects 
all the worse , and even dangerous.  ( kinda like mixing alcohol and 
antihistamines ! ) 

 .  .  . he . was the doctors thougt they should put him on something 
else as well ! 

unfortunately , doctors prescribe drugs to treat the side effects of 
the drugs a patient is receiving .  . if one drug they are taking causes 
the patient 's blood pressure to go up , many times an 
is prescribed instead of re evaluating the need for the original drug .  . 
this is why many older adults are trying to take a dozen or so drugs 
at home ! ! ! ! 

 .  .  .  . procure . a list of the drugs your grandmother is getting , and discuss 
it with an independent doc. her problems may not be the effect of haldol 
at all. haldol may have been used validly , or it may have been 
prescribed because other medication confused her , and because the 
hospital normally haldol for the confused elderly .  . 

i fully agree. in addition , she proably should be examined by another 
doctor who can re evaluate the need for the medications she is taking .  . 
i ca n't remember the guidelines i either saw in a text or heard during 
a lecture , but any elderly adult who is receiving medications should have 
the need for the drug re evaluated regularly. if her current physician 
is unwilling to do this , find one who will. either check the phone 
book for a physician who specializes in geriatric medicine or , 
or contact a physician referral line or the american medical society. 
by finding a geriatric specialist , he  ( she ) will more likely be in tune 
with the special needs of elderly adults and maybe can help. 

from donald mackie donald 
subject re cure for dry skin 
organization um anesthesiology 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 141 . 214 . 86 . 38 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d9 . 
x fri , 30 apr 93 22 41 44 gmt 

in article , writes 
as a matter of fact , i just saw a dermatologist the other day , and 
while i 

seeing a dermatologist sounds like a very good idea if you are 
worried about your dry skin. 

don mackie his opinions 

subject help with antidepressants requested .  . 
from  ( gordon taylor ) 
distribution world 
organization private household , christchurch , new zealand 
lines 28 

hello all , 

there is a small problem a friend of mine is experiencing and i 
would appreciate any help at all with it. 

my friend has been diagnosed as having a severe case of depression requiring 
antidepressants for a cure .  . the main problem is the side effects of these. 
so far she has been prescribed prozac , , and all with 
different but unbearable side effects. 

the prozac gave very bad anxiety and , it was impossible to 
sit still for more than a minute or so. 

the whilst having a effect , all feelings were lost and the 
body co ordination was similar to a drunken person. her brain was clouded 
over. 

the gave in the legs and panic attacks along with 
ordination occurred .  . she did not know what she was doing as her brain was 
closed down . 

has anyone had similar problems and or have any suggestions as to the next 
step 

thankyou in advance. 

gordon taylor 
e mail 

from  ( andrea m free kwiatkowski ) 
subject re can men get yeast infections 
organization ncsu 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
distribution na 
lines 21 

steve pope wrote 
a woman once told me her doctor told her that i 
could catch , , her yeast infection 
from her , then give it back to her , causing 
a relapse .  . 

probably bogus , but if not , it 's another reason to use 
latex .  .  .  . 

steve 

it is n't bogus .  . i had chronic vaginal yeast infections that would go away 
with cream but reappear in about 2 weeks. i had been on 3 rounds of 
antibiotics for a resistant sinus infection and my husband had been on 
also for a sinus infection .  . after six months of this , i went 
to a who had me culture my husband seminal fluid .  . after 7 
days he had quite a bit of yeast growth (it was confirmed by 
the  . a round of for him cleared both of us. 

andrea kwiatkowski 


from 
subject re net address for who 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( elizabeth glaser ) writes 
i am looking for the email address of the world health organization , 
in particular the address for the department of nursing or the chief 
scientist for nursing dr. miriam hirschfeld .  . the snail mail address i 
have is the following 

world health organization 
20 avenue 
1211 geneva 27 
switzerland 

the domain address of the who is who . ch . 
so try sending email to 

josh 









please respond directly to me. thank you for your assistance. 





elizabeth glaser , rn 


from  ( partap s khalsa ) 
subject re strain gage applications in vivo 
organization worcester polytechnic institute 
lines 27 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host wpi . wpi . edu . 

in article ame  ( terrance j. dishongh ) writes 
greeting 

i am starting work on a project where i am trying to make strain 
bond to bone in vivo or a period of several months. i am currently 
using back , and i have tried m bonding the 
to the bone .  . apart from those two application methods there does n't 
seem to be much else in the literature. i have only an engineering 
background not medical or biological .  . i would be interest in any 
ideas about how to bone growth on the surface of cortical bone .  . 

thanks for help in advance. 

terrance j 
ame 

terrance , 

there is a good article entitled a long term in vivo bone strain 
measurement device , journal of investigative surgery 1989  ( 2(2 ) 195 206 
by ja magee fp .  . 
i think you can find some others by searching medline .  . 

s. khalsa , ms , dc , 
post doc research fellow 
u . mass . med .  . school 


from  ( empress i) 
subject request faq 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 20 

hi. 
i have a friend who is interested in subscribing to this newsgroup .  . 
unfortunatly she does not have usenet access. if someone could send 
her a faq and info on how to subscribe , we 'd be very appreciative if 
you want to send it to me , you can and i will get it to her. i do not 
read this newsgroup regularly though so e mail please. 
thank you 
jody 




jody rebecca colby college majors history sociology 
class o' '94 
e mail 


fantasy , music , colors , and animals will lead this society out of oppression .  . 



from  ( picl account 25) 
subject re soon to have baby questions 
organization florida state university school of higher thought 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
reply to 
distribution all 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( bob mccown ) writes .  .  .  . 
we 're about to have our first baby , and have a few questions that we 
dont seem to be able to get answered to our satisfaction .  . 

reguarding having a baby boy , what are the medical pros 
and cons all we 've heard is  its up to the  . 

, that truly is about the best of the research 
that there is. advantages stated of included probably 
prevention of cancer , (which , interestingly , occurs mostly in men 
whose personal is exceptionally poor ) , simplicity of personal 
, prevention of urinary tract infections , and prevention of 
a foreskin , disadvantages include infection from the 
procedure , pain , etc. i apologize i am trying to pull this off 
the top of my head. i will post what i discovered in research i did 
a paper on the topic in my research class in nursing school. 
it really is a decision that is up to the parents. some parents use 
the reasoning that they will look like daddy and like their friends 
as justification .  . there is nothing wrong with this just be sure it is 
what you want to do , since it is rather difficult to 
a male , although a major surgical procedure exists. 

how about the pregnant woman sitting in a tub of water we 've heard 
stories of infection , etc. how about after the water has broken 

as long as your membranes have not broken and you have not had any 
problems with your pregnancy , it should be ok to sit in a tub of water. 
however , i would recommend using your own bathtub in your own home ! 
it is nearly impossible to guarantee the cleanliness and safety of public 
hot tubs .  . a nice warm bath can be very relaxing , especially if your back 
is killing you ! and it would possibly be advisable to avoid bubble bath 
soap , esp. if you are prone to yeast infection .  . 

hope these tips help you some. 

elisa 


from 
subject re kidney stones 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 
lines 58 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 

in article ,  ( alice sanders ) writes 
a student told me today that she has been diagnosed with kidney stones , a 
cyst on one kidney , and a kidney infection .  . she was upset because her 
condition had been misdiagnosed since last fall , and she has been ill all 
this time. during her most recent doctor 's appointment at her parents  
hmo clinic , she said that about forty ! x rays were made of her kidney .  . 
when she asked why so many x rays were being made , she was told by a 
technician that they need to see the area from different views , but she 
says that about five x rays were made from each angle. she could n't help 
feeling that something must be wrong with the procedure or something. she 
is a pre med student and feels she could have understood what was 
happening if someone would have explained .  . when nobody would , she got 
worried. 
also , she is told that are 300 ! surgery patients ahead of her 
and that they cannot do surgery until august or so. it is now april .  .  .  . 
she is supposed to rest a lot and drink fluids .  . but she has to go to 
classes. she wonders why they have given her no medicine. she plans to 
call back her doctor 's office clinic and try to get answers to these 
questions. but i told her i would also write in to sci . med . and see what i 
could find out about why there were so many x rays and whether it seems 
o.k. to wait in line 3 or more months for surgery for something like this 
or whether she should be looking elsewhere for her care. she does plan to 
get a second opinion , too. 

i will pass info on to her. it never hurts to get information 
from more than one source. 

you can e mail me or post. 

thanks. 

alice 

my  ( opinion(for what it 's worth ) is that 40 x rays is way too many. 
have been set on the number of dental x rays and chest x rays 
that one should have over a given period of time because of all the 
environmental factors that can cause cancer in humans , ionizing radiation 
is one of the most  ( potent(splits dna and causes hydroxyl free radical 
formation in tissue  .  ( ultasound(like that used in seeing the fetus 
in the uterus ) has been shown to be extremely good at picking up tumors 
in the prostate and in the  . but kidney tissue may 
be too dense for ultrasound to work for kidney  ( stones(any radiologists care 
to comment ) .  . 

most stones will  ( pass(but it 's a very painful process) .  . unlike , 
i do n't think that there are many drugs that can help dissolve the 
kidney  ( stone(which is probably calcium  . vitamin c and magnesium 
have worked in rabbits to remove calcium from plaques in the 
wall. i have no idea if a diet change or supplementation could 
speed up the process of kidney stone  ( passage(but i'm pretty confident that 
a diet change and or supplementation can prevent a  . if surgery 
is being contemplated , the stone must be in the kidney  . a second 
opinion is a good idea because there are  ( better(less damaging ) ways to break 
up the stone if it 's logged within the  ( kidney(sonic  . hmo 's are 
notorious for conservative care and long waits for treatments .  . 
my condolences to your friend. 

marty b. 

from (mike quigley ) 
subject re should i be angry at this doctor 
distribution na 
organization tektronix , inc. , redmond , or. 
lines 8 

how about going to a doctor to get some minor surgery done. doctor 
refuses to do it because it 's risky    ( still charges me 50 ! ) .  . 
i go home and do it myself. no problem. 

the   involved digging out a pine needle that had buried 
itself under my tongue. 

mike 

from  ( brenda bowden ) 
subject for migraines 
organization sun 
lines 13 
nntp posting host 


i heard a short blurb on the news yesterday about an herb called ( ) 
that some say is good for preventing migraines .  . i think the news said there 
were two double blind studies that found this effective. 

does anyone know about these studies or have experience with 
i'm skeptical , but open to trying it if i can find out more about this. 
what is , and how much would you take to prevent migraines  ( if 
this is a good idea , that is) are there any known risks or side effects 
of 

thanks in advance for any info ! 
brenda 

from  (  software  ) 
subject artificial intelligence in medicine 
organization university of brighton , uk 
lines 10 

if you have any information on artificial intelligence in medicine , then i 
would appreciate it if you could mail me with whatever it is. the informations 
is needed for a project. 

thank you , ian .  . 

. . 
ian bsc .  . computer science  ( hons ) year 2 the university of brighton 
janet e mail , 
` ' 

from (john lauger ) 
subject re  ( spelling ) 
organization mcdonnell douglas aerospace 
lines 25 
nntp posting host q5020598 . mdc . com . 

in article cruz . ca . us . , cruz . ca . us . 
wrote 

i recently heard of some testing of a new migraine drug called 
(i have no idea of the actual spelling) that supposedly utilizes a chemical 
that trips neuro transmitters .  . my mother has regular migraines and nothing 
seems to help does anyone know anything about this new drug is it in 
a testing or anywhere near approval does it seem to be working 

my girlfriend just started taking this drug for her migranes .  . it really 
helped her get through the rebound withdrawl when she got off analgesics .  . 
she does n't have a mail account , but asked me to forward this 

is the distributor imitrex is the drug 's brand name. it works. 
she can call her pharmacy for more info. the miracle drug has been used 
for years in europe and for some time in canada .  . trials in the u.s. were 
completed and the drug hit the us market at the end of march .  . some 
pharmacies do n't stock it yet. presently it needs to be injected 
although testing is starting with a nasal spray form. it 
mimics  ( its molecular structure that fits onto pain receptors 
looks identical to on a model i saw ) 

opinions are mine or others but definately not mda 's ! 

mcdonnell douglas aerospace , huntington beach , california , usa 

from wiesel  ( elisha wiesel ) 
subject info and purification 
organization yale university computer science dept. , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host dolphin . zoo . cs . yale . edu . 

recently i 've come upon a body of literature which promotes colon 
cleansing as a vital aid to preventive medicine through nutrition .  . in 
particular , dr. bernard in his book colon cleansing for 
health and longevity the title actually escapes me , but it is very 
similar to that claims that regular self administered , 
along with certain orally ingested debris agents , 
the immune system to a significant degree. 

he also plugs a unique appliance called the board , which 
facilitates the self administration of  . it sells for over 
100 from a california based company. he also plugs tox 
products as his chemical agents of choice these include volcanic ash , 
supposedly for its electrical charge , and powder , for its 
 . 

if anyone knows anything about colon cleansing theory , its 
particulars , or the board and related products , i 'd be very 
interested to hear about research and personal experience. 

this article is crossposted to alt . magick . as the issue touches upon 
fasting and cleansing through a ritual system of purification .  . 

eli 



! elisha wiesel , davenport college '94 yale university ! 
! (203) 436 1338 school (212) 371 home ! 


from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re photography 
organization hst wide field planetary camera 
lines 23 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sol1 . gps . caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( todd i. stark ) writes 
yup .  . the demonstration to which you refer consists of placing a leaf between 
the plates , and taking a kirlian photograph of it. you then cut off part of 
the leaf , put the top plate back on , and take another kirlian photograph .  . you 
see pretty much the same image in both cases. turns out the effect is n't 
nearly so striking if you take the trouble to clean the plates between 
photographs. seems that the moisture from the leaf that you left on the place 
conducts electricity .  . surprise , surprise ! 

this is true , but it 's not quite the whole story. there were 
actually some people who were more careful in their methodology 
who also replicated the  phantom leaf effect . ' . 

you can also replicate the effect with a rock take your first kirlian 
photograph .  . then one edge of the rock. lo ! and behold ! phantom rock ! 

carl j lydick internet nsi sol1 carl 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from  ( joel b levin ) 
subject re biological alchemy 
lines 19 
nntp posting host fred . bbn . com . 

writes 



biological alchemy 

( another form of cold fusion ) 

gee , i 'd forgotten about this nut .  . 

un altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
important information is encouraged .  . 


robert e. mcelwaine 
b.s. , physics and astronomy , uw ec 

and we know  ( can prove ) what b.s. stands for in this case. 


from pat 
subject help .  .  . 
content type text plain charset us ascii 
organization , inc. 
mime version 1.0 
lines 32 


i am writing this to find out the following 

1 . ) . any information on surgery to prevent  . 

2 . ) . the  ( name(s ) of a  ( doctor(s ) who specialize in such surgery. 

3 . ) . information on which leads to cancer. 

my boyfriend , age 34 and otherwise in good health , was diagnosed with 
and a hernia about 2 years ago. at that time he 
saw a and has tried acid controllers  ( mylanta , 
tagamet ) , as well as a restricted diet and raising the head of his bed. 
these treatments were not effective and because the damage was 
, he opted for a surgical repair 3 months ago. he was told 
there were two repair techniques that could fix the problem a 
wrap and a hill repair . he opted for the hill repair . he recovered 
very well from the surgery itself but the pain he had originally is worse 
and in addition he now has trouble swallowing  ( including  . 

the doctor now wants to do an endoscopy and has also informed him 
that a biopsy might be necessary if he has a pre cancerous condition 
which he called barrett 's syndrome . if he ca n't avoid having will 
he necessarily get cancer 

basically , if anyone has any information on what he should do now , i 'd 
appreciate it. 

thanks , 

pat , inc. 


from (patrick draper ) 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
organization umcc , ann arbor , mi 
lines 30 
nntp posting host umcc . umcc . umich . edu . 

in article ( ) writes 
oh yeah 

scene navy boot camp 

di son , you awful ! dont you ever clean that thing 
recruit no sir ! 
di why the hell not ! 
recruit your not to touch down there 
di why 
recruit cause thats the eye of god down there , an  your not s posed to touch it .  .  .  . 

this did not happen 40 years ago , it happened 2 years ago. 

i think americans are quite hung up about sex and the involved plumbing ! 


wow that certainly convinced me that all americans ar hung up about sex. 
just one example of something that probably ran in a mag is enough 
to convince me. 

off. 



patrick draper we are a nation of laws , not people. 
flames dev koresh 
university of michigan computer club 



organization penn state university 
from 
subject sleep in hospitals  ( was re of haldol in elderly 
lines 14 

in article , you say 
i 've seen people in their forties and fifties become disoriented and 
demented during hospital stays .  . in the examples i 've seen , drugs were 
definitely involved. 


speaking from experience , one does n't need drugs to become disoriented 
during hospital stays .  . i was in for 5 days in late jan what with 
general noise at all hours of night , staff coming every time i turned over , 
or whatever , to check me out , i did n't get much sustained sleep at night. 
spent days dozing , and all it was from my perspective was that i 
was tired ! 

let 's reinvent hospital organization ! s 

from () 
subject we can supply you with the other 
distribution world 
organization , host 
reply to 
lines 27 


the private industrial firm 2000 can 
supply you with the that could be delivered according 
to your order. 

selection and preparation of the materials is carried out by the 
qualified personnel having 20 year experience in this sphere .  . 

we provide 

immunological selection of tissues ( on the special request) 

aids , syphilis other infection diseases tests 

bio chemical tests. 

we guarantee deliverance of our products within temperature 
providing their prime condition. 

o . st. 39 
apart. 49 
, ukraine .  . 

tel. 7  ( 057 ) 2 
fax 7  ( 057 ) 2 , 
e mail 


from 
subject re health effects on women 
organization college , richmond , indiana 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( eric skagerberg ) writes 
does anyone know of any studies done on the long term health effects of a 
man 's on his female partner 

i 've seen plenty of study results about 's effects on men 's health , 
but what about women 

for example , might the wife of a man become more at risk for , 
say , cervical cancer adverse effects from sperm antibodies changes in the 
vagina 's ph yeast or bacterial infections 

outside of study results , how about informed speculation 

i 've heard of no studies , but speculation 

why on earth would there be any effect on women 's health that 's about 
the most absurd idea i 've heard since ted kaldis 's claim that no more than 
35 , 000 people would march on washington .  . 

ok , one point greatly reduced chance of pregnancy .  . but that 's it. 

josh 

from 
subject re info and purification 
lines 68 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , (robert hartman ) writes 
in article wiesel  ( elisha wiesel ) writes 
recently i 've come upon a body of literature which promotes colon 
cleansing as a vital aid to preventive medicine through nutrition .  . 

no doubt the sci . med . folks are getting out their  . i'm 
rather certain that the information you got was not medical literature 
in the accepted academic scientific journals .  . so , the righteous among 
them will no doubt jump on that. 

also , insofar as it does n't conform to the accepted medical presumption 
that it just does n't matter what you eat , and that we can think of the 
gi tract as a black box in which nothing ever goes wrong (except for 
maybe cancer and ulcers ) , the righteous will no doubt jump on that too. 

then there 'll be the ones who call your doctor a raving quack , even 
though he , like linus , is lucid and robust well into his 
nineties but nevermind about that. he should n't charge for his 
equipment and supplies , since they 're no doubt not approved by the 
fda .  . of course , with fda approval an md or pharmaceutical company can 
charge whatever they can get for such safe and effective treatments as 
 . but nevermind about that either. 

unfortunately , you dared to step into the sacred turf of net . medical .  . 
discussion without a credential and without understanding that the 
righteous among them will make certain that you are suitably denounced 
before dismissing you as a fool .  . 

but maybe somebody without such a huge chip on their shoulder will 
send you some reasonable responses by e mail. 

1 2 ) 

1 2 ( 

oh yes , i did have a point. a few years ago an md with a thriving 
practice in a very wealthy part of silicon valley once recommended that 
i take such treatments to clear up a skin condition. (not through his 
office , i might add . ) . although i'm sure that 's not conclusive , it was 
sure an unusual prescription ! 


the bacteria in your gut are important. but are not the 
way to improve gut function. each person has almost a unique mix of 
bacteria in his her gut .  . diet affects this mix as does the use of 
antibiotics .  . a diet change is a much better way to alter the players in 
your gut than is  . cross contamination has been a real 
problem in some of the outfits that do this treatment since the equipment 
is not always cleaned as well as it should be between patient treatments . 
dental drills have me a little concerned about hiv infection and i 've 
picked a dentist that uses both chemical and sterilization of his 
 ( instruments(more but much  . full sterile technique is 
also used just like that practiced in an  ( or(mask , gloves and worn and 
disposed of between  . each visit costs me 15 dollars more than 
the standard and customary fee so i have to pay it out of pocket. his much 
higher fees do not drive away patients .  . 

i can not think of any good reason why someone should subject themselves to 
this flush procedure .  . for very little , if any benefit , you 
subject yourself to hepatitis , cholera , parasitic disease and even hiv .  . 
just ask yourself why someone might resort to this kind of treatment 
could they be having gi distress could this distress be due to a 
pathogenic organism could i get this organism if the equipment is not 
cleaned properly between patients do i really want to take this risk 
food for thought. 

marty b. 


from  ( jack hamilton ) 
subject re legality of placebos 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 40 

wrote 


how is it that placebos are legal it would seem to me that if , as a patient , 
you purchase a drug you 've been prescribed and it 's just sugar  ( or whatever) , 
there 's a few legal complications that arise 

1. 
if you have been diagnosed with a condition and you are n't given accepted 
treatment for it , it seems like intentional medical malpractice .  . 

a placebo is an accepted treatment at times. 

2. 
a placebo should fall , legally , under the label of quackery  ( why not ) 

why should it placebos are effective under certain circumstances .  . that 's 
why they 're used. 

actually , i do n't know know anyone who has actually gotten a sugar pill . 
i do n't know how it could be done , since prescription drugs are always 
labeled , and it 's easy enough to find out what 's in a pill if you have the 
name. 

it 's more common to prescribe a drug which is effective for something , just 
not for what you have. antibiotics for viral infections are the most 
common such placebo .  . 

3. 
getting what you pay for.  ( deceptive bait and switch to an extreme .  .  . ) .  . false 
advertising  ( what if mcdonalds did n't put 100 pure beef in their hamburgers ) 

i'm not sure what you mean by this. what do you think you 're paying for 
you 're not entitled to a prescription drug just because you pay for a 
doctor 's appointment .  . 




jack hamilton po box sf , ca usa 

from  ( melissa n. matusevich ) 
subject re cure for dry skin 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 4 

i cured mine with bag which i bought at the local farm 
supply store. it is relatively cheap and works in a few days. 
the product was developed to treat sore  . 


from 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 
lines 91 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 

in article ,  ( elisabeth s. davidson ) writes 

in a previous article , () says 
least a few enlightened physicians practicing in the u.s. it 's really 
too bad that most u.s. medical schools do n't cover nutrition because if 
they did , candida would not be viewed as a non disease by so many in the 
medical profession .  . 

case western reserve med school teaches nutrition in its own section as 
well as covering it in other sections as they apply (i . e .  . b12 
deficiency in neuro as a cause of , b12 deficiency in 
as a cause of anemia ) , yet i sill 
hold the viewpoint of mainstream medicine candida can cause 
candidiasis , and , in already very sick patients 
with damaged immune systems like aids and cancer patients , 
systemic candida infection .  . i think the yeast connection is 
a bunch of hooey .  . what does this have to do with how well 
nutrition is taught , anyway 

, let 's set the record straight for the nth time , i have not read 
the yeast connection . so anything that i say is not due to brainwashing 
by this hated book. it 's okay i guess to hate the book , by why hate me 
, i'm going to quote from 's microbiology , 20th edition. 
a book that you should be familiar with and not hate . candida species 
the mucosal surfaces of all humans during birth or shortly 
thereafter .  . the risk of infection is clearly ever present. 
indeed , candidiasis occurs worldwide and is the most common systemic 
 . play the main role in preventing a systemic 
 ( infection(candidiasis ) so you would have to have a low count or 
sick to see a systemic infection .  . poor diet and persistent 
parasitic infestation set many third world residents up for candidiasis .  . 
your assessment of candidiasis in the u.s. is correct and i do not dispute 
it. 

what i posted was a discussion of candida blooms , without systemic 
infection .  . these blooms would be responsible for local sites of irritation 
 ( gi tract , mouth , vagina and sinus  . knocking down the bacterial 
competition for candida was proposed as a possible trigger for candida 
blooms .  . let me quote from 's again however , some factors , such as 
the use of a broad spectrum antibacterial antibiotic , may predispose to 
both mucosal and systemic infections . i was addressing mucosal infections 
(i like the term blooms better) .  . the nutrition course that i teach covers 
this effect of antibiotic treatment as well as the cure . i guess that 
your nutrition course does not , too bad. 


here is a brief primer on yeast .  . yeast infections , as they are commonly 
called , are not truely caused by yeasts .  . the most common organism responsible 
for this type of infection is candida albicans or monilia which is actually a 
yeast like fungus .  . 

well , maybe i'm getting picky , but i always thought that a yeast 
was one form that a fungus could exist in , the other being the 
mold form. many fungi can occur as either yeasts or molds , 
depending on environment. candida what is known as 
reverse it exists as a mold in the tissues 
but exists as a yeast in the environment. should we maybe 
call it a mold infection a fungus infection maybe we 
should say it is caused by a mold like fungus .  . 


martin , ph.d. 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and microbiology 
osu college of osteopathic medicine 
1111 west 17th st. 
tulsa , ok. 74107 


you 're the chairman of biochem and micro and you did n't know 
that a yeast is a form of a fungus  ( shudder ) 
or maybe you did know , and were oversimplifying 

my , my , do i detect a little of steve dyer in you if you 
noticed my faculty rank , i'm a biochemist , not a microbiologist .  . 
candida is as a  ( fungus(according to 's) .  . but , as you point 
out , it displays  . it is capable of producing yeast cells , 
and true hyphae .  . , you are probably a microbiologist 
and that makes a lot of sense to you. to a biochemist , it 's a lot of 
greek .  . so i called it a yeast like fungus , go ahead and crucify me. 

you know , i still have n't been able to figure out why such a small 
little organism like candida can bring out so much hostility in people in 
sci .  . med. and i must that i got sucked into the mud slinging too. 
i keep hoping that if people will just take the time to think about what 
i 've said , that it will make sense. i'm not asking anyone here to buy into 
the yeast connection book because i do n't know what 's in that book , plain 
and simple. and to be honest with you , i'm beginning to wish that it was never 
written. 

marty b. 

from donald mackie donald 
subject re any credence to it 
organization um anesthesiology 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 141 . 214 . 86 . 38 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d9 . 
x tue , 27 apr 93 17 38 21 gmt 

in article janice price , 
writes 
how much can you tell about a person 's health by looking into their 
eyes 

by looking at the iris  ( iridology ) virtually nothing. 

looking at the retina allows one to the small blood 
vessels and is helpful in assessing various systemic diseases , 
hypertension and diabetes for example. 

don mackie his opinion 
um will disavow 

from (robert e. schmieg ) 
subject re deadly 
organization university of virginia 
lines 35 

writes 
my friend insists that ny can be deadly if enough is taken he 
suggested something like 20 30 of the night time would do someone 
in. being a normal user of ny ) , i checked the  ingredients  and 
have a very hard time believing it. they are 

250 g 

30 mg hcl 
10 mg 
6 . 25 . mg 
 ( per softgel ) 

can someone settle our bet (a package of ny of course ) what 
effect would 20 30 of these babies have 

the is the agent of concern in overdose of this 
otc medication .  . a single dose of of 10 grams or greater 
can cause , and doses of 25 grams or more are 
potentially fatal from hepatic necrosis .  . if i recall 
correctly , the metabolism of at high doses 
involves n to n , which 
is a highly reactive intermediate , which then reacts with 
groups of proteins and  . when hepatic 
is used up , this intermediate then starts 
attacking the hepatic proteins with resulting hepatic 
necrosis .  . the insidious part of toxicity is the 
delay (2 4 days) between ingestion and clinical signs of liver 
damage. this is not a nice way to die. 

as to taking 20 30 of these tablets , that comes to 5 7.5 grams 
of  . in a normal adult , this would probably 
cause nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and loss of appetite .  . 

bob 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re info and purification 
organization the portal system (tm) 

lines 25 

not everything that goes in comes out , and personaly i do n't mind giving 
my body a hand once in a while. 

just my experience , 

george 

i 've got a very nice collection of historical books on medical quackery , 
and on the topic of massage this is a recurring theme. ordinary massage 
is intended to make a person feel better , especially if they have muscular 
or joint problems. but like there are some practitioners 
who take the technique to a far extreme , invoking what seems to me to be 
quack science to justify their technique. 

in the case of massage , there is a technique called deep abdominal massage 
in which the masseur is literally attempting to massage the intestines ! 
the notion is that food adheres to the inner surface of the 
intestines and , releasing poisons which cause various disease 
syndromes .  . by this vigorous and painful procedure , it is alleged that 
these deposits can be loosened up and passed out. 

i just ca n't believe this idea has any truth behind it ! the human intestine 
is not a new york city sewer pipe ! and even if it were , you eat half of 
a small box of , and there ai n't gonna be nothin  sticking to the 
inner surface of your intestine ) 

from  ( jim haynes ) 
subject is this a total or partial scam 
organization university of california santa cruz 
lines 17 
nntp posting host hobbes . ucsc . edu . 


there 's a chiropractor who has a stand in the middle of a shopping 
mall , offering free examinations .  . part of the process involves a 
multiple jointed sensor arm and a computer that says in a computer 
sounding voice digitize left digitize right digitize 
c7 please stand with spine in neutral position . i'm wondering 
whether this does n't really measure anything and the computer voice 
is to impress the victims , or whether it is measuring something 
that chiropractors think is useful to measure. 




ya can talk all ya wanna , but it 's dif  rent than it was ! 
no it aint ! but ya gotta know the territory ! 
meredith willson the music man 


from  ( alice sanders ) 
subject re kidney stones 
organization eastern illinois university 
lines 32 

a student told me today that she has been diagnosed with kidney stones , a 
cyst on one kidney , and a kidney infection .  . she was upset because her 
condition had been misdiagnosed since last fall , and she has been ill all 
this time. during her most recent doctor 's appointment at her parents  
hmo clinic , she said that about forty ! x rays were made of her kidney .  . 
when she asked why so many x rays were being made , she was told by a 
technician that they need to see the area from different views , but she 
says that about five x rays were made from each angle. she could n't help 
feeling that something must be wrong with the procedure or something. she 
is a pre med student and feels she could have understood what was 
happening if someone would have explained .  . when nobody would , she got 
worried. 
also , she is told that are 300 ! surgery patients ahead of her 
and that they cannot do surgery until august or so. it is now april .  .  .  . 
she is supposed to rest a lot and drink fluids .  . but she has to go to 
classes. she wonders why they have given her no medicine. she plans to 
call back her doctor 's office clinic and try to get answers to these 
questions. but i told her i would also write in to sci . med . and see what i 
could find out about why there were so many x rays and whether it seems 
o.k. to wait in line 3 or more months for surgery for something like this 
or whether she should be looking elsewhere for her care. she does plan to 
get a second opinion , too. 

i will pass info on to her. it never hurts to get information 
from more than one source. 

you can e mail me or post. 

thanks. 

alice 


from  ( philippe lebrun ) 
subject re frozen shoulder and lawn mowing 
distribution eunet 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( alice sanders ) writes 
ihave had a frozen shoulder for over a year or about a year. it is still 
partially frozen , and i am still in physical therapy every week. but the 
pain has subsided almost completely. until last week when i mowed the 
lawn for twenty minutes each , two days in a row. i have a push type power 
mower .  . the pain started back up a little bit for the first time in quite 
a while , and i used ice and medicine again. can anybody explain why this 
particular activity , which does not seem to stress me very much generally , 
should cause this shoulder problem 

you need to use your shoulder muscles to push the mower .  . if you have n't been 
doing much exercise , as i suppose you have n't , then a constant 20 minute 
long effort can cause stiffness and cramps .  . 

philippe 

from () 
subject re barbecued foods and health risk 
organization florida state university acns 
lines 43 

in article , wrote 
in article 
 ( mark robert thorson ) writes 
an odd exception to the rule seems to be the product known as gumbo file  . 
this is nothing more than coarsely ground dried sassafras leaves. this 
is not only a natural product , but a natural product still in its natural 
form , so maybe that 's how they evade delany .  . or maybe a special exemption 
was made , to appease powerful louisiana democrats .  . 

one possible reason is that file  is made with sassafras leaves , while root 
beer was made with sassafras bark or root bark .  . the leaves contain either 
no 
or less than the bark .  . 

there is also some sort of treatment which removes from 
sassafras products. i have some concentrated sassafras tea extract which 
is 
claimed to have the removed. 

i think what we have to keep in mind is that even though it may be illegal to 
commercially produce sell food with carcinogenic substances , it is not illegal 
for people to do such to their own food  ( smoking , etc) .  . is this true 

well , the last time that i went to the store to buy sassafras bark to make 
root beer , there was a sign saying that it was n't sold for human 
consumption .  . 
also , when i asked the person if they had wild cherry bark and 
bark , 
she made a point of telling me that i could n't buy sassafras for human 
consumption .  . 

i find the fact that some people reckless enough to step into an automobile 
live 
in fear of dropping dead because of a pork rib quite funny , in a sick way. 

eric pepke internet 

supercomputer computations research institute 
florida state university span scri pepke 
, fl 4052 bitnet 

disclaimer my employers seldom even listen to my opinions. 
meta disclaimer any society that needs disclaimers has too many lawyers .  . 

from  ( jennifer scheiber ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
organization purdue university computing center 
lines 15 

in article  ( harry matthews ) writes 
all right , listen up .  .  .  .  . what are the possibilities of transmission through 
swimming pool water especially if the is n't up to par 

i 've heard of community swimming pools refered to as public so what 
else is going on 



but the sperm would be very diluted in a x gallon swimming pool 


j e n n i f e r s c h e i b e r 
email school of nursing purdue university 


from mrc (paul johnson ) 
subject re any credence to it 
reply to mrc (paul johnson ) 
organization gec marconi research centre , great , uk 
lines 53 

in article  ( janice price) writes 

i saw a printed up flyer that stated the person was a 
licensed and 
what are your opinions 
how much can you tell about a person 's health by looking into their eyes 


its bogus .  . see the sci . skeptic . faq (i edit it) .  . 

you can diagnose some things by looking at the eyes. glaucoma is the 
classic example , but there are probably others. 

maps parts of the body onto the irises of the eyes. by 
looking at the patterns , and occasional in the irises 
you are supposed to be able to diagnose illnesses all over the body. 

the two questions to ask any alternative therapist are 

1 how does it work 

2 what evidence is there 

the answer to question 1 takes a little knowledge of medicine to 
evaluate .  . i do n't know about , but i 've read a book on 
, which is a remarkably similar notion except that the 
organs of the body are mapped onto the soles of the feet. there are 
supposed to be channels running down the body carrying information or 
energy of some sort .  . have found no such structures .  . 
 ( always beware the words channel and energy in any put out 
by an alternative practitioner . ) . 

the answer to question 2 is rather simpler .  . if all they have is 
anecdotal evidence then forget it. ask for papers in 
mainstream medical journals .  . ignore any bull about the conspiracy of 
rich doctors suppressing alternative practitioners .  . studies are done 
and papers are published .  . some of them are even positive. 

the word licensed in the flyer is an interesting one. licensed by 
whom for what it is quite possible that the is real and 
requires a license you can kill someone by giving them the wrong 
plants to eat , and many plants contain very powerful drugs  ( foxglove 
and spring to mind) .  . it is not clear whether the license 
extends to the , and i suspect that if you ask you will be 
told that it means  ( licensed herbologist ) and . 

btw , the usual term is . why use a different word 


paul johnson  ( paj@gec mrc . co . uk) .  . tel 44 245 ext 3245 

these ideas and others like them can be had gec marconi research is not 
for 0.02 each from any reputable idealist .  . responsible for my opinions 

from  ( yau felix chung ) 
subject  .  .  . 
nntp posting host rebecca . its . rpi . edu . 
lines 14 


hi. does anyone know the possible causes of 
and what are the chances of it being hereditary 

also , in the cases , what is the general procedure to 
reduce the pain the area as it prevents the patient from eating 
due to the excessive pain of swallowing and even talking 

thanks. 

f. 
. 



from 
subject prk referral in canada 
organization western michigan university 
lines 9 

could some please refer me to someone who can perform prk  ( photo refractive 
keratostomy ) in canada  ( preferably eastern  . i 've looked in 
the yellow pages with little success , and if someone has had a good  ( or 
bad , for that matter) experience , that would be especially helpful if you 
could please let me know. 

thanks , 
kurt 
 ( preferred address) 

from  ( thomas trusk ) 
subject re photography 
organization medical college of wisconsin 
lines 22 
reply to 
nntp posting host pixel . mcw . edu . 


in article  ( vinci ) writes 

how about kirlian imaging i believe the faq for sci . skeptics . (sp ) 
has a nice write up on this. they would certainly be most supportive 
on helping you to build such a device and connect to a 
supply so that you can take a serious look at your aura ... ) 

filipe santos 
cern european laboratory for particle physics 
switzerland 

please sign the relevant documents and forward the remaining parts 
to our study  effect of 120 kv on human tissue wrapped in  . 
thanks for your support .  .  .  . 

dr. thomas 
dept. of cellular biology anatomy email to 
medical college of wisconsin 
milwaukee , wi disclaimer  ( ala foghorn leghorn ) 
(414) 257 it 's a joke , son. a joke i say ! 


from  ( steve pope) 
subject re can men get yeast infections 
organization u . c .  . berkeley erl 
lines 9 
distribution na 
nntp posting host zion . berkeley . edu . 

a woman once told me her doctor told her that i 
could catch , , her yeast infection 
from her , then give it back to her , causing 
a relapse .  . 

probably bogus , but if not , it 's another reason to use 
latex .  .  .  . 

steve 

from  ( vinay rao ) 
subject density of the skull bone 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
distribution usa 
lines 12 

could someone tell me what the density of skull bone is or direct me to 
a reference that contains this info i would appreciate it very much. 
thanks. 






j. rao 



from  ( jon noring ) 
subject of the lungs 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
lines 34 

putting aside our substantial differences , i 'd like to ask the knowledgeable 
ones to give feedback on this. let me explain. 

one of my family members last week was discovered to have a brain tumor after 
having some difficulties with walking and writing  ( she is 64 years old) .  . 
otherwise , she is in fine health. the discovery was made via cat scans .  . 

she then had mri scans done , where small cancerous areas were discovered 
in her lungs .  . biopsies showed it to be  . one spot is 
in the lungs , and another in the  . the believe 
the cancer started in the lungs and caused the brain tumor  ( she smoked 
until four years ago) .  . 

anyway , i 'd like feedback as to what is , how it is different 
from other cancers , how she will be treated  ( luckily the tumor is right 
below the skull and can be easily removed) , and statistically what are 
the chances for full remission recovery 

thanks. 

jon noring 



charter member infj club. 

if you 're dying to know what infj means , be brave , e mail me , i 'll send info. 

jon noring 
international ip 192 . 100 . 81 . 100 . fred s gourmet chocolate 
1312 carlton place phone (510) 294 8153 chips world 's best ! 
livermore , ca 94550 v mail (510) 417 4101 

who are you read alt . psychology . personality . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( will estes ) 
subject re use of haldol in elderly 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 32 

lawrence curcio  ( lc2b wrote 
i 've seen people in their forties and fifties become disoriented and 
demented during hospital stays .  . in the examples i 've seen , drugs were 
definitely involved. 

my own father turned into a vegetable for a short time while in the 
hospital. he was fifty three at the time , and he was on 21 separate 
medications .  . the family protested , but the doctors were , telling 
us that none of the drugs interact .  . they even took the attitude that , if 
he was disoriented , they should put him on something else as well ! with 
the help of an md friend of the family , we had all his medication 
discontinued .  . he had a seizure that night , and was put back on one drug .  . 
two days later , he was his old self again. i guess there are n't many 
medical texts that address the subject of 21 way interactions .  . 

i saw the same thing happen to my father , and i can more or less validate your 
take on hospitals .  . it seems to me that medical science understands precious 
little about taking care of the human machine. drugs are given as a 
response to symptoms  ( and i guess that makes sense since all the studies that 
validate the effectiveness of those drugs are based on a narrow 
assessment of the degree of particular  . but there seems 
to be very little appreciation for the well being of a person 
outside of the numbers that appear on a test. i watched my dad 
wither away and lose huge amounts of body fat and muscles tissue 
while in the hospital. there is something a little crazy about a 
system in which there is more attention paid to giving you every 
latest drug available than there is attention paid to whether you 
have had enough to eat to prevent loss of muscle tissue .  . it is 
really , really bizarre .  . 


will estes internet 

from  ( bob mccown ) 
subject soon to have baby questions 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
distribution all 
lines 12 

we 're about to have our first baby , and have a few questions that we 
dont seem to be able to get answered to our satisfaction .  . 

reguarding having a baby boy , what are the medical pros 
and cons all we 've heard is  its up to the  . 

how about the pregnant woman sitting in a tub of water we 've heard 
stories of infection , etc. how about after the water has broken 



old macdonald had an agricultural real estate tax abatement .  . 

from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re photography 
organization hst wide field planetary camera 
lines 30 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sol1 . gps . caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 
flame on 

reading through the posts about kirlian  ( whatever spelling) 
photography i could n't help but being slightly disgusted by the 
narrow minded , i know it all , i do n't believe what i ca n't see or 
measure attitude of many people out there. 

where have you seen that attitude 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

i am convinced that it is a serious mistake to close your mind to 
something , anything , simply because it does n't fit your current frame 
of reference. history shows that many great people , great scientists , 
were people who kept an open mind and were ridiculed by sceptics .  . 

fine ,  . suppose you point out even one aspect of kirlian photography 
that 's not explained by a corona discharge .  . 

carl j lydick internet nsi sol1 carl 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from  ( pat r. brown) 
subject re help .  .  . 
organization hewlett packard 
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 
lines 3 

please post your results , a close friend has this condition and 
has asked these same questions. 


from (paul dennis collopy ) 
subject re antidepressants 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 14 

without restating the thread going here .  .  .  .  .  . 

zoloft is a stimulating antidepressant .  . 

it is unfortunate that antidepressant therapy is trial and error , but 
if it is any help , there are a lot of people using the side effects of 
the many medications to help manage other conditions. 

hang in there , maybe someday a brain chemistry set will be available 
and all the questions will have answers. 

please , no flames .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . i . have enough to deal with ) 



from  ( judy  ( acs ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host zach . fit . edu . 
organization florida institute of technology , melbourne , fl usa 
lines 33 

in article emporium ) writes 
in article ,  ( bill dowding ) writes 
(brian m. huey ) writes 

i think that 's the correct spelling .  .  . 
i am looking for any information supplies that will allow 
do it yourselfers to take pictures. i'm thinking 
that education suppliers for schools might have a appartus for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the companies. any info is greatly 
appreciated. 

photography involves taking pictures of minute decapods resident in 
the seas surrounding the antarctic .  . or pictures taken by them , perhaps. 

bill from oz 



bill , 
no flame intended but you 're way , way off base. in simple terms kirilian 
photography registers the fields around objects , in simple , 
it takes pictures of your aura .  . 



greg 

be still , be silent .  .  . the . rest is easy. 

dear bill , 
i think you forgot the smileys .  . some of us got the joke ! 



from  ( jostein trones ) 
subject re photography 
reply to  ( jostein trones ) 
organization cern european lab for particle physics 
lines 40 


in article ,  ( greg pivarnik ) writes 

in article ,  ( bill dowding ) writes 

photography involves taking pictures of minute decapods resident in 
the seas surrounding the antarctic .  . or pictures taken by them , perhaps. 

bill from oz 



bill , 
no flame intended but you 're way , way off base. in simple terms kirilian 
photography registers the fields around objects , in simple , 
it takes pictures of your aura .  . 



greg 

be still , be silent .  .  . the . rest is easy. 


greg , 
no flame intended , but i think you just missed one of the rare attempts of 
humor in sci . skeptic .  . 
against kirilian . get it 
) 

btw , i think you 're a bit of base yourself , since , to my knowledge , the 
electromagnetic field around a stone is rather  . but still , a stone 
has a nice aura on the kirilian photographs. 

do n't remember , but corona discharge i think is a more fitting 
expression than aura .  . think you 'll find something on this in the skeptic faq .  . 


cheers , 


from (stephen montgomery smith) 
subject 
keywords 
organization university of missouri 
lines 6 

what is the healthiest way to deal with should one just leave 
it in your ear and not mess with it , or should you clean it out 
every so often can cleaning it out damage your 
are there any tubes in your ear that might get blocked 

stephen 

from (john eyles ) 
subject insensitive technicians 
distribution usa 
organization the university of north carolina at chapel hill 
lines 37 
nntp posting host ceti . cs . unc . edu . 

a friend was recently admitted to north carolina memorial hospital 
because of suspected meningitis .  . serious business. they wanted to do 
a lumbar puncture , for which a ct scan is a prerequisite .  . 

i arrived in her hospital room about an hour after she had returned 
from the ct. she was in tears. evidently the technicians in the ct 
lab had been very unpleasant to her. 

to begin with , they put her on the apparatus that moves you into the 
machine itself , and just pushed a button to slide her straight into the 
machine , without any explanation. imagine this. you worried you may 
have a deadly disease , and next thing you know you 're being put into 
this big scary machine , without a word of explanation about what is 
going to happen to you. i believe this is inexcusable .  . she waved her 
hand as if to say what are you doing to me , and they responded with 
annoyance and anger .  . next they inserted , or tried to insert , an iv 
 . apparently she has a lot of trouble with these and complained 
of the pain. the technician just stopped and fixed her with a glare 
without any words of explanation. 

is there anything i can do about these pigs 

i realize that these technicians do this sort of job day in and day 
out. and that some patients can be very irritating and uncooperative .  . 
but this is simply no excuse. their purpose for existing is to help 
sick people , and there is no excuse for this sort of behavior. 
fortunately my friend is fine. but i imagine a large proportion of the 
people who get ct scans are not fine at all. they have cancer and that 
sort of thing. they do n't need this kind of shit. 

also , since i named the hospital involved , i should also point out that 
neither she nor i have any complaints about the competence or compassion 
of any of the other personnel at  . 

thanks for listening , 
john eyles 


from (ron roth ) 
subject kidney stones 
x gated by usenet gateway (v1 . 70) . 
organization rose media inc , toronto , ontario .  . 
lines 52 

 ( marty banschbach ) writes 
... 
b medicine has not , and never will be , practiced this way. there 
b has always been the use of conventional wisdom .  . a very good example is 
b kidney stones .  . conventional  ( wisdom(because clinical trails have not been 
b done to come up with an effective prevention ) , was that the 
b intake of calcium and was the best way to prevent kidney stones 
b from forming .  . clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts to 
b breakdown the stone once it formed .  . through the recent new england j of 
b medicine article , we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong , 
b increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than is 
b restricting calcium intake .  . 
... 
b marty b. 

marty , i personally would n't be so quick and take that nejm article 
on kidney stones as gospel .  . first of all , i would want to know who 
sponsored that study. 
i have seen too many nutrition bulletins over the years from 
local newspapers , magazines , to tv guide , with disclaimers on the 
bottom informing us that this great health news was brought to us 
compliments of the dairy industries .  . 
there are of course numerous other interest groups now that thrive 
financially on the media hype created from the supposedly enormous 
benefits of increasing one 's calcium intake .  . 

secondly , were all the kidney stones of the test subjects involved 
in that project analysed for their chemical composition the study 
did n't say that , it only claimed that most kidney stones are large 
ly calcium .  . 
perhaps it wo n't be long before another study comes up with the exact 
opposite findings .  . a curious phenomenon with researchers is that they 
are oftentimes just plain wrong. it would n't be the first time. 

sodium magnesium calcium ratios are , in my opinion , still 
the most reliable indicators for the cause , treatment , and prevention 
of kidney stones .  . 
i , for one , will continue to recommend the most logical changes in 
one 's diet or through supplementation to counteract or prevent kidney 
stones of either type and they definitely wo n't include an increase 
in calcium if the stones have been identified as being of the calcium 
type and people 's chemical analysis confirms that they would benefit 
from a raising approach instead ! 

ron roth 

internet ron 

a stone on the ground is better than a stone in the body. 

2.10 entered at 
2.10 usenet rose media hamilton (416) 575 5363 

from  ( sharon m gartenberg ) 
subject from srebrenica doctoring in hell 
summary what it 's like without modern medicine in war 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 84 


srebrenica s doctor recounts town s living hell 

by laura 
, bosnia , reuter was a pathologist 
when he through the mountains to the besieged muslim 
town of srebrenica last august .  . 
but after treating 4 , 000 mangled victims of bosnia 's bloody 
war , he considers himself a surgeon .  . 
i'm a surgeon with great experience although i have no 
license to practice. but if i operate on a person and he lives 
normally that 's the greatest license a surgeon could have . '' . 
evacuated by the u.n. this week to his home town of , 
the muslim physician gave an eyewitness medical assessment of 
the horrors of the year long serb siege of srebrenica and the 
suffering of the thousands trapped there. 
lived through hell together with the people of 
srebrenica .  . all those who lived through this are the greatest 
heroes that humanity can produce , '' he told reporters .  . 
, 31 , had practiced for two months as an assistant 
at a local hospital in , but before going to srebrenica he 
had never performed a surgical operation on his own. now he says 
he has performed major surgery 1 , 396 times , relying on books for 
guidance , amputating arms and legs 150 times , usually without 
anesthetic , delivering 350 babies and performing four 
sections .  . 
he worked 18 to 19 hour days , slept in the hospital for the 
first 10 weeks after his arrival last aug. 5 and treated 4 , 000 
patients .  . 
he arrived after making the trek over mountains on foot from 
, 60 miles northwest of srebrenica .  . about 50 other people 
carried in supplies and 350 soldiers guided and protected him 
through guerrilla terrain , he said. 
his worst memory was of 10 days ago when seven serb shells 
landed within one minute in an area half the size of a football 
field , killing 36 people immediately and wounding 102 .  . half of 
the dead were women and children. 
the people had come out for a rare day of and the 
children were playing soccer .  . was no warning ... the 
blood flowed like a river in the street , '' he said. 
were pieces of women all around and you could not 
piece them together. one woman holding her two children in her 
hands was lying with them on the ground dead. they had no 
heads . '' . 
before arrived with his supplies conditions were 
deplorable , he said. many deaths could have been prevented had 
the hospital had surgical tools , facilities and medicine. 
the six general practitioners who had been operating before 
he arrived had even less surgical experience than he did. 
did n't know the basic principles for amputating limbs . '' . 
once he arrived the situation improved , he said , but by 
mid september he had run out of supplies. 
were washed and boiled five times ... sometimes 
they were falling apart in my hands , '' he said. doctors had no 
anesthetic and could not give patients alcohol to numb the pain 
because it increased bleeding .  . 
were completely conscious during and 
stomach operations , '' he said. blood transfusions were 
impossible because they had no facilities to test blood types. 
felt destroyed psychologically , '' said. 
the situation improved after dec. 4 , when a convoy arrived 
from the medical group sans  . 
but said the military worsened in 
mid december after bosnian serbs began a major offensive in the 
region. day we had air strikes and '' . 
then the hunger set in. 
between mid december and mid march , when u.s. planes began 
air dropping food , between 20 and 30 people were dying every day 
from complications associated with malnutrition , he said. 
know for sure that the air drop operation saved the 
people from massive death by hunger and starvation , '' he said. 
according to , around 5 , 000 people died in 
srebrenica , 1 , 000 of them children , during a year of siege .  . 
plans to return to srebrenica in three weeks after 
visiting his wife , who is ill in  . 
say i'm a hero , '' he said. were thousands of 
people standing at the sides of the road , crying and waving when 
i left. and i cried too . '' . 


sharon 
framingham , ma usa 
e mail 


from  ( dick king ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host drums . reasoning . com . 
organization reasoning systems , inc. , palo alto , ca 
lines 37 

in article  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 
flame on 

especially the usa should be grateful after all , columbus did not 
drop off the edge of the earth. 

 ( with enabled 

columbus was indeed a crank , but not in the manner you think. 

the fact that the world was round was well known when he set sail .  . it was 
also well known that the circumference was about 25k miles , and that you could 
not reach asia bo going west with current technology you would neither be 
able to carry enough supplies , nor get a long enough stretch of good sailing 
weather. nobody thought he would fall off the edge of the world. instead , 
they expected him to die at sea. 

columbus thought for no good reason that the circumference was only 16k miles , 
making the trip practical .  . 

unfortunately for columbus and his , the earth 's circumference is 
indeed 25k miles. 

fortunately for columbus and his , there was a stopping place right 
about where asia would have been had the circumference been 16k miles. 


my source is the recent pbs series on columbus .  . 

) 


flame off , or end sermon ) 

alex 



from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject data of skull 
distribution world 
organization invention factory 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 8298v . 32bis . 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 11 

gt from  ( gary taylor ) 
gt hi , we are trying to develop a image reconstruction simulation for the skull 

you could do high resolution ct  ( computed tomographic ) scanning of 
the skull .  . many ct scanners have an algorithm to do 3 d 
reconstructions in any plane you want. if you did reconstructions 
every 2 degrees or so in all planes , you could use the resultant 
images to create user controlled animation. 

. 2.1 . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from doyle  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject roc curves software 
organization pittsburgh transplant institute 
lines 10 


i understand robert has a program called roc analyzer , that can be 
used to do receiver operating characteristic  ( roc ) curve analysis. does 
anyone know if this is avaliable from an ftp site if not , does anyone 
know how to get a copy of it 



howard doyle 
doyle 

from  ( joel b levin ) 
subject re 
lines 18 
nntp posting host fred . bbn . com . 

 ( bob mcqueer ) writes 
one question i do have a doctor who flushed out my ears once also advocated 
a drop of rubbing alcohol in them afterwards to flush out any remaining 
trapped water said he told swimmers to do this after swimming , too. it 
works , but it stings like the devil , so i 've always been content to let any 
water in my ears from swimming or flushing them out figure out how to get 
out by itself if shaking my head a few times wo n't do the trick. any 
comments 

when i have trouble it 's usually because of water trapped by some 
remaining wax .  . i do n't see why you ca n't just let it evaporate it 
should do this eventually. 

j 

nets earn more sessions by  . 
pots  ( 617)873 ) 3463 


from (robert greenstein ) 
subject re any credence to it 
organization strawman incorporated 
lines 11 

in article  ( janice price) writes 

i saw a printed up flyer that stated the person was a 
licensed and 

i do n't believe any state licenses or  . 


robert greenstein what the fool cannot learn he laughs at , thinking 
that by his laughter he shows superiority instead 
of latent idiocy m. corelli 

from kl . de .  ( thomas kettenring ) 
subject re photography 
organization fb physik , kaiserslautern , germany 
lines 17 

in article , (e . a .  . story) writes 
in article writes 
 .  .  . it 
involves taking photographs of corona discharges created by attaching the 
subject to a high voltage source , not of some aura .  . it works equally well 
with inanimate objects .  . 

true .  .  . but what about showing the missing part of a leaf is this 
corona discharge 

this effect disappears if you clean your apparatus after you 
the whole leaf and before the leaf part. 


thomas , 3 dan , kaiserslautern , germany 
the do n't even know this planet has native inhabitants .  . 
their government does n't tell them. 

from  ( jeffrey h. hsu) 
subject re med school admission 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 61 


i'm a fellow applicant and my situation is not too much better. i applied 
to about 20 schools , got two interviews , got one offer , and am waiting to 
hear from the other school. 

let me be honest about my experiences and impressions about the medical 
school admissions process. numbers  ( gpa , mcats ) are not everything , 
but they are probably more important than anything else. in fact , some 
schools screen out applicants based on these numbers and never even look 
at your other qualities .  . of course , when this happens , do n't expect a refund 
on your 50 application fee. 

but , the fact that you got four interviews tells me that you have the numbers 
and are very well qualified academically .  . you mentioned one response , was it 
an acceptance , denial , or wait list if i assume the worst , that it was a 
denial , then you still have a great probability of acceptance somewhere. how 
did your interviews go 

as for how long you have to wait , i 've called a few schools who never contacted 
me for anything. many of them told me that the interview season for them was 
over and that if i have n't heard by now , i can assume a denial .  . many rejection 
letters are not sent out until may or as late as june .  . but some schools are 
still interviewing .  . i really do n't think you should worry. do n't become 
on the mailbox , go out , have fun , be very proud of yourself. 

what do people think of the medical school admissions process i had a very 
mediocre , but high scores , and i have been working as a software 
engineer for two years. i in computer science at stanford .  . still , 
i think the profile of the person who has the best chance of getting admitted 
is something like this 

very important 

3.5 or better 
top 15 in all subject 

medium importance 

writing speaking ability 
maturity 
motivation for going into medicine 
activities 

less important 

college or university 
major 
work experience 
anything else you want them to know 


anyway , you are in good shape. i think admissions committees are bound in 
many ways by the numbers , but would like very much to understand each 
person as an individual .  . sometimes thats just not practical .  . but getting 
four interviews is an indicator that you have the numbers. hopefully , you 
were able to impress them with your character. 


good luck , 
jeff 


from node . hub . org . (brian tao ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
organization mugs research and development facility 
x newsreader mugs 3 . apr 22 93 
to  ( harry matthews ) 
reply to node . hub . org . 
lines 11 

in article , harry matthews writes .  .  .  . 

i 've heard of community swimming pools refered to as public so what 
else is going on 

do you swim nude in a public swimming pool ) i doubt sperm can 
penetrate material , assuming they are n't immediately dispersed 
by water currents .  . 

brian tao node . hub . org . (r node bbs , 416 249 5366 , free ! ) 
 ( university of toronto ) 

from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re cats and pregnancy 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 16 

in article  ( klaus  ( 6663 ) writes 
hello , 
i heard that a certain disease  ( toxoplasmosys ) is transmitted by cats which 
can harm the unborn fetus .  . does anybody know about it is it a problem to 
have a cat in the same apartment 


having the cat around is not a problem , but the pregnant woman should not 
change the litter box. toxoplasmosis can be transmitted from the stool of 
some cats .  . 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( mark t. vandewettering ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host pixar . com . 
organization pixar point richmond , california 
lines 35 

 ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 

flame on 

reading through the posts about kirlian  ( whatever spelling) 
photography i could n't help but being slightly disgusted by the 
narrow minded , i know it all , i do n't believe what i ca n't see or 
measure attitude of many people out there. 


i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

accepted by whom people who think digital watches are a 
real good idea that 60 channels of television is 10x better 
than 6 channels of television 

i am convinced that it is a serious mistake to close your mind to 
something , anything , simply because it does n't fit your current frame 
of reference. history shows that many great people , great scientists , 
were people who kept an open mind and were ridiculed by sceptics .  . 

you 're right. keep an open mind to the following 

1. taco flavored donuts .  . 
2. cannibalism .  . good way to get that extra protein in the diet. 
3. belief in , armadillo god of parking meters .  . 


mark 
servant of ! oh ! he who never will become a road pizza ! 
all of my quarters and dimes , nay even , will be spent to buy time to 
park in your eternal parking lot ! 

from  ( todd i. stark ) 
subject re mind machines 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 57 
nntp posting host 
summary brief intro to mind machines in general. 


in article ,  ( webster homer ) writes .  .  .  . 
i recently learned about these devices that supposedly induce specific 
brain wave frequencies in their users simply by wearing them. 

the principle underlying these devices is a well establish principle in 
psychology called  , ' whereby external sensory stimuli 
influence gross electrical patterns of brain function. 

they are  experimental  in that people experiment with them and they 
are not widely  ( if at all) used in medicine for therapeutic purposes. 
given the exception of tens and similar units used for external electrical 
stimulation , usually for pain relief , not really a light and sound machine. 

they are not experimental in the sense of a specific medical 
category to that effect , as with experimental drugs , as the fda does not 
specifically regulate medical devices in the way it does pharmaceuticals .  . 

i would think that if they work as reported they would be incredibly useful , 

there are few reliable studies of therapeutic or enhancement effects 
for mind machines , other than those relaxation related effects found with 
meditation or self as well. reported benefits are mostly anecdotal and 
subjective so far , so it 's hard to generalize about their potential value. 

a pretty good general non technical introduction to a wide variety 
of these devices may be found in would the buddha wear a walkman 
some interesting background material , names of suppliers , and capsule reviews 
of specific equipment. 

do these mind machines  ( aka light and sound machines) work can they induce 
alpha , theta , and or delta waves in a person wearing them what research if 
any has been done on them could they be used in lieu of a tranquilizer 
or are they just another bit of quackery 

a more important question might be whether they have enough additional 
value to be worth investing in.  biofeedback  was found to be a legitimate 
and reliable effect experimentally under certain conditions ,  ( in that 
it demonstrated that we can influence physiological processes previously 
considered purely autonomic ) but never panned out as a particularly valuable 
therapeutic tool because of the skill level required and the subtlety and 
temporary nature of the effects in most cases. maybe someone else 
has more , there used to be a whole mailing list devoted to mind machines , 
somewhere on the net. 

web homer 


kind regards , 

todd 

todd i. stark 
digital equipment corporation (215) 354 1273 
philadelphia , pa. usa 
(a word is) the skin of a living thought wendell holmes , jr. 


from state . edu .  ( william vanhorne ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host bottom . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 33 

in article  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 

reading through the posts about kirlian  ( whatever spelling) 
photography i could n't help but being slightly disgusted by the 
narrow minded , i know it all , i do n't believe what i ca n't see or 
measure attitude of many people out there. 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

i am convinced that it is a serious mistake to close your mind to 
something , anything , simply because it does n't fit your current frame 
of reference. history shows that many great people , great scientists , 
were people who kept an open mind and were ridiculed by sceptics .  . 

especially the usa should be grateful after all , columbus did not 
drop off the edge of the earth. 

it is one thing to be open minded about that have not 
be demonstrated to be false , and quite another to believe in 
something like photography , where all the claimed effects 
have be demonstrated to be artifacts .  . there is no longer any reason 
to adopt a wait and see attitude about photography , it 
has been experimentally shown to be nothing but simple coronal 
discharge .  . the auras shown by missing leaf parts came from 
moisture left by the original whole leaf , for example. 

that 's what science is , son. 

bill 


from  ( gordon rubenfeld ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
article i.d. shelley . 
organization university of washington 
lines 92 
nntp posting host hardy . u . washington . edu . 

writes 

to candida blooms following the use of broad spectrum antibiotics 
, through e mail , has assured me that most physicians recognize 
the chance of candida blooms occuring after broad spectrum antibiotic use 
and they therefore their patients with good bacteria to 
restore competetion for candida in the body. i do not believe that this is 
yet a standard part of medical practice. 

nor is it mine. what i tried to explain to marty was that it is clearly 
understood that antibiotic exposure is a risk factor for fungal infections 
which is not the same as saying bacteria prevent fungal infections .  . 
marty made this sound like a secret known only to and 
 . anyone who has treated a urinary tract infection 
this. at some centers pre op liver transplant patients receive bowel 
directed at retaining good anaerobic flora in an attempt 
to prevent fungal colonization in this soon to be high risk group. i also 
use lactobacillus to treat nutrition associated diarrhea  ( that may 
be in part due to alterations in gut  . however , it is not part of 
my routine practice to patients with good bacteria after 
antibiotics .  . i have seen no data on this practice preventing or treating 
fungal infections in at risk patients .  . whether or not it is a logical 
extension from the available observations i 'll leave to those of you who 
base strong opinions and argue over such speculations in the absence of 
clinical trials .  . 
one place such therapy has been described is in treating particularly 
cases of c. colitis (not a fungal infection) .  . there 
are case reports of using stool (ie someone elses ) to 
the patients flora .  . do n't try this at home. 

not give give her advise to use the otc anti fungal creams .  . since candida 
primarily in the ano rectal area , gi symptoms should be more common 
than vaginal problems after broad spectrum antibiotic use. 

except that it is n't .  . at least apparent disease. 

medicine has not , and never will be , practiced this way. there 
has always been the use of conventional wisdom .  . a very good example is 
kidney stones .  . conventional  ( wisdom(because clinical trails have not been 
done to come up with an effective prevention ) , was that the 
intake of calcium and was the best way to prevent kidney stones 
from forming .  . clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts to 
breakdown the stone once it formed .  . through the recent new england j of 
medicine article , we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong , 
increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than is 
restricting calcium intake .  . 

seems like this is an excellent argument for ignoring anecdotal 
conventional wisdom (a euphemism for no data) and doing a good clinical 
trial , like 

au w e. wade j s. lee j y. dockery b k. j d. 
ti a , double blind trial of nystatin therapy for the 
candidiasis syndrome see comments 
so n engl j med. 1990 dec 20.  . p 1717 23. 
psychological tests. results. the three active treatment 
and the all placebo regimen 
significantly reduced both vaginal and systemic symptoms (p less than 
0 . , but nystatin did not reduce the systemic symptoms 
significantly more than placebo .  . . . . 
conclusions .  . in women with presumed candidiasis 
syndrome , nystatin does not reduce systemic or 
psychological symptoms significantly more than placebo .  . consequently , 
the empirical recommendation of long term nystatin therapy for such 
women appears to be unwarranted .  . 

does this trial address every issue raised here , no. jon noring was not 
surprised at this negative trial since they did n't use sporanox  ( despite 
crook 's recommendation for  . maybe they did n't avoid those 
carbohydrates . . . 

the conventional wisdom in animal husbandry has been that animals need to 
be with good bacteria after coming off antibiotic therapy. 
if it makes sense for livestock , why does n't it make sense for humans 
david we are not talking about a dangerous  ( treatment(unless you consider 
yogurt dangerous) .  . if this were a standard part of medical practice , as 
gordon r. says it is , then the incidence of gi distress and vaginal yeast 
infections should decline .  . 

marty , you 've also changed the terrain of the discussion from empiric 
itraconazole for undocumented chronic fungal sinusitis with systemic 
symptoms  ( noring syndrome) to the yoghurt and vitamin 
therapy of undocumented candida  ( elaine palmer syndrome) with 
systemic symptoms .  . there is significant difference between the cost and 
risk of these two empiric therapeutic trials .  . are we talking about real 
candida infections , the whole yeast connection hypothesis , the efficacy 
of routine bacterial in humans , or the ability of 
effective therapies  ( challenged by a negative trial ) to confirm 
an hypothesis  ( post hoc ergo propter  . we ca n't seem to 
focus in on a disease , a therapy , or a hypothesis under discussion. 

i'm lost ! 

from  ( barbara hlavin ) 
subject re patti duke 's problem 
article i.d. shelley . 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 19 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article writes 
does anyone have information about the struggles that patti 
duke went through in her personal life with severe mood swings .  . 
did she have some form of chemical imbalance that triggered 
these problems i recall that she wrote a book about her troubles .  . 
does someone have the title of that book 

she 's published two books about her manic depressive illness 

call me anna the autobiography of patty duke , patty duke and 
kenneth turan , bantam books 1987 

and 

a brilliant madness living with manic depressive illness , patty 
duke and gloria hochman , bantam books 1992 


barbara 

from duesseldorf . de .  ( herr theisen ) 
subject re photography 
organization , heinrich heine duesseldorf 
lines 47 
nntp posting host rz . uni . duesseldorf . de . 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( william vanhorne ) writes 
newsgroups sci . energy . , sci . image . processing . , sci . anthropology . , alt . sci . physics . new . theories , sci . skeptic . , sci . med . , alt . alien . visitors . 
path rz . uni . duesseldorf . de . ! rrz . uni . koeln . de . ! gmd . de . ! newsserver . jvnc . net . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . ! 
from state . edu .  ( william vanhorne ) 
subject re photography 
message id state . edu . 
sender state . edu . 
nntp posting host bottom . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
references 
date tue , 27 apr 1993 23 32 34 gmt 
lines 33 
xref rz . uni . duesseldorf . de . sci . energy . 6430 sci . image . processing . sci . anthropology . alt . sci . physics . new . theories sci . skeptic . sci . med . alt . alien . visitors . 

in article  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 

reading through the posts about kirlian  ( whatever spelling) 
photography i could n't help but being slightly disgusted by the 
narrow minded , i know it all , i do n't believe what i ca n't see or 
measure attitude of many people out there. 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

i am convinced that it is a serious mistake to close your mind to 
something , anything , simply because it does n't fit your current frame 
of reference. history shows that many great people , great scientists , 
were people who kept an open mind and were ridiculed by sceptics .  . 

especially the usa should be grateful after all , columbus did not 
drop off the edge of the earth. 

it is one thing to be open minded about that have not 
be demonstrated to be false , and quite another to believe in 
something like photography , where all the claimed effects 
have be demonstrated to be artifacts .  . there is no longer any reason 
to adopt a wait and see attitude about photography , it 
has been experimentally shown to be nothing but simple coronal 
discharge .  . the auras shown by missing leaf parts came from 
moisture left by the original whole leaf , for example. 

that 's what science is , son. 

bill 


from  ( grant edwards ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host aquarius 
reply to  ( grant edwards ) 
organization rosemount , inc. 
lines 15 

 ( thomas trusk ) writes 

but , to say you 're an atheist is to suggest you have proof there is no god. 
to be a politically correct skeptic , better to go with agnostic , like me ! ) 


as a self proclaimed atheist my position is that i believe that there is 
no god. i do n't claim to have any proof. i interpret the agnostic position 
as having no beliefs about god 's existence .  . 


grant edwards yow ! are we there yet my 
rosemount inc. mind is a submarine ! ! 



from (david dodell ) 
subject medical news part 4 4 
reply to (david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 625 

cut here 
call for employers to keep information about the hiv status of health care 
workers confidential .  . but doctors who know of an hiv positive colleague who 
has not sought advice must inform the employing authority and the appropriate 
professional regulatory body. the guidelines also emphasize the significance 
of notifying all patients on whom an invasive procedure has been done by an 
infected health care worker .  . a model letter to patients who have come into 
contact with such an individual is provided , along with suggestions for 
health officials on how to deal with the media. in addition , a u.k. advisory 
panel on hiv infection in health care workers has been formed to provide 
specific occupational recommendations to those treating such patients .  . 

properties of an hiv  vaccine  nature (04 08 93) vol. 362 , no. , p. 504 
 ( volvovitz , franklin and smith , gale ) 

the questions raised by moore et al. about recombinant gp160 envelope 
precursor from hiv 1 produced by are advantages 
rather than disadvantages , write franklin and smith of 
in meriden , conn. moore et al. says that gp160 in a 
expression system does not bind strongly to the cd4 receptor , and that this 
recombinant gp160 does not stimulate the same antibodies as the hiv 1 virus 
does in natural infection .  . but vaccination with recombinant gp160 in 
patients infected with hiv 1 hiv 1 specific envelope directed immune 
responses , including antibodies to gp160 and cd4 and 
t cell responses. and smith claim that they never 
intended their gp160 molecule to be identical to the native protein .  . 
responses against native hiv 1 proteins , including the types described by 
moore et al. , exist in nearly all aids patients but do not prevent 

medical newsletter page 42 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

progression of hiv disease. in addition , the binding of gp120 or gp120 
complexes to cd4 has been shown to interfere with antigen specific 
activation of cd4 cells and trigger programmed cell death in vitro , which 
may contribute to the of hiv infection .  . the absence of cd4 
binding by the gp160 vaccine may therefore be viewed as an added 
safety feature. phase i studies have demonstrated stable cd4 counts , 
stimulation of t cells , and the suggestion of restoration of immune 
function. based on these and other clinical results , gp160 was 
chosen by researchers at the institute in sweden for the first 
phase iii vaccine therapy studies , conclude and smith .  . 

hiv 1 infection breast milk and hiv 1 transmission lancet (04 10 93) vol. 
341 , no. 8850 , p. 930  ( mok , jacqueline ) 

there are still more questions than answers regarding hiv 1 positive 
women their babies , writes jacqueline of the lancet .  . the 
anti properties of milk are well documented .  . while the numbers of 
, concentrations of and , and lymphocyte 
activity decline sharply during the first two to three months of to 
barely detectable levels , and then increase from three to 
twelve months , with 90 percent of total in milk being  . 
protects infants against gastrointestinal and respiratory 
illnesses , in both normal and children born to hiv positive 
mothers .  . the italian national registry of aids discovered that hiv 
1 infected children had a longer median time (19 months) than 
infants (9 . 7 . months) .  . children also had a slower 
progression to aids .  . there is no agreement on which antibodies offer 
protection against hiv 1 infection .  . studies of the biological properties of 
milk from 15 hiv 1 infected women showed the presence of and 
antibodies against envelope , as well as antibodies against 
core  . binding of hiv 1 to the cd4 receptor can be inhibited by a 
human milk factor. in the developing world , where infectious disease and 
malnutrition contribute significantly to infant mortality , breast milk is 
still the best food for infants , regardless of the mother 's hiv status. 
transmission might be restricted by after colostrum and early 
milk have been expressed and discarded .  . the possibility remains that breast 
milk could protect the infant who is already infected with hiv at birth and 
may even delay progression to aids , concludes  . 

absence of hiv transmission from an infected dentist to his patients journal 
of the american medical association (04 14 93) vol. 269 , no. 14 , p. 1802 
 ( dickinson , gordon m. et al . ) . 

if universal precautions are practiced , the risk of hiv transmission 
from dentist to patient appears to be infinitesimal , write gordon m. dickinson 

medical newsletter page 43 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

et al. of the university of miami school of medicine in miami , fla. the 
researchers contacted all patients treated by a dentist with aids and 
attempts were made to contact all patients for hiv testing. living patients 
with newly detected hiv infection were interviewed , and dna sequence analysis 
was performed to compare genetic relatedness of their hiv to that of the 
dentist .  . death certificates were obtained for deceased patients , and the 
medical records of those with diagnoses suggestive of hiv disease or drug 
abuse and those dying under the age of 50 years were examined in detail. 
there were 1 , 192 patients who had undergone 9 , 267 procedures , of whom 124 
were deceased .  . an examination of the death certificates of patients 
identified five who had died with hiv infection , all of whom were either 
homosexuals or iv drug users. the researchers were able to detect 962 of the 
remaining 1 , patients , and 900 agreed to be tested .  . hiv infection was 
reported in five of the 900 patients , including four who had clear evidence 
of risk factors for the disease. one patient who had only a single 
evaluation by the dentist denied high risk behavior. comparative dna sequence 
analysis showed that the viruses from the dentists and these five patients 
were not closely related. the study suggests the potential for hiv 
transmission from a general dentist to his patients is minimal in a setting 
in which universal precautions are strictly observed , conclude dickinson et 
al. 

april 22 , 1993 

aids patients are susceptible to recurrences of tb , study says washington 
post (04 22 93) , p. a13 

tuberculosis can strike aids patients more than once , which makes the 
health hazard harder to control , according to a study published in 
today 's new england journal of medicine. people who contract tb usually 
develop an immunity that protects them if they are exposed to the bacteria 
again. but a person whose immune system is may not be able to fight 
off a new tb infection , doctors found. peter m. small of the howard hughes 
medical institute at stanford university , director of the study , said that in 
order to protect against , it may be necessary for some people to 
use tb medicines permanently .  . the study examined the genetic makeup of tb 
bacteria and how the germs changed over time in 17 patients at kings county 
hospital in new york .  . 

hiv 1 infection breast milk and hiv 1 transmission lancet (04 10 93) vol. 
341 , no. 8850 , p. 930  ( mok , jacqueline ) 

there are still more questions than answers regarding hiv 1 positive 
women their babies , writes jacqueline of the lancet .  . the 
anti properties of milk are well documented .  . while the numbers of 

medical newsletter page 44 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

, concentrations of and , and lymphocyte 
activity decline sharply during the first two to three months of to 
barely detectable levels , and then increase from three to 
twelve months , with 90 percent of total in milk being  . 
protects infants against gastrointestinal and respiratory 
illnesses , in both normal and children born to hiv positive 
mothers .  . the italian national registry of aids discovered that hiv 
1 infected children had a longer median time (19 months) than 
infants (9 . 7 . months) .  . children also had a slower 
progression to aids .  . there is no agreement on which antibodies offer 
protection against hiv 1 infection .  . studies of the biological properties of 
milk from 15 hiv 1 infected women showed the presence of and 
antibodies against envelope , as well as antibodies against 
core  . binding of hiv 1 to the cd4 receptor can be inhibited by a 
human milk factor. in the developing world , where infectious disease and 
malnutrition contribute significantly to infant mortality , breast milk is 
still the best food for infants , regardless of the mother 's hiv status. 
transmission might be restricted by after colostrum and early 
milk have been expressed and discarded .  . the possibility remains that breast 
milk could protect the infant who is already infected with hiv at birth and 
may even delay progression to aids , concludes  . 

hiv and the of aids lancet (04 10 93) vol. 341 , no. 8850 , p. 957 
 ( duesberg , peter ) 

because there is no proof that hiv is the cause of aids , the hypothesis 
that drug use leads to aids will hopefully become a hindrance to the 
physiologically  ( azt ) and psychologically  ( positive aids test) toxic public 
health initiatives , writes peter of the university of california 
berkeley .  . in the lancet 's march 13 issue , et al. call 's 
hypothesis that injected and orally used recreational drugs and azt lead to 
aids , a hindrance to public health initiatives .  . however , their hypothesis 
that hiv is the cause of aids has not attained any public health benefits. 
the u.s. government spends 4 billion annually , but no vaccine , no therapy , 
no prevention , and no aids control have resulted from work on this 
hypothesis .  . et al. conclude that hiv has a key role in cd4 
depletion and aids based on correlations with antibodies 
against hiv and with self reported recreational drug use among homosexuals 
from vancouver .  . however , their survey neglects to disprove 's drug 
aids hypothesis , because it does not provide controls i.e. , confirmed drug 
free aids cases and because it does not quantify drug use and ignores azt 
use altogether. to refute 's hypothesis would have to 
produce a controlled study demonstrating that over a period of up to 10 years 
hiv positive patients who use recreational drugs or azt or both have the same 
aids risks as positives who do not do so. the 10 year period is claimed by 

medical newsletter page 45 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

proponents of the hiv hypothesis to be the time needed for hiv to cause aids .  . 
alternatively , they could show that hiv free individuals who have used drugs 
for 10 years never get aids defining illnesses , concludes  . 

rapid decline of cd4 cells after treatment in hiv 1 infection 
lancet (04 10 93) vol. 341 , no. 8850 , p. 959  ( vento , et al . ) . 

interferon  ( ifn ) , which induces and diseases 
in some settings , may hasten cd4 t cell loss in some hiv 1 infected 
individuals through the amplification of harmful reactions , 
write et al. of the a. pugliese hospital in , italy .  . 
the researchers report three hiv 1 infected individuals with 
hepatitis c virus related chronic active hepatitis  ( cah ) who had a rapid , 
profound decline of cd4 cells after ifn .  . all three patients throughout the 
observation were consistently negative for serum hiv antigen and had 
circulating antibodies to  . from all three patients , obtained at the 
end of ifn treatment and testing in enzyme linked , 
contained high of antibodies reacting to a sequence located in the 
of the beta chain of all human class ii , 
to a sequence located in the of hiv 1  . 
these , which also recognize native class ii molecules and 
may contribute to the elimination of cd4 t cells in vivo , were at low tires 
 ( 50 100) in all three patients six months after stopping ifn .  . such 
were not detected in 28 other patients with hiv infection and 
related treated with ifn and who did not experience cd4 t cell loss 
in some hiv 1 infected individuals through the amplification of harmful 
reactions .  . the subjects had a1 b8 and , 
antigen combinations which are linked with a more rapid fall in cd4 cell 
counts and clinical progression of hiv 1 disease. ifn can induce a very 
rapid decline of cd4 cells and should be used cautiously in patients with 
these , the researchers conclude .  . 

april 23 , 1993 

tb makes a comeback state government news (04 93) vol. 36 , no. 4 , p. 6 
 ( voit , william and knapp , elaine s . ) . 

although tuberculosis was once believed to be eliminated in the united 
states , it is emerging again among the homeless , aids patients , immigrants , 
minorities , and prisoners .  . dr. lee b. , professor of medicine at the 
university of new jersey medical school and president of the american lung 
association , said , right now , it 's a big city problem , but potentially it 's 
everyone 's problem. the ala predicts that 10 million americans are infected 
with tb , and about 10 percent of them will develop the disease because their 
immune systems are depressed , especially those with aids or hiv .  . gene 

medical newsletter page 46 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

, a centers for disease control expert , said that is why the cdc has 
issued guidelines warning hospitals and institutions not to mix aids with tb 
patients .  . state health officials believe the tb is also spreading because 
those who are most susceptible are the least likely to follow through with 
treatment. in addition , the increase is attributed to a shortage of public 
health services. in new york city , tb is an epidemic because the number of 
cases is increasing faster than we can treat people , said dr. george 
, director of the new york state tb control. according to 
, the spread of tb entails keeping 85 percent or more of 
diagnosed tb cases in treatment. about 40 percent of infected new york city 
residents do n't complete therapy. when tb patients do n't finish taking their 
medication , multi drug resistant tb can develop , which requires taking more 
expensive drugs and can take two years instead of the normal six months to 
treat. 

increasing frequency of transmitted aids in southern 
florida artifact or reality american journal of public health (04 93) vol. 
83 , no. 4 , p. 571  ( nwanyanwu , c. et al . ) . 

the alarmingly high rate of acquired aids cases in 
southern florida was partially related to of risk , write 
c. et al. of the centers for disease control in atlanta , ga. 
the researchers investigated 168 such aids cases from broward and coastal 
palm beach counties .  . all of these cases attributed to heterosexual 
transmission reported sexual contact with bisexual men , injecting drug users , 
or persons born in countries where heterosexual contact is the primary route 
of hiv transmission .  . medical records of patients , in addition to records 
from social services , hiv counseling and testing centers , and sexually 
transmitted disease  ( std ) clinics were reviewed .  . if no other hiv risk factor 
was found from medical record review , patients were interviewed using a 
standardized questionnaire .  . once std clinic and other medical records were 
reviewed , 29 men and 7 women were into other hiv transmission 
categories .  . after adjustments were made for the , the 
percentage of aids cases reported from palm beach and broward counties 
between january 1 , 1989 , and march 31 , 1990 , that was attributed to 
heterosexual transmission decreased from 10 percent to 6 percent among men 
and from 33 percent to 28 percent among women. while the percentage of 
transmitted aids cases in southern florida decreased after 
adjustment was made for cases , it still remained above the 
national average , the researchers conclude .  . 





medical newsletter page 47 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 




aids statistics 


world health organization , geneva 
organisation de la , 

weekly record 


15 january 1993 year 

acquired immunodeficiency syndrome  ( aids ) 
data as at 31 december 1992 

syndrome d  ( sida ) 
au 31 1992 

number date of 
of cases report 
country area date 
pays de cas de 

cation 
africa 

algeria 92 31 . 08 . 91 . 
angola 514 24 . 09 . 92 . 
247 31 . 03 . 92 . 
353 30 . 06 . 92 . 
1 , 263 20 . 03 . 92 . 
6 , 20 . 03 . 92 . 
1 , 407 05 . 10 . 92 . 
cape cap vert 52 08 . 02 . 92 . 
central african republic 
1 , 864 20 . 03 . 92 . 
chad 382 17 . 09 . 92 . 
3 11 . 03 . 92 . 
congo 3 , 482 30 . 01 . 92 . 
cote d 10 , 792 09 . 03 . 92 . 
265 17 . 12 . 92 . 
egypt 57 17 . 12 . 92 . 
equatorial 
13 16 . 05 . 92 . 
ethiopia 3 , 978 11 . 11 . 92 . 

medical newsletter page 48 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

215 31 . 05 . 92 . 
180 25 . 02 . 92 . 
ghana 3 , 612 01 . 07 . 92 . 
338 20 . 03 . 92 . 
189 13 . 07 . 92 . 
31 , 185 01 . 10 . 92 . 
64 31 . 03 . 92 . 
liberia liberia 28 31 . 03 . 92 . 
libyan arab 
7 17 . 12 . 92 . 
2 06 . 11 . 92 . 
22 , 300 02 . 12 . 92 . 
1 , 111 17 . 07 . 92 . 
36 19 . 07 . 92 . 
mauritius maurice 11 29 . 02 . 92 . 
121 17 . 12 . 92 . 
538 10 . 10 . 92 . 
311 20 . 03 . 92 . 
497 07 . 02 . 92 . 
184 12 . 03 . 92 . 
reunion reunion 65 20 . 03 . 92 . 
8 , 483 12 . 11 . 92 . 
sao tome and 
sao tome et 11 03 . 07 . 92 . 
senegal senegal 648 09 . 03 . 92 . 
18 . 02 . 92 . 
sierra 40 20 . 03 . 92 . 
somalia 13 17 . 12 . 92 . 
south africa 
du 1 , 316 30 . 06 . 92 . 
sudan 650 17 . 12 . 92 . 
197 08 . 07 . 92 . 
1 , 278 03 . 04 . 92 . 
114 17 . 12 . 92 . 
34 , 611 01 . 11 . 92 . 
united republic of tanzania 
de 
34 , 605 31 . 05 . 92 . 
18 , 186 14 . 05 . 92 . 
6 , 556 15 . 10 . 92 . 
12 , 514 31 . 03 . 92 . 

total 211 , 



medical newsletter page 49 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

americas 

6 10 . 12 . 92 . 
and 
et 6 10 . 12 . 92 . 
argentina argentine 1 , 820 10 . 12 . 92 . 
bahamas 934 10 . 12 . 92 . 
315 10 . 12 . 92 . 
53 10 . 12 . 92 . 
199 10 . 12 . 92 . 
49 10 . 12 . 92 . 
brazil 31 , 364 10 . 12 . 92 . 
british virgin islands 

4 10 . 12 . 92 . 
canada 6 , 889 10 . 12 . 92 . 
cayman islands 13 10 . 12 . 92 . 
chile chili 573 10 . 12 . 92 . 
2 , 957 10 . 12 . 92 . 
costa 419 10 . 12 . 92 . 
cuba 137 10 . 12 . 92 . 
dominique 12 10 . 12 . 92 . 
dominican republic 
1 , 809 10 . 12 . 92 . 
ecuador 224 10 . 12 . 92 . 
el 382 10 . 12 . 92 . 
french guiana 
232 10 . 12 . 92 . 
grenada grenade 32 10 . 12 . 92 . 
182 10 . 12 . 92 . 
guatemala 273 10 . 12 . 92 . 
333 10 . 12 . 92 . 
haiti haiti 3 , 10 . 12 . 92 . 
1 , 976 10 . 12 . 92 . 
361 10 . 12 . 92 . 
227 10 . 12 . 92 . 
mexico 11 , 034 10 . 12 . 92 . 
1 10 . 12 . 92 . 
netherlands and 
et 
110 10 . 12 . 92 . 
nicaragua 31 10 . 12 . 92 . 
panama 388 10 . 12 . 92 . 
51 10 . 12 . 92 . 
peru 614 10 . 12 . 92 . 

medical newsletter page 50 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

saint and nevis 
saint et nevis 37 10 . 12 . 92 . 
saint sainte 48 10 . 12 . 92 . 
saint vincent and the 
saint 
vincent et 41 10 . 12 . 92 . 
122 10 . 12 . 92 . 
and 
et 1 , 085 10 . 12 . 92 . 
turks and islands 
et 
25 10 . 12 . 92 . 
united states of america 
unis d 242 , 146 10 . 12 . 92 . 
310 10 . 12 . 92 . 
2 , 173 10 . 12 . 92 . 

total 313 , 083 


asia 

afghanistan 17 . 12 . 92 . 
3 31 . 03 . 92 . 
bangladesh 1 30 . 11 . 92 . 
bhutan 30 . 11 . 92 . 

2 19 . 12 . 91 . 
see 
voir 
cambodia 31 . 10 . 92 . 
 ( china(a )  ( chine(a ) 11 28 . 04 . 92 . 
cyprus 24 17 . 12 . 92 . 
democratic people 's republic 
of korea 

de 30 . 11 . 92 . 
hong kong 61 26 . 09 . 92 . 
india inde 242 30 . 11 . 92 . 
indonesia 24 30 . 11 . 92 . 
iran  ( islamic republic of) 
iran  ( republique 
d' ) 56 17 . 12 . 92 . 
iraq 7 17 . 12 . 92 . 
israel israel 192 17 . 12 . 92 . 

medical newsletter page 51 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

japan 508 04 . 12 . 92 . 
jordan 24 17 . 12 . 92 . 
kuwait 7 17 . 12 . 92 . 
lao people 's democratic republic 

lao 1 23 . 04 . 92 . 
lebanon 35 17 . 12 . 92 . 
2 03 . 11 . 92 . 
malaysia 46 25 . 05 . 92 . 
30 . 11 . 92 . 
1 30 . 11 . 92 . 
16 30 . 11 . 92 . 
12 30 . 11 . 92 . 
27 17 . 12 . 92 . 
pakistan 25 17 . 12 . 92 . 
philippines 80 07 . 10 . 92 . 
31 17 . 12 . 92 . 
republic of korea 
de 10 19 . 11 . 92 . 
saudi arabia 46 17 . 12 . 92 . 
singapore 43 05 . 08 . 92 . 
sri 20 30 . 11 . 92 . 
syrian arab republic 
19 17 . 12 . 92 . 
thailand 909 30 . 11 . 92 . 
turkey turquie 89 17 . 12 . 92 . 
united arab 
unis 8 17 . 12 . 92 . 
viet nam 28 . 04 . 92 . 
yemen yemen 17 . 12 . 92 . 

total 2 , 582 



europe 

albania 30 . 09 . 92 . 
austria 828 30 . 09 . 92 . 
belarus belarus 6 30 . 09 . 92 . 
belgium 1 , 224 17 . 12 . 92 . 
bulgaria 16 17 . 12 . 92 . 
czechoslovakia 32 17 . 12 . 92 . 
denmark 1 , 072 17 . 12 . 92 . 
finland 112 17 . 12 . 92 . 

medical newsletter page 52 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

france 21 , 487 17 . 12 . 92 . 
germany 8 , 893 17 . 12 . 92 . 
greece 689 17 . 12 . 92 . 
hungary 105 17 . 12 . 92 . 
iceland 22 17 . 12 . 92 . 
ireland 294 17 . 12 . 92 . 
italy 14 , 783 17 . 12 . 92 . 
latvia 2 30 . 09 . 92 . 
2 30 . 09 . 92 . 
55 17 . 12 . 92 . 
25 17 . 12 . 92 . 
monaco 9 17 . 12 . 92 . 
netherlands pays bas 2 , 330 17 . 12 . 92 . 
norway 283 17 . 12 . 92 . 
poland 118 17 . 12 . 92 . 
portugal 1 , 007 17 . 12 . 92 . 
romania 2 , 073 17 . 12 . 92 . 
russian federation federation 
de 94 30 . 09 . 92 . 
san marino saint marin 1 17 . 12 . 92 . 
spain 14 , 991 17 . 12 . 92 . 
sweden suede 743 17 . 12 . 92 . 
switzerland suisse 2 , 691 17 . 12 . 92 . 
united kingdom uni 6 , 510 17 . 12 . 92 . 
 ( yugoslavia(b )  ( yougoslavie(b ) 313 30 . 09 . 92 . 

total 80 , 810 



oceania 

american 18 . 11 . 92 . 
australia 3 , 615 02 . 12 . 92 . 
cook islands cook 18 . 02 . 92 . 
states of 
de 2 01 . 09 . 92 . 
4 28 . 11 . 91 . 
french 27 28 . 11 . 91 . 
guam 10 13 . 09 . 91 . 
08 . 11 . 91 . 
mariana islands 4 14 . 10 . 92 . 
marshall islands marshall 2 18 . 03 . 91 . 
17 . 12 . 92 . 
new and 

medical newsletter page 53 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

et 
22 26 . 08 . 92 . 
new zealand 348 03 . 11 . 92 . 
18 . 02 . 92 . 
15 . 10 . 92 . 
papua new 
45 10 . 08 . 92 . 
1 18 . 02 . 92 . 
solomon islands salomon 19 . 12 . 91 . 
18 . 02 . 92 . 
tonga 2 24 . 07 . 92 . 
22 . 11 . 92 . 
08 . 06 . 92 . 
wallis and islands 
wallis et 27 . 05 . 91 . 

total 4 , 082 


world total 
total mondial 611 , 589 

(a) the above statistics relating to china do not include 48 cases of aids in 
the province of taiwan .  . les ci se a la 
ne pas 48 cas de sida dans la province de taiwan .  . 

(b) refers to republics and areas of the former socialist federal republic of 
yugoslavia bosnia and herzegovina croatia macedonia montenegro 
serbia slovenia .  . se aux et de l 
de 
montenegro  . 














medical newsletter page 54 
cut here 
this is the last part 


internet fax 1 (602) 451 1165 
bitnet fidonet 1 114 15 
amateur packet ax25 

from mrc (paul johnson ) 
subject re cats and pregnancy 
reply to mrc (paul johnson ) 
organization gec marconi research centre , great , uk 
lines 25 


hello , 
i heard that a certain disease  ( toxoplasmosys ) is transmitted by cats which 
can harm the unborn fetus .  . does anybody know about it is it a problem to 
have a cat in the same apartment 


see the rec . pets . cats . faq or any doctor or vet for more information. 

i am not any of the above , but we do have a couple of cats .  . 

it is transmitted through the matter , so a pregnant woman should 
avoid cleaning the cat tray and you should both wash hands before 
preparing or eating meals .  . the latter is sound advice at any time of 
course. 

apart from that , its no great problem. you certainly do not need to 
get rid of your cats .  . 

paul .  . 

paul johnson  ( paj@gec mrc . co . uk) .  . tel 44 245 ext 3245 

these ideas and others like them can be had gec marconi research is not 
for 0.02 each from any reputable idealist .  . responsible for my opinions 

from (michael covington ) 
subject re lithium questions , doctor wants my 10 year old on it .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host aisun3 . ai . uga . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 26 

in article writes 
someone writes 
i have a 10 year old son that lives with my ex wife. she has been having 
difficulty with his behavior and has had him on , tofranil , and now 
wants to try at the local doctors suggestion. i would like to 
know whatever is important that i should know. i worry about this sort of 
thing and would like pros cons regarding lithium therapy. 

i get about posts like this. is the concern more for son or about ex w 
the standard impartial procedure is to ask for a second opinion 
about son 's condition. 
then too , is son acting out games between divorced parents 

precisely .  . one wonders what unusual strain the boy might be under that 
could be causing difficulty with his behavior . standard practice would 
be to get a second opinion from a child psychiatrist .  . one would want to 
rule out the possibility that the bad behavior is not psychiatric 
illness at all. 

 ( disclaimer i am not a  . but i am a parent . ) . 


michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

from  ( bonita kale ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 21 
reply to  ( bonita kale ) 
nntp posting host slc4 . ins . cwru . edu . 



in a previous article ,  ( jeff silva ) says 
i was told by my doctor 
at that time that the pain was comparable to that of childbirth .  . (yes , 
by a male doctor , so i'm sure some of you women will  . i 'd 
really like to know the truth in this , so maybe some of you women who 
have had a baby and a kidney stone could fill me in. 



i 've had three children and the pain was different in degree for each. i 
think it just depends .  . i was impressed by how awful a kidney stone seemed 
to be , when i saw a relative with one. i bet they depend , too some are 
probably worse than others. 

pain  . 


kale 


from (erik the viking ) 
subject deficiency 
organization imperial college computer centre 
lines 31 
nntp posting host ps . 

hi. 

my wife has aquired some (sp ) deficiency over the past year 
that gives symptoms such as needing much sleep , and 
to gaining weight. she has been to a doctor and taken the ordinary ( ) 
tests and her values were regarded as low. the doctor  ( and my wife) are 
not very interested in starting medication as this the 
gland , giving life long dependency to the drug  ( hormone ) .  . the last couple of 
monthes she has been seeing a (sp ) and been given 
some drops to re activate either her gland and or the 
 message center  in the brain (sorry about the approximate language , 
but i have n't got many clues to what the english terms are , but the 
brain area is called the   in norwegian . ) . 

my questions are has anyone had heard of success in using this approach 
her values have been  ( slowly but ) steadily sinking , any comment on the 
probability of improvement although the doctor has told her to  eat 
normally  , my wife has vigorously to keep her weight as she feels 
that is part of keeping an edge over the illness condition , may this 
affect the treatment , development 

i can get the exact figures for her tests for anyone interested , and i 
will greatly value any information opinion experience on this topic. 

i do n't intend this post to be either a flaming of the established 
medical profession or a praise for alternatives , i am just relaying 
events as they have happened. 

sincerely , 

erik a. 

from  ( wes x7574 ) 
subject re discussions on alt . psychoactives . 
nntp posting host 144 . 219 . 40 . 1 . 
organization ge corp r d center , schenectady ny 
lines 3 

re serious discussion about drugs vs. where can i get a good bong , man 

why not have the group moderated that would eliminate some of the idiots .  . 

from  ( harry matthews ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
reply to  ( harry matthews ) 
organization instructional computing center , suny at oswego , oswego , ny 
lines 7 

all right , listen up .  .  .  .  . what are the possibilities of transmission through 
swimming pool water especially if the is n't up to par 

i 've heard of community swimming pools refered to as public so what 
else is going on 



from (john eyles ) 
subject tick fever  ( aka rocky mtn spotted ) 
organization the university of north carolina at chapel hill 
lines 22 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ceti . cs . unc . edu . 

any rocky mountain spotted fever experts out there 

the doctor thinks a friend might have this. 
the question is , does n't the tick have to bite you 

you frequently find a tick crawling on you after a walk 
in the woods around here , but you tend to notice it before 
it bites you pulling one out of your skin is something 
you 're not likely to forget. 

can you get the fever without it biting you do they 
sometimes bite you and then let go so you do n't realize 
you were i know they will let go once they 've had 
their fill , but you certainly would notice this  . 

so how do you get the fever if you never pulled a tick 
off yourself  ( as opposed to finding one merely crawling 
on you) 

john eyles 



from () 
subject re and milli 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 37 

in writes 

in article , (g t clark ) writes 
 ( rebecca snyder ) writes 

does anyone know how and are if someone 
was , how soon would medical treatment be needed , and what would 
be liable to happen to the person 

 ( just for clarification i have not been by one of these , but my 
house seems to be infested , and i want to know 'just in ) . 

rebecca 


, i understand , are vegetarian , and therefore almost 
certainly will not bite and are not poisonous .  . are 
, and although i do n't have any absolute knowledge on this , i 
would tend to think that you 're in no danger from anything but a 
concerted assault by several million of them. 

g. 
not sure of this but i think some cause a toxic reaction  ( sting 
so i would not assume that they are not dangerous merely on the basis of 
, after all wasps are vegetarian too. 
dnc .  . 

as a child i can remember picking up a and getting a rather painful 
sting , but it quickly subsided .  . much less painful compared to a bee sting .  . 
have a poison claw  ( one of the front feet) to stun their prey , but 
in my single experience it did not have a lot of bite to it. 

a. 





from 
subject re info and purification 
lines 63 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article ,  ( mark robert thorson ) writes 
not everything that goes in comes out , and personaly i do n't mind giving 
my body a hand once in a while. 

just my experience , 

george 

i 've got a very nice collection of historical books on medical quackery , 
and on the topic of massage this is a recurring theme. ordinary massage 
is intended to make a person feel better , especially if they have muscular 
or joint problems. but like there are some practitioners 
who take the technique to a far extreme , invoking what seems to me to be 
quack science to justify their technique. 

in the case of massage , there is a technique called deep abdominal massage 
in which the masseur is literally attempting to massage the intestines ! 
the notion is that food adheres to the inner surface of the 
intestines and , releasing poisons which cause various disease 
syndromes .  . by this vigorous and painful procedure , it is alleged that 
these deposits can be loosened up and passed out. 

i just ca n't believe this idea has any truth behind it ! the human intestine 
is not a new york city sewer pipe ! and even if it were , you eat half of 
a small box of , and there ai n't gonna be nothin  sticking to the 
inner surface of your intestine ) 

mark , this is the most reasonable post that i 've seen in sci .  . med. on the 
topic of flushing .  . i'm in a profession that uses  ( manipulation(a 
very refined form of massage) to treat various human diseases .  . proving 
that manipulation works has been extremely  ( difficult(as the md 's delight in 
pointing out) .  . the osteopathic profession seems to be making better 
progress than the chiropractors in  ( proving(scientifically ) that their 
work. the recently had a study on the use of manipulation 
to relieve cramps in women with results that were as good or 
better than drug  ( treatment(using physiological measurements , and not just 
the woman 's preception of  . this study was hailed by the 
editors as the turning point in the profession 's long struggle to prove 
itself to the medical community. 

i'm currently trying to get the  ( aoa(american osteopathic association ) which 
has supported most of the osteopathic research in the u.s. to also support 
nutrition education and research. i 've pointed out , in a grant proposal , 
that the founder of osteopathic t .  . still ) embraced both diet and 
manipulation to set himself apart from the md 's of his time who were pushing 
only  ( drugs(still was himself an md who got real with drugs 
during his service in the civil war) .  . he decided that there had to be a 
better way to treat human disease since he saw the  ( cure(drugs ) as being 
worse than the disease. through his many years of study of the human body , 
he developed his manipulation techniques that he then taught to his 
students in the u.s 's first osteopathic medical school. we now have 17. 
still used manipulation to  ( treat(and also diagnose ) human disease but he 
used diet to prevent human disease. i'm trying to get the osteopathic 
profession to return to it 's roots and beat the md 's to the  ( punch(so to 
speak) .  . both do 's and md 's in current medical practice have very little 
understanding of how diet affects human health. this has to change. 

martin , ph.d. 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and microbiology 
osu college of osteopathic medicine 

you are what you eat. 

from  ( klaus  ( 6663 ) 
subject cats and pregnancy 
nntp posting host 150 . 29 . 28 . 9 . 
organization national institute of materials and chem .  . res. , miti , 
lines 13 

hello , 
i heard that a certain disease  ( toxoplasmosys ) is transmitted by cats which 
can harm the unborn fetus .  . does anybody know about it is it a problem to 
have a cat in the same apartment 

thanks 




klaus 
national institute of materials and chemical research 
1 1 , , 305 , japan 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re and milli 
organization the portal system (tm) 
lines 5 

i remember as a kid visiting my relatives on kauai , and one of the things 
that really frightened me was  . i 'd been told they were poisonous 
and infrequently one would pop up and scare the heck out of me. once 
one came out of the vacuum cleaner and it seemed like it was at least a foot 
long and moving at 35 miles an hour ! 

from (john p. mechalas ) 
subject re photography 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 22 

in article  ( don husby ) writes 

poor person 's kirlian photography  ( try this at home) 

1. hold your hand up to a cold window. 
2. look closely at the stunning corona effects around 
your fingertips .  . 
3. remove hand (from window) and observe after image. 
4. invent crackpot theory to explain the effect. 

advanced kirlian photography  ( try this at home , too) 

1. get a camera 
2. have your subject face you with his her back to the sun. 
3. take photo 
4. observe the glow behind their image on the photo 
5. invent crackpot theory to explain the effect 


john i'm not an actor , but 
i play one on tv. 
aero engineering , purdue university include disclaimer . h . 

from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 52 

(david rind ) writes 

in article 
writes 
poster for being treated by a liscenced physician for a disease that did 
not exist. calling this physician a quack was reprehensible steve and i 
see that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. 

do you believe that any quacks exist how about quack diagnoses is 
being a licensed physician enough to guarantee that someone is not 
a quack , or is it just that even if a licensed physician is a quack , 
other people should n't say so can you give an example of a 
commonly diagnosed ailment that you think is a quack diagnosis , 
or have we gotten to the point in civilization where we no longer 
need to worry about unscrupulous healers taking advantage of 
people. 

david rind 

sure there are quacks .  . there are quacks who do n't treat and quacks who 
treat. one 's that refuse to diagnose and ones that diagnose improperly .  . 
there are lucky quacks and unlucky quacks .  . smart quacks and dumb ones. 

there are people ahead of their time , with or unproven theories 
and  . there are ill reasoned , absurd , theorists .  . 

sometimes it 's hard to tell who 's who .  . 

reading a book of ancient jokes it seems that doctors called other doctors 
quacks in babylon .  . 

arguments abound when there are n't any firm answers. plenty of illnesses 
are n't , or ca n't , be diagnosed or treated .  . but i think it 's better to argue 
against the theory , as was originally done with postings on candida a month 
or so ago. stating the facts usually works better than simply asserting an 
opinion about someone 's competency .  . and you ca n't convince everybody. 

sometimes a correct diagnosis 
takes years for people they do n't run into a doctor who recognizes the 
disease , they have n't developed something recognizable yet , or they have 
something that no one is going to recognize , because it has n't been 
described yet. sometimes they get a cure , sometimes the illness wears out , 
sometimes they stumble on an improper diagnosis with the right treatment , 
sometimes they find it 's incurable .  . 

there is no profit in a patient accepting a hopeless attitude about an 
illness .  . unless it 's a rock solid diagnosis of terminal disease it 's is 
more like ly that a person will find a cure if they keep looking. 

jackie 



from  ( ping yan ) 
subject what is the medical term for this sensation 
organization health and welfare , canada 
lines 23 
nntp posting host m . ca . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

dear netters 

maybe one of you can explain this. from time to time i experience 
a strange kind of feeling (i have all kinds of weird feelings ) which 
can be best described as the feeling of losing gravity , like that one 
experiences in a descending elevator .  . needless to say , it is not 
enjoyable. it sometimes comes with of breath and extreme 
fatigue .  . it lasts from a few minutes to an hour and when it lasts 
that long , it makes me  . 

initially i called it  ( spelling ) until i later learnt that 
the terminology has been reserved for the self awareness of heart beats .  . 

so , is there a specific term for this feeling , or am i a person 
i always believe i am unique .  . 

thanks. 

ping 





from  ( wen lin wang ) 
subject re how often do kids fall sick etc. 
nntp posting host 
organization supercomputer systems division  ( ssd ) , intel 
lines 83 

in article  ( ashwin ram) writes 
our 20 month son has started falling sick quite often every since he 
started going to day care. he was at home for the first year and he did 
not fall sick even once. now it seems like he has some sort of cold or 
flu pretty much once a month. most of the time the cold leads to an ear 
infection as well , with the result that he ends up being on antibiotics 
3 weeks out of 4. i know kids in day care fall sick more often , but we 
... 

sounds pretty familiar. i posted similar cries about last september when 
caroline just entered daycare .  . she was two , then , and have been with 
continuous colds since until last march .  . as spring approaches , her colds 
slowed down. meanwhile we grew more and more relaxed about her colds .  . 
only once did the doctor diagnosed an ear infection and only twice she 
had antibiotics .  . (the other time was due to sinus infection , and i wished 
that i did not give her that awful septra . ) . 

are there any studies that can help answer some of these questions 

there are the  net studies  that is , if you read this newsgroup often , 
there will be a round of questions like this every month. there might 
be formal studies like that , but bear with my not so academic experience. 
okay 

how often do kids in their first , second and third years fall sick 
how often do they get colds , , ear infections 

gee , i bet 50 50 you 'll hear cases in all these catagories .  . 

is there any data on home care vs. day care 

i am pretty sure , an insulated child at home less. but , that child 
still will face the world one day. 


does being sick build immunity  ( leading to less illness later) , 

that 's what i believe and comfort myself with. caroline will get more 
and more colds for sure before she learned not to stick her hand in other 
kid 's mouth nor let other kids do the same. cold virus easily. 
however , i hope that her immune system will be stronger to fight these 
diseases , so she would be less severely affected .  . everytime she has a cold , 
we make sure she blow her nose frequently and give her or 
at night so she can have good rest  ( thanks to some suggestions from the net) .  . 
that 's about all the care she needs from us. i try very hard to keep her 
off antibiotics .  . twice her ped .  . gave me choice to decide whether she would 
have antibiotics .  . i waited just long enough (3 4 days) to see that she 
fought the illness off. i do understand that you do n't have much choice if 
the child is in pain and or high fever .  . 

does it make kids weaker  ( leading to more illness later) , or does it 
not have any long term effect 

if the child does n't rely on antibiotics to fight off the sickness everytime , 
then the child should be stronger .  . 


does taking antibiotics on a regular basis have any negative long 
term effects 

i 'll leave this to expert .  . 

how does one tell if a child is more susceptible to illness than 
normal , and what does one do about it 

if your child just entered daycare , i'm pretty sure the first 6 months will be 
the hardest .  .  ( then , you get more used to it. boy , do i hate to see me typing 
this sentence. i recall when i read something like this last september , i said 
to myself ,  oh , sure . ' . but , i do get used to it , now . ) . however , i do hear 
people say that it does get better after a year or two. i am looking forward 
to a healthier next winter. as it gets warmer , i hope you do get some break 
soon. 

is there any way to build immunity and resistance 

eat well , sleep well. try not to use antibiotics if not absolutely necessary. 

good luck. 

wen lin 




from  ( felix the cat ) 
subject re med school 
organization public access unix , nyc 
lines 38 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

john carey wrote 
actually i am entering vet school next year , but the question is 
relevant for med students too. 

large amounts has never been my strong point academically .  . 
since this is a major portion of medical education anatomy , 
histology , pathology , , are for the most part mass 
i am a little concerned. as i am sure most 
med students are. 

can anyone suggest techniques for this type of i 
have had reasonable success with and memory tricks like 
thinking up little stories to associate unrelated things. but i have 
never applied them to large amounts of data . 

has anyone had luck with any particular books , memory systems , or 
cheap software 

can you suggest any helpful organizational techniques being an 
older student who returned to school this year , organization  ( another 
one of my weak points) has been a major help to my success. 

please no about how all you have to do is learn the material 
conceptually .  . i have no problem with that , it is one of my strong 
points. but you ca n't get around the fact that much of medicine is 
 . 

thanks for your help. 
the only suggestion i can think of off the top of my head is get a large 
supply of index cards and memorize small amounts of info at a time , making 
flash cards and  . everytime i get a question wrong i always 
manage to get the damn thing right the next time 


felix the cat 
0 0 the wonderful , wonderful cat ! 
@ 
! 

from  ( rory jaffe ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of california , davis 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 14 

 ( mats winberg ) writes 

is n't there a relatively new treatment for kidney stones involving 
a non invasive use of ultra sound where the patient is lowered 
into some sort of liquid when he she undergoes treatment i'm sure 
i 've read about it somewhere. if i remember it correctly it is a 
painless and effective treatment. 
the use of shock waves (not ultrasound ) to break up stones has been 
around for a few years. depending on the type of machine , and intensity 
of the shock waves , it is usually uncomfortable enough to require 
something .  .  .  . the high power machines cause enough pain to require 
general or regional anesthesia .  . afterwards , it feels like someone 
you pretty good ! 


from  ( laurence gene battin ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host cyclops . indiana . edu . 
organization indiana university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 18 

in article , e.a. story wrote 
in article writes 
greg flame definitely intended here. bill was making fun of the misspelling .  . 
go look up the word krill .  . also , the correct spelling is kirlian .  . it 
involves taking photographs of corona discharges created by attaching the 
subject to a high voltage source , not of some aura .  . it works equally well 
with inanimate objects .  . 

true .  .  . but what about showing the missing part of a leaf is this 
corona discharge 

no. it 's called not wiping off the apparatus after taking a picture of the 
whole leaf .  . 

gene 

no  . sig . yet 


from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re photography 
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711 
lines 9 

in article  ( mark meyer ) writes 
besides , kirilian photography is actually photography of my 
friend 's two year old son  . perhaps you meant kirlian 

i think it was a typo for photography , which is the 
practice of taking pictures of either finns or russians , depending 
on whom one asks .  . 

eli 

from  ( ata etemadi ) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host prawn . sp . ph . 
organization imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , london , england 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( alan morgan ) writes 
in article 
 ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 
okay. name one single effect that kirlian photography gives that 
ca n't be explained by corona discharge .  . 

dozens of very funny postings to sci . image . processing . 
of which this may not be one . 

ata ( ) 

from (david dodell ) 
subject medical news part 2 4 
reply to (david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 707 

cut here 





medical newsletter page 13 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 




food drug administration news 


fda approves depo , injectable contraceptive 
31 food and drug administration 
for immediate release susan (301) 443 


the food and drug administration today announced the approval of depo , 
an injectable contraceptive drug .  . 

the drug , which contains a synthetic hormone similar to the natural hormone 
, protects women from pregnancy for three months per injection .  . 
the hormone is injected into the muscle of the arm or where it is 
released into the bloodstream to prevent pregnancy .  . it is more than 99 percent 
effective. 

this drug presents another long term , effective option for women to prevent 
pregnancy , said fda commissioner david a. kessler , m.d. as an injectable , 
given once every three months , depo eliminates problems related to 
missing a daily dose .  . 

depo is available in 150 mg. single dose from doctors and 
clinics and must be given on a regular basis to maintain contraceptive 
protection. if a patient decides to become pregnant , she the 
injections .  . 

as with any such products , fda advises patients to discuss the benefits and 
risks of depo with their doctor or other health care professional 
before making a decision to use it. 

depo 's effectiveness as a contraceptive was established in extensive 
studies by the manufacturer , the world health organization and health agencies 
in other countries. u.s. clinical trials , begun in 1963 , also found depo 
effective as an injectable contraceptive .  . 

the most common side effects are menstrual irregularities and weight gain .  . in 
addition , some patients may experience headache , nervousness , abdominal pain , 
dizziness , weakness or fatigue .  . the drug should not be used in women who have 
acute liver disease , unexplained vaginal bleeding , breast cancer or blood 
clots in the legs , lungs or eyes. 

the labeling advises doctors to rule out pregnancy before prescribing the 
drug , due to concerns about low birth weight in babies exposed to the drug .  . 

medical newsletter page 14 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

recent data have also demonstrated that long term use may contribute to 
osteoporosis .  . the manufacturer will conduct additional research to study this 
potential effect. 

depo was developed in the 1960s and has been approved for 
contraception in many other countries. the upjohn company of kalamazoo , mich. , 
which will market the drug under the name , depo contraceptive 
injection , first submitted it for approval in the united states in the 1970s .  . 
at that time , animal studies raised questions about its potential to cause 
breast cancer. worldwide studies have since found the overall risk of cancer , 
including breast cancer in humans , to be minimal if any. 


































medical newsletter page 15 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

new rules speed approval of drugs for life threatening illnesses 
37 food and drug administration 
monica (301) 443 4177 

the food and drug administration today announced that it will soon publish new 
rules to shed the approval of drugs for patients with serious or life 
threatening illnesses , such as aids , cancer and 's disease. 

these final rules will help patients who are suffering the most serious 
illnesses to get access to new drugs months or even years earlier than would 
otherwise be possible , said hhs secretary louis w. sullivan , m.d. the effort 
to accelerate fda review for these drugs has been a long term commitment and 
indeed a hallmark of this administration. 

these rules establish procedures for the food and drug administration to 
approve a drug based on surrogate endpoints or markers .  . they apply when the 
drug provides a meaningful benefit over currently available therapies .  . such 
endpoints would include laboratory tests or physical signs that do not in 
themselves constitute a clinical effect but that are judged by qualified 
scientists to be likely to correspond to real benefits to the patient. 

use of surrogate endpoints for measurement of drug efficacy permits approval 
earlier than if traditional endpoints such as relief of disease symptoms or 
prevention of disability and death from the disease are used. 

the new rules provide for therapies to be approved as soon as safety and 
effectiveness , based on surrogate endpoints , can be reasonably established .  . 
the drug 's sponsor will be required to agree to continue or conduct 
human studies to confirm that the drug 's effect on the surrogate 
endpoint is an indicator of its clinical effectiveness .  . 

one new drug  ( also called ddc ) was approved june 19 , using a 
model of this process , for treating the human immunodeficiency virus , hiv , the 
cause of aids .  . 

accelerated approval can also be used , if necessary , when fda determines that 
a drug , judged to be effective for the treatment of a disease , can be used 
safely only under a restricted distribution plan. 

the new rules will help streamline the drug development and review process 
without sacrificing science and rigorous fda oversight , said fda 
commissioner david a. kessler , m.d. while drug approval will be accomplished 
faster , these drugs and biological products must still meet safety and 
effectiveness standards required by law. 


medical newsletter page 16 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

the new procedures also allow for a streamlined withdrawal process if the 
studies do not verify the drug 's clinical benefit , if there is 
new evidence that the drug product is not shown to be safe and effective , or 
if other specified circumstances arise that necessitate withdrawal 
of the drug or  . 








































medical newsletter page 17 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 




articles 


research shows promise for preventing or slowing 
blindness due to retinal disease 

national foundation 

factors rescue cells in animal tests 

baltimore , md researchers at the university of california san francisco 
and pharmaceuticals , inc. have discovered that 
certain naturally occurring substances known as factors can 
prevent the degeneration of light sensing cells in the retina of the eye. the 
degeneration of these cells , known as photoreceptors , is a major cause of 
visual impairment 
this research , published to in the december issue of the proceedings of 
the national academy of science  ( pnas ) , holds promise for people who may lose 
their sight due to progressive retinal degeneration currently , no drug 
treatment for retinal degeneration exists. it is estimated that 2.5 million 
americans have severe vision loss due to age related macular degeneration and 
100 , 000 americans are affected by , a hereditary disease 
that causes blindness .  . in addition , each year more than 15 , 000 people undergo 
surgical procedures to repair retinal detachments and other retinal  . 
the research was funded in part by the rp  ( retinitis pigmentosa ) 
foundation fighting blindness , pharmaceuticals and the national eye 
institute .  . it was conducted by drs. matthew m. , , douglas 
, michael t. and roy h. steinberg at ucsf , dr. c 
, 's vice president for discovery .  . holds an 
exclusive license for this research from ucsf .  . 
in the research described in the , a light damage model was used to 
assess the survival promoting activity of a number of naturally occurring 
substances .  . experimental rats were exposed to constant light for one week. 
eyes that had not been treated with an effective factor lost most of their 
cells the rods and cones of the retina after light 
exposure .  . brain derived factor  ( bdnf ) and ciliary 
factor  ( cntf ) were particularly effective in this model without causing 
unwanted side effects other factors such as nerve growth factor  ( ngf ) and 
insulin like growth factor  ( igf 1) were not effective in these experiments .  . 
discussing the research , dr. jesse m. , 's director of 
clinical research , said , 's ability to rescue neurons in the retina that 
have been damaged by light exposure may hold promise for the treatment of age 
related macular degeneration , one of the leading causes of vision impairment , 
and for retinal detachment .  . following detachment , permanent vision loss may 

medical newsletter page 18 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

result the death of detached retinal cells. it is possible that 
could play a role in rescuing those cells once the retina has been 
surgically .  . 
is a slowly progressing disease that causes the 
retina to degenerate over a period of years or even decades .  . vision decreases 
to a small tunnel of sight and can result in total blindness .  . it is our hope 
that research on growth factors will provide a means to slow the progression 
and preserve useful vision throughout life , stated s. felix , ph.d. , 
director of science for the rp foundation fighting blindness .  . 
in addition to the work described , is developing in 
conjunction with inc. as a possible treatment for 
peripheral associated with diabetes and cancer chemotherapy , 
motor neuron diseases , parkinson 's disease , and 's disease. by 
itself , is testing in patients with lateral 
sclerosis  ( commonly known as lou gehrig 's  . 
, inc. , based in , new york , is a 
leader in the discovery and development of biotechnology based compounds for 
the treatment of diseases , peripheral and nerve 
injuries , which affect more than seven million americans .  . drs. and 
steinberg of ucsf are consultants to  . 

























medical newsletter page 19 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

affluent diet increases risk of heart disease 

research resources reporter 
written by mary 
nov dec 1992 
national institutes of health 


high fat , high diets rapidly increase risk factors for coronary 
heart disease in native populations of developing countries that have 
traditionally consumed diets low in fat. these findings , according to 
investigators at the oregon health sciences university in portland , have 
serious implications for public health in both industrialized and developing 
countries. 
this study demonstrates why we can develop coronary heart disease and 
have higher blood cholesterol and levels. it shows also the 
importance of diet and particularly the potential of the diet to increase body 
weight , thereby leading to a whole host of other health problems in developing 
countries and affluent nations as well , explains principal investigator dr. 
william e. connor , head of the section of clinical nutrition and lipid 
metabolism at oregon health sciences university .  . 
over the past 25 years dr. connor and his team have characterized the 
food and nutrient intakes of the tara indians in mexico , while 
simultaneously documenting various aspects of lipid metabolism .  . 
these native mexicans number approximately 50 , 000 and reside in the sierra 
madre occidental mountains in the state of chihuahua .  . the have 
coupled an diet to endurance racing .  . probably as a result , coronary 
heart disease , which is so prevalent in western industrialized nations , is 
virtually non existent in their culture. loosely translated , the name 
means fleet of foot , reflecting a tribal passion for betting on 
races , in which participants run distances of 100 miles or more 
while kicking a carved wooden ball. 
the typical diet consists primarily of beans , , 
and , a drink made of ground roasted corn mixed with cold water , 
together with squash and fruits and vegetables .  . the tara 
also eat small amounts of game , fish , and eggs. their food contains 
approximately 12 percent of total calories as fat of which the majority  ( 69 
percent) is of vegetable origin .  . dietician martha , a 
in the study , describes their diet as simple and very rich in nutrients while 
low in cholesterol and fat. 
the have average plasma cholesterol levels of 121 mg dl , 
low density  ( ldl ) cholesterol levels of 72 mg dl , and high density 
 ( hdl ) cholesterol levels of 32 to 42 mg dl .  . all of those values 
are in the good , low risk range , according to the researchers .  . elevated 
cholesterol and ldl cholesterol levels are considered risk factors for heart 

medical newsletter page 20 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

disease. hdl cholesterol is considered beneficial .  . in previous studies the 
had been found to be at low risk for cardiac disease , although 
able to respond to high cholesterol diets with elevations in total and ldl 
cholesterol .  . 
clinical research center and maria 
teresa established a metabolic unit in a jesuit mission school 
building near a community hospital in the small village of  . food 
was weighed , cooked , and fed to the study participants under the 
investigators  direct supervision , ensuring that subjects ate only food 
stipulated by the research protocol .  . fasting blood was drawn twice weekly , 
and plasma samples were frozen and shipped to dr. connors laboratory for 
cholesterol , , and analyses .  . regular measurements 
included participant body weight , height , and skin fold thickness .  . 
thirteen , five women and eight men , including one adolescent , were 
fed their native diet for 1 week , followed by 5 weeks of an affluent diet. 
in this study we went up to a concentration of dietary fat that was 40 
percent of total calories .  . this is the prototype of the holiday diet that 
many americans consume a diet high in fat , sugar , and cholesterol , low in 
fiber , dr. conners .  . such dietary characteristics are reflected in 
the cholesterol saturation index , or csi , recently devised research 
sonja conner working with dr. connor .  . the csi is a single number that 
incorporates both the amount of cholesterol and the amount of saturated fat in 
the diet. csi indicates the diet 's potential to elevate the cholesterol 
level , particularly the ldl , dr. connor explains .  . the diet 
averages a very low csi of 20 dr. connor 's affluent diet used in the study 
ranks a csi of 149 .  . 
the experimental design of this study reflects the importance of 
establishing baseline plasma lipid levels , typical of the native diet , before 
exposing subjects to the experimental diet. the standard curve relating 
dietary food intake to plasma cholesterol demonstrates a leveling off , or 
plateau , for consumption of large amounts of fat. changes in dietary fat 
and or cholesterol in this range have little effect on plasma levels. you 
must have the baseline diet almost free of the variables you are going to put 
into the experimental diet. the framingham study , for example , did not 
discriminate on the basis of diet between individuals who got heart disease 
because the diet was already high in fat. all subjects were already eating on 
a plateau , dr. connor says. 
after 5 weeks of consuming the affluent diet , the subjects  mean plasma 
cholesterol levels had in by 31 percent , primarily in the ldl 
fraction , which rose 39 percent. hdl cholesterol increased by 31 per cent , 
and ldl to hdl ratios changed therefore very little. plasma 
levels increased by 18 percent , and subjects averaged an 8 pound gain in 
weight. according to dr. connor , lipid changes occurred surprisingly soon , 
yielding nearly the same results after 7 days of affluent diet as after 35 
days. 

medical newsletter page 21 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

the increase in hdl carries broad dietary implications for industrialized 
nations .  . we think hdl cholesterol increased because we increased the amount 
of dietary fat over the fat content used in the previous metabolic 
study. in that study we saw no change in hdl levels after raising the dietary 
cholesterol but keeping the fat relatively consistent with native consumption .  . 
in the present study we increased fat intake to 40 percent of the total 
calories .  . we reached the conclusion in the study that hdl reflects 
the amount of dietary fat in general and not the amount of dietary 
cholesterol .  . hdl must increase to help metabolize the fat , and it increased 
quite a bit in this study , dr. connor explains .  . 
low hdl in the is not typically an important predictor of 
coronary heart disease because they do not normally consume large amounts of 
fat or cholesterol .  . hdl remains an important predictor to americans because 
of their usual high fat intake .  . 
dr. connor recommends a diet for americans that contains less than 20 
percent of total calories as fat , less than 100 mg of cholesterol , and a csi 
around 20 , varying in accordance with needs. such a diet is low in 
meat and dairy fat , high in fiber .  . dr. connor also comments on recent 
suggestions that americans adopt a mediterranean style diet. the original 
mediterranean diet , in its pristine state , consisted of a very low intake of 
fat and very few animal and dairy products. we are already eating a lot of 
meat and dairy products. simply to continue that pattern while switching to 
olive oil is not going to help the situation. 
the world health organization  ( who ) is focusing much attention on the 
emergence of diseases such as coronary heart disease in nations and societies 
undergoing technological development. dr. connor says that coronary heart 
disease starts with a given society 's elite , who typically eat a different 
diet than the average citizen .  . if the pattern of increases , the 
entire population will have have a higher incidence of coronary heart disease , 
which places a health care burden on a society. who would like the 
developing countries to prevent coronary heart disease , so they can 
concentrate on other aspects of their economic development and on public 
health measures to improve general well being , rather than paying for 
unnecessary , expensive medical technology , dr. connors says. 
the overall implication of this study is that humans can readily move 
their plasma and values into a high risk range within a 
very short time by an affluent , excessive diet. the present rate of coronary 
heart disease in the united states is 30 percent less than it was 20 years 
ago , so a lot has been accomplished .  . we are changing rapidly , he concludes .  . 






medical newsletter page 22 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 




general announcments 


publications for health professionals available from nci (1 93) 

unless otherwise noted , the following materials are provided free of charge by 
calling the nci 's publication ordering service , 1 800 4 cancer. because 
federal government publications are not subject to copyright restriction , you 
are free to photocopy nci material. 


general information 


drug information sheets in spanish english. two 
sided fact sheets  ( in english and spanish ) provide 
information about side effects of common drugs used to treat 
cancer , their proper usage , and precautions for patients .  . 
the fact sheets were prepared by the united states 
convention , inc. , for distribution by the 
national cancer institute .  . single sets only may be ordered .  . 

cancer rates and risks , 3rd edition  ( 85  . this book is 
a compact guide to statistics , risk factors , and risks for 
major cancer sites. it includes charts and graphs showing 
incidence , mortality , and survival worldwide and in the 
united states. it also contains a section on the costs of 
cancer. 136 pages. 

diet , nutrition cancer prevention a guide to food choices 
(87  . this booklet describes what is now known about 
diet , nutrition , and cancer prevention .  . it provides 
information about foods that contain components like fiber , 
fat , and vitamins that may affect a person 's risk of getting 
certain cancers .  . it suggests ways to use that information 
to select from a broad variety of foods choosing more of 
some foods and less of others. includes recipes and sample 
menus .  . 39 pages. 

national cancer institute fact book. this book presents 
general information about the national cancer institute 
including budget data , grants and contracts , and historical 
information. 


medical newsletter page 23 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

national cancer institute grants process  ( 91 1222 )  ( revised 
3 90) .  . this booklet describes general nci grant award 
procedures includes chapters on eligibility , preparation of 
grant application , peer review , eligible costs , and post 
award activities. 62 pages. 

physician to physician perspective on clinical trials .  . this 
15 minute discusses why and how to enter 
patients on clinical trials .  . it was produced in 
collaboration with the american college of surgeons 
commission on cancer. 


students with cancer a resource for the educator  ( 91  . 
 ( revised 4 87 ) this booklet is designed for teachers who 
have students with cancer in their or schools. it 
includes an explanation of cancer , its treatment and 
effects , and guidelines for the young person 's re entry to 
school and for dealing with terminally ill students. 
bibliographies are included for both educators and young 
people. 22 pages. 

understanding the immune system  ( 92  . this booklet 
describes the complex network of specialized cells and 
organs that make up the human immune system. it explains how 
the system works to fight off disease caused by invading 
agents such as bacteria and viruses , and how it sometimes 
malfunctions , resulting in a variety of diseases from 
allergies , to arthritis , to cancer. it was developed by the 
national institute of allergy and infectious diseases and 
printed by the national cancer institute .  . this booklet 
presents college level instruction in immunology .  . it is 
appropriate for nursing or students and for 
persons receiving college training in other areas within the 
health professions .  . 36 pages. 


materials to help stop tobacco use 

chew or snuff educator package  ( 91  . each package 
contains 

ten copies of chew or snuff is real bad stuff , a 
brochure designed for seventh and eighth graders that 
describes the health and social effects of using 

medical newsletter page 24 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

smokeless tobacco products. when fully opened , the 
brochure can be used as a poster. 

one copy of chew or snuff is real bad stuff a guide 
to make young people aware of the dangers of using 
smokeless tobacco .  . this booklet is a lesson plan for 
teachers .  . it contains facts about smokeless tobacco , 
suggested classroom activities , and selected 
educational resources. 

how to help your patients stop smoking a national cancer 
institute manual for physicians  ( 92  . this is a step 
by step handbook for smoking cessation 
techniques in medical practices .  . the manual , with resource 
lists and tear out materials , is based on the results of nci 
clinical trials .  . 75 pages. 

how to help your patients stop using tobacco a national 
cancer institute manual for the oral health team  ( 91  . 
this is a handbook for dentists , dental , and 
dental assistants .  . it the physicians  manual 
and includes additional information on smoking prevention 
and on smokeless tobacco use. 58 pages. 

pharmacists helping smokers quit kit. a packet of materials 
to help pharmacists encourage their smoking patients to 
quit. contains a pharmacist 's guide and self help materials 
for 25 patients .  . 

school programs to prevent smoking the national cancer 
institute guide to strategies that succeed  ( 90 500) .  . this 
guide outlines eight essential elements of a successful 
school based smoking prevention program based on nci 
research. it includes a list of available curriculum 
resources and selected references. 24 pages. 


self guided strategies for smoking cessation a program 
planner s guide  ( 91  . this booklet outlines key 
characteristics of successful self help materials and 
programs based on nci collaborative research. it lists 
additional resources and references. 36 pages. 


smoking policy questions and answers. these ten fact sheets 

medical newsletter page 25 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

provide basic information about the establishment of 
smoking policies .  . topics range from the health 
effects of environmental tobacco smoke to legal issues 
concerning policy implementation .  . 

strategies to control tobacco use in the united states a 
for public health action in the 1990s  ( 92 
smoking and control monograph no. 1) .  . this volume provides 
a summary of what has been learned from 40 years of a public 
health effort against smoking , from the early trial and 
error health information campaigns of the 1960s to the nci 's 
science based project , american stop smoking intervention 
study for cancer prevention , which began in 1991. it offers 
reasons why comprehensive smoking control strategies are now 
needed to address the smoker 's total environment and to 
reduce smoking prevalence significantly over the next 
decade .  . 


materials for outreach programs 

cancer prevention and early detection community outreach 
programs for health professionals 

three kits are available for community program planners 
and health professionals to set up local cancer 
prevention and early detection education projects 

do the right thing. . . get a new attitude about 
cancer community outreach program. this community 
outreach kit targets black american audiences .  . it 
contains materials to help health professionals 
conduct community education programs for black 
audiences .  . the kit emphasizes the early detection of 
breast cancer by and of cervical cancer by 
the pap test. it also discusses smoking and 
nutrition .  . the kit includes helpful program guidance , 
facts , news articles , visuals , and brochures .  . 

community outreach program. this community 
outreach kit targets hispanic audiences .  . it contains 
bilingual and spanish language materials to help 
health professionals conduct community education 
programs. the materials educate hispanic audiences 
about early detection of breast cancer by 

medical newsletter page 26 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

and of cervical cancer by pap tests. the kit also 
discusses smoking and related issues. the kit 
includes helpful guidance , facts , news articles , 
visuals and brochures .  . 

once a year .  . for . a lifetime community outreach 
program. this community outreach kit 
targets all women age 40 or over. it supplies 
community program planners and health professionals 
with planning guidance , facts about , news 
articles , visuals and brochures .  . 


making health communication programs work a planner s guide 
 ( 92  . this handbook presents key principles and steps 
in developing and evaluating health communications programs 
for the public , patients , and health professionals .  . it 
expands upon and replaces in health 
communications and making work. 131 pages. 

support material for community outreach programs 

the video and slide presentations listed below support the 
outreach programs. 

once a year .  .  . for . a lifetime videotape .  . this 5 minute 
vhs videotape uses a dramatic format to highlight the 
important facts about the early detection of breast 
cancer by  . 

una al ano .  .  . para . una vida videotape .  . this 27 
minute spanish videotape informs spanish speaking women 
of the need for medical screening , particularly 
 . it explains commonly misunderstood facts 
about breast cancer and early detection .  . the program , in 
a dramatic format , features edward james and 
 . 

once a year .  .  . for . a lifetime speaker s kit  ( slide show) .  . 
this kit includes 66 full color slides and a number 
coded , ready to read script suitable for a 
presentation to a large group. it addresses the 
misconceptions prevalent about and urges 
women age 40 and older to get regular so that 
breast cancer can be detected as early as possible. kit 

medical newsletter page 27 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

includes a guide , poster , media announcement , news 
feature , flyer , and pamphlets on  . this kit 
is available directly by writing to modern , 5000 park 
street north , st. petersburg , fl  . 
end of part 2 


internet fax 1 (602) 451 1165 
bitnet fidonet 1 114 15 
amateur packet ax25 

from  ( dave childs ) 
subject dental question 
organization california state university , chico 
lines 20 
nntp posting host hairball . ecst . csuchico . edu . 

i have been hearing bad thing about amalgam dental  . some say 
the lead mercury leeches into your system and this is bad. and i have 
recently heard that there is some suspicion that the mercury is a breeding 
ground for bacteria that will be resistant to antibiotics .  . 

my dentist wants to use an amalgam filling for me in a place where i have 
two in one tooth and wants to use one filling to cover both. 
he says that composite filling do n't hold up well when they are large .  . 
so , i would like to know if there are any other choices besides amalgam 
and composite .  . and , should i really even be worried about amalgam i 
heard that some scandanavian country does not even use them any more 
is this true. 

any information you can give me will be greatly appreciated. 


thanks ! 

dave childs 


from kl . de .  ( thomas kettenring ) 
subject old sermon  ( was photography ) 
organization fb physik , kaiserslautern , germany 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) writes 
flame on 

reading through the posts about kirlian  ( whatever spelling) 
photography i could n't help but being slightly disgusted by the 
narrow minded , i know it all , i do n't believe what i ca n't see or 
measure attitude of many people out there. 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

i am convinced that it is a serious mistake to close your mind to 
something , anything , simply because it does n't fit your current frame 
of reference. history shows that many great people , great scientists , 
were people who kept an open mind and were ridiculed by sceptics .  . 

especially the usa should be grateful after all , columbus did not 
drop off the edge of the earth. 

flame off , or end sermon ) 

we know that sermon .  . it is posted roughly every month or so by different 
persons , and that does n't make it any better. 

how did you get the idea that skeptics are closed minded why do n't you 
consider the possibility that they came to their conclusions by the 
proper methods besides , one can come to a conclusion without closing 
one 's mind to other possibilities .  . 

i you do n't agree with a person , please ask him why he thinks like that , 
instead of insulting him. perhaps he 's right. follow your own advice , 
be open minded .  . 

if you do n't post a bit of evidence for your claims , i 'll complain that 
it 's always those neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever types who 
narrow mindedly judge others without knowing their motives .  . 


thomas , 3 dan , kaiserslautern , germany 
the do n't even know this planet has native inhabitants .  . 
their government does n't tell them. 

from (mr .  .  ( private account ) 
subject re health effects on women 
reply to 
organization private uucp site 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 25 

on 28 apr 93 20 54 04 gmt wrote 
in article ,  ( eric skagerberg ) writes 
does anyone know of any studies done on the long term health effects of a 
man 's on his female partner 

... 
i 've heard of no studies , but speculation 

why on earth would there be any effect on women 's health that 's about 
the most absurd idea i 've heard since ted kaldis 's claim that no more than 
35 , 000 people would march on washington .  . 

ok , one point greatly reduced chance of pregnancy .  . but that 's it. 

josh 

well , there might be another since i'm sterile my wife can enjoy sex 
without fear of getting pregnant. 


) 
. . . o , 
( ( ) ( ) ( ( ) ( 
uucp  .  . rutgers . ! ur valhalla ! ! compu erve 
internet , 

from  ( jim knoll ) 
subject patti duke 's problem 
lines 6 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization cray research , inc. 

does anyone have information about the struggles that patti 
duke went through in her personal life with severe mood swings .  . 
did she have some form of chemical imbalance that triggered 
these problems i recall that she wrote a book about her troubles .  . 
does someone have the title of that book 


from 
subject ring pvc 's 
reply to 
organization nasa goddard space flight center greenbelt , md usa 
lines 49 

can anybody out there provide me with any advice concerning the 
following two health problems 

first , i was recently diagnosed  ( using a series) as having a 
ring and small sliding hernia .  . as i understand it , 
the hernia is a relatively minor problem , though i do occasionally 
have some nasty that is probably related to it. the 
ring , on the other hand , is causing swallowing difficulty .  . in particular , 
if i'm not careful about eating slowly , and thoroughly chewing food , 
food occasionally gets stuck before reaching my stomach. this results 
in a period of painful spasms as the food attempts to pass the obstruction .  . 
fortunately , the food has always managed to pass , but this is annoying , 
and causes frequent discomfort .  . 

my doctor wants to dilate the ring using the 
following procedure use an to examine the and stomach 
for any inflammation , then cut through the ring and dilate it by passing 
some kind of balloon or something thru the  . i would like to know 
if anyone out there has had this  ( or a similar) procedure done if so , 
was it painful , successful , etc. also , can anyone comment on 
safety , advisability , and success rate of this procedure has it become 
a common procedure i am kind of leery of having such an invasive sounding 
procedure performed for a  ( currently ) non threatening condition such as this , 
especially considering the possible side effects  ( bleeding , , 
reaction to  . 

the second issue for the past 3 4 years i have had a large number 
of extra  . in particular , during the past month or so there 
has been a dramatic increase a monitor recently showed 50 pvc 's in 24 
hrs , along with a few 's .  .  ( many days , there are far more than this , 
however five to ten per hour) .  . all of them were isolated , and the 
indicated that such a number was normal . it certainly does n't 
feel normal. in the past there have also been a couple of episodes of 
extended runs of these beats , one of which lasted long enough to cause 
severe light  . i am relatively young (30 ish ) , thin and in good 
health  ( recent were all normal) , and do not smoke , use drugs or 
caffeine , etc. i'm willing to accept the extra beats as normal , but do n't 
want to ignore them if they might be some kind of warning symptom .  . the number 
of pvc 's seems to increase throughout the day , and with exercise  ( or something 
as simple as climbing some  . also , if i get up after sitting or lying 
down for a while , i tend to get a couple of extra beats .  . could they possibly 
be related to the problems both seemed to develop at about the 
same time. 

thanks for any help advice ! 





from  ( nathan bitner ) 
subject deadly 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 25 

i originally posted this to alt . suicide . holiday . but it was recommended 
that i try you guys instead 

my friend insists that ny can be deadly if enough is taken he 
suggested something like 20 30 of the night time would do someone 
in. being a normal user of ny ) , i checked the  ingredients  and 
have a very hard time believing it. they are 

250 g 
30 mg hcl 
10 mg 
6 . 25 . mg 

 ( per softgel ) 

can someone settle our bet (a package of ny of course ) what 
effect would 20 30 of these babies have 

nathan 



inter silent 
worship ditka now. email 


from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re  ( cholistasis(sp ) fat free diet pregnancy ! ! 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 123 

 ( g ) writes 

hi , 

i 've just returned from a visit with my ob gyn and i have a few 
concerns that maybe y'all can help me with. i 've been seeing 
her every 4 weeks for the past few months  ( i'm at week 28) 
and during the last 2 visits i 've gained 9 to 9 1 2 pounds every 
4 weeks. she said this was unacceptable over any 4 week period. 
as it stands i 've thus far gained 26 pounds. also she says that 
though i'm at 28 weeks the baby 's size is 27 weeks , i think she 
mentioned 27 inches for the top of the fundus .  . when i was 13 
weeks the baby 's size was 14 weeks. i must also add , that i had 
an operation a few years ago for endometriosis and i 've had no 
problems with endometriosis but apparently it is causing me pain 
in my pelvic region during the pregnancy , and i have a very 
difficult time moving , and the doc has recommended i not walk or 
move unless i have to. (i have a little handicapped sticker for 
when i do need to go out . ) . 

anyway that 's 1 2 of the situation the other is that almost from 
the beginning of pregnancy i was getting sick  ( throwing up) about 
2 3 times a day and mostly it was bile that was being eliminated .  . 
(i told her about this) .  . i know this because i was n't eating 
very much due to the nausea and could see the 'results' .  . well 
now i only get sick about once every 1 2 weeks , and it is still bile 
related. but in addition i had begun to feel movement near my 
upper right abdomen , just below the right breast , usually when i 
was lying on my right side. it began to get worse though because 
it started to hurt when i lay on my right side , and then it hurt 
no matter what position i was in. next , i noticed that when i 
ate greasy or fatty foods i felt like my entire abdomen had 
turned to stone , and the pain in the area got worse. however if 
i ate sauerkraut or vinegar or something to  cut  the fat it 
was n't as much of a problem. 

so the doctor says i have , and that i should avoid 
fatty foods. this makes sense , and because i was already aware 
of what seemed to me this cause and effect relationship i have 
been avoiding these foods on my own. but i'm still able to eat 
foods with ricotta cheese for instance and other low fat foods. 

but doc wants me to be on a non fat diet. this means no meat 
except fish and chicken w o skin (i do this anyway) .  . no nuts , 
fried food , cheese etc. i am allowed skim milk. she said i 
should avoid anything sweet (e . g .  . bananas) .  . also i must only 
have one serving of something high in carbohydrates a day ( 
potatoes , pasta , rice ) ! she said i ca n't even cook vegetables in 
a little bit of oil and that i should eat vegetables raw or 
steamed .  . i'm concerned because i understand you need to have 
some fat in your diet to help in the digestive process. and if 
i'm not taking in fat , is she expecting the baby will take it 
from my stores and why this restriction on carbohydrates if 
she 's concerned about fat i'm not clear how much of her 
recommendation is based on my weight gain and how much on 
, which i ca n't seem to find any information on. she 
originally said that i should only gain 20 pounds during the 
entire pregnancy since i was about 20 lbs overweight when i 
started. but my sister gained 60 lbs during her pregnancy and 
she 's taken it all off and has n't had any problems. she also 
asked if any members of my family were obese , which none of them 
are. anyway i think she is overly concerned about weight gain , 
and feel like i'm being  punished  by a severe diet. she did 
want to see me again in one week so i think she the diet may be 
temporary for that one week. 

what i want to know is how reasonable is this non fat diet i 
would understand if she had said low fat diet , since i'm trying 
that anyway , even if she said really low fat diet. i think she 
assumes i must be eating a high fat diet , but really it is that 
because of the endometriosis and the operation i'm not able to 
use the energy from the food i do eat. 

any opinions , info and experiences will be appreciated. i'm 
truly going stark raving mad trying to meet this new strict diet 
because fruits and vegetables go through my system in a few 
minutes and i 'll end up having to eat constantly .  . thus far i 
do n't find any foods satisfying .  . 

thanks 

g 

for one week , she probably wants to see how you react to the diet. if it 
changes anything. 

you can live on the diet but you need to up your calories .  . where before you 
had a pat of butter now you need a medium apple  ( probably microwave 
 . smaller meals but more of them. not terrific amounts of meat , it 's 
hard to digest anyway. 

for comfort and to make the carbohydrate meal last longer eat pasta or 
rice which give their calories up slowly rather than bread or corn .  . maybe 
smaller meals as you may be getting less room in the stomach area. is the 
baby still coming up. is it starting to push or rub under your ribs how 
tight are your clothes. you should n't be wearing any clothing that compresses 
your middle. be sure not to suck in your stomach when sitting , again it 
will put pressure on the digestive tract .  . 

try laying on your sides , back , 
and stay in positions for the many hours you are being inactive .  . 
easier on your legs  ( circulation ) as well. you might try letting the baby 
turn or at least not be forced under the ribs during the last months. 
when you are it 's easy for that baby to end up right under the 
diaphram , especially if you have tight abdominal muscles .  . if i had my 
second one to do over again i think i 'd have tried to loosen up since he 
did n't turn sideways until late and the relief was enormous .  . 


maybe this doctor does have a thing about weight gain in pregnancy or maybe 
she just all her patients this way. especially if she 's young. 
but this whatever problem that might be coming up is something 
to be avoided if possible. 

nausea , etc. can vary from person to person and with each pregnancy .  . my 
first pregnancy was miserable .  . during the second i had very little trouble. 
some articles have said that women with nausea had a statistically better 
chance of carrying their baby.  ( grain of salt here) 

good luck 

jackie 


from  ( sutton , bern .  . sl ) 
subject hip replacement 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization european organization for nuclear research , cern 
lines 0 


from donald mackie donald 
subject re re use of haldol and the elderly 
organization um anesthesiology 
lines 40 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 141 . 214 . 86 . 38 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d9 . 
x id addr . arpa . 
x sun , 25 apr 93 01 51 52 gmt 

in article account 25 , 
writes 
adults. the change in environment can cause problems. anesthetic 
agents 
can cause confusion because the body cannot clear the medicines out 
of 
the body as easily. 

the original poster did not say why his mother had been in hospital 
but i can answer a few general points. 

elderly patients may exhibit a marked difficulty in coping after 
being in hospital for a few days. the drastic change of environment 
will often how marginally they have been coping at home. even 
young people find the change unsettling .  . 

though we have thought that this decrement in function after say 
and surgery for a hip (a common event in the 
elderly ) was due to there is good evidence that the 
change of situation is much more important. some hospitals have 
tried a  rapid transit  system for hip fractures , aiming to have the 
patient back at home within 24 hours of admission .  . the selection of 
the has no effect on the ability to discharge these 
patients early. 

who work with the elderly (which is almost all of us) 
generally take care to tailor the choice and dose of drugs used to 
the individual patient. even so , there is some evidence that full 
mental recovery may take a surprisingly long time to return. this is 
the sort of thing which is detected by setting quite difficult 
tasks , not the gross change that the original poster noted .  . 

 ( haldol tm ) is a long acting drug .  . the plasma half life 
of the drug is up to 35 hours. if the (a sort of slow 
release formulation ) is used it may be weeks. the elderly are 
sensitive to for a number of reasons. without knowing 
more it is hard to comment. 

don mackie his opinions 
will disavow .  .  .  . 

from  ( bjorn r. bjornsson ) 
subject re 
organization tech. 
lines 29 

( heather ) writes 
you can try 
adding a few drops of olive oil into the ear during a shower to soften up 
the wax .  . do this for a couple days , then try again. it is also 
safe to point your ear up at the shower head , and allow the water to rinse 
it out. 

about six years ago my ears clogged up with wax , probably as a 
result of to much headphone use. anyway , the clinic that cleaned 
them out used the following procedure 

1. inject olive oil into ears. 
2. prevent leakage of oil with cotton. 
3. come back in an hour. 
4. rinse ears with warm vater , forcefully injected 
into ear  ( very strange  . 
5. done. 

they had special tools to do this , and were evidently quite 
familiar with the problem very large steel syringe .  . special 
bowl with cutout for ear to take the coming out without 
 . 

good luck 

seconded , 

bjorn r. 


from (h .  . anthony chung ) 
subject localized fat reduction due to exercise  . 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 9 

i was just wondering if exercises specific to particular regions of the 
body  ( such as thighs) will basically only tone the thighs , or if fat 
from other parts of the body  ( such as breasts ) would be affected just as 
much. 

h. anthony chung c amigas 
case western reserve university r the 
school of dentistry future 
 ( cabal on irc ) ac is 

from 
subject re chromium as dietary for weight loss 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 
lines 126 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 

in article ,  ( henry melton ) writes 

my wife has requested that i poll the of usenet to see what is 
known about the use of chromium in weight control diet  . 
she has seen multiple products advertising it and would like any kind 
real information. 

my first impulse was yuck ! a metal ! but i have zero data on it. 

what do you know 


henry 

i 'll tell you all that i know about chromium .  . but before i do , i want to 
get a few things off my chest. i just got blasted in e mail for my kidney 
stone posts. kidney stones are primarily caused by diet , as is heart 
disease and cancer. when i give dietary advise , it is not intended to 
encourage people reading this news  ( group(or sci .  . med. nutrition where i do 
most of my posting) to avoid seeing a doctor. nothing can be further from 
the truth. kidney stones can be caused by tumors and this possibility has to 
be ruled out. but once it is , diet is a good way of preventing a  . 
same thing with heart disease and cancer , if you suspect that you may have 
a problem with one of these diseases , do n't use what i'm going to tell you 
or what you read in some book to avoid going to a doctor. you have to go. 
hopefully you will find a doctor who knows enough about nutrition to help 
you change your risk factors for both diseases as part of a treatment 
 ( program(but the odds are that you will not and that 's why i'm here) .  . when 
my wife detected a lump in here breast i did n't say , do n't worry my vitamin 
e will take care of it. any breast lump has to be worked up by a physician , 
plan and simple. if it 's  ( begnin(which most are) fine , then maybe a diet 
change and supplementation will prevent further breast lumps from occuring .  . 
but let me tell you right now , if you have tried diet and supplementation 
and another lump returns , get your butt into the doctor 's office as fast as 
your little feet can carry  ( you(better yet , have a done on a 
regular basis , my wife kept putting her 's off , both myself and her 
gynocologist told her she needed to have one done) .  . her gynocologist even 
scheduled one , but she did n't show  ( up(too busy running the operating room for 
the biggest hospital in  . 

one more thing , i am not an orthomolecular nutritionist .  . this group uses 
high dose vitamins and minerals to treat all kinds of disease. there is 
absolutely no doubt in my mind that vitamins and minerals can and do have 
drug actions in the body. but you talk about flying blind , man this is 
really blind treatment. no drug could ever be used as these vitamins and 
minerals are being used. i'm not saying that some of this stuff could n't 
be right on the money , it may well be. but my approach to nutrition is a 
lot like that of and morgan , the two m . d . 's who wrote the new 
clinical nutrition textbook .  . my push is the nutrient reserves and the lab 
tests needed to measure these reserves and then supplementation or diet 
changes to get these reserves built up to where they should be to let you 
handle stress. that 's where i'm coming from folks. blast away if you want , 
i'm not going to change. put me in your killfile if you want , i really 
do n't care. i'm averaging 8 10 e mail messages a day from people who think 
that i 've got something important to say. but i'm also getting hit by a 
few with an axe to grind .  . that 's life. 

chromium is one of the trace elements. it has a very  ( limited(but very 
important) role in the body. it is used to form glucose tolerance factor 
 . is made up of chromium ,  ( nicinamide(niacin ) , glycine , 
and glutamic .  . only the chromium and the niacin are needed from the diet to 
form  . some foods already have  ( gtf(liver , brewers or nutritional yeast , 
and black  . when chromium is in , a pretty good absorption is 
 ( seen(about 20 ) .  . but when it is simply present as a mineral or mineral 
 ( chelate(chromium picolinate ) it 's absorption is much  ( lower(1 to 2 , lowest 
for all the  . i 've been posting in misc. fitness and chromium has 
come up there several times as a fat burner . chromium is among the least 
toxic of the minerals so you could really load yourself up and not really 
do any harm .  . i would n't do it though. the adequate and safe range for 
chromium is 50 to per day. the average american is getting about 
per day from his her diet. chromium levels decrease with age and many 
believe that adult onset diabetes is primarily a chromium deficiency .  . i 
can cite you several studies that have been done with glucose tolerance in 
type ii diabetes but i'm not going to because for each positive one , there 
also seems to be a negative one as well. i'm convinced that the problem is 
 . when  ( yeast(gtf ) is used , good results are obtained but when 
chromium itself is used the results are usually negative. in addition to 
type ii diabetes , has been examined in cardiovascular disease and 
, again with mixed results as far as cardiovascular disease is 
concerned 

since a high blood glucose level can lead to cardiovascular disease , 
this possible link with chromium is n't too surprising .  . is a little 
more interesting. muscle eye focusing activity is primarily an insulin 
responsive glucose driven metabolic function. if this eye focusing activity 
is  ( impaired(by a lack of glucose due to a poor insulin response ) , 
pressure is believed to be elevated .  . in a fairly large study of 400 pts with 
glaucoma , the one consistent finding was a low chromium .  . j. am. coll. 
nutr .  .  ( 10(5 ) 536 ,  . but this one preliminary study should not prompt 
people to go out and start popping chromium supplements .  . for one thing , 
just about every older person is going to have a low chromium unless 
they have been taking chromium  . since is often 
found in older people , it 's not too surprising that chromium was low in the 
's .  . if chromium supplementation could reverse , that would 
prompt some attention. i suspect that there will be a clinical trail to 
check out this possible chromium link to  . 

you could find out what your body chromium pool size was by either the 
chromium test or hair analysis. most clinical labs are not going to run a 
chromium .  . there are plenty of labs that will do a hair and nail 
analysis for you , but i would n't use them. there is just too much funny 
business going on in these unregulated labs right now. 

here 's and morgan , advise on chromium .  . they do not consider 
chromium to be one of those minerals for which a reliable clinical test is 
 ( available(they do n't like the hair and nail analysis labs either , and they 
also recognize the chromium is primarily a research test that is not 
routinely available in most clinical chemistry  . this has to change 
and as more labs run a , it will. what then do they suggest 
make a diagnosis of chromium deficiency based on a documented clinical 
response to  ( chromium(run a glucose tolerance test before and after chromium 
 . once you make the diagnosis , put the patient on of 
orally each day or of yeast per day. 

what 's my advise do n't take chromium supplements to try to loose weight 
 ( they just do not work that way) .  . if you want to take them and then 
exercise , that would be great. do include yeast as part of your  ( diet(most 
americans are not getting enough chromium from their diet) .  . if you do have 
a poor glucose tolerance , ask your doctor to check your chromium status. 
when he or she says , what in the world are you talking about , just say , 
please get a copy of and morgan 's new clinical nutrition textbook 
and do what they say to do with patients who present with a poor glucose 
tolerance .  . if you ca n't do that , i 'll find a doctor who can , thank you 
very much. 

marty b. 

organization arizona state university 
from 
subject re opinions on allergy  ( hay fever ) shots 
distribution world 

lines 13 

in article ,  ( pam 
draper ) says 

this homeopathic remedies .  . i tried the one for a month. 15 drops 
three times a day. i did n't notice any change whats so ever. how long 
were you using the drops before you noticed a difference 

it is not a homeopathic remedy .  . improvement began in a few months. 
i am allergic to grass and if anyone nearby was mowing a lawn 
my nose would start to run. now i can walk right by and it does n't bother 
me at all. the same success with desert  . 

bruce long 

from  ( todd i. stark ) 
subject re ocd 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 60 
nntp posting host 
summary two important clarifications to previous post of mine ... 


this is to followup my previous reply on this topic , which it has been 
pointed out to me might have been dangerously misleading in two spots. 

1. i stated that psychotherapy  ( meaning talking therapy and so on) was used 
to treat obsessive compulsive disorder , which though sometimes true is 
misleading .  . it is not often found effective , particularly by itself. 
primary treatment today usually consists at least in part of drug 
therapy. the most current theories of this condition attribute 
it to more to biological causes than psychological , in places where this 
distinction becomes important. 

2. i mentioned that the dsm mentions  impulses  as a possible 
diagnostic marker .  . however , this might look like something 
people associate with psychotic conditions , or 
unpredictable behaviors , which is not the case with ocd .  . 
one of the diagnostic criteria of ocd is that the individual 
can and does suppress some of their  impulses , ' although they 
are an source of anxiety .  . 
the obsessive thoughts and ritualistic actions usually associated with 
ocd are most frequently very mundane and predictable , closer to 
a superstitious nature than a dangerous nature for the most part. 

some references  ( one non technical and several technical ) 
that someone was kind enough to supply for me 
but was unable to post themself 

the boy who could n't stop washing by judith  . 

 ( technical refs ) 

of o c disorder 
donna m and lynn 
1990  ( 10(3 ) 175 198 

epidemiology of ocd 
a rasmussen and jane eisen 
j clin psychiatry 1990  ( 51(2 , ) . 10 13 

the waking nightmare an overview of ocd 
judith l 
j clin psychiatry 1990  ( 51(11 , ) . 25 28 

absence of placebo response in ocd 
r , bruce jones , stephen olson 
j ment disease 1990 vol 178 no. 4 

and thanks very much to those who supplied constructive 
criticism to my first post on ocd .  . i hope this helps clarify 
the parts that were misleading .  . 

kind regards , 

todd 

todd i. stark 
digital equipment corporation (215) 354 1273 
philadelphia , pa. usa 
(a word is) the skin of a living thought wendell holmes , jr. 


from 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
lines 64 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , (david rind ) writes 
in article 
writes 
are in a different class. the big question seems to be is it reasonable to 
use them in patients with gi distress or sinus problems that could be due 
to candida blooms following the use of broad spectrum antibiotics 

i guess i'm still not clear on what the term candida bloom means , 
but certainly it is well known that thrush  ( superficial 
infections on mucous membranes ) can occur after antibiotic use. 
this has nothing to do with systemic yeast syndrome , the quack 
diagnosis that has been being discussed .  . 


found in the sinus mucus membranes than is candida .  . women have been known 
for a very long time to suffer from candida blooms in the vagina and a 
women is lucky to find a physician who is willing to treat the cause and 
not give give her advise to use the otc anti fungal creams .  . 

lucky how since a recent article  ( randomized controlled trial ) of 
oral yogurt on reducing vaginal candidiasis , i 've mentioned to a 
number of patients with frequent vaginal yeast infections that they 
could try eating 6 ounces of yogurt daily. it turns out most would 
rather just use anti fungal creams when they get yeast infections .  . 

yogurt dangerous) .  . if this were a standard part of medical practice , as 
gordon r. says it is , then the incidence of gi distress and vaginal yeast 
infections should decline .  . 

again , this just is n't what the systemic yeast syndrome is about , and 
has nothing to do with the quack therapies that were being discussed .  . 
there is some evidence that attempts to the gi tract with 
bacteria after antibiotic therapy do n't seem to be very helpful in 
reducing diarrhea , but i do n't think anyone would view this as a 
quack therapy. 

david rind 

yogurt contains lactobacillus acidophilus and l. bulgaricus .  . l. 
acidophilus is the major bacteria in the vaginal tract and is primarily 
responsible for keeping the vaginal tract acidic and yeast free. most of 
the commercial yogurt sold in the u.s. has a very low l. acidophilus and l. 
bulgaricus count. neither of these bacteria are with are 
much more important in dealing with the diarrhea problem. gordon r. has told 
me through e mail that he gives his patients l. acidophilus and several 
different  ( anaerobes(which set up shop in the colon ) but he has n't 
told me which ones yet. the lactobacillus genera are mostly 
and will set up shop where they have access to oxygen if given a 
 ( chance(mouth , anus , sinus cavity and vagina) .  . having these good bacteria 
around will greatly decrease the chance of candida blooms in the anal 
region or the vagina .  . i have not proposed a systemic action for candida 
blooms .  . i know that others swear that all kinds of symptoms arise from 
the evil yeast blooms in the body. i'm not ready to buy that yet. i do 
believe that complications at specific  ( sites(vagina , anal and maybe lower 
colon , sinus and mouth ) can result from antibiotic use which removes the 
competing bacteria from these sites and thus lets candida grow unchecked .  . 
restoring the right bacterial balance is the best  ( way(in my opinion) to get 
rid of the problem. anti fungals , a low carbohydrate diet and vitamin a 
supplementation may all help to minimize the local irritation until the 
good bacteria can take over control of the food supply again and lower the 
ph to basically starve the candida out. 


marty b. 

from  ( prakash das ) 
subject re is msg sensitivity superstition 
article i.d. 
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh 
lines 19 

in article  ( julie kangas ) writes 

as for how foods taste if i'm not allergic to msg and i like 
the taste of it , why should n't i use it saying i should n't use 
it is like saying i should n't eat spicy food because my neighbor 
has an ulcer .  . 

julie , it does n't necessarily follow that you should use it  ( msg or 
something else for that matter) simply because you are not allergic 
to it. for example you might not be allergic to  ( animal ) fats , and 
like their taste , yet it does n't follow that you should be using them 
 . msg might have other bad  ( or good , i am not up on 
knowledge of msg) effects on your body in the long run , maybe that 's 
reason enough not to use it. 

 your example of the ulcer is funny , it is n't an 
appropriate comparison at all. 

prakash das 

from (david rind ) 
subject re persistent vs chronic 
organization beth israel hospital , harvard medical school , boston mass. , usa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host enterprise . bih . harvard . edu . 

in article 
 ( horace enea ) writes 
can anyone out there tell me the difference between a persistent disease 
and a chronic one for example , persistent hepatitis vs chronic 
hepatitis .  . 

i do n't think there is a general distinction .  . rather , there are 
two classes of chronic hepatitis chronic active hepatitis and chronic 
persistent hepatitis .  . i ca n't think of any other disease where the 
term persistent is used with or in preference to chronic .  . 

much as these two terms chronic active and chronic persistent 
sound fuzzy , the actual distinction between the two conditions 
is often fairly fuzzy as well. 

david rind 


from  ( todd r. haverstock ) 
subject re request gyro  ( souvlaki ) sauce 
organization educational computing network 
lines 23 
nntp posting host uxa . ecn . bgu . edu . 

in article  ( dave lord ) writes 
in article , donald mackie 
donald writes 
in article michael trofimoff , 
writes 
would anyone out there in  net land  happen to have an 
authentic , sure fire way of making this great sauce that 
is used to adorn gyro 's and souvlaki 

i'm not sure of the exact recipe , but i'm sure acidophilus is one of 
the major ingredients. ) 

it 's plain yoghurt with grated cucumber and coriander  ( other spices are 
sometimes used) .  . some people use half yoghurt and half mayonaise .  . 

in the kind i have made i used a lite sour cream instead of yogurt .  . may not 
be as good for you , but i prefer the taste. a few small bits of in 
addition to the grated may also finish the sauce off nicely. 



trh 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re chromium for weight loss 
lines 18 

there is no data to show chromium is effective in promoting weight loss. the 
few studies that have been done using chromium have been very flawed and 
biased (the investigators were making money from marketing it) .  . 
theoretically it really doesnt make sense either. the claim is that chromium 
will increase muscle mass and decrease fat. of course , chromium is also used t 
o cure diabetes , high blood pressure and increase muscle mass in  ( athletes(just 
as well as anabolic  . sounds like snake oil for the 1990 's ) 
on the other hand , it really cant hurt you anywhere but your wallet , and place 
bo effects of anything can be pretty dramatic .  .  .  . 

paul 

paul , d .  . u of illinois college of pharmacy 

email 




from  ( barbara hlavin ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 13 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( jeff silva ) writes 
wrote 
move a little , the pain will be excrutiating .  . i was told by my doctor 
at that time that the pain was comparable to that of childbirth .  . (yes , 
by a male doctor , so i'm sure some of you women will  . i 'd 
really like to know the truth in this , so maybe some of you women who 
have had a baby and a kidney stone could fill me in. 

i 've had neither a baby nor a kidney stone , but according to my aunt , 
who has had plenty of both , a kidney stone is worse. 


barbara 

from (robert allison ) 
subject re frequent nosebleeds 
reply to (robert allison ) 
organization the national capital freenet 
lines 37 


in a previous article , (michael covington ) says 

in article  ( beverly m. zalan ) writes 

my 6 year son is so plagued .  . lots of vaseline up his nose each night seems 
to keep it under control. but let him get bopped there , and he 'll recur for 
days ! also allergies , colds , dry air all seem to contribute .  . but again , the 
vaseline , or a d ointment , or neosporin all seem to keep them from recurring .  . 

if you can get it , you might want to try a canadian over the counter product 
called , which is a water soluble gel .  . compared to vaseline or other 
greasy ointments , seems more compatible with the moisture that 's 
already there. 


is reasonably inexpensive ( 6.00 cdn for a tube) , and is indeed an 
over the counter medication .  . why it does not appear to be available in the 
us , i do n't know. it 's manufactured in montreal .  . 

it 's a nasal lubricant , and is intended to help nosebleeds that result from 
dry mucous membranes .  . 

from some of the replies to my original posting , it 's evident that some 
people do not enough mucous to keep their nose lining protected 
from environmental influences (ie , dry  . but i 've had no responses 
from anyone with experience with rutin .  . is there another newsgroup that 
might have specifics on herbal remedies 

but thanks to all those who did reply with their experiences. 

robert allison 

from  ( somesh jha ) 
subject what is intersection syndrome and feldene 
nntp posting host gs73 . sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 17 


hi 

i went to the orthopedist on tuesday .  . he diagnosed me as having 
intersection syndrome . he prescribed feldene for me. i want 
to know more about the disease and the drug .  . 

thanks 


somesh 







from  ( horace enea ) 
subject persistent vs chronic 
organization apple computer 
lines 6 

can anyone out there tell me the difference between a persistent disease 
and a chronic one for example , persistent hepatitis vs chronic 
hepatitis .  . 

thanks , 
horace 

from  ( alan barclay ) 
subject re need info on 
reply to  ( alan barclay ) 
organization bbs ltd. 44  ( 0)324 ) 
lines 11 

to  ( ravi or menon ) 


ro first off , use some decent terms if ya do n't mind. this is sci . med . , not 
ro alt . sex .  . 

would you like to rephrase that 


. . g  day mate , throw another cat on the ! 


from  ( marc gabriel ) 
subject newsletter vol 1 09 
lines 344 


lyme disease electronic mail network 
newsletter 

volume 1 number 09 4 26 93 

i. introduction 
ii. announcements 
iii. news from the wires 
iv. questions 'n' answers 
v. op ed section 
vi. jargon index 
vii. how to subscribe , contribute and get back issues 

i. introduction 

in this issue of the newsletter , we learn of the cdc 's announced concern for 
the resurgence of infectious diseases in the united states. thanks to 
jonathan lord for sending me the upi release. the cdc announced they would 
feature a new series of articles in the morbidity and mortality weekly 
report on these infectious diseases  ( ld is one of them) .  . we will keep you 
up to date on this series. 

in addition , we feature a the wall street journal article on the legal issues 
surrounding ld .  . we also look at lyme 's effects from the perspective of 
in an abstract entitled urinary dysfunction in lyme disease. 

finally , terry morse asks an intriguing question about a tick 's habitat .  . 

marc .  . 


ii. announcements 

source the lyme disease update 
subject call for articles 

attention health care professionals 

the lyme disease update would like to publish your articles on lyme disease 
diagnosis , lyme treatment , and the effects on lyme on lyme patients  physical 
and mental health. 

the has a monthly circulation of 6 , 000 .  . our mailing list includes lyme 
patients , physicians , researchers , county health departments , and over 100 
lyme support groups nationwide .  . we strive to give our readers up to date 
information on lyme disease prevention , diagnosis , and treatment , and a 
source for support and practical advice on living with lyme disease. 

articles for the should be approximately 900 to 1200 words and should 
address lyme disease issues in non scientific language. to submit your 
article , mail to lyme disease update 
p.o. box 
evansville , in 
or fax to 812 471 1990 

one year subscriptions to the lyme disease update are 19 ( 24 outside the 
us) .  . mail your subscription requests to the above address , or call 
812 471 1990 for more information. 


iii. news from the wires 

sender jonathan lord 
subject resurgence of infectious disease concerns cdc 
date thursday april 15 , 1993 

atlanta  ( upi ) a resurgence of infectious diseases blamed on newly 
emerging viruses and bacteria pose a major challenge for the nation 's 
health care system , federal health officials said thursday .  . 

the centers for disease control and prevention , reporting its latest 
findings in an investigation of contaminated hamburger meat that 
sickened hundreds in 4 states and killed at least four , said it will 
put renewed emphasis on battling infectious diseases .  . 

part of that emphasis includes a new series titled emerging 
infectious diseases to be featured in the cdc 's morbidity mortality 
weekly report , which has a wide circulation in the health community. 
the issue also will top the agenda of a two day meeting of scientific 
to update the cdc 's draft plan for dealing with the growing 
threat of infectious ailments .  . 

this is an issue that has been coming and we do have a responsibility 
to deal with it , said dr. ruth , deputy director of the cdc 's 
national center for infectious diseases .  . 

there were more cases of malaria in the u.s. in 1992 than in any year 
since the 1960s , and latin america is experiencing a cholera epidemic , 
the first in this century , she said. 

resistance of disease causing agents to antibiotics is also a problem. 
we are seeing much more antibiotic resistance than we have in the past 
said. she said even common ear infections frequently seen in 
children are becoming resistant to antibiotic treatment. 

despite predictions earlier this century that infectious diseases 
would soon be eliminated as a public health problem , infectious diseases 
remain the major cause of death worldwide and a leading cause of illness 
and death in the united states , the cdc said. 

it cited the emergence since the 1970s of a myriad of newly 
identified pathogens and syndromes , such as escherichia coli h7 , a 
deadly bacterial infection the hepatitis c virus hiv , the virus that 
causes aids legionnaires disease lyme disease and toxic shock syndrome .  . 

the incidences of many diseases widely presumed to be under control , 
such as cholera , malaria and tuberculosis , have increased in many areas , 
the cdc said. it said efforts at control and prevention have been 
undermined by drug resistance. 



source wall street journal 
reference 04 15 93 , 
headline lyme disease ruling raises liability issues 

the tick that causes lyme disease may have found a new way to cause 
damage legal liability .  . 

a federal judge 's decision holding a property owner liable for not 
doing enough to protect workers from lyme disease is getting as much 
attention as the latest medical study on the disease , a flu like 
illness that can cause severe physical and mental disabilities and in 
rare instances death. the decision last week has put property owners 
on notice that they may have to do more than protect themselves from 
the ticks they also may have to protect themselves from litigation if 
someone becomes infected while on the property. 

the decision by u.s. district judge robert j. ward in new york came 
after a week long trial in a case involving four track workers for the 
long island railroad .  . judge ward found that the workers contracted the 
disease after they were by ticks while on the job. he ordered 
the new york state owned commuter line to pay the workers more than 
560 , 000 to compensate for pain and suffering , in addition to medical 
expenses and lost wages .  . 

summer camps , schools , companies with facilities in rural or 
areas , and homeowners who rent to vacationers are among the 
groups that need to be worried about this ruling , says stephen l. 
kass , an attorney at new york law firm , kass case , who wrote a 
legal article three years ago warning property owners of the potential 
liability .  . even a family that invites friends over for a backyard 
barbecue might be potentially liable .  . 

lawsuits for insect bites , while rare , are n't unheard of. a summer 
in southampton , n.y. , last year sued the owner of the home 
she rented , claiming that a tick on the property gave her rocky 
mountain spotted fever .  . in 1988 , also on long island , a jury ordered 
an outdoor restaurant to pay more than 3 million to a patron who was 
stung by a bee , causing an allergic reaction and permanent 
 . the judge later threw out the award , citing no evidence 
that a beehive was near the restaurant. 

but lawyers say that the attention to lyme disease throughout the 
country it 's most prevalent in new england , the middle atlantic 
states , wisconsin , minnesota and the northwest may make this 
particular insect bite a particularly one. 

the illness already has proved to be a source of controversy in the 
courtroom over such issues as the type of medical care insurers will 
cover and medical malpractice claims against doctors for not 
diagnosing the disease. 

lawyers say worker 's compensation claims related to lyme disease 
have become common in some states in recent years. payments in 
worker 's compensation cases , however , are limited to medical costs and 
lost earnings .  . 

the case before judge ward dealt with a potentially much more 
lucrative avenue for damages , because it involved the question of 
negligence .  . unlike the worker 's compensation process , the law governing 
injuries to rail workers allows for a finding of negligence and , as a 
result , for additional payments for pain and suffering .  . property 
owners and lawyers say that negligence claims can be made in many 
other situations where people are exposed to the ticks that carry the 
disease. 

ira m. maurer , a partner at new york law firm , flynn 
maurer , who represented the rail workers , says the decision will help 
to establish the duty of all sorts of property owners to protect 
against lyme disease. 

lawyers caution that despite judge ward 's decision , winning a 
lawsuit for damages caused by lyme disease may prove difficult. for 
one thing , victims have to demonstrate that they have pinned down when 
and where they got the tick bite. judge ward found that the plaintiffs 
in the railroad case got lyme disease while working on property owned 
by the railroad , even though none of the men remembered being  . 
the workers , who were n't likely to be exposed elsewhere to 
the insects , said they saw ticks in the high grass that surrounded 
some work sites. 

a spokeswoman for the railroad says that there was no proof that 
the four men were while on the job and that the railroad is 
considering an appeal. the railroad also disputes judge ward 's finding 
that it did n't do enough to protect employees .  . the spokeswoman says 
the railroad provides track workers with insect repellent and special 
pants to protect against bug bites .  . 

debate in the scientific community over lyme disease could open up 
some legal defenses for property owners , such as questioning whether a 
victim actually has the disease rather than some other illness .  . 
earlier this week , the journal of the american medical association 
reported that doctors overly diagnose patients as having lyme disease. 
and damages awarded to a victim also might be influenced by medical 
disputes over the degree of harm that lyme disease causes .  . 

because of health and safety concerns , some groups and companies 
already take special measures to protect against lyme disease. last 
year , at its headquarters in franklin lakes , n.j. , becton , dickinson 
co. began using , a made by inc. of boston 
that is designed to kill ticks carrying the disease. the medical 
supply company 's headquarters include a 120 acre park , and the company 
was worried that employees who walk on its trails for recreation might 
get infected .  . 

ruth lister , a spokeswoman for the american camping association in 
indianapolis , says that many youth camps accredited by her 
organization also have begun to check children for ticks .  . and 
katz , a member of the board of the fire island pines property owners 
association , says her group spends 30 , 000 each year to treat their 
100 acre site off the coast of new york with the tick killing 
 . 



title urinary dysfunction in lyme disease. 
authors chancellor mb de pj p hirsch ih , 
department of urology , jefferson medical college , thomas jefferson 
university , philadelphia , pennsylvania .  . 
reference j urol 1993 jan 149 (1) 26 30 

lyme disease , which is caused by the spirochete , is 
associated with a variety of neurological sequelae .  . we describe 7 patients 
with neuro borreliosis who also had lower urinary tract dysfunction .  . 
evaluation revealed in 5 patients and 
in 2. external was not 
noted on in any patient. we observed that the urinary tract 
may be involved in 2 respects in the course of lyme disease 1) 
dysfunction may be part of neuro borreliosis and 2) the spirochete may 
directly invade the urinary tract .  . in 1 patient bladder infection by the 
lyme spirochete was documented on biopsy .  . neurological and 
symptoms in all patients were slow to resolve and was 
protracted .  . of active lyme disease and residual neurological 
deficits were common. practicing in areas endemic for lyme 
disease need to be aware of b. infection in the differential 
diagnosis of bladder dysfunction .  . conservative bladder 
management including clean intermittent catheterization guided by 
evaluation is recommended. 


iv. questions 'n' answers 

note if you have a response to this question , please forward it to the 
editor. 

sender terry morse 
subject question on lyme vectors and piles 

when i visited my sister on long island , ny , i was cautioned to avoid the 
heap in her back yard , as she thinks this is where she became 
infected .  . 

a friend of mine here in oregon who has a heap would like me to 
back that claim up with documentation .  . do lyme carrying ticks hang out in 
heaps 
thank you. 


v. op ed section 

this section is open to all subscribers who would like to express an opinion. 


vi. jargon index 

bb the scientific name for the ld bacterium .  . 
cdc centers for disease control federal agency in charge of tracking 
diseases and programs to prevent them. 
cns central nervous system. 
elisa enzyme linked assays common test 
em erythema the name of the bull 's eye rash that appears in 
60 of the patients early in the infection .  . 
indirect fluorescent common test. 
ld common abbreviation for lyme disease. 
nih national institutes of health federal agency that conducts medical 
research and issues grants to research interests .  . 
pcr chain reaction a new test that detects the dna sequence 
of the microbe in question. currently being tested for use in 
detecting ld , tb , and aids .  . 
spirochete the ld bacterium .  . it 's given this name due to it 's spiral 
shape. 
western a more precise test. 


vii. how to subscribe , contribute and get back issues 

subscriptions 
anyone with an internet address may subscribe. 
send a memo to 
in the body , type 
subscribe l your real name 

fax subscriptions are also available. send a single page fax to 215 974 
for further information. 

deletions 
send a memo to 
in the body , type 
unsubscribe l 

contributions 
send all contributions to or fax them to 215 974  . 
all are encouraged to submit questions , news items , announcements , and 
commentaries .  . 

back issues 
send a memo to 
in the body , type 
get l newsletters x yy (where x vol and yy issue ) 

example get l newsletters 1 01  ( will get vol 1 , issue 01) 


the internet lyme disease information source 

editor in chief marc c. gabriel 
fax 215 974 
contributing editors carl brenner 
john o'donnell 
advisors carol jane , director 
william s. , president 
the lyme disease network of new jersey  ( 908 390 5027 ) 
chief ed mackey 

when comments are presented with an attribution , they do not necessarily 
represent the opinions analyses of the editor. 

this newsletter may be reproduced and or posted on bulletin boards freely 
as long as it is not modified or abridged in any way. 

send all bug reports to 


from (mike e. romano ) 
subject re drop your drawers and the doctor will see you 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 11 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


this is not an unusual practice if the doctor is also a 
member of a colony .  . 




sir , i admit your gen ral rule 
that every poet is a fool 
but you yourself may serve to show it , 
that every fool is not a poet .  . a. pope 

from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re photography 
organization hst wide field planetary camera 
lines 26 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sol1 . gps . caltech . edu . 

in article , (e . a .  . story) writes 
in article writes 
greg flame definitely intended here. bill was making fun of the misspelling .  . 
go look up the word krill .  . also , the correct spelling is kirlian .  . it 
involves taking photographs of corona discharges created by attaching the 
subject to a high voltage source , not of some aura .  . it works equally well 
with inanimate objects .  . 

true .  .  . but what about showing the missing part of a leaf is this 
corona discharge 

yup .  . the demonstration to which you refer consists of placing a leaf between 
the plates , and taking a kirlian photograph of it. you then cut off part of 
the leaf , put the top plate back on , and take another kirlian photograph .  . you 
see pretty much the same image in both cases. turns out the effect is n't 
nearly so striking if you take the trouble to clean the plates between 
photographs. seems that the moisture from the leaf that you left on the place 
conducts electricity .  . surprise , surprise ! 

carl j lydick internet nsi sol1 carl 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from  ( baker , david ) 
subject syringe 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization university of tennessee computing center 
lines 13 



while i do n't have an answer for you , i reckon blaise pascal is generally 
credited with inventing the syringe per se .  . i do n't know much about the 
needles however , i do know of a southwest virginia country doctor who 
some or more years ago invented , patented , used , and sold a syringe 
needle combination that retracted , injected with the flip of a 
trigger , then retracted , giving a near painless injection .  . the fellow was 
dr. daniel gabriel , and it was termed the gabriel somebody else syringe .  . 
did you come across that one.  ( plastic , disposable came onto the 
market about that time and his product went by the wayside , to my knowledge . ) . 



from  ( dov bai msi visitor ) 
subject re 
organization mathematical sciences institute  ( msi ) cornell university 
lines 14 
nntp posting host cit . cornell . edu . 

in article  ( joel b levin ) writes 
 ( bob mcqueer ) writes 
one question i do have a doctor who flushed out my ears once also advocated 
a drop of rubbing alcohol in them afterwards to flush out any remaining 
trapped water said he told swimmers to do this after swimming , too. it 
works , but it stings like the devil , so i 've always been content to let any 
water in my ears from swimming or flushing them out figure out how to get 
out by itself if shaking my head a few times wo n't do the trick. any 
comments 

perhaps diluting the rubbing alcohol in some water , until you 
feels comfortable will do the trick 



from  ( sidelnikov igor vladimirovich ) 
subject please , help a patient ! ! ! 
distribution world 
organization scientific industrial centre integral 
reply to 
summary help victim of ! ! !  ( read a letter ) 
lines 18 

mail 
subject please , help ! ! ! 



dear ladies and gentlemen ! 


we should be grateful for any information about address and  ( or ) 
e mail address of linda hospital  ( approximate position usa , 
california , near town , 60 miles from los  . 
a patient needs consultation in this clinics before operation. 


with respect , igor v. 
quit 
. 


from (ron roth ) 
subject frequent nosebleeds 
x gated by usenet gateway (v1 . 70) . 
organization rose media inc , toronto , ontario .  . 
lines 73 

a from some of the replies to my original posting , it 's evident that some 
a people do not enough mucous to keep their nose lining protected 

include small amounts of hot , spicy foods with your meals .  . it 's 
not a cure , but many people find it helpful to create extra mucus .  . 
you may also consider taking a few drops of iodine in juice or water 
 ( consult your doctor first ! ) , which is available otc in canada .  . 
if you have a sedentary lifestyle , exercising sometimes helps. 

a from environmental influences (ie , dry  . but i 've had no responses 
a from anyone with experience with rutin .  . is there another newsgroup that 

a might have specifics on herbal remedies 
a 
a robert allison 

i tried to e mail you , but our board is having internet problems , 
so i'm not sure whether you got the information on rutin or not. 

rutin is not a herb , but part of the bioflavonoid complex .  . you should 
generally not take rutin by itself , but take the whole bioflavonoid 
complex instead. if you do n't  ( and there are some exceptions to that) 
you 'll eventually create a deficiency , which is the other 
major component of the bioflavonoid complex .  . 
i found out the hard way years ago when i recommended rutin , after it 
showed deficient in patients who were not deficient in be 
fore .  . a later almost always showed a subsequent deficiency in 
, which , from then on , made me always add 
to anyone that had very low levels of rutin .  . 
most of the time people are equally low in rutin and , so 
there is really no reason to take rutin by itself , but use the whole 
bioflavonoid complex instead. 

i have several thousand patients taking them with many claiming that 
they had been helped with hemorrhoids , veins , chronic nose 
bleeds , , gastro intestinal bleeding  ( due to drugs ) , etc .  .  .  . 
one patient in desperation took a whole bottle (100 's) in one day 
for his painful , bleeding hemorrhoids , without any ill effects. 

they are also non toxic in very high amounts , that 's why they can 
be safely recommended. if you are allergic to citrus fruit  ( they are 
made from their peels ) , pine bark sources are available as well. 

about 90 of patients tested show a bioflavonoid deficiency , 
with the average daily dosage needed being about 1 2 ,  . 
for major complaints , 4 6 , day is common. 

in case they cannot be taken , because of their size and taste  ( they 
are big , and they do n't taste that great) , a product made from pine 
bark extract gives you the same effect and the tablets are quite 
small and taste much better , however the cost is about seven times 
higher for the equivalent effect. one 25mg tablet of the pine bark 
extract gives you about the same effect as 1 , of  . 
the name for the pine bark product is ' . 

some canadian brands carrying are 

quest .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1 . , big , bitter , not 
swiss herbal .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 600mg . smooth , easier swallowing 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 500mg . medium , bitter , 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25mg .  ( pycnogenol ) small , easy swallowing 

give them a try and see what happens .  .  .  .  . and . good luck ! 

ron roth 

internet ron 

eating has strange results , tom said  . 

2.10 entered at 
2.10 usenet rose media hamilton (416) 575 5363 

from (stephen montgomery smith) 
subject pregnency without sex 
keywords pregnency sex 
organization university of missouri 
lines 10 

when i was a school boy , my biology teacher told us of an incident 
in which a couple were very passionate without actually having 
sexual intercourse .  . somehow the girl became as sperm 
cells made their way to her through the clothes via  . 

was my biology teacher misinforming us , or do such incidents actually 
occur 

stephen 


from  ( bonita kale ) 
subject arthritis and diabetes 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 37 
reply to  ( bonita kale ) 
nntp posting host slc4 . ins . cwru . edu . 




i have , and my has just been diagnosed with diabetes 
 ( type ii , i guess no  . 


i 've been trying to read up on these two conditions , and what really 
surprises me is how few experiments have been done and how little is known. 
losing weight appears to be imperative for diabetes and advisable for 
arthritis (at least , for women with arthritis ) , but , of course , the very 
conditions that make weight loss advisable are part of the reason for the 
weight gain .  . 

for myself , i'm almost afraid to lose weight , because no matter how gentle 
and sensible a diet i use (the last one was 1800 2000 calories , in about 
eight small meals ) , the weight wo n't go off gradually and stay off. 
instead , it drops off , and then comes back on with much 
interest , like bread on the waters .  . 


with this experience , it 's hard to be encouraging to my husband. all i can 
suggest is to make it as gradual as possible. 

meanwhile , some experts recommend no sugar , others , no fat , others , just a 
balanced diet. it 's almost impossible to tell from their writings which 
parts of their recommendations are supposed to help the condition , and 
which are merely ideas the expert thinks are nifty .  . 

is it my imagination , or are these very old conditions very poorly 
understood is it just that i'm used to pediatrician talk ( it 's strep 
give him this and he 'll get well. ) and so my expectations are too high 


kale 



from  ( rob welder ) 
subject ear 
distribution world 
organization cincinnati computer connection cincinnati , oh 513 752 1055 
reply to  ( rob welder ) 
lines 12 

to  ( ashwin ram) 

ar does the instrument really work it is supposed to give you a 

absolutely ! 
ya do n't have to do the other end ! 
(it is accurate but technique is important) 

! 

. 1.02 41 4771 . see ... it only hurts for a little while ! 


from (michael covington ) 
subject re antihistamine for sleep aid 
nntp posting host aisun3 . ai . uga . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 13 

i'm interested in this from the other angle what antihistamine can i 
take at bedtime for relief of allergies , with the assurance that its 
sedative effect will have completely worn off by the next morning , but 
preferably with the anti allergy effect lasting longer 

i'm thinking mainly of otc products. which has the least duration of 
sedative action , , or what 
note that i'm asking about duration , not intensity .  . 

michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

from nigel allen 
subject occupational injuries and disease workers memorial day 
reply to nigel allen 
organization canada remote systems 
distribution sci 
lines 97 


here is a press release from the american federation of state , 
county and municipal employees .  . 

unions point to deadly , other unions 
commemorate workers memorial day 
to national desk , labor writer 
contact janet rivera of the american federation of state , county 
and municipal employees , , 202 429 1130 

washington , april 23 the american federation of state , 
county and municipal employees  ( afscme ) and other unions 
of the on wednesday , april 28 , will commemorate the fifth 
annual workers memorial day a day to pay to the 6 
million workers who are killed , injured , or diseased on the job. 
this year , will focus its workers memorial day efforts an 
the dangerous environment in which corrections officers must work. 
earlier this month , an corrections officer , robert 
, was killed by inmates who overtook the corrections 
facility in , ohio. 
the law and order agenda of the 1980s has resulted in a steady 
increase in the prison population for the past five years. on 
jn .  . 1 , 1992 , the prison population was 709 , 587 .  . projections 
show a continued increase in the number of inmates , with an 
expected prison population of 811 , 253 in 1994. 
the conditions which this prison population has 
created for corrections officers is partially reflected in the 
number of assaults by inmates against staff. assaults against 
staff increased dramatically between 1987 and 1989 , and remain 
high. in 1987 , there were 808 assaults by inmates against staff , 
compared to 9 , 961 such assaults in 1991. 
the increased number of inmates has brought on the dangerous 
combination of overcrowding and  . for example in ohio 
officer to ratio is 1 to 8.4 the second worst ratio in 
the nation .  . the national average is 1 to 5 . 3 .  . other health and 
safety issues facing corrections officers include aids , hepatitis 
b , tuberculosis , stress , and chemical hazards .  . 
has more than 50 , 000 members who work in the nation 's 
federal , state and local correctional facilities. 
correction officers are not alone in performing their jobs under 
life threatening conditions. every year , 10 , 000 american workers 
die from job related injuries , and tens of thousands more die from 
occupational disease. public employees do some of the nation 's 
most dangerous jobs. perilous occupations include 

highway workers highway workers are often injured and 
frequently killed by moving traffic because work zones are 
not or do n't have proper lighting .  . 
health care workers hospitals have the highest number of 
job related injuries and illnesses of any private sector 
employer and nursing homes ranked fifth .  . there were more 
than 325 , 000 job related illnesses and injuries in private 
sector hospitals in 1991 , up almost 10 percent over the 
previous year. it is generally believed that health care 
workers employed at public sector hospitals and nursing homes 
have a significantly higher rate of injuries and illnesses 
than do their private sector counterparts .  . health and safety 
issues facing health care workers include exposure to 
tuberculosis and the hiv virus , back injuries , and high 
levels of stress. 
social workers social workers who work in mental health 
institutions are often the victims of assaults and , 
sometimes , fatal attacks .  . for instance , last october , a man 
carrying a semiautomatic handgun walked into the schuyler 
county social services building in watkins glenn , n.y. 
and fatally shot social services workers , before turning the 
gun on himself. there are two basic problems. first is a 
growing lack of support services for people who do n't have 
the help they need. because workers are overworked , some 
clients are not given the adequate amount of counselling .  . 
such conditions may cause clients to become more frustrated .  . 
the quality of the clients is also becoming more violent , 
as more are moved out of the institutions .  . 

nearly 2 million workers have been killed by workplace hazards 
since osha was passed. moreover , as president gerald w. 
explains , osha does not provide workplace safety 
protections for public employees .  . 
more than 1 , 600 public employees are killed each year on the 
job , yet 27 states still provide no federally approved osha 
coverage for public employees , said  . this , despite the 
fact that public employees highway workers , health care workers , 
corrections officers , to name but a few do some of the most 
dangerous work in our society. this year we are fighting for 
passage of osha reform legislation to give all workers greater 
rights and protections , and finally guarantee all public employees 
safe  . we need the public support to be successful. 
government workers suffer 25 percent more injuries than private 
sector workers , and these injuries are almost 75 percent more 
severe .  . 
public employees were exempted from osha when the law was passed 
in 1970 and today , public employees in more than half the states 
have no osha coverage. 
30 

canada remote systems toronto , ontario 
416 629 7000 629 7044 

from node . hub . org . (brian tao ) 
subject re photography 
organization mugs research and development facility 
x newsreader mugs 3 . apr 22 93 
to  ( alexander p. zijdenbos ) 
reply to node . hub . org . 
lines 24 

in article , alexander p. zijdenbos writes .  .  .  . 

i am neither a real believer , nor a disbeliever when it comes to 
so called paranormal stuff but as far as i'm concerned , it is just 
as likely as the existence of , for instance , a god , which seems to be 
quite accepted in our societies without any scientific basis. 

but no one  ( or at least , not many people) are trying to pass off god 
as a scientific fact. not so with kirlian photography. i 'll admit that 
it is possible that some superior intelligence exists elsewhere , and if 
people want to label that intelligence god , i'm not going to stop 
them. anyway , let 's not turn this into a theological debate. ) 

i am convinced that it is a serious mistake to close your mind to 
something , anything , simply because it does n't fit your current frame 
of reference. history shows that many great people , great scientists , 
were people who kept an open mind and were ridiculed by sceptics .  . 

read alt . fan . robert . mcelwaine . sometime. i 've never been so 
closed minded before subscribing to that group. ) 


brian tao node . hub . org . (r node bbs , 416 249 5366 , free ! ) 
 ( university of toronto ) 

from  ( andrea bruno ) 
subject re deficiency 
organization adobe systems incorporated 
lines 8 


in article 
 ( eileen bauer ) writes 
controls energy production which explains , , 
and weight gain .  . there is also water retention  ( possibly around heart) , 
changes in vision , and hair and skin among other things. 

is there any relation between thyroid deficiency and depression 

from (john finlayson ) 
subject re for migraines 
nntp posting host 
organization interleaf , inc. 
lines 22 

in article  ( brenda bowden ) writes 

does anyone know about these studies or have experience with 
i'm skeptical , but open to trying it if i can find out more about this. 
what is , and how much would you take to prevent migraines  ( if 
this is a good idea , that is) are there any known risks or side effects 
of 

thanks in advance for any info ! 
brenda 

i 've tried it , and so has one friend of mine. no known side effects or 
risks .  . it did n't seem to work for us , but several studies now have 
suggested it does work for many people , so i think it 's worth a try. 

you can find it in capsule form at health food stores. up to six capsules 
a day was recommended , if i remember correctly. it can also be prepared 
as a tea. 

good luck , 

john 

from  ( julie lim ) 
subject re is msg sensitivity superstition 
organization the graphics bbs  ( 2d , 3d , gif , animation ) 1 908 469 0049 
lines 25 

(michael m. huang ) writes 

msg is common in many food we eat , including chinese  ( though some oriental 
restaurants might put a tad too much in them) .  . i 've noticed that when i 
go out and eat in most of the chinese food restaurants , i will usually get 
a slight headache and an thirst afterwards. this happens to many 
of my friends and relatives too. and , heh , we eat chinese food all the 
time at home )  ( but we do n't use msg when we 're cooking for ourselves) 

heck , i seem to feel like that every time i eat out. including 
in the cafeteria at work. about half the time , the headache 
until nothing will make it go away except throwing up. ick .  . 

as you might imagine , i do n't eat out a lot. i guess my tolerance 
for food additives has since i switched to eating mostly 
steamed veggies .  . they 're easy to fix , that 's all. 

i wo n't even mention what happened the last time i ate 
beef .  . (oops .  . too late . ) . 


the graphics bbs 908 469 0049 it 's better than a sharp stick in the eye ! 

internet  ( julie lim ) 
uucp rutgers ! ! graphics ! lim 

from  ( philip j bowman ) 
subject re strain gage applications in vivo 
organization university of montana 
lines 36 

in article ame  ( terrance j. dishongh ) writes 
greeting 

i am starting work on a project where i am trying to make strain 
bond to bone in vivo or a period of several months. i am currently 
using back , and i have tried m bonding the 
to the bone .  . apart from those two application methods there does n't 
seem to be much else in the literature. i have only an engineering 
background not medical or biological .  . i would be interest in any 
ideas about how to bone growth on the surface of cortical bone .  . 

thanks for help in advance. 

terrance j 
ame 

it sounds as though you might want to try a product such as super glue . 
the active ingredient is , the same compound used to reconstruct 
bones .  . i have successfully used superglue for a number of procedures on many 
different species of animal .  . if you are simply trying to something 
to bone for several months , this would be ideal .  . it bonds almost immediatly , 
is resistant to infection , and is non irritating to surrounding tissue .  . 

phil bowman , manager 
lab animal resources 
university of montana 
missoula , mt 

wg 





phil bowman , manager 
laboratory animal resources 

subject re 
from nicholson 
reply to nicholson 
organization wellington city council  ( public access) , , nz 
nntp posting host kosmos . wcc . govt . nz . 
lines 15 

in article , (stephen montgomery smith) writes 
what is the healthiest way to deal with should one just leave 
it in your ear and not mess with it , or should you clean it out 
every so often can cleaning it out damage your 
are there any tubes in your ear that might get blocked 

stephen 


the best thing to do is leave it , it will work its own way out to the surface. 
anything you stick up there to try and clean it is just going to push the wax 
up against your eardrum and pack it on there solid , thus your 
hearing . 

sean 

from  ( ravi or menon ) 
subject re should i be angry at this doctor 
nntp posting host beagle . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 44 

 ( brandon brylawski ) writes 

writes 
am i justified in being pissed off at this doctor 

last saturday evening my 6 year old son cut his finger badly with a knife .  . 
i took him to a local urgent and general care clinic at 5 50 pm. the 
clinic was open till 6 00 pm. the receptionist went to the back and told the 
 .  .  .  . other . good stuff about the drs idiocy 

ok , much as i hate to do it , here i am posting an even better dr. idiot 
story. 


i was in my 18th hour of labor , had been pushing for 4.5 hours and was 
exhausted .  . my ob and i decided to go for a  . the ob called in 
the (sp ) and asked him to help prep me for surgery. 

after , watching me go through a couple , the  ( or anus as 
i like to refer to him) said , well , i am off duty now.  ( still staring 
between my legs at that) .  . the ob asked to go call whomever it was who 
was on duty and ask him her how long it would take .  .  . and . if it was going 
to take more than a few minutes , to please stay even though he was off duty .  . 

the  . went out , supposedly to call the on call  . in a couple of 
minutes the nurse came running in to tell the ob that the  . had left 
without even trying to get ahold of the on call. it was the only time 
during my labor that i swore .  . the on call  . took 20 minutes to get 
there. 

come to find out , the  . had only just gone off duty  ( about 2 minutes 
before) and technically was supposed to stay in the hospital until the 
next on call got there. good thing for all of us  ( especially him) that 
it was not a critical emergency .  . but boy would i love to knock that 
fellow 's places  .  .  . just . to let him be in pain a 
few little minutes. 



i have run into dr. idiots , mechanic idiots , clerk idiots and etc. 
idiots in my time , but this fellow i would like to have words with. 




from (paul anderson ) 
subject re do we need a radiologist to read an ultrasound 
organization zikzak public access unix , melbourne australia 
lines 40 
nntp posting host zikzak . apana . org . au . 

 ( doug bank) writes 

my wife 's ob gyn has an ultrasound machine in her office. when 

on her next visit , my wife asked another doctor in the office if 
they read the ultrasounds themselves or if they had a radiologist 
read the pictures. the doctor very vehemently insisted that they 
were qualified to read the ultrasound and radiologists were not ! 

my wife is concerned about this. she saw a tv show a couple months 
back  ( something like 20 20 or dateline nbc , etc . ) . where an expert 
on fetal ultrasounds (a radiologist ) was showing all the different 
that could be detected using the ultrasound .  . 

should my wife be concerned should we take the pictures to a 
radiologist for a second opinion  ( and if so , where would we find 
such an expert in chicago ) we do n't really have any special medical 
reason to be concerned , but if a radiologist will be able to see 
things the ob gyn ca n't , then i do n't see why we should n't use one. 

any thoughts 

as far as i can see if your has an ultrasound in his rooms 
and is its use and interpretation , he should be just as 
capable of reading it as any radiologist .  . all doctors are qualified to 
read x rays , u s , ct scans etc. it is just that a radiologist does nothing 
else , and thus , is only better at reading them because of all this time 
spent doing this  ( skill in reading x rays etc. just comes from plenty of 
 . if your reads heaps of ultrasounds he 
should be able to pick up any abnormalities that can be demonstrated by 
this technique. 

paul .  . 



zikzak public access unix , melbourne , australia .  . 


o o 

from  ( bill wilder ) 
subject seeking info on retinal detachment 
organization acadia university 
lines 40 

i am quite near sighted .  . 

i 've recently received laser treatment for both eyes to seal 
holes in the to help prevent retinal detachment .  . in my 
left eye a small detachment had begun already and apparently the 
laser was used to weld this back in place as well. 

my right eye seems fine. in my left eye i was seeing occasional 
flashes of bright light prior to the treatment. since the 
treatment  ( two weeks) these flashes are now occuring more often 
several each hour. 

the opthamologist explained the flashes are caused because the 
body has attached to the retina and is pulling on it. he 
says this is not treatable and he hopes it may go away on its own 
accord if it enough i may well face retinal detachment .  . 

i am seeking  ( via sci . med) . additional info on retinal detachments .  . 
the dr. did not wish to spend much time with me in explanations 
so i appreciate any further details anyone can provide .  . of most 
interest to me 

if my retina does what should be my immediate course 
of action 

if conventional surgery is need to repair the detachment what is 
the procedure like and what kind of vision can i expect 
afterwards. 

do the symptoms  ( fairly frequent flashes ) imply that detachment 
maybe near at hand or is this not necessarily cause for alarm .  . 

many thanks 

bill 

bill wilder , computer systems manager 
research station 
agriculture canada 
, nova scotia 

from  ( alex mou ) 
subject cure for dry skin 
organization stanford university 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

hi all , 

my skin is very dry in general. but the most serious part is located 
from knees down. the skin there looks like segmented .  . the segmentation 
actually happens beneath the skin. i would like to know if there is any 
cure for this. 

at the supermarkets or pharmacies , there are quite a lot of stuffs for 
dry skins , but what to chose 

thanks in advance for all and hints .  . 

reply by email preferred .  . 

alex 



from  ( nick ingegneri ) 
subject ethics regarding placebo homeopathic medicines 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 17 

i would like to know if their is any medical consensus 
 ( or consensus within this group ) regarding the ethics 
of the following 

1 prescription of placebo medications when the patient 
did not specifically request any sort of treatment. 

2 selling a placebo medication for a profit .  . 

3 prescribing homeopathic remedies without advising 
a patient of their controversial nature . 

4 representing homeopathic remedies as over the counter 
medications .  . 

thanks , 
nick 

from (george a. perkins sun microsystems tampa fl systems engineer ) 
subject lithium questions , doctor wants my 10 year old on it .  .  .  . 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 33 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host east . sun . com . 
keywords lithium , info 


hi sci . med . folks .  .  .  . 

i would like to know anything you folks can tell me regarding lithium .  . 

i have a 10 year old son that lives with my ex wife. she has been having 
difficulty with his behavior and has had him on , tofranil , and now 
wants to try at the local doctors suggestion. i would like to 
know whatever is important that i should know. i worry about this sort of 
thing and would like pros cons regarding lithium therapy. 

i have a booklet from the lithium information center based at the 
university of wisconsin , but feel that it is pro lithium and would be 
interested in comments from the not necessarily pro side of the fence .  . 

i am a concerned father and just wish to be well informed .  .  .  . 

thanks for any information you can provide .  . 

please email me directly .  .  .  . 


george a. perkins 
systems engineer 
sun microsystems computer corporation 
6200 courtney campbell 
suite 840 
tampa , fl 

phone (813) 289 7228 
fax (813) 281 
email 


from (david sewell ) 
subject and water bio availability 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 19 
nntp posting host troi . cc . rochester . edu . 

does anyone know if either or , or the two in 
combination , can reduce the body 's ability to make use of 
available water i had kind of an odd experience on a group hike 
recently , becoming after about 9 hours of rigorous 
hiking despite having brought 1 1 2 gallons of water (c .  . 6  . 
i drank close to twice as much as anyone else , and no one else was 
dehydrated .  . i do n't think general physical condition was an issue , 
since i was in at least the middle of the pack in terms of general 
, so far as i could tell. 

it may be that i just plain need more water than most people. but i am 
wondering if and or might be aggravating things. 
i took a couple of tablets during the hike to control asthma 
(24 mg. , 100 mg.  . i gather that both those 
drugs are diuretics .  . so now i'm wondering does that mean they can 
reduce the body 's ability to utilize available water would it be a 
particularly stupid thing to take that medication during hot weather 
exercise (i always assumed just meant you urinated a lot , but 
that was n't the case yesterday . ) . 

from 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
lines 68 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , (david rind ) writes 
in article 
writes 
poster for being treated by a liscenced physician for a disease that did 
not exist. calling this physician a quack was reprehensible steve and i 
see that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. 

do you believe that any quacks exist how about quack diagnoses is 
being a licensed physician enough to guarantee that someone is not 
a quack , or is it just that even if a licensed physician is a quack , 
other people should n't say so can you give an example of a 
commonly diagnosed ailment that you think is a quack diagnosis , 
or have we gotten to the point in civilization where we no longer 
need to worry about unscrupulous healers taking advantage of 
people. 

david rind 

i do n't like the term quack being applied to a licensed physician david .  . 
questionable conduct is more appropriately called  ( unethical(in my opinion) .  . 
i 'll give you some examples .  . 

1. prescribing controlled substances to patients with no 
demonstrated  ( need(other than a drug addition ) for the medication .  . 

2. prescribing thyroid for patients with normal thyroid 
function for the purpose of quick weight loss. 

3. using to treat cancer patients when such treatment has 
been shown to be ineffective and  ( dangerous(cyanide release) by 
the nci .  . 

these are errors of commission that competently trained physicians should 
not but sometimes do. there are also errors of  ( omission(some of 
which result in malpractice  . i do n't think that using anti fungal 
agents to try to relieve discomfort in a patient who you suspect may be 
having a problem with  ( candida(or another fungal growth ) is an error of 
commission or omission .  . healers have had a long history of trying to 
relieve human suffering .  . some have stuck to standard , approved procedures , 
others have been willing to try any reasonable treatment if there is a 
chance that it will help the patient. the key has to be tied to the 
healer 's oath , i will do no harm . but you know david that very few 
treatments involve no risk to the patient. the job of the physician is a 
very difficult one when risk versus benefit has to be weighed .  . each 
physician deals with this risk benefit paradox a little differently. some 
are very conservative while others are more agressive .  . an agressive 
approach may be more costly to the patient and carry more risk but as long 
as the motive is improving the patient 's health and not an attempt to rake 
in lots of  ( money(through some of the schemes that have been uncovered in 
the medicare fraud cases) , i do n't see the need to label these healers as 
quacks or even unethical .  . 

what do i reserve the term quack for pseudo medical professionals .  . 
these people lurk on the fringes of the health care system waiting for the 
frustrated patient to fall into their lair .  . some of these individuals are 
really doing a pretty good job of providing alternative medicine. but 
many lack any formal training and are in the business simply to make a 
few fast bucks. while a patient can be reasonably assured of getting 
competent care when a liscenced physician is consulted , this alternative 
care area is really a buyer 's beware arena .  . if you are lucky , you may find 
someone who can help you. if you are unlucky , you can loose a lot of 
money and develop severe disease because of the inability of these pseudo 
medical professional to diagnose  ( disease(which is the of the 
 . 

i hope that this clears things up david .  . 

marty b. 

from  ( mary e. allison ) 
subject re is msg sensitivity superstition 
organization center for reliable and high performance computing , university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 192 
nntp posting host uicsl . csl . uiuc . edu . 

these are my last words on the subject 

from  ( walter f. lundby ) writes 


as a person who is very sensitive to msg and whose wife and kids are 
too , i want to know why the food industry wants to put msg in food ! ! ! 

some people think it enhances the flavor. i personally do n't think it 
helps the taste , it makes me sick , so i try to avoid it. 

from  ( steve dyer ) writes 

sez you. such an effect in humans has not been demonstrated in any 
controlled studies. infant mice and other models are useful as far 
as they go , but they 're not relevant to the matter at hand. which is 
not to say that i favor its use in things like baby food a patently 
ridiculous use of the additive .  . but we have no reason to believe 
that msg in the diet effects humans adversely .  . 

well , i know that msg effects me adversely maybe not permanently but 
at least temporarily enough that i like to try to avoid the stuff. 

from  ( kiran wagle ) writes 

if you do n't like additives , then for , 
get off the net and learn to cook from scratch .  . sheesh .  . 

excuse me ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

why ca n't people learn to cook from scratch on the net. i 've gotten 
lots of recipes off the net that do n't use additives .  . 

if you like additives then get off the net and go to your local 
supermarket , buy lots of packaged foods , and you get off the net ! ! 

is it to cover up the fact that the recipes are not very good 
or the food is poor quality 

yes , and you buy it. says something about your taste , eh 

i do n't ! ! 


and what happens when the companies forced to submit to your silly notions 
go out of business because nobody wants to buy their overpriced bad food 
 ( removing directly raises food costs by reducing shelf life . ) . 

hey i 'll pay my hard earned dollars to buy food that costs more 
but does not have  . i choose to speak with my 
in many ways. 

from  ( kiran wagle ) 

you have a good point. msg is commonly used in soups , in bottled 
sauces , in seasoning mixtures , and in the coating on barbecue potato 
chips. 

nacho cheese , for many frozen fried foods  ( like fish 
and chicken ) , etc. ad naseum .  . 

if msg is really the problem , we should call this barbecue potato 
chip syndrome or maybe diner syndrome .  . 

or the and other natural flavorings syndrome .  . it 's been a few years 
since i 've bought anything labelled with and other natural 
flavorings . 

from  ( kiran wagle ) 

the reaction came the time the msg was in the food 
that was the only difference 
same restaurant same ingredients ! ! ! 

how do you know this 

in order to demonstrate your claim , you would have had to supervise the 
preparation on both occasions .  . perhaps they used msg both times , and lied 
about it. perhaps once they used something that had begun to spoil , and 
produced some bizarre toxin that you 're allergic to. 

well , i had had similar reactions many times. that was when i really 
started watching carefully reaction to hey guess what 's in 
there reaction to 's season salt guess what 's in there 

i 'll give you a hint i 've had enough problems with many many many 
different products with msg that i figured out one thing. 

unless i plan on getting sick i wo n't eat the stuff without my 
 . and did i ever learn to read labels .  . 

please note that i am not saying you are making it up , i am just 
trying to point out that the situation is not always as simple as it 
might seem .  . 

which was why i started checking every time i got sick. and every 
time i got sick msg was somehow involved in one of the food products. 
and consider there were no other similar ingredients  ( to my knowledge) 
it might not please a medical researcher but it pleased my own 
personal physician enough for him to give me allergy medicine and most 
importantly it 's enough proof for me to avoid it  ( and enough proof 
that my incredibly fiance did n't when i literally threw 
out or gave away all the food products in his pantry that had msg 
and he always when there 's waste but it was a simple 
explanation i wo n't eat this stuff , i won t cook with this stuff , so 
i can either throw it out or give it away . ) . 

from  ( donna pattee ) 

my guess was that the spice mix on the fries contained msg , 

probably 's seasoning salt. i love the way that tastes .  . 

i'm not saying i never consume anything with msg .  . i 've noticed that i 
have a certain tolerance level like a (small) bag of bbq chips once 
a month or so it not a problem but that same bag of chips will 
bother me if i also had chicken yesterday and lunch at one of 
the chinese restaurants the day before. 

from  ( catherine l. kelley ) 


all that 's needed now is that final step , a double blind study done 
on humans. there is n't even an ethical question about possible 
harm , as this is a widely used and approved food additive .  . 

but some say that only 2 of the population has a problem with msg 
some say it 's more like 20 but let 's say that it 's 5 . how many 
people would have to be tested that would have a problem also i 
know i have a problem with it , and i would n't volunteer for a test. 
like thanks guys but i do n't want to get sick. also i'm sure that 
most people probably have varying degrees of sensitivities at 
different times. if i have a cold i'm much more susceptible to the 
reaction than when i'm healthy  ( as proven today when i'm stuffy but 
for some silly reason i still gave in and decided to have the bbq 
chips ) .  . 

from  ( kiran wagle ) 

because too many of you  ( generic rhetorical  you , ' not  you cathy' ) go 
around calling this chinese restaurant syndrome , thus suggesting to the 
people you complain to that you experience this only from chinese food. 
msg is prevalent in a lot more things than chinese food thats why i 
suggested calling this diner syndrome .  . 

cathy does n't i have n't saved all my postings but i never called it 
chinese restaurant syndrome and i never stated i got it only from 
chinese food. i just thought it would be easiest to conduct my 
personal test at a chinese take out place that i knew would hold  ( or 
not hold ) the msg .  . i ca n't call up whoever makes and ask them 
to make me one back of chips without msg .  . 

on the other hand , if one complains about potatoes from a mix , or 
restaurant spice mixes , i'm going to believe them , and if anyone says they 
got  ( msg sick ) after eating too many barbecue potato chips at a party , i'm 
really going to believe them. 

well , i believe i mentioned that in an earlier post 

let 's see you wrote this message at 

date 20 apr 1993 00 09 31 0500 

but on 

date 19 apr 1993 16 33 18 gmt 

i wrote 

has anyone had an msg reaction from something other than a 
chinese restaurant 

lots of times that 's why it was so hard for me to pin down. i 
would probably have been easier if i 'd only have the reaction in a 
certain type of restaurant but i 've had the reaction in chinese 
restaurants and greek restaurants and italian restaurants and steak 
places (i can tell you when a steak joint uses accent to 
their meat) .  . 

oh and just in case anyone thinks i'm prejudice against either 
chinese food or asian people i'm not going home to cook some chinese 
food for the guy i'm marrying next week. incidentally , his last name 
is wu .  . 

so stop it with the flame mail 


why does a woman work ten years to change a man 's habits and then 
complain that he 's not the man she married 


mary allison urbana , illinois 

from (steven d. litvintchouk ) 
subject re antihistamine for sleep aid 
in reply to 's message of thu , 29 apr 1993 05 20 44 gmt 
nntp posting host rigel . mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 31 


in article (paul houle ) writes 

anyway , i am looking for advice for the use of 
antihistamines as sleep aids , and if there are any dangers of such use 
 ( seems safe to me since they are used chronically for allergies by 
millions) .  . i do n't want to try , because bz addiction seems to be 
a serious threat , and from what i hear , bz sleep quality is not good , 
whereas antihistamine sleep quality seems to be better for me. i have 
tried some dietary tryptophan loading stuff , and that also seems to 
lower sleep quality , i seem to wake up around 4 00 or so and be in some 
kind of mental haze until 7 00 or 8 00 .  . also , i would be interested in 
any other advice for helping my problem.  ( although i 've already tried 
many of the non solutions ) 

antihistamines have been the active ingredient of otc sleep aids for 
decades .  . go to any drugstore and look at the packages of such sleep 
aids as , , etc. the active ingredient is 
diphenhydramine , the same antihistamine that 's in  . 




steven 
mitre corporation 
202 burlington road 
bedford , ma 01730 1420 

fone  ( 617)271 ) 
arpa 
uucp linus ! 

from (the hepburn ) 
subject re hearing aids  ( and others) 
organization national semiconductor corporation 
lines 50 

in article ,  ( rich haller ) writes 
i have a fairly severe high frequency hearing loss. a recent rough test 
showed a gently loss to 10 20db down at  . then it falls off 
a cliff to 70 down from on. this type of loss is difficult 
to fit. i am currently using some old siemens behind the ear aids which 
keep me roughly functional , but leave a lot to be desired .  . 

recently i had an opportunity to test the behind the ear aids for 
several weeks. these have four independent programs which are intended to 
be customized for different hearing situations and can be  . i 
found them to be a definite improvement over my current aids and was about 
to go ahead with them until another local outfit advertised a free trial of 
another programmable system called  . 

unfortunately i was only able to try the aids in their office for 
about 30 minutes and i could n't compare them  head to head  with the  . 
nevertheless , it did appear to me that they were superior and i was 
impressed by what i was able to read about the theory behind them which i 
will give in a separate posting. they also carry the aids and had one 
patient  ( presumably wealthy ) who decided to go ahead and get the 
even though he had purchased the only 6 months ago. 

the problem is that the aids are about twice as expensive as the 
and other programmable aids .  . i could take a trip to europe on the 
difference ! being a lover of bargains and hating to spend money , i am 
having a hard time persuading myself to go with the  . i would 
appreciate any opinions on this and other hearing aids and projections 
about when and if i might see improvements in technology that are n't quite 
so expensive. 



your hearing curve sounds a lot like mine  ( thanks , uncle sam ! ) .  . i 've been 
wearing miracle ear canal aids for about 5 months now and i find them to be 
acceptable .  . they are molded to the shape of your ear canal , and tuned to 
your hearing curve .  . they are comfortable to wear and almost invisible , if 
you 're worried about that  ( although if you 're currently wearing behind the 
ear models , that 's not an issue) .  . the cost i paid 1200 each for mine , 
through the miracle ear counter at sears .  . i 've heard that there is a 
substantial discount for senior citizens , but i have n't researched that , because 
i'm not a senior citizen , yet ! 

give them a try you might be pleasantly surprised ! 



alan hepburn a man does n't know what he knows 
national semiconductor until he knows what he does n't know. 
santa clara , ca 
thomas carlyle 

from 
subject a good place for back surgery 
keywords hospitals back surgery 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 19 



hello , 

just one quick question 
my father has had a back problem for a long time and doctors 
have diagnosed an operation is needed. since he lives down in 
mexico , he wants to know if there is a hospital anywhere in 
the united states particulary famous for this kind of surgery , 
kind of like houston has a reputation for excellent doctors 
in eye surgery. any additional info or pointers will be 
appreciated a whole lot ! ... 


thanks in advance. 

gary  . 
at t bell labs .  . 


organization arizona state university 
from 
subject re depression 
lines 9 

i do believe that depression can have a dietary component .  . 

depression can also have various chemical  ( environmental ) components .  . 
i noticed that i became depressed in various buildings , and at home 
when the air conditioning was on. subsequent testing revealed that 
i was allergic to , a mold commonly found in air conditioners .  . 
after i began taking , that problem disappeared .  . 

bruce l. 

from (brian manning delaney ) 
subject re diet for crohn 's  ( ibd ) 
keywords ibd crohn 's disease epa 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 31 

in article uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . ! (stephen holland ) writes 
in article , 
(brian manning delaney ) wrote 

one thing that i have n't seen in this thread is a discussion of the 
relation between ibd inflammation and the profile of ingested fatty 
acids (fas) .  . 
.... 

.... 
even write a letter to the editor it is a good point. by the way , 
the abbreviation epa is not in general use , so i do not know what 
fatty acid you are speaking about. 

sorry i mean acid .  . 

and to brian an u of c there is a physician named stephen 
there who is a recognized expert in the treatment of ibd .  . you might 
give him a call. 

, just yesterday i was  ( finally ) referred from the clinic 
to  . i'm seeing him on may 24. i 'll report what he says about 
this question. 

the treatment of ibd .  . if you call please say hello to him from me , 
i was looking at u of c for a position , and perhaps still am. 

will do. 

brian delaney 


from  ( melissa n. matusevich ) 
subject re  ( spelling ) 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 5 

it just received fda approval a few months ago. i have a 
prescription which i have n't had to use yet. i believe the 
company is developing an oral form. at this stage , one 
must inject the drug into one 's muscle .  . the doctor said that 
within 30 minutes , the migraine is gone for good ! 

from  ( zhong qi iao  ( daniel ) 
subject sleep the pulse of relaxation roaming while sleeping 
reply to 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 20 

i posted about a pulse of  ( relaxation ) electricity . i now think 
it more like a pulse of relaxation or comfort than a pulse of 
electricity .  . it is what you feel if you are overwhelmed by a feeling 
of comfort , such as seeing or thinking about something beautiful. 

another thing. when you sleep , you lie down facing up , with your 
palms aside of you and facing down on the surface of the bed. then you 
relax , and there start involuntary nerve firings inside your flesh .  . so , 
you feel a shiver below the surface of the skin (not heart  . 
then this shiver increases , and comes up to your head , and the roam you 
hear  .  ( note that you always hear a high pitch when you lie down 
in bed this is just the noise of your blood running in your ear . ) . this 
roam is different from the high pitch , but follows the shiver of your 
body. 

shiver is not the word. it may be called a mild vibration or quake .  . 
what is this shiver and roam can i use this to induce out of body 
experience 

daniel chung (mr . ) . , u.s.a. 

organization arizona state university 
from 
subject re opinions on allergy  ( hay fever ) shots 
lines 22 

in article , 
 ( eric ) says 

from now on it looks like 2 shots per week for 
6 months followed by 1 shot per month or so. each shot costs 
20. talking about soaring costs and the health care system , i would 
call that a racket .  . we are not talking about rare amazonian grasses 
here , but the garbage which grows behind the doctor 's office. 
apart from this issue , i was somewhat disappointed to find out 
that you have to keep getting the shots forever. is that right 

you might look for an allergy doctor in your area who uses sublingual 
drops instead of shots for treatment.  ( you are given a small bottle of 
3 drops are placed under the tongue for 5 minutes . ) . my 
allergy to grass was this way. throughout the treatment 
process i had to return to the doctor 's office every month for re testing 
and a new bottle of  . after the allergy was completely 
a bottle of maintenance lasts me about 4 months (the sublingual 
drops are then taken 3 times per week) , and costs 20. so the cost is 
less than shots and it is more convenient just to take the drops at home. 

bruce long 

from  ( jonathan h. lin ) 
subject factor 
keywords , renal regulation 
reply to  ( jonathan h. lin ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 



is by the in response to increases in fluid volume 
and acts to facilitate sodium and water excretion from the kidneys .  . 
can someone tell me the molecular mechanism by which this is done 

please email your response 

thanks 

po g mo thon 


from  ( picl account 25) 
subject re use of haldol and the elderly 
organization florida state university acns 
reply to 
lines 37 

i'm a nursing student , and i would like to respond to on haldol 
and the elderly .  . 
message id 
organization florida state university school of higher thought 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 

first , i'm sorry to hear that you have had to see your grandmother go 
through this. i know it has to have been tough. 

there are many things that can cause long term confusion in elderly 
adults. the change in environment can cause problems. anesthetic agents 
can cause confusion because the body cannot clear the medicines out of 
the body as easily. in addition , medications and interactions between 
medications can cause confusion. 

as far as whether or not haldol can have long lasting effects even after 
the drug has been discontinued , i do not know. i have not seen anything 
to that effect. however , i also had not been looking for that information. 
i can see what i can find .  .  .  . 

i can tell you that haldol is an drug , and , according to 
the drug handbook , it is especially useful for 
associated with senile (p .  . 400) .  . it also should not be 
discontinued abruptly .  . it did not say anything about long lasting 
effects. 

because so many things can cause confusion , it is hard for me to know 
what else was going on at the time if i had more history , i might be able 
to answer you better. if you want to send me e mail with more information , 
i would be happy to try to help you piece together what might have 
happened. 

elisa 





from 
subject depression 
lines 220 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

some of the md 's in this newsgroup have been riding my butt pretty good 
 ( maybe in some cases with good  . in this post on depression , i'm 
laying it all out. i 'll continue to post here because i think that i have 
some knowledge that could be useful. once you have read this post , you 
should know where i'm coming from when i post again in the future. 

in article ,  ( lida chaplynsky ) writes 

a family member of mine is suffering from a severe depression brought on 
by menopause as well as a mental break down. she is being treated with 
with some success but the treatments being provided through her 
psychiatrist are not satisfactory .  . someone suggested contacting a 
nutritionist to 
discuss alternative treatment. since she is sensitive to medication , i 
think this is a good suggestion but do n't know where to begin. if anyone 
can suggest a philly area nutritionist , or else some literature to read , 
i 'd appreciate it. 

, 
i can emphasize with your situation. both my wife and i suffered from 
bouts of depression .  . her 's was brought on by breast cancer and mine was a 
rebound stress reaction to her modified radical and 
chemotherapy .  . , i used my knowledge of nutrition to get her through 
her six months of  ( chemotherapy(with the approval of her  . when 
severe depression set in a few months after the stopped , i tried to 
use supplements to bring her out of it. i had cured her pms using 
supplements and i really thought that i knew enough about the role of diet 
in depression to take care of her depression as well. it did n't work and 
she was put on prozac by her oncologist .  . two winters  ( ago(three years after 
by wife 's breast cancer ) i got hit with severe  ( depression(pretty typical and 
one reason why many marriages break up after breast cancer or another 
 . i tried to take care of it for several months with 
supplementation .  . did n't work. my internist ended up putting me on prozac .  . 
i was going to give you a list of several studies that have been done using 
b6 , niacin , folate and b12 to cure depression .  . i'm not going to do that 
because all you would be doing is flying blind like i was. 

, i do believe that depression can have a dietary component .  . but the 
problem is that you need to know exactly what the problem is and then use 
an approach which will fix the problem. for chemotherapy , i knew exactly 
what drugs were going to be used and exactly what nutrients would be 
affected .  . same thing for pms .  . i was flying blind for both of these 
but the literature that i used to devise a treatment program was 
pretty good. depression is just too complicated. what you really need is 
a nutritional scan .  . this is not a diet analysis but an analysis of your 
bodies nutrient reserves .  . for every vitamin and  ( mineral(except vitamin c) , 
you have a reserve .  . the rda is not designed to give you enough of any 
nutrient to keep these reserves full , it is only designed to keep them from 
being emptied which would cause clinical pathology .  . stress will increase 
your need for many vitamins and minerals .  . this is when your reserves become 
very important. 

, without your permission , i'm going to use your post as a conduit to 
try to explain to the readers in this group and sci .  . med. where i'm coming 
from. i have taught a course on human nutrition in one of the osteopathic 
medical schools for ten years now. i 've written my own textbook because 
none was available. what i teach is not a rehash of biochemistry .  . i 
preach nutrient  ( reserves(yes my lectures in this course are referred to by 
my students as  . here is what i cover 

and carbohydrates 

proteins i proteins ii 

energy balance evaluation of nutritional 
status i , a clinical 
perspective 

evaluation of nutritional status ii , evaluation of nutritional 
a biochemical perspective status iii , homework 
assignment using the 
nutritionist iv diet and 
fitness analysis software 
program 

weight control food fads and facts 

age related change in nutrient requirements food additives , 
contaminants and cancer 

drug nutrient interactions mineral and water balance 

sodium , potassium and chloride calcium , magnesium and 


iron zinc and copper 

iodine and other trace minerals 

vitamin a vitamin e 

vitamins d and k vitamin c 

and niacin and pyridoxine 

and acids and b12 

other nutrient factors nutrition 

nutrition 

every three years i spend my entire summer reviewing the medical literature 
to find material that i can use in my nutrition textbook .  . i last did this 
in the summer of 1991. i read everything that i can find and then sit down 
and rewrite my lecture handouts which are bound in three separate books 
that have 217 , 237 and 122 pages. opposite each page of written  ( text(which 
i write myself) i 've pulled figures , tables and graphs from various 
copyrighted sources. since this material is only being used for 
educational purposes , i can get around the copyright laws (so far) .  . i can not 
send this material out to newsgroup  ( readers(as i 've been asked to do) .  . 

i am now in the process of trying to get a grant to setup a nutrition 
assessment lab. this is the last peice of the nutrition puzzle that i need 
to make my education program complete. this lab will let me measure the 
nutrient reserve for almost all the vitamins and minerals that are known to 
be required in humans. the mayo clinic already uses a similiar lab to 
design supplement programs for their cancer patients .  . cancer treatment 
centers of america , which is a private for profit organization with 
hospitals in illinois and  ( oklahoma(tulsa ) also operates a 
nutritional assessment clinical lab. i also believe that the 
clinic in california has a similiar lab setup. 

for physicians reading this post , i would suggest that you get the new 
clinical nutrition textbook that has just been  ( published(feb ) by mosby .  . i 
have been using manual of nutritional  ( therapeutics(a little brown 
series book) as a supplemental text for my course but is geared more 
to residency training. two m . d . 's have written this new clinical nutrition 
textbook and it is geared more towards medical student education and it 
does a good job of covering the lab tests that can be run to assess a 
patient 's nutritional status. let me quote a few sentences from the 
preface of this new text 

so called nutrition specialists were in reality , 
, or who just happened to profess some knowledge 
of nutrition as it related to their field of practice. 

unfortunately , about two thirds of the medical schools in the united 
states require no formal instruction in nutrition .  . 

but times and medical practice have changed. more than half of the 
leading causes of death in this country are nutrition related. 

... this monograph should accomplish the following two objectives (1) it 
should complement your medical training by emphasizing the relevance of 
nutrition to your medical practice and (2) it should your 
awareness of nutrition as a medical speciality that is vitally important 
for both disease prevention and the treatment of diseases of essentially 
every organ system. 

roland l. , md , 

, my advise to you is that you tell your family members to try to find 
a physician who has an understanding of the role that vitamins and minerals 
(yes even magnesium may play a role in depression ) play in depression and 
who could get a nutritional profile run. menopause is often a time when 
women suffer depression .  . there are a lot of hormonal changes that are 
occuring but they are not the same ones that occur during pms .  . a 
nutritionist may also be able to help. not too long ago a poster mentioned 
that his nutritionist had diagnosed a selenium deficiency based on a red 
cell  ( test(the specific test for the selenium 
 . most clinical labs will not run this test and i advised him to 
try to make sure that the lab that did the test was certified .  . there are 
also a lot of hair and nail analysis labs setup to do trace mineral 
analysis but these labs are not regulated .  . checks of these labs using 
certified standards , and also those doing water lead analysis , showed some 
pretty shoddy testing was going on. if you or anyone else finds someone 
who will run these speciality nutrition tests , make sure that they are 
using a lab that has been certified under  ( clia(the clinical laboratory 
improvement  . 

a diet analysis may be helpful since many nutrient reserves have been shown 
to correlate fairly well with the dietary intake as monitored by food logging 
and software  ( analysis(nutritionist iv and other software programs) .  . but 
there are still about half of the nutrients required by humans that do not 
show a very good correlation between apparent dietary intake and reserve status. 
until we have more nutritional assessment clinical labs in operation in the 
u.s. and physicians who have been trained how to use the nutritional 
profile that these labs provide to devise a treatment approach that uses 
diet changes and supplementation , anti depressants will probably continue 
to be the best approach to depression .  . 

martin , ph.d. 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and microbiology 
osu college of osteopathic medicine 

without discourse , there is no remembering , without remembering , there is 
no learning , without learning , there is only ignorance .  . 

































from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
lines 15 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

len howard wrote 

well , now , doc , i sure would not want to bet my life on those little 
critters not being able to get thru one layer of sweat soaked cotton 
on their way to do their programmed task. infrequent , yes , unlikely , 
yes , but impossible i learned a long time ago never to say never in 
medicine g len howard md , 

yes , i suppose a single layer of wet cotton would be feasible .  . after all , 
we certainly do not make condoms out of cotton ! 


kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from (michael covington ) 
subject re allergic reactions against laser printers 
nntp posting host ai . uga . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 8 

laser printers often emit ozone (which smells sort of like  . 
adequate ventilation is recommended. 


michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

from doyle  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re persistent vs chronic 
organization pittsburgh transplant institute 
lines 53 

in article (kenneth gilbert ) writes 
in article (david rind ) writes 
in article 
 ( horace enea ) writes 
can anyone out there tell me the difference between a persistent disease 
and a chronic one for example , persistent hepatitis vs chronic 
hepatitis .  . 

i do n't think there is a general distinction .  . rather , there are 
two classes of chronic hepatitis chronic active hepatitis and chronic 
persistent hepatitis .  . i ca n't think of any other disease where the 
term persistent is used with or in preference to chronic .  . 

much as these two terms chronic active and chronic persistent 
sound fuzzy , the actual distinction between the two conditions 
is often fairly fuzzy as well. 

i beg to differ .  . chronic active hepatitis implies that the disease 
remains active , and generally leads to liver failure. at the very 
minimum , the patient has persistently elevated liver enzymes  ( what some 
call ) .  . chronic persistant hepatitis simply means that 
the patient has in his her blood and can transmit the infection , but 
shows no evidence of progressive disease. if i had to choose , i 'd much 
rather have the persistant type. 


being a chronic carrier does not necessarily mean the patient has chronic 
persistent anything. persons who are chronic carriers may have no clinical , 
biochemical , or evidence of liver disease , or they may have chronic 
persistent hepatitis , chronic active hepatitis , cirrhosis , or 
 . 

most cases of chronic persistent hepatitis  ( cph ) are probably the result of 
a viral infection , although in a good number of cases the cause cannot be 
determined .  . the diagnosis of is made on the basis of liver biopsy .  . it 
consists of findings of portal inflammation , an intact limiting 
plate , and on occasion isolated foci of necrosis .  . but in contrast 
to chronic active hepatitis  ( cah ) there is no inflammation , 
bridging necrosis , or fibrosis .  . 

has , indeed , an excellent prognosis .  . if i had to choose between and 
there is no question i would also choose  . however , as david pointed 
out , the distinction between the two is not as neat as some of us would have 
it. the histology can sometimes be pretty equivocal , with biopsies showing 
areas compatible with both and  . maybe it is a sampling problem. maybe 
it is a continuum .  . i do n't know. 



howard doyle 
doyle 



from  ( daniel prince ) 
subject fibromyalgia , cfs and sleep levels 
lines 16 

i know that there is a relationship between fibromyalgia and deep 
sleep. i believe that there are five levels of sleep. i think 
that r.e.m. sleep is the third deepest level of sleep and that 
there are two deeper levels of sleep. if i am in error in any of 
this , please let me know. 

which level of sleep is thought to be deficient in people with 
fibromyalgia are there any known sleep disturbances associated 
with cfs what sleep disturbances  ( if any) are associated with 
clinical depression do antidepressants correct the sleep 
disturbances in these diseases are there any good books or 
medical journal articles about sleep disturbances and these 
diseases thank you in advance for all replies. 

... the more inconvenient it is to answer the phone , the more it rings .  . 
origin one world los angeles 310 372 0987 32b (1 102 129 . 0) . 

from  ( len howard ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
summary not really without sex , you see .  .  .  .  . 
keywords pregnency sex 
organization pegasus , honolulu 
lines 25 

in article (kenneth gilbert ) writes 
in article (stephen montgomery smith) writes 
when i was a school boy , my biology teacher told us of an incident 
in which a couple were very passionate without actually having 
sexual intercourse .  . somehow the girl became as sperm 
cells made their way to her through the clothes via  . 
was my biology teacher misinforming us , or do such incidents actually 
occur 

sounds to me like someone was pulling your leg. there is only one way for 
pregnancy to occur intercourse .  . these days however there is also 
artificial insemination and implantation techniques , but we 're speaking of 
natural acts here. it is possible for pregnancy to occur if semen is 
deposited just outside of the vagina (i . e .  . interruptus ) , but that 's 
about at far as you can get. through clothes no way. better go talk 
to your biology teacher. 
kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 

well , now , doc , i sure would not want to bet my life on those little 
critters not being able to get thru one layer of sweat soaked cotton 
on their way to do their programmed task. infrequent , yes , unlikely , 
yes , but impossible i learned a long time ago never to say never in 
medicine g len howard md , 



from meg  ( meg arnold ) 
subject toxin , type a 
organization sri international 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 128 . 18 . 35 . 50 . 

i am looking for statistics on the prevalence of disorders that are 
treatable with type a. these disorders include facial 
, syndrome , , of eyelid , 
aberrant regeneration of the facial nerve , facial paralysis , , 
, muscle , occupational (i . e .  . writers 
cramp , etc . ) . , , and temporal joint disease. 

i realize many of the disorders i listed  ( such as muscle ! ! ) are 
vaguely defined and may encompass a wide range of particular disorders .  . my 
apologies the list was provided to me as is. i have some numbers , but not 
reliable .  . 

any ideas on sources or , even , any actual figures  ( with source 
listed) 

many thanks , 

meg 


meg arnold , business intelligence center , sri international .  . 
333 avenue , menlo park , ca 94025 .  . 
phone (415) 859 internet meg 


from gabriel d. underwood gabe 
subject re pregnency without sex 
organization junior , math computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 11 

nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

i heard a great civil war story .  .  .  . a guy on the is shot 
in the groin , the bullet continues on it 's path , and lodges in the 
abdomen of a female spectator .  . lo and behold .  .  .  .  . 

as the legend goes , both parents survived , married , and raised the child. 


death. taxes .  . math. jazz .  . 
hall bathroom graffiti 
gabriel underwood 
gabe 

from  ( rich haller ) 
subject hearing aids  ( and others) 
organization university of oregon 
lines 31 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . uoregon . edu . 

i have a fairly severe high frequency hearing loss. a recent rough test 
showed a gently loss to 10 20db down at  . then it falls off 
a cliff to 70 down from on. this type of loss is difficult 
to fit. i am currently using some old siemens behind the ear aids which 
keep me roughly functional , but leave a lot to be desired .  . 

recently i had an opportunity to test the behind the ear aids for 
several weeks. these have four independent programs which are intended to 
be customized for different hearing situations and can be  . i 
found them to be a definite improvement over my current aids and was about 
to go ahead with them until another local outfit advertised a free trial of 
another programmable system called  . 

unfortunately i was only able to try the aids in their office for 
about 30 minutes and i could n't compare them  head to head  with the  . 
nevertheless , it did appear to me that they were superior and i was 
impressed by what i was able to read about the theory behind them which i 
will give in a separate posting. they also carry the aids and had one 
patient  ( presumably wealthy ) who decided to go ahead and get the 
even though he had purchased the only 6 months ago. 

the problem is that the aids are about twice as expensive as the 
and other programmable aids .  . i could take a trip to europe on the 
difference ! being a lover of bargains and hating to spend money , i am 
having a hard time persuading myself to go with the  . i would 
appreciate any opinions on this and other hearing aids and projections 
about when and if i might see improvements in technology that are n't quite 
so expensive. 

rich haller university of oregon , eugene , or , 
usa 

from (andrew mears ) 
subject sheep models in cardiology 
organization university of technology , sydney 
lines 18 
distribution world 
nntp posting host iris . bio . uts . edu . au . 
keywords sheep arrhythmias 


dear news readers , 

is there anyone using sheep models for cardiac research , specifically 
concerned with arrhythmias , pacing or i would like 
to hear from you. 

many thanks , 

andrew 
please email me 


andrew h 61 2 
crc for cardiac technology , uts w 61 2 
st , gore hill f 61 2 
n . s . w . email 


from george george 
subject re info and purification 
x id 
x fri , 30 apr 93 16 24 13 gmt 
nntp posting host 222 . 205 . 249 . 21 . 
organization motorola risc division 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d17 . 
lines 33 

in article mark robert thorson , 
writes 
were a health fad of the 19th century , which persists to this 
day. 
except for certain medical conditions , there is no reason to do this. 
certainly no normal person should do this. 

in article robert hartman , 
writes 
also , insofar as it does n't conform to the accepted medical presumption 
that it just does n't matter what you eat , and that we can think of the 
gi tract as a black box in which nothing ever goes wrong (except for 
maybe cancer and ulcers ) , the righteous will no doubt jump on that too. 

recently , i completed a 2 week juice fast  ( with 3 days of water ) and had 
two as part of it. my motivation was primarily spiritual , to 
de from all the crap i 've been putting in my body (not like thats 
enough to clean it all out but it did have an effect) .  . personaly , i 
did n't find it an uncomfortable experience (the colonic ) , lost about 
of beer belly (which has n't come back over the last month) , and 
feel great. one of the things that prompted me to get the was 
seeing my 90 year old grandmother chair ridden from colitis ( ) from 
years of indulgence .  . 

not everything that goes in comes out , and personaly i do n't mind giving 
my body a hand once in a while. 

just my experience , 

george 

i am my beliefs .  . 
(which almost certainly are not those of my employer ) 

from (e . a .  . story) 
subject re photography 
nntp posting host gw . isc . rit . edu . 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 16 

in article writes 
greg flame definitely intended here. bill was making fun of the misspelling .  . 
go look up the word krill .  . also , the correct spelling is kirlian .  . it 
involves taking photographs of corona discharges created by attaching the 
subject to a high voltage source , not of some aura .  . it works equally well 
with inanimate objects .  . 

true .  .  . but what about showing the missing part of a leaf is this 
corona discharge 




that is a dry turtle .  . that turtle is not moist ! 
ezra story , a student at rit , and 
, his  ( trusty ) mailing address. 

subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
from  ( pat churchill ) 
organization networks 
lines 17 

i am currently in the of a hay fever attack. so who certainly 
never reads usenet , let alone sci . med . , said quite spontaneously 
there are a lot of mushrooms and out on the lawn at the 
moment. sure that 's not your problem 

well , who knows or maybe it 's the bread i bake 

after reading learned , semi learned , possibly ignorant and downright 
ludicrous stuff in this thread , i am about ready to believe anything ) 

if the gets any worse , maybe i will cook those  .  .  . 



the floggings will continue until morale improves 
pat churchill , wellington new zealand 


from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re persistent vs chronic 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 29 

in article (david rind ) writes 
in article 
 ( horace enea ) writes 
can anyone out there tell me the difference between a persistent disease 
and a chronic one for example , persistent hepatitis vs chronic 
hepatitis .  . 

i do n't think there is a general distinction .  . rather , there are 
two classes of chronic hepatitis chronic active hepatitis and chronic 
persistent hepatitis .  . i ca n't think of any other disease where the 
term persistent is used with or in preference to chronic .  . 

much as these two terms chronic active and chronic persistent 
sound fuzzy , the actual distinction between the two conditions 
is often fairly fuzzy as well. 

i beg to differ .  . chronic active hepatitis implies that the disease 
remains active , and generally leads to liver failure. at the very 
minimum , the patient has persistently elevated liver enzymes  ( what some 
call ) .  . chronic persistant hepatitis simply means that 
the patient has in his her blood and can transmit the infection , but 
shows no evidence of progressive disease. if i had to choose , i 'd much 
rather have the persistant type. 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( jon noring ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization netcom online communications services  ( 408 241 9760 login guest ) 
lines 109 

in article  ( gordon rubenfeld ) writes 

marty , you 've also changed the terrain of the discussion from empiric 
itraconazole for undocumented chronic fungal sinusitis with systemic 
symptoms  ( noring syndrome) to the yoghurt and vitamin 
therapy of undocumented candida  ( elaine palmer syndrome) with 
systemic symptoms .  . there is significant difference between the cost and 
risk of these two empiric therapeutic trials .  . are we talking about real 
candida infections , the whole yeast connection hypothesis , the efficacy 
of routine bacterial in humans , or the ability of 
effective therapies  ( challenged by a negative trial ) to confirm 
an hypothesis  ( post hoc ergo propter  . we ca n't seem to 
focus in on a disease , a therapy , or a hypothesis under discussion. 

i'm lost ! 

point 1 

i'm beginning to see that part of the disagreements about the whole 
yeast issue is on differing perceptions and on differing meanings 
of words. medical doctors have a very specific and specialized jargon , 
necessary for precise communication within their field (which i'm fully 
cognizant of since i , too , speak when with my  . for the 
situation in sci . med . , many times the words or phrases used by doctors can 
have a different and more specific meaning than the same word used in the 
world at large , causing significant miscommunication .  . one example word , 
and very relevant to the yeast discussion , is the exact meaning of systemic . 
it is now obvious to me that the meaning of this word is very specific , much 
more so than its meaning to a non doctor. there is also the observation of 
this newsgroup that both doctors and non doctors come together on essentially 
equal terms , which , when combined with the jargon issue , can further fan 
the flames .  . this is probably the first time that practicing doctors get 
really beat up by non doctors for their views on medicine , which they 
otherwise do n't see much of in their practice except for the occasional 
difficult patient. 

point 2 

i understand the viewpoint among many practicing doctors that they will not 
prescribe any treatments therapies for their patients unless such treatments 
have been shown to be effective and the risks understood from well constructed 
clinical trials  ( usually double blind ) , or that such treatments therapies are 
part of an approved and funded clinical trial .  . to these doctors , to do any 
differently would , in this belief system , be unethical practice. and it 
follows that any therapy not on the accepted list is therefore a non 
therapy it does not even exist , nor does the underlying hypothesis or 
theory have any validity , even if it sounds very plausible by 
of what is currently known. anecdotal evidence has no value , either , from 
a treatment point of view. 

and by and large , as a scientist myself , i am glad that medical practice 
science takes such a rigorous approach to medical treatment. however , as 
also being a human being  ( last i checked) , and having been one of those people 
that has been significantly helped by a currently unaccepted treatment , where 
standard medicine was not able to help me , has caused me to sit back and 
wonder if holding such an extreme and rigid scientific viewpoint is in 
itself unethical from humanitarian considerations .  . after all , the underlying 
intent of the scientific approach to medicine is to protect the health of 
the patient by providing the best possible care for the patient , so the 
patient should come first when considering treatment. 

what we need is a slightly modified approach to treatment that satisfies both 
the scientific and the humanitarian viewpoints .  . in an earlier post i 
outlined a crazy idea for doing just that. the gist of it was to give any 
physician freedom and encouragement by the medical community to prescribe 
alternate , not yet proven therapies  ( maybe supported by anecdotal evidence) 
for patients who all avenues of accepted therapies have been exhausted 
 ( and not until then) .  . the patient would be fully informed that such 
therapies treatments are not supported by the proper clinical trials and that 
there are real potential risks with real possibilities of no benefit derived 
from them. 

this approach satisfies the need for scientific rigor .  . it also satisfies 
the humanitarian needs of the patient. and the reality is that many patients 
who have reached a dead end in the treatment of their symptoms using accepted 
medicine will go outside the orthodox medical community either to the 
doctors who are brave enough to prescribe such treatments at the risk of losing 
their license , or worse , to non doctors who have not had the proper medical 
training. this approach also recognizes this reality and keeps the control 
more within orthodox medicine , with the benefits that the information gleaned 
could help focus limited resources towards future clinical trials in the most 
productive way. everybody wins in this admittedly rose colored approach i'm 
sure there are real problems with this approach as well it is presented 
more as a strawman to stimulate discussion. 

hopefully what i write here may give the sci . med . doctors a better idea as to 
why i am open to alternative therapies , as well as why i have real 
difficulty  ( read apparent hostility ) with the of the 99.9 pure 
scientific approach to medicine. i believe the best approach to medical 
treatment is one where both the humanitarian aspects are balanced with and 
by the scientific aspects. anything else is just not good medicine , imho .  . 
just my  nf  leanings , i guess. ) 

comments 

jon noring 



charter member infj club. 

if you 're dying to know what infj means , be brave , e mail me , i 'll send info. 

jon noring 
international ip 192 . 100 . 81 . 100 . fred s gourmet chocolate 
1312 carlton place phone (510) 294 8153 chips world 's best ! 
livermore , ca 94550 v mail (510) 417 4101 

who are you read alt . psychology . personality . ! that 's where the action is. 

from 
subject re therapy 
lines 51 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , writes 
does anyone here know anything about therapy using my 
uncle has , and a doctor wants to try it on him. we are 
wondering if 

1. is there any evidence therapy is beneficial for his 
condition , or any condition 

2. what possible side effects are there. how can they be 

please respond via e mail to 

thanks , 


 ( edta(chelation therapy) has been used by some physicians to try to remove 
calcium from plaques in the arterial  ( system(not approved for such 
use) .  . there is also the possibility that lung tissue in patients with lung 
disease has become  ( calcified(chest x rays would show this) .  . there are side 
effects to the use of because it is not specific for  ( calcium(it also 
binds other  . i think that there have been some deaths when 
therapy has been used because of mineral imbalances that 
were not detected and corrected. in animal studies , the best way to remove 
calcium from plaques in rabbits was to supplement the rabbits with vitamin c 
and  ( magnesium(rabbits already synthesize their own vitamin c , the extra 
vitamin c was given in their diets to help the magnesium displace the calcium 
from the  . 

the process that occurs in both plaques and the lung probably 
can be prevented if magnesium is used in supplemental form. most 
with calcium deposits are found to be deficient in calcium .  . 

1. magnesium in heart disease a review 
am j clin nutr  ( 27(1 ) 59  . supplementation with 
magnesium will prevent of blood vessels .  . 

2. the importance of magnesium deficiency in cardiovascular 
disease am. heart j 94 649  . the need to measure the 
serum concentration in all patients with heat disease cannot be 
overemphasized .  . this is a review article. 

3. effect of dietary magnesium on development of 
in cholesterol fed rabbits 10 732  . 
magnesium supplementation greatly decreased the formation of 
plaques in rabbits feed a diet that had 1 by weight 
added to their normal food. 

since will also bind magnesium , i 've never really liked it 's use for 
the reversal of or now apparently in patients .  . 

marty b. 

from 
subject re how often do kids fall sick etc. 
lines 91 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , edu .  ( ashwin ram) writes 
our 20 month son has started falling sick quite often every since he 
started going to day care. he was at home for the first year and he did 
not fall sick even once. now it seems like he has some sort of cold or 
flu pretty much once a month. most of the time the cold leads to an ear 
infection as well , with the result that he ends up being on antibiotics 
3 weeks out of 4. i know kids in day care fall sick more often , but we 
are beginning to wonder how often more often really is , whether our 
son is more susceptible or has lower immunity than average .  .  .  . 
are there any studies that can help answer some of these questions 

when kids stayed in the home until or 1st grade , infection 
incidence was much lower because exposure was lower .  . some studies suggest 
that early exposure to various infectious diseases is probably beneficial 
because exposure as an adult carries much more risk of and 
 ( mortality(mumps , measles .  . etc . ) .  . 

how often do kids in their first , second and third years fall sick 
how often do they get colds , , ear infections is there any data on 
home care vs. day care 

daycare will always carry a higher exposure risk than home care. 

does being sick build immunity  ( leading to less illness later) , 
does it make kids weaker  ( leading to more illness later) , or does it 
not have any long term effect 

exposure to infectious organisms does build immunity .  . but many viruses 
and to the new strain requires another immune  ( response 
new  . in addition , levels tend to decline 
with time and re innoculation is needed to keep the levels high. 
chronic of the immune response can lead to 
but this is rare and very unlikely to occur in children. 

does taking antibiotics on a regular basis have any negative long 
term effects 

yes , chronic use of antibiotics can have an adverse effect on the good 
bacteria that are supposed to be present in and on the body. health effects 
of this depletion of the good bacteria is a very hotly debated topic in the 
medical community with most physicians seeming to discount any health effects 
of chronic antibiotic  ( use a view that i do not support) .  . 

how does one tell if a child is more susceptible to illness than 
normal , and what does one do about it 

chronic infection in an adult or a child needs to be worked  ( up in my 
opinion) .  . but most physicians feel that chronic infection in a child is 
normal because of both exposure and lack of prior immunity to many 
infectious diseases .  . i do not share this view and there are some 
physicians who also suspect that diet plays a big role in infection 
frequency and severity .  . exposure to an infectious agent does not have to 
result in a severe infection .  . a strong immune response can minimize the 
length of time needed to deal with the infection as well as the symptoms 
associated with the infection .  . 

is there any way to build immunity and resistance 

there are five major nutrients that are responsible for a good strong 
immune response to infectious agents .  . they are protein , vitamin c , 
vitamin a , iron and zinc .  . the american diet is not low in protein so this 
is rarely a problem. but vitamin a , vitamin c , iron and zinc are often low 
and this lack of an adequate  ( pool(nutrient reserve ) can impair the immune 
response. iron is know to be low in most  ( kids(as is vitamin a) .  . there are 
distinct biochemical tests that can be run to check the status of each of 
these nutrients in a patient who is having a problem with chronic severe 
infection .  . serum for iron status , dark adaptation for vitamin a 
status , red blood cell zinc for zinc status and for 
vitamin c status. i have attempted to work up posts on these five 
nutrients and their role in infection for this news group as well as the 
others that i participate in. i can e mail you what i 've worked up so far. 
but my best advice to you is to try to find a physician who recognizes the 
critical role that diet plays in the human immune response. you may also 
be able to get help from a nutritionist .  . anyone can call themselves a 
nutritionist so you have to be very carefull .  . you want to find  ( someone 
like myself) who has had some formal training and education in nutrition .  . 
many ph.d. programs in the u.s. now offer degrees in nutrition and that 's 
what you need to look for. some dieticians will also call themselves 
nutritionists but most dieticians have not had the biochemical training 
needed to run specialized nutritional assessment tests. they are very good 
for getting general dietary advice from however. 

any data , information or advice relating to this would be much 
appreciated. thanks a lot. 

 . 

martin , ph.d. 
graduate degree in biochemistry and nutrition from vpi 
and developer of a course on human nutrition for medical students 


from 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
lines 67 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , (david rind ) writes 
in article 
writes 
i do n't like the term quack being applied to a licensed physician david .  . 
questionable conduct is more appropriately called  ( unethical(in my opinion) .  . 

3. using to treat cancer patients when such treatment has 
been shown to be ineffective and  ( dangerous(cyanide release) by 
the nci .  . 

hmm .  . this is certainly among the things i would refer to as quack 
therapy and would tend to refer to any practitioner who prescribed 
laetrile  ( whether licensed or not) as a quack .  . there are unethical 
behaviors  ( such as ordering unneccessary tests to increase fees ) 
which i would not as , but prescribing known ineffective 
therapies seems to me to be one of the hallmarks of a quack .  . 

david rind 

one of the responsibilities of a licensed physician is to read the medical 
literature to keep up with changes in medical practice. all the clamor 
over resulted in the nci spending quite a bit of money on clinical 
trials which  ( proved(to me anyway) that was ineffective against 
cancer. a physician who continued to use it , when better , more effective , 
treatments are available , may deserve to be called a quack .  . anti fungals 
are in a different class. the big question seems to be is it reasonable to 
use them in patients with gi distress or sinus problems that could be due 
to candida blooms following the use of broad spectrum antibiotics 
, through e mail , has assured me that most physicians recognize 
the chance of candida blooms occuring after broad spectrum antibiotic use 
and they therefore their patients with good bacteria to 
restore competetion for candida in the body. i do not believe that this is 
yet a standard part of medical practice. he deals with critical care 
patients where fungal  ( infection(systemic ) is a real problem and just 
because he tries to keep good bacteria in his patients does not mean that 
all physicians do this. i think that is more likely to be 
found in the sinus mucus membranes than is candida .  . women have been known 
for a very long time to suffer from candida blooms in the vagina and a 
women is lucky to find a physician who is willing to treat the cause and 
not give give her advise to use the otc anti fungal creams .  . since candida 
primarily in the ano rectal area , gi symptoms should be more common 
than vaginal problems after broad spectrum antibiotic use. 

the problem we have here david is proof that gi discomfort can be caused by 
a candida bloom .  . the arguement is that without proof , no action is 
 . 

medicine has not , and never will be , practiced this way. there 
has always been the use of conventional wisdom .  . a very good example is 
kidney stones .  . conventional  ( wisdom(because clinical trails have not been 
done to come up with an effective prevention ) , was that the 
intake of calcium and was the best way to prevent kidney stones 
from forming .  . clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts to 
breakdown the stone once it formed .  . through the recent new england j of 
medicine article , we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong , 
increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than is 
restricting calcium intake .  . 

the conventional wisdom in animal husbandry has been that animals need to 
be with good bacteria after coming off antibiotic therapy. 
if it makes sense for livestock , why does n't it make sense for humans 
david we are not talking about a dangerous  ( treatment(unless you consider 
yogurt dangerous) .  . if this were a standard part of medical practice , as 
gordon r. says it is , then the incidence of gi distress and vaginal yeast 
infections should decline .  . 

marty b. 

from  ( jamie lara bronstein ) 
subject re bacteria invasion and swimming pools 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 12 

i have been struck down this past week by a stomach bug and fever 
which went away quickly when treated with an antibiotic .  . the 
pharmacist told me the antibiotic is effective against a wide 
variety of gram negative bacteria .  . i was wondering where i 
might have acquired such a bacteria .  . could they hang out in swimming 
pool water , or would the chlorine kill them 

feeling better , i am 

j. 



from 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
lines 118 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article ,  ( gordon rubenfeld ) writes 
writes 

to candida blooms following the use of broad spectrum antibiotics 
, through e mail , has assured me that most physicians recognize 
the chance of candida blooms occuring after broad spectrum antibiotic use 
and they therefore their patients with good bacteria to 
restore competetion for candida in the body. i do not believe that this is 
yet a standard part of medical practice. 

nor is it mine. what i tried to explain to marty was that it is clearly 
understood that antibiotic exposure is a risk factor for fungal infections 
which is not the same as saying bacteria prevent fungal infections .  . 
marty made this sound like a secret known only to and 
 . anyone who has treated a urinary tract infection 
this. at some centers pre op liver transplant patients receive bowel 
directed at retaining good anaerobic flora in an attempt 
to prevent fungal colonization in this soon to be high risk group. i also 
use lactobacillus to treat nutrition associated diarrhea  ( that may 
be in part due to alterations in gut  . however , it is not part of 
my routine practice to patients with good bacteria after 
antibiotics .  . i have seen no data on this practice preventing or treating 
fungal infections in at risk patients .  . whether or not it is a logical 
extension from the available observations i 'll leave to those of you who 
base strong opinions and argue over such speculations in the absence of 
clinical trials .  . 
one place such therapy has been described is in treating particularly 
cases of c. colitis (not a fungal infection) .  . there 
are case reports of using stool (ie someone elses ) to 
the patients flora .  . do n't try this at home. 

not give give her advise to use the otc anti fungal creams .  . since candida 
primarily in the ano rectal area , gi symptoms should be more common 
than vaginal problems after broad spectrum antibiotic use. 

except that it is n't .  . at least apparent disease. 

medicine has not , and never will be , practiced this way. there 
has always been the use of conventional wisdom .  . a very good example is 
kidney stones .  . conventional  ( wisdom(because clinical trails have not been 
done to come up with an effective prevention ) , was that the 
intake of calcium and was the best way to prevent kidney stones 
from forming .  . clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts to 
breakdown the stone once it formed .  . through the recent new england j of 
medicine article , we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong , 
increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than is 
restricting calcium intake .  . 

seems like this is an excellent argument for ignoring anecdotal 
conventional wisdom (a euphemism for no data) and doing a good clinical 
trial , like 

au w e. wade j s. lee j y. dockery b k. j d. 
ti a , double blind trial of nystatin therapy for the 
candidiasis syndrome see comments 
so n engl j med. 1990 dec 20.  . p 1717 23. 
psychological tests. results. the three active treatment 
and the all placebo regimen 
significantly reduced both vaginal and systemic symptoms (p less than 
0 . , but nystatin did not reduce the systemic symptoms 
significantly more than placebo .  . . . . 
conclusions .  . in women with presumed candidiasis 
syndrome , nystatin does not reduce systemic or 
psychological symptoms significantly more than placebo .  . consequently , 
the empirical recommendation of long term nystatin therapy for such 
women appears to be unwarranted .  . 

does this trial address every issue raised here , no. jon noring was not 
surprised at this negative trial since they did n't use sporanox  ( despite 
crook 's recommendation for  . maybe they did n't avoid those 
carbohydrates . . . 

the conventional wisdom in animal husbandry has been that animals need to 
be with good bacteria after coming off antibiotic therapy. 
if it makes sense for livestock , why does n't it make sense for humans 
david we are not talking about a dangerous  ( treatment(unless you consider 
yogurt dangerous) .  . if this were a standard part of medical practice , as 
gordon r. says it is , then the incidence of gi distress and vaginal yeast 
infections should decline .  . 

marty , you 've also changed the terrain of the discussion from empiric 
itraconazole for undocumented chronic fungal sinusitis with systemic 
symptoms  ( noring syndrome) to the yoghurt and vitamin 
therapy of undocumented candida  ( elaine palmer syndrome) with 
systemic symptoms .  . there is significant difference between the cost and 
risk of these two empiric therapeutic trials .  . are we talking about real 
candida infections , the whole yeast connection hypothesis , the efficacy 
of routine bacterial in humans , or the ability of 
effective therapies  ( challenged by a negative trial ) to confirm 
an hypothesis  ( post hoc ergo propter  . we ca n't seem to 
focus in on a disease , a therapy , or a hypothesis under discussion. 

i'm lost ! 

candida can do that to you. ) gordon , i think that the best clinical 
trial for candida blooms would involve giving women with chronic vaginal 
candida blooms l. acidophilus orally and see it it can decrease the 
frequency and extent of candida blooms in the vagina since most of the 
candida seems to be migrating in from the anal region and l. acidophilus 
should be able keep the candida in check if it can make it through the 
intestinal tract and in the anus where it will have access to 
 ( oxygen(just like it does in the vagina) .  . as much stuff as there is in the 
lay press about l. acidophilus and vaginal yeast infections , i'm really 
amazed that someone has not done a clinical trial yet to check it out. 


the calcium and kidney stone story is not a good reason to throw all 
conventional wisdom out the window. where would medicine be if 
conventional wisdom had not been used to develop many of the standard 
medical practices that could not be confirmed through clinical trials 
the clinical trial is a very new arrival on the medical  ( scene(and a very 
important one) .  . the lack of proof that with good bacteria 
after antibiotic use is important to the health of a patient is no reason 
to dismiss it out of hand , especially if can be done 
and  ( safely(like it is in animal  . 

marty b. 


from vu . uiuc . edu . () 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 49 

in article (mike g . ) . writes 
need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 

in article gunnar , 
writes 
i need information on the medical  ( including emotional ) pros and 
cons of circumcision (at birth) .  . i am especially interested in 
references to studies that indicate disadvantages or refute studies 
that indicate advantages .  . a friend who is a medical student is 
writing a survey paper , and apparently the studies she has run into 
are all for circumcision , the main argument being a lower risk of 
cancer. 

please email responses as i am not a frequent reader of either group. 
i will summarize to the net. 

i'm very surprised that medical schools still push routine circumcision 
of newborn males on the population .  . since your friend is not a man , she 


money probably has a lot to do with keeping the practice of routine 
circumcision alive .  .  .  . it 's another to charge a few hundred 
extra bucks for a completely unnecessary procedure , the rationale for 
which until recently has been accepted without question by most 
parents of newborns .  . 

one could also imagine that complications arising from circumcision 
 ( infections , sloppy jobs , etc) are far more common than the remote chance 
of cancer it is purported to prevent .  . 


ca n't imagine what it 's like to have a penis , much less a foreskin .  . i 
guess if american medicine did an artistic job of circumcising every 
male , then the visual result would be somewhat more natural in 
appearance .  .  .  . 

the cancer thing has been completely  .  . she . must be 
going to school on a south pacific island. tell her to check the journal 
or urology for circumcision articles. i remember at least 1 on an old 
jewish man  ( cut at birth) who developed cancer .  .  .  . i . mean , if the 
cancer risk was that great , the europe who have been circumcising like 
crazy , too. teaching a boy how to keep his clean is the issue a 
little proper goes a long way americans are just too hung up on 
the penis to consider cleaning it that 's just way too much like 
 . so you have surgical intervention that is basically 
unnecessary .  . 

peter 
university of illinois at urbana champaign 

from (david ozonoff ) 
subject re food related seizures 
lines 11 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

michael covington wrote 

how about contaminants on the corn , e.g. aflatoxin 

little on commercial cereal products and certainly would n't 
cause seizures .  . 


david ozonoff , md , mph boston university school of public health 
itvax1 . bu . edu . 80 east concord st. , 
(617) 638 4620 boston , ma 02118 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re antihistamine for sleep aid 
organization s.p. dyer computer consulting , cambridge ma 

in article (paul houle ) writes 
anyway , i am looking for advice for the use of 
antihistamines as sleep aids , and if there are any dangers of such use 
 ( seems safe to me since they are used chronically for allergies by 
millions) .  . i do n't want to try , because bz addiction seems to be 
a serious threat , and from what i hear , bz sleep quality is not good , 
whereas antihistamine sleep quality seems to be better for me. i have 
tried some dietary tryptophan loading stuff , and that also seems to 
lower sleep quality , i seem to wake up around 4 00 or so and be in some 
kind of mental haze until 7 00 or 8 00 .  . also , i would be interested in 
any other advice for helping my problem.  ( although i 've already tried 
many of the non solutions ) 

well , i think you might want to visit a doctor who is familiar with 
sleep disturbances , because antihistamines only help induce sleep when 
they 're used intermittently they lose their sedative effect if they 're 
used on a nightly basis. their effects  ( drying of secretions , 
relaxing effects on smooth muscle ) can be problematic in some people , such as 
those with glaucoma or prostate enlargement .  . 

antihistamines like diphenhydramine  ( benadryl ) or  ( unisom ) 
are potent which are useful occasionally .  . 
 ( chlor trimeton ) is said to be less sedative , but seems to work 
well in some people. both and have long 
half lives compared to diphenhydramine , and so may produce a residual 
hangover or feeling the next morning. 


steve dyer 
major . spdcc . com . aka ima , harvard , , linus , m2c ! spdcc ! dyer 

from (john angelo gnassi ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization massachusetts general hospital lab of computer science 
lines 54 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in an article jon noring writes 

in article (david rind ) writes 
do you believe that any quacks exist how about quack diagnoses is 

true focus of the medical profession .  . the ama and the boards should focus 
on these quacks instead of devoting unbelievable energy on  search and 
destroy missions  to pull the licenses of those doctors who are trying non 
traditional or not fully accepted treatments for their desperate patients 
that traditional accepted medicine cannot help. 

if i prescribe itraconazole for a patient 's sinusitis neither the ama , 
fda , state licensing board , nor will be knocking on my door to ask 
why. this is a specious argument. 

on their backs and pee pee on themselves in obedience .  . what do they teach 
you in medical school how to throw your authority around 

among other things , how to evaluate new theories and treatments .  . 

let me put it another way to make my point clear quack is a nebulous word 
lacking in any precision .  . its sole use is to obfuscate the issues at hand. 

funny , i thought it meant one who misrepresents his 
ability and experience in the diagnosis and treatment of disease or 
the effects to be achieved by the treatment he offers  ( dorland 's 
 . certainly more precision than conveyed by chronic yeast . 

the indiscriminate use of this word is a sure sign of incompetency and coming 
from any medical doctor  ( or wanna be) , where competency is expected , is real 
scary. 

the inability to discriminate between fraudulent or erroneous 
representations is far more frightening .  . it is fraud to promote a 
treatment where the evidence for it is either lacking or against it 
and the knows so , or error if the honest practitioner 
does n't know so. failure to speak out against either bespeaks 
incompetency .  . 

(p . s .  . , may i suggest seriously that if the doctors and wanna be doctors on 
the net who refuse to have an open mind on alternative treatments and 
theories , such as the yeast theory , should create your own moderated group. 

may i reply seriously that if the practitioners and proponents of 
non scientific medicine have left their minds so open that the parts 
of their brains that do critical evaluation have fallen out , they should 
learn to edit their newsgroup headers to conform to the existing 
hierarchy and divisions .  . 


john angelo lab of computer science 
massachusetts general hospital 
eternal student boston , massachusetts , usa 
the earth be , connected by a network walt whitman 

from 
subject pms can it be prevented by a diet change 
lines 274 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

this question came up in sci .  . med. nutrition and i'm posting my answer 
here. only 22 medical schools in the u.s. teach courses on human 
nutrition .  . we have already seen what a lack of nutrition education can do 
when candida and kidney stones present themselves to the medical community. 
i think that the best example of where u.s. medicine is really missing the 
mark when it comes to a knowledge of nutrition is pms .  . so many  ( women(and 
their husbands ) suffer from this disorder that it is really criminal that 
most physicians in the u.s. are not taught that pms is primarily caused by 
diet and diet changes can prevent it from ever  . before shooting 
your flames , read the entire article and then decide if flaming is 
justified .  . 

from a poster in sci .  . medi .  . nutrition 
in a psychological anthropology course i am taking , we got 
sidetracked onto a short conversation about pms .  . some rumors shared 
by several of the students included ideas that vitamin levels , sugar 
intake , and caffeine intake might affect pms symptoms .  . 
is there any data on this , or is it just so much hooey 

many thanks , 

michael , i 've wanted to reply to this post ever since i saw it but i got 
side tracked with candida .  . pms is a lot like candida blooms , most 
physicians do n't recognize it as a specific disease entity .  . here is 
everything that you would ever want to know about pms .  . 

premenstrual syndrome has been divided into four specific subgroups 

pmt  ( a(anxiety ) pmt  ( d(depression ) 
anxiety depression 
forgetfulness 
insomnia confusion 
depression lethargy 

pmt  ( c(craving ) pmt  ( h(hyperhydration ) 
craving for sweets weight gain 
increased appetite breast congestion and tenderness 
sugar ingestion causes abdominal bloating and tenderness 
1. headache of the face and extremities 
2. palpitations 
3. fatigue or fainting 

pmt a is characterized by elevated blood estrogen levels and low 
levels during the phase of a women 's cycle. 

pmt c is caused by the ingestion of large amounts of refined simple 
carbohydrates .  . during the phase of a women 's cycle , there is 
increased glucose tolerance with a flat glucose curve after oral glucose 
challenge. the metabolic findings believed to be responsible for pmt c are 
a low magnesium and a low e1 .  . this condition of hypoglycemia 
is not unique to pms but there are a number of different causes of 
hypoglycemia , magnesium and seem to be specific to pms hypoglycemia .  . 
a. am. j. psychiatry  ( 147(4 ) 477  . 
unrefined complex carbohydrate should be substituted for sugar , magnesium 
supplementation and alpha acid  ( supplementation(increased to 5 6 of 
the total calories) using oil or evening oil as sources 
of alpha acid .  . 

pmt d is characterized by elevated levels during the 
phase of a women 's cycle. another cause of pmt d has been found to be lead 
 ( toxicity(in women without elevated levels during the 
phase) .  . effect of metal ions on the binding of to human 
endometrial  .  . 28 312  . 

pmt h is associated with water and salt retention along with an elevated 
serum level. salt restriction , b6 , magnesium and vitamin e 
for breast tenderness have all been effective in treating pmt h 

this general discussion of the pms syndromes came form 

a. management of the premenstrual tension rational for 
a nutritional approach . 1986 , a year in nutritional medicine. 
j. , ed. keats , publishing , 1986 .  . 

b. nutritional factors in the of premenstrual tension 
syndromes , j.  . med . 446  . 

c. premenstrual tension , prob.  .  .  ( 3(12 ) 1  ( 39(1980 ) 

treatment has traditionally involved administration if you can 
find a doctor who will treat you for  ( pms(just about as hard as finding one 
that will treat you for candida  . while will work , 
supplementation with vitamins and minerals works even better. there really 
has been an awful lot of research done on  ( pms(much more than candida 
 . many of these studies have been what are called experimental 
controlled  ( studies(the type of rigorous clinical studies that doctors like to 
see done) .  . 

here are a few of these studies 

carbohydrate experimental controlled study , effect of a low fat , 
high carbohydrate diet on symptoms of cyclical lancet 
2 128  . 21 pts with severe persistent cyclical 
of at least 5 years duration were randomly selected to receive 
specific training to reduce dietary fat to 15 of total calories 
and increase complex carbohydrate ingestion or given general dietary 
advise with no training. after 6 months , there was a significant 
reduction in the severity of the breast swelling and tenderness in 
the trained group as reported by self reported symptoms as well as 
physical exams which the degree of breast swelling , 
tenderness and  . 

vitamin a experimental controlled study , the use of vitamin a in 
premenstrual tension  . scand .  . 39 586  . 
218 pts with severe recurring pms received 200 , 000 to 300 , 
vitamin a daily or a placebo .  . serum levels were monitored 
and high dose supplementation was discontinued when evidence of 
toxicity  ( occured(serum above  . the intent of the 
study was to load the liver up with vitamin a and get a normal pool 
 ( size(500 , to 1 , 000 , 000iu ) and then see if this 
normal vitamin a pool could prevent pms .  . 48 getting the high dose 
vitamin a had complete remission of the symptoms of pms .  . only 10 
getting the placebo reported getting complete relief of pms  . 
10 of the vitamin a treated group reported no improvement in pms 
symptoms .  . 

experimental controlled study , premenstrual tension treated with 
vitamin a j. clinical endocrinology 10  . 30 pts 
received 200 , of vitamin a daily starting on day 15 of their 
cycle with supplementation continuing until the onset of pms symptoms .  . 
after 2 6 months , all 30 pts reported a significant improvement in 
pms symptoms .  . vitamin a supplementation was stopped once evidence of 
toxicity was demonstrated and all 30 pts were followed for one year 
after high dose vitamin a supplementation was stopped .  . pms symptoms 
did not in any of these 30 pts for upto one year after the 
vitamin a supplementation was stopped .  . 

most americans do not have a normal store of vitamin a in their liver .  . 
these studies and several others were designed to see if getting a normal 
store of vitamin a into the liver could eliminate pms .  . of all the vitamins 
given for  ( pms(vitamin a , b6 , and vitamin e) , vitamin a has shown the best 
single effect. this is probably because vitamin a is involved in steroid 
 ( estrogen progesterone ) metabolism in the liver .  . getting your liver full 
of vitamin a seems to be one of the best things that you can do to prevent 
the symptoms of pms .  . but vitamin a is toxic and you do n't want to be trying 
to do this without being seen by a physician who can monitor you for vitamin 
a toxicity .  . 

vitamin b6 experimental double blind study , pyridoxine 
 ( vitamin b6) and the premenstrual syndrome a crossover 
trial j.r. coll. gen.  . 39 364  . 32 women aged 18 49 
with moderate to severe pms randomly received 50mg b6 daily or placebo .  . 
after 3 months the groups were switched and followed for another 
3 months. b6 had a significant effect on the emotional aspects of 
 ( pms(depression , and  . other symptoms of pms 
were not affected by b6 supplementation .  . 

experimental double blind study , the of vitamin b6 
supplementation on premenstrual  . 
 ( 70(2 ) 145  . 55 pts with moderate to severe pms received 
150mg b6 daily or placebo for 2 months. analysis of convergence 
showed that b6 significantly improved premenstrual symptoms related 
to the nervous  ( system(dizziness and vomiting ) as well as 
behavior  ( changes(poor mental performance , decreased social interaction ) 
anxiety , depression and water retention were not improved by b6 
supplementation .  . 

vitamin b6 is below the rda for both american men and women. birth control 
pills and over 40 different drugs increase the b6 requirement in man. 
women on birth control pills should be supplemented with 10 15 mg of b6 per 
day. the dose should be increased if symptoms of pms appear .  . dr. david r. 
who heads the biological psychiatry branch of nimh was quoted in 
clin .  . psychiatry news , december , 1987 as stating that b6 should be 
considered the first line drug for  ( pms(over progesterone ) and if the 
patient does not respond , then other treatments should be tried. vitamin 
b6 can be  ( toxic(nerve damage) if consumed in doses of 500mg or more each 
day. 


vitamin e experimental double blind study , efficacy of alpha 
in the treatment of premenstrual syndrome j.  . 
med.  ( 32(6 ) 400  . 35 pts received vitamin e daily for 3 
cycles or a placebo .  . vitamin e treated pts had 33 who reported a 
significant reduction in physical  ( symptoms(weight gain and breast 
tenderness ) while the placebo group had 14 who reported a significant 
reduction in physical symptoms .  . the vitamin e group reported that 38 
had a significant reduction in anxiety versus 12 for the placebo 
group. for depression , the vitamin e group had 27 with a significant 
decrease in depression compared with 8 for the placebo group. 

experimental double blind study , the effect of alpha on 
premenstrual a double blind study j. am. coll. nutr .  . 
 ( 2(2 ) 115  . with benign breast disease and pmt randomly 
received vitamin e at , , or daily or placebo .  . after 
2 months of supplementation , of vitamin e or higher significantly 
improved pmt a and pmt c. the dose was needed to significantly 
improve pmt d. no dose of vitamin e significantly improved pmt h 
 ( other studies have shown that a higher vitamin e doses will relieve 
pmt h  . 

magnesium experimental double blind study , magnesium prophylaxis 
of menstrual migraine effects on magnesium headache 
31 298  . 20 pts with headache received 360 mg 
daily of magnesium as magnesium acid or a 
placebo .  . treatment was started on the 15th day of the cycle and 
continued until menstruation .  . after 2 months , the pain total index 
was significantly lower in the magnesium group. magnesium treatment 
was also with a significant reduction in the menstrual 
distress questionnaire scores .  . magnesium levels in 
lymphocytes and were significantly lower 
in this group of 20 pts compared to control women who did not suffer 
from pms .  . after treatment , magnesium levels in these cells was raised 
into the normal range. 

experimental double blind study , oral magnesium successfully 
relieves premenstrual mood changes  .  ( 78(2 ) 177  . 
aged 24 39 randomly received either magnesium acid 
of mg per day or a placebo from the 15th day of the cycle to the 
onset of the menstrual flow. after 2 cycles , both groups received 
magnesium .  . the menstrual distress questionnaire score of the cluster 
pain was significantly reduced during the second  ( cycle(month ) for the 
magnesium treatment group as well as the placebo group once they were 
switched to magnesium supplementation .  . in addition , the total score on 
the menstrual distress questionnaire was significantly decreased by 
magnesium supplementation .  . the authors suggest that magnesium 
should become a routine treatment for the mood changes 
that occur during pms .  . 

there are numerous observational studies that have been published in the 
medical literature which also suggest that pms is primarily a disorder 
that arises out of a hormone imbalance that is dietary in nature. but 
since observational studies are considered by most physicians in sci .  . med. 
to be anecdotal in nature , i have not bothered to cite them. there are 
also over a half dozen good experimental studies that have been done on 
and mineral supplementation to prevent pms .  . i 've chosen the 
best specific studies on individual vitamins and minerals to try to point out 
that pms is primarily a nutritional disorder .  . but doctors do n't recognize 
nutritional disorders unless they can see clinical  ( pathology(beri , 
, , etc . ) .  . pms is probably the best reason why every doctor 
being trained in the u.s. should get a good course on human nutrition .  . pms 
is really only the tip if the iceberg when it comes to nutritional 
disorders .  . it 's time that medicine woke up and the roses .  . 

here 's some studies which show the importance in mineral 
supplementation and or diet change in preventing pms .  . 

experimental study , effect of a nutritional programme on 
premenstrual syndrome a retrospective analysis , complement .  . med. 
res . 8  . were given dietary instructions and 
supplemented with  ( optivite(r ) plus additional vitamin c , vitamin e , 
magnesium , zinc and oil. the dietary instructions were to 
take the supplements and switch to a low fat , complex carbohydrate 
diet. on a retrospective analysis , 96 . 5 . of the reported an 
improvement in their pms symptoms with 30 of the sample stating that 
they no longer suffered from pms .  . 


experimental double blind study , role of nutrition in managing 
premenstrual tension syndromes , j  . med.  ( 32(6 ) 405  . 
a low fat , high complex carbohydrate diet along with 
supplementation significantly decreased pms scores compared with diet 
change and placebo .  . after 6 months on the experimental program , the 
vitamin mineral group had significantly decreased 
estradiol and increased in serum during the 
phase of their cycle. 

experimental double blind study , clinical and biochemical effects 
of nutritional supplementation on the premenstrual syndrome , j. 
 . med.  ( 32(6 ) 435  . randomly given  ( optivite(12 
tablets per day) or a placebo .  . the treated groups showed a 
significant decrease in pms symptoms compared to the placebo .  . another 
group of got  ( optivite(4 tablets per day) or placebo .  . for this 
second group of patients , no significant effect of supplementation on 
pms symptoms was observed .  . 

martin , ph.d. 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and microbiology 
osu college of osteopathic medicine 
1111 w. 17th st. 
tulsa , ok 74107 

without discourse , there is no remembering , without remembering , there is 
no learning , without learning , there is only ignorance 

from 
subject re allergic reactions against laser printers 
organization university of northern iowa 
lines 10 

in article muenchen . de . , garching . mpg . de .  ( reinhard drube ) writes 
does anyone know about allergic reactions caused by the developer toner 
of laser printers what chemical stuff is involved 

mainly carbon dust with iron in a plastic binder that is melted on to the 
paper. same stuff as dry paper  . 

allergies have n't heard of any , but anything 's possible with allergies ) 

kay biology dept uni 

from (michael covington ) 
subject re urine analysis 
nntp posting host aisun3 . ai . uga . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 16 

in article randy writes 

someone please help me. i am searching to find out  ( as many others may ) 
an absolute  cure  to removing all detectable traces of marijuana from 
a persons body. is there a chemical or natural substance that can be 
ingested or added to urine to make it undetectable in urine analysis. 
if so where can these substances be found. 

you could do what i do never go near the stuff ! ) 



michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

from uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . ! (stephen holland ) 
subject re ring pvc 's 
organization gastroenterology univ. of alabama 
lines 48 

in article , 
wrote 

summarized 
a person with a 's ring (a membrane partially blocking the 
espphagus ) has  ( difficulty swallowing ) and the 
doctor proposes dilation by or  ( using an inflatable 
balloon to the ring or a rubber hose to push through it. 

question is balloon dilation safe , common , and indicated it sounds 
pretty invasive .  . 
end summary 

yes , this is a common and safe procedure .  . the majority of 's 
rings described by x ray , however , up being due to inflammation 
instead of the congenital 's ring. occassionally a cancer 
masquerades as a ring. you should have the endoscopy to see if it 
is due to the , and if so , you will need treatment for the 
ong term. the balloon dilation is an alternative to cutting 
open your chest and cutting out a section of the , so dilation 
is not at all invasive , considering the alternative .  . 


the second issue summarized he has had extra for the past 
3 to 4 years , and once was symptomatic from them , with some 
lightheadedness .  . 
he is young , (30 ish ) , thin and in good 
health  ( recent were all normal) , and do not smoke , use drugs or 
caffeine , etc. i'm willing to accept the extra beats as normal , but do n't 
want to ignore them if they might be some kind of warning symptom .  . the number 
of pvc 's seems to increase throughout the day , and with exercise  ( or something 
as simple as climbing some  . also , if i get up after sitting or lying 
down for a while , i tend to get a couple of extra beats .  . could they possibly 
be related to the problems both seemed to develop at about the 
same time. 

i' not an expert on heart problems , but pvc 's are common and have been 
in the past. my personal experience , and i have the same 
history an build you do  ( related to the heart , that is) , is that my pvc 's 
come and go , with some months causing anxiety .  . taking on more fluids 
seems to help , and they seem worse in the summer. remember that a slow 
heart rate will allow more pvc 's to be apparent , so perhaps it is an 
indication of a healthy cardiac system  ( but ask an expert about that 
last point , especially) 

good luck , hope we do n't die of arrhythmias .  .  ( god , what a happy thought) 

steve holland 

from  ( kerry ryan ) 
subject looking for info on  ( kemotherapy(sp ) 
article i.d. shelley . 
organization university of washington 
lines 4 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 


hello , a friend is under going  ( kemotherapy(sp ) for breast cancer. i'm 
trying to learn what i can about it. any info would be appreciated. 
thanks. 

from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 14 

 ( melissa n. matusevich ) writes 

speaking of educational systems , i recently had a colleague 
tell me that the reason one of our fifth grade students is so 
physically developed is because she was sexually abused as a younger 
child. this , she went on to say , kicks the pituitary gland into 
action and causes  . 


nonsense ! i 've taught fifth , sixth , seventh . there are a few early 
types in fifth and it has nothing to do with early sexual experience. 

jackie 


from  ( daniel l. theivanayagam ) 
subject  ( formerly national boards ) part 1 request to medical students 
summary request for books 
keywords , national boards , 
nntp posting host learning . siemens . com . 
organization siemens corporate research , princeton  ( plainsboro ) , nj 
distribution usa 
lines 33 

this request goes out to medical students who have done 
or are planning to sit the  ( or national boards ) part 1. 

my wife is sitting this examination in early june this year and would 
like to have a look at some old national boards , part 1 questions 
found in the following books. these books are currently out of print. 


the books are 

(1) retired basic medical science test items , 
published by in 1991 

(2) self test in the part 1 basic medical sciences , 
published by in 1989 

i would appreciate if anyone who has these books is willing 
to loan it to her for a couple of days. obviously , i would 
reimburse for you all postage and related charges .  . failing 
that it would be beneficial if anyone could point to any 
library in the ny , nj or pa area that may have these books. 

please respond by e mail since i do not read this newsgroup 
regularly. 

thanks in advance. 


daniel 


e mail 


from (david rind ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
organization beth israel hospital , harvard medical school , boston mass. , usa 
lines 37 
nntp posting host enterprise . bih . harvard . edu . 

in article 
writes 
are in a different class. the big question seems to be is it reasonable to 
use them in patients with gi distress or sinus problems that could be due 
to candida blooms following the use of broad spectrum antibiotics 

i guess i'm still not clear on what the term candida bloom means , 
but certainly it is well known that thrush  ( superficial 
infections on mucous membranes ) can occur after antibiotic use. 
this has nothing to do with systemic yeast syndrome , the quack 
diagnosis that has been being discussed .  . 


found in the sinus mucus membranes than is candida .  . women have been known 
for a very long time to suffer from candida blooms in the vagina and a 
women is lucky to find a physician who is willing to treat the cause and 
not give give her advise to use the otc anti fungal creams .  . 

lucky how since a recent article  ( randomized controlled trial ) of 
oral yogurt on reducing vaginal candidiasis , i 've mentioned to a 
number of patients with frequent vaginal yeast infections that they 
could try eating 6 ounces of yogurt daily. it turns out most would 
rather just use anti fungal creams when they get yeast infections .  . 

yogurt dangerous) .  . if this were a standard part of medical practice , as 
gordon r. says it is , then the incidence of gi distress and vaginal yeast 
infections should decline .  . 

again , this just is n't what the systemic yeast syndrome is about , and 
has nothing to do with the quack therapies that were being discussed .  . 
there is some evidence that attempts to the gi tract with 
bacteria after antibiotic therapy do n't seem to be very helpful in 
reducing diarrhea , but i do n't think anyone would view this as a 
quack therapy. 

david rind 


from (mike quigley ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
keywords pregnency sex 
organization tektronix , inc. , redmond , or. 
lines 13 

in article (stephen montgomery smith) writes 
when i was a school boy , my biology teacher told us of an incident 
in which a couple were very passionate without actually having 
sexual intercourse .  . somehow the girl became as sperm 
cells made their way to her through the clothes via  . 

was my biology teacher misinforming us , or do such incidents actually 
occur 

 . here we go again. and one wonders why the american 
education system is in such abysmal shape 



from  ( todd i. stark ) 
subject re photography 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 52 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 


in article ,  ( carl j lydick ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article , (e . a .  . story) writes 
in article writes 
greg flame definitely intended here. bill was making fun of the misspelling .  . 
go look up the word krill .  . also , the correct spelling is kirlian .  . it 
involves taking photographs of corona discharges created by attaching the 
subject to a high voltage source , not of some aura .  . it works equally well 
with inanimate objects .  . 

true .  .  . but what about showing the missing part of a leaf is this 
corona discharge 

yup .  . the demonstration to which you refer consists of placing a leaf between 
the plates , and taking a kirlian photograph of it. you then cut off part of 
the leaf , put the top plate back on , and take another kirlian photograph .  . you 
see pretty much the same image in both cases. turns out the effect is n't 
nearly so striking if you take the trouble to clean the plates between 
photographs. seems that the moisture from the leaf that you left on the place 
conducts electricity .  . surprise , surprise ! 

this is true , but it 's not quite the whole story. there were 
actually some people who were more careful in their methodology 
who also replicated the  phantom leaf effect . ' . 

one of the most influential critics of kirlian 
is a  ( and presumably willing to entertain the 
hypothesis of scientific evidence for a human aura , electromagnetic 
or otherwise) , professor of electrical engineering at london 's 
city university , and a past president of the society for psychic research 
named a. j. ellison .  . 

after years of studying the method and the claims , ellison 
came to the conclusion that the photographic images are what we 
calls  figures , ' an effect of intermittent of 
the air around the object. it 's a bit more complicated than 
 not wiping off the plates , ' but it comes down to the same thing 
in the end , kirlian has much more limited 
value  ( if any) than was previously widely thought. electrical and 
magnetic fields generated by the body are much too small to be 
of much use without very elaborate equipment and 
usually also tracer chemicals .  . 

kind regards , 

todd 

todd i. stark 
digital equipment corporation (215) 542 
philadelphia , pa. usa 
(a word is) the skin of a living thought oliver wendell holmes , jr. 


from lawrence curcio 
subject re can men get yeast infections 
organization doctoral student , public policy and management , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 6 
distribution na 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

my  ( then ) wife used to get recurrent yeast infections .  . one day , her 
doctor sent her home with medication for her and a pill for me. i took 
the pill , upon her insistence , and was very relieved the next day when i 
looked it up in the pdr .  . it only rarely causes testicular atrophy .  .  .  . 

anyway , men apparently do get yeast infections .  . 

from  ( ravi or menon ) 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
nntp posting host beagle . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 43 

vu . uiuc . edu . () writes 

ca n't imagine what it 's like to have a penis , much less a foreskin .  . i 
guess if american medicine did an artistic job of circumcising every 
male , then the visual result would be somewhat more natural in 
appearance .  .  .  . 

the cancer thing has been completely  .  . she . must be 
going to school on a south pacific island. tell her to check the journal 
or urology for circumcision articles. i remember at least 1 on an old 
jewish man  ( cut at birth) who developed cancer .  .  .  . i . mean , if the 
cancer risk was that great , the europe who have been circumcising like 
crazy , too. teaching a boy how to keep his clean is the issue a 
little proper goes a long way americans are just too hung up on 
the penis to consider cleaning it that 's just way too much like 
 . so you have surgical intervention that is basically 
unnecessary .  . 

peter 
university of illinois at urbana champaign 

first off , use some decent terms if ya do n't mind. this is sci . med . , not 
alt . sex .  . 

secondly , how absolutely bogus to assume that american 's are just too hung 
up on the penis .  .  .  . blah . , blah . i think most american 's do n't care about 
anything so as that. they just think it looks nicer . ask 
a few of them and see what response you get. others still opt for 
circumcision due to religious traditions and beliefs .  . some think it is 
easier to clean. still others do it because daddy was . 

dont  be so naive as to think american 's are afraid of sexuality .  . 

my son is not circumcised , and i can vouch for the argument that it is 
more difficult to keep clean than a circumcised  . not so much that 
the foreskin is difficult to pull back (it is n't) but because my son 
does n't want to wait long enough for a thorough check for or misplaced 
feces .  . so , many times it just gets a once over dab .  . it worries me 
that he might get an infection due to his lack of cooperation .  . i am 
sure , however , that he will be able to handle cleaning under the foreskin 
himself once he is old enough. until , there is always the decision at 
each change .  .  . is . this the time to clean or can we wait till next 
time. 

from uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . ! (stephen holland ) 
subject re annual inguinal hernia repair 
organization gastroenterology univ. of alabama 
lines 16 

in article , 
(j .  . porter clark ) wrote 
synopsis young man with hernia on one side , repaired , now has 
new hernia on other side. what gives , he asks and he continues .  .  .  . 
of course , my wife thinks it 's from sitting for long periods of time at 
the computer , reading news .  .  .  . 

there is the possibility that there is some degree of causing 
chronic straining which has caused the bowel movements .  . the classic 
problems that are supposed to be looked for in someone with a hernia are 
, chronic cough , colon cancer  ( and you 're not too young for 
that) and sitting for long periods of time at the computer , reading news. 

good luck with your surgery ! 

steve holland 

from (george kimeldorf ) 
subject re sinus surgery 
nntp posting host heath . utdallas . edu . 
organization univ. of texas at dallas 
lines 14 

in article  ( jay keller ) writes 

(i 've already heard from a couple who said they had it and it did n't 
really help them) .  . 

i am a moderately severe  . ent doc says large percentage see some 
relief of their asthma after sinus surgery. also he said it is not unheard of 
that migraines go away after sinusitis is relieved .  . 



did your ent also tell you that this procedure may remove warts from the soles 
of your feet and improve your sex life 


from  ( barry shell) 
subject great canadian scientists 
organization css , simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 155 

about two years ago i posted the following 

i am planning to write a new book called great canadian scientists .  . 
please forward your nominations to me 

the rules are that the person must be a canadian citizen .  . they do n't have 
to be born in canada or even live in canada , but they must have  ( or have 
had , if they are dead ) canadian citizenship while they are were great 
canadian scientists .  . 

about 70 people have been nominated already and they are listed at the 
end of this posting. 

i'm not quite sure what should constitute greatness , and there may be a 
gray area here. if you have any ideas on criteria for greatness , i would be 
pleased to hear them. in any event , please nominate people even if you are 
not sure they are great. i would like as big a list as possible. 

please give me a name and email address , phone number or mail address , so 
that i can contact the person. if you do n't know any of the above , then 
give me their last known whereabouts .  . also please give your reason for why 
you think the person should be considered a great canadian scientist .  . 

after i have the list , i will choose about six of the most interesting ones 
and do in depth of those individuals in the style of tracy 
's soul of a new machine or some other dramatic technique. 
the rest of the great canadian scientists will appear in an with 
one paragraph  . 

if you have any other ideas about this project , i am interested to hear 
them. 

so far , i have received 68 nominations as follows 


first name last name famous for 

sid altman , john  ( rna(nobel chem 89 ) 
frederick me insulin  ( nobel medicine ) 
davidson black stanley , robert discovered peking man 
james r. bolton , joseph chemistry 
smith , steven math algebraic topology .  . 
willard boyle , craig co inventor of ccd 
gerard bull stanley , robert ballistics and 
dennis , carlos first animal 
brian c. conway , karen 
stephen cook , alberto np completeness , complexity 
, gerald biochem aspects of physiol 
h . s . m .  . , neil j. regular polytopes  ( math ) 
p. n. palmer , bill chem , mosquito repellant 
h. e. duckworth anonymous mass spectroscopy , admin 
jack edmonds , jack math , operations research 
reginald , hans wire insulation , light bulb 
ursula franklin , william physics  . materials 
j. a. gray gray , tom nuclear physics , the gray 
e. w. , craig array radar 
donald lyons , michael learning  ( hebbian synapses ) 
gerhard me optical nobel 71 
james me electron microscope  ( can am ) 
crawford s. , carlos ecology , predators and prey 
david lyons , michael visual cortex  ( nobel med ) 
kenneth iverson dare , gary invented apl 
j. d. jackson austern , matt elementary particle theory 
andre , prakash category theory , logic 
martin me carbon 14  ( canadian amer . ) . 
irving , bob algebra , functional analysis 
george s. kell kell , dave hot water freezing 
t. e. kellogg palmer , bill chem , mosquito repellant 
kenney wallace , anthony chemistry administration 
brian brader , mark c programming language 
michael l. klein , massimo theoretical chemistry 
charles j. , carlos ecology , effect 
k. j. , karen chemical kinetics 
g. c. laurence palmer , bill physics 
raymond lemieux smith , earl first synthesized glucose 
martin levine , robert computer vision 
edward s. lowry himself computer programming 
marie , robert de montreal 
colin macleod turner , steven nobel ( ) dna discovery 
marshall mcluhan clamen , stewart social sci , communications 
ben morrison willson , david aurora 
lawrence morley , murray plate remote sense 
farley abbott , john northern animal rights 
kevin ogilvie , kelly genetics , cure for herpes 
sir william osler lyons , michael medicine 
p . j . e .  . peebles vishniac , ethan most important cosmologist 
wilder , marie anatomical basis for memory 
john me 
denis , robert computer vision 
lloyd jones , david conflict theory , game theory 
howard sutherland , russell pulp chemistry 
hans , k. psychology of stress. 
william stephenson wilkins , darin ww2 enigma code , wire photo 
boris , anthony spectroscopy 
david suzuki meister , darren science communication 
henry parker , wiley physical chemistry 
richard taylor manuel , john verified quark model 
david thompson eisler , michael mapped western canada 
green , christopher psychology of memory 
bill , gordon theory  ( math ) 
i palmer , bill down 's syndrome 
j. wilson collier , john continental drift theory 
r. h. wright palmer , bill chem , mosquito repellant 
j . l . yen , vl baseline interferometry 
walter me reactor  ( can amer . ) . 


the list is growing nicely. it 's amazing to see just how much was discovered 
by canadians .  . actually there are many more who were born in canada , but 
became americans after graduate school. 

please note a lot of people have nominated alexander graham bell but i 
feel he was really a scottish american with a summer home in canada .  . now 
i know this is debatable , but please do n't nominate him again. 

if anyone can fill in some of the question marks on the list , please drop 
me a line. 


that was two years ago. since then , i have received a grant from science 
culture canada , a division of supply and services canada to research the 
book. since my old posting the book has evolved into an educational book 
for kids aged 9 14  ( though this may change again) it will have about 
40 two page spreads with a large graphic in the middle and text graphic 
boxes all around on the following subjects vital statistics and photo of 
the scientist , personal statement from the scientist , narrative of a few 
moments in the life of the scientist , what i was doing when i was 12 , 
so you want to be a insert kind of scientist , experiment you can do. there 
will be an appendix with 100 200 more scientists with one paragraph 
who did n't quite make it to the double spreads .  . the whole thing 
will then be published on cd rom with video and sound clips for added 
richness .  . i am looking for a cd rom publisher as well. the text part may 
also be available on the electronic highway being developed in 
canada as well. 

i am still looking for a publisher though penguin canada came close 
to being it. hope to find one soon. 

i would like to again ask for more nominations , especially in the 
pure sciences of physics , chemistry and biology .  . also criticisms of 
the list are welcomed .  . also women and french canadian scientists are needed. 

i hope this posting will get others to nominate more great canadian 
scientists , and to discuss what is great what is canadian and what is 
scientist . 

please respond to 


or 
barry shell 604 876 

4692 quebec st. vancouver , b.c. canada 

thanks to all who responded already. 

from  ( ernie cacciapuoti ) 
subject question deficiency 
organization datacom 
distribution usa 
lines 5 

if anyone has any information on this deficiency i would very greatly 
appreciate a response here or preferably by email. all i know at this 
point is a deficiency can cause to be released , and in times 
of stress and high ambient temperature could cause renal failure. 
x 

subject re cure for dry skin 
from  ( oren haber schaim ) 
nntp posting host husc8 . harvard . edu . 
lines 49 

writes 

in article ,  ( alex mou ) writes 
hi all , 

my skin is very dry in general. but the most serious part is located 
from knees down. the skin there looks like segmented .  . the segmentation 
actually happens beneath the skin. i would like to know if there is any 
cure for this. 


as a matter of fact , i just saw a dermatologist the other day , and while i 
was there , i asked him about dry skin. i 'd been spending a small fortune 
on various creams , , and other dry skin treatments .  . 
he said all i needed was a large jar of vaseline .  . soak in a lukewarm tub 
of water for 10 minutes  ( only 10 minutes ! ) then massage in the vaseline , 
to trap the moisture in. 

that is the standard advice in dermatology texts .  . 
the soak part greatly increases the inconvenience .  . do n't bother unless 
it does n't work otherwise. 

the hard part will be finding the time to rub in the 
vaseline properly. 

exactly , but it adds to the ritual aspect , which is important for 
us patients .  .  ( posters , do n't bother to repeat the 
rationale for the soak . ) . 

if it 's not done right , you remain greasy and stick 

greasy no matter what. vaseline  ( generically , petrolatum ) is 
famous for that. one text states that the more greasy a dry skin 
cream is , the more effective. 

try it. it 's got to be cheaper then spending 30 for 8 oz. of  natural  
 . 

try , at least for maintenance  ( preventive ) therapy. 
is natural and much less greasy and cheap  ( do n't buy the more 
expensive  . as i 've commented before , 
is a poorly characterized mixture of hydrocarbons which are not found in 
biological systems  ( that is not inherently bad , but smell it up close , 
even on your hand ) , are partially absorbed into the body and remain there 
for months or more , and have associations with cancer. do n't panic , but 
also do n't believe it 's god 's gift to the human skin. 


haber 

from  ( don montgomery ) 
subject re for migraines 
organization hp sonoma county  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 . 4 . 
lines 12 

brenda wrote 

does anyone know about these studies or have experience with 

i keep an accurate log of my migraine attack frequency did n't 
seem to do anything for me. however , eliminating caffeine seems to pre 
vent the onset of migraine in my case. in other words , no caffeine , no 
migraines .  . 

don montgomery 



from  ( melissa n. matusevich ) 
subject re nose picking 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 5 

i do n't know if it causes the body any harm , but in the 23 
years i 've been teaching nine and ten years olds i 've never had 
one fall over from eating which many kids do on a 
regular basis when they think no one is looking . . . 


from  ( vinay rao ) 
subject perception of doctors and health care 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
distribution usa 
lines 124 

the following article by columnist mike is his humorous commentary 
on some of the public 's perception of doctors and their salaries .  . 
i hope some of you will find it as amusing as i did. 


reprinted w o permission 


there 's no cure for stupidity of poll on doctors  salaries 

by mike 
tribune media services 


on a stupidity scale , a recent poll about doctors  earnings 
is right up there. it almost scored a perfect brain dead 10. 
it was commissioned by some whiny consumers group called 
families usa .  . 
the poll tells us that the majority of americans believe 
that doctors make too much money. 
the pollsters also asked what a fair income would be for 
physicians .  . those polled said , oh , about 80 , 000 a year would be 
ok. 
how generous .  . how sporting .  . how stupid. 
why is this poll stupid because it is based on resentment 
and envy , two emotions that ran hot during the political campaign 
and are still simmering .  . 
you could conduct the same kind of poll about any group that 
earns 100 , 000 plus and get the same results. since the majority 
of americans do n't make those bucks , they assume that those who 
do are stealing it from them. 
maybe the berlin wall came down , but do n't kid yourself. 
karl marx lives. 
it 's also stupid because it did n't ask key questions , such 
as do you know how much education and training it takes to 
become a physician 
if those polled said no , they did n't know , then they should 
have been disqualified .  . if they gave the wrong answers , they 
should have been dropped .  . what good are their views on how much 
a doctor should earn if they do n't know what it takes to become a 
doctor 
or maybe a question should have been phrased this way how 
much should a person earn if he or she must (a) get excellent 
grades and a fine educational foundation in high school in order 
to (b) be accepted by a good college and spend four years taking 
courses heavy in math , physics , chemistry , and other lab work and 
maintain a 3.5 average or better , and (c) spend four more years 
of grinding study in medical school , with the third and fourth 
years in clinical training , working 80 to 100 hours a week , and 
 ( d ) spend another year as a low pay , hard work intern , and  ( e ) 
put in another three to 10 years of post graduate training , 
depending on your specialty and  ( f ) maybe wind up 100 , 000 in 
debt after medical school and  ( g ) then work an average of 60 
hours a week , with many family doctors putting in 70 hours or 
more until they retire or fall over 
as you have probably guessed by now , i have considerably 
more respect for doctors than does the law firm of clinton and 
clinton , and all the lawyers and insurance executives they have 
called together to remake america 's health care. 
based on what doctors contribute to society , they are far 
more useful than the power happy , ego tripping , program , 
social who will probably give us a medical plan that is 
to health what clinton 's first budget is to  . 
but propaganda works. and , as the stupid poll indicates , 
many americans wrongly believe that doctors are the 
major cause of high medical costs. 
of course doctors are well compensated .  . they should be. 
americans now live longer than ever. but who is responsible for 
our longevity lawyers , congress , or the guy flipping burgers in 
a mcdonald 's 
and the doctors prolong our lives despite our having become 
a nation of self , lard butted , tv couch 
 . 
ah , that is not something you heard president clinton or 
super spouse talk about during the campaign or since. but 
instead of trying to turn the medical profession into a villain , 
they might have been more honest if they had said 
let us talk about medical care and one of the biggest 
problems we have. that problem is you , my fellow american .  . yes , 
you , eating too much and eating the wrong foods many of you 
guzzling too much hooch still away at 2.50 a pack 
getting your daily exercise by from the fridge to the 
microwave to the couch doing dope and bringing crack babies into 
the world filling the big city emergency rooms with gunshot 
victims engaging in unsafe sex and catching a deadly disease 
while blaming the world for not finding an instant cure .  . 
you and your habits , not the doctors , are the single 
biggest health problem in this country. if anything , it is 
amazing that the docs keep you alive as long as they do. 
in fact , i do n't understand how they can stand looking at 
your all day. 
so as your president , i call upon you to stop whining and 
start living cleanly .  . now i must go get myself a triple cheesy 
greasy with double fries .  . do as i say , not as i do. 
but for those who truly believe that doctors are overpaid , 
there is another solution do n't use them. 
that 's right. you do n't feel well then try one of those 
spine , needle , or have rev. bubba lay his hands 
upon your head and declare you fit. 
or there is the do it yourself approach. you have chest 
pains then sit in front of a mirror , make a slit here , a slit 
there , and pop in a couple of valves .  . 
you 're going to have a kid why throw your money at that 
overpaid so he can buy a better car and a bigger house 
than you will ever have  ( while paying more in taxes and 
malpractice insurance than you will ever earn ) 
just have the kid the old fashioned way. squat and do it. 
and if it survives , you can go to the library and find a book on 
how to give it its shots. 
by the way , has anyone ever done a poll on how much 
pollsters should earn 


is a pulitzer prize winning columnist for tribune media 
services. 






j. rao 



from  ( eileen beck ) 
subject cortisone shots 
nntp posting host waldo 
organization systems corp. , des moines , iowa 
lines 9 

i need some information on the implications of receiving 
cortisone shots for a seasonal allergic condition. 

i 've had the usual skin prick tests for the 
common allergies , but reacted to none of the substances .  . 
so for the last two seasons i 've received cortisone shots 
but the doctors seem reluctant to give more than two or 
three shots. why what are the dangers 


from  ( philippe lebrun ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
distribution eunet 
lines 20 
keywords pregnency sex 

in article , (stephen montgomery smith) writes 
when i was a school boy , my biology teacher told us of an incident 
in which a couple were very passionate without actually having 
sexual intercourse .  . somehow the girl became as sperm 
cells made their way to her through the clothes via  . 

was my biology teacher misinforming us , or do such incidents actually 
occur 

sperm deposited near the entrance of the vagina has been known to cause 
pregnancy , even in the presence of a  . i doubt that sperm could make 
it through a layer of cloth then find the right path to a waiting ovum , 
but it might be possible. 

so , it is possible for a woman to be both virgin and pregnant. 
also , some are sufficiently loose to allow near normal intercourse 
without  . the problem when investigating these is , 
of course , getting an honest account of what exactly happened. 

philippe 

from  ( elisabeth s. davidson ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
reply to  ( elisabeth s. davidson ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 44 
nntp posting host thor . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , () says 
least a few enlightened physicians practicing in the u.s. it 's really 
too bad that most u.s. medical schools do n't cover nutrition because if 
they did , candida would not be viewed as a non disease by so many in the 
medical profession .  . 

case western reserve med school teaches nutrition in its own section as 
well as covering it in other sections as they apply (i . e .  . b12 
deficiency in neuro as a cause of , b12 deficiency in 
as a cause of anemia ) , yet i sill 
hold the viewpoint of mainstream medicine candida can cause 
candidiasis , and , in already very sick patients 
with damaged immune systems like aids and cancer patients , 
systemic candida infection .  . i think the yeast connection is 
a bunch of hooey .  . what does this have to do with how well 
nutrition is taught , anyway 

here is a brief primer on yeast .  . yeast infections , as they are commonly 
called , are not truely caused by yeasts .  . the most common organism responsible 
for this type of infection is candida albicans or monilia which is actually a 
yeast like fungus .  . 

well , maybe i'm getting picky , but i always thought that a yeast 
was one form that a fungus could exist in , the other being the 
mold form. many fungi can occur as either yeasts or molds , 
depending on environment. candida what is known as 
reverse it exists as a mold in the tissues 
but exists as a yeast in the environment. should we maybe 
call it a mold infection a fungus infection maybe we 
should say it is caused by a mold like fungus .  . 


martin , ph.d. 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and microbiology 
osu college of osteopathic medicine 
1111 west 17th st. 
tulsa , ok. 74107 


you 're the chairman of biochem and micro and you did n't know 
that a yeast is a form of a fungus  ( shudder ) 
or maybe you did know , and were oversimplifying 

from (robert e. schmieg ) 
subject re quack quack  ( was re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction ) 
organization university of virginia 
lines 48 

writes 
i do n't know the first thing about yeast infections but i am a scientist .  . 
no scientist would take your statement no convincing empirical evidence 
to support the existence of systemic yeast syndrome to tell you 
anything except an absence of data on the question. 
the burden of proof rests upon those who claim the existence 
of this syndrome . to date , these claims are unsubstantiated 
by any available data. hopefully , as a scientist , you would 
take issue with anyone overstating their conclusions based 
upon their data. 

beasties with present methods even if they were there. noring and the 
fellow from oklahoma (sorry , forgot your name) have also suggested one set 
of anecdotal evidence in favor based on their personal experiences 
namely , that when people with certain conditions are given anti fungals , 
many of them appear to get better. 
gee , i have many interesting and enlightening anecdotes about 
myself , my friends , and my family , but in the practice of 
medicine i expect and demand more rigorous for 
basing therapy than aunt susie 's brother in law ... . 

anecdotal evidence may provide inspiration for a hypothesis , 
but rarely proves anything in a positive sense. and unlike 
mathematics , boolean logic rarely applies directly to medical 
issues , and so evidence of  exceptions  does not usually 
disprove but rather modifies current concepts of disease. 

so , if you have any evidence against the hypothesis for example , 
controlled double blind studies showing that the anti fungals do n't do any 
better than sugar water then let 's hear it. if you do n't , then what we 
have is anecdotal and uncontrolled evidence on one side , and 
disbelief on the other. in which case , please , there is no point in yelling 
back and forth at each other any longer since neither side has any 
convincing evidence either positive or negative. 
i would characterize it not as  disbelief  but rather 
 scientific outrage over vastly overstated  . 

it appears to me the main question now is whether the proponents can 
marshall enough anecdotal evidence in a convincing and documented enough 
manner to make a good case for carrying out a good controlled double blind 
study of antifungals  ( or else , forget convincing anybody else to carry out 
the test , just carry it out themselves ! ) and also , whether they can 
adequately define the patient population or symptoms on which such a study 
should be carried out to provide a fair test of the hypothesis .  . 
i have no problem with such an approach but this is not what 
is happening in the  trenches  of this diagnosis .  . 

bob 

from  ( picl account 25) 
subject re looking for info on  ( kemotherapy(p )  ( kinda long) 
organization florida state university school of higher thought 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
reply to 
lines 57 

in article ,  ( kerry ryan ) writes .  .  .  . 

hello , a friend is under going  ( kemotherapy(sp ) for breast cancer. i'm 
trying to learn what i can about it. any info would be appreciated. 
thanks. 

you 've asked a of a question. there are many different drugs which 
are used for chemotherapy .  . 

the overall purpose of chemotherapy  ( do n't worry about the spelling .  . some of 
these crazy medical words are impossible to spell ! ) is to either destroy 
cancer cells or to keep them from growing .  . different drugs have different 
effects on cancer cells , and therefore , it is not uncommon to use more than 
one drug at a time. 

some drugs are effective anytime during the growth cycle 
of a cell .  . others work only at specific times during the cell cycle. 

the first phase of the cell cycle is g1 it is when the protein synthesis 
and rna occurs .  . in the second phase , s , synthesis of dna occurs .  . 
the third phase is the dna splits and rna and protein are synthesized 
 . in the fourth phase , m  ( or mitosis ) , the cell may divide .  . 

there are drugs which are effective in each phase .  . some stop dna synthesis .  . 
others stop the cell from dividing .  . others wreck protein synthesis .  . 
at any rate , the end result that is being sought is for the cancer cells 
to stop growing .  . 

if what you are seeking is practical advice , i apologize for rambling 
on the techno stuff. some side effects are pretty common.  . drugs 
are rather nasty .  . it can cause a person to lose their appetite and to 
experience nausea and vomiting .  . things to help this include eating small 
frequent meals .  . it is also suggested that if nausea vomiting  ( hereafter 
known as n v ) occurs that the person notify the doctor there are medicines 
help nausea .  . diarrhea can be an effect. medications 
can be given , and good and fluid intake are important. 

probably the one of biggest is hair loss. this does not always 
happen. it depends on what drugs are being given , and on the person 
themself .  . different people taking the same drug can and do have different 
side effects. i have seen some literature which states that wearing a snug 
and or wearing an ice cap can help reduce hair loss , presumably 
by reducing blood flow to the scalp .  . if anyone has seen research on this 
too , i would love to see it , and possibly some bib data. 

i highly recommend making contact with the american cancer society. 
they have a vast selection of literature and information. in addition , 
if your friend has had a , i highly recommend reach for recovery . 
it is a support group comprised entirely of women who have lost a breast 
because of cancer. they can offer some excellent support and suggestions. 

if you have further questions , please send me e mail. i hav some good 
access to information , and i enjoy trying to help other people. 

i wish the best to you and your friend. 



from (steven d. litvintchouk ) 
subject re nose picking 
in reply to 's message of 1 may 93 03 59 59 gmt 
nntp posting host rigel . mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corporation , bedford , ma 
lines 21 


in article (stephen montgomery smith) writes 

1) does it cause the body any harm if one picks one 's nose for example , 
might it lead to a loss of ability to smell 

it may be a good way to catch a cold. it 's easy to pick up cold 
viruses on your fingers , either from touching a contaminated surface , 
or by shaking hands with someone that has a cold. then putting your 
fingers in your nose will transfer the viruses to your nose. 



steven 
mitre corporation 
202 burlington road 
bedford , ma 01730 1420 

fone  ( 617)271 ) 
arpa 
uucp linus ! 

from (kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re pregnency without sex 
keywords pregnency sex 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 22 

in article (stephen montgomery smith) writes 
when i was a school boy , my biology teacher told us of an incident 
in which a couple were very passionate without actually having 
sexual intercourse .  . somehow the girl became as sperm 
cells made their way to her through the clothes via  . 

was my biology teacher misinforming us , or do such incidents actually 
occur 

sounds to me like someone was pulling your leg. there is only one way for 
pregnancy to occur intercourse .  . these days however there is also 
artificial insemination and implantation techniques , but we 're speaking of 
natural acts here. it is possible for pregnancy to occur if semen is 
deposited just outside of the vagina (i . e .  . interruptus ) , but that 's 
about at far as you can get. through clothes no way. better go talk 
to your biology teacher. 



kenneth gilbert university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . dammit . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re great post !  ( was candida bloom .  .  . ) . 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 31 
nntp posting host saltillo . cs . utexas . edu . 


in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
... of course , they are working on the theory that candida 
with penetration into mucus membrane tissue with 
associated mild inflammatory response can and does occur 
in a large number of people. if you reject this yeast 
hypothesis , then i 'd guess you 'd view this research as one 
more wasteful and quixotic endeavor .  . stay tuned. 

i do not have enough medical expertise to have much of an opinion 
one way or another on hidden candida infections .  . i can 
understand the skepticism of those who see this associated with 
various general kinds of symptoms , while there is a lack of solid 
demonstration that this happens and causes such general symptoms .  . 
 ( to understand this skepticism , one only needs to know of past 
failures that shared these characteristics with the notion of 
hidden candida infection .  . there have been quite a few , and the 
proponents of all thought that the skeptics were overly skeptical . ) . 

on the other hand , i am happy to read that some people are 
sufficiently interested in this possibility , spurred by 
suggestive clinical experience , to research it further. the 
doubters may be surprised. (it has happened before . ) . 

i realize that admitting ignorance in the face of ignorance may 
not endear me to those who are so sure they know one way or 
another.  ( and , indeed , perhaps some of them do know i am the 
one who is currently ignorant . ) . but i find this the most honest 
route , and so i am happy with it. 

russell 

from (robert rome ) 
subject need prozac info 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 8 


i'm looking for information regarding dosages of prozac used in minor 
depression .  . also any other information regarding the drug is helpful. 
please send responses direct .  . thanks ! 





from 
subject re kidney stones 
lines 68 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , (ron roth ) writes 
 ( marty banschbach ) writes 
... 
b medicine has not , and never will be , practiced this way. there 
b has always been the use of conventional wisdom .  . a very good example is 
b kidney stones .  . conventional  ( wisdom(because clinical trails have not been 
b done to come up with an effective prevention ) , was that the 
b intake of calcium and was the best way to prevent kidney stones 
b from forming .  . clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts to 
b breakdown the stone once it formed .  . through the recent new england j of 
b medicine article , we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong , 
b increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than is 
b restricting calcium intake .  . 
... 
b marty b. 

marty , i personally would n't be so quick and take that nejm article 
on kidney stones as gospel .  . first of all , i would want to know who 
sponsored that study. 
i have seen too many nutrition bulletins over the years from 
local newspapers , magazines , to tv guide , with disclaimers on the 
bottom informing us that this great health news was brought to us 
compliments of the dairy industries .  . 
there are of course numerous other interest groups now that thrive 
financially on the media hype created from the supposedly enormous 
benefits of increasing one 's calcium intake .  . 

secondly , were all the kidney stones of the test subjects involved 
in that project analysed for their chemical composition the study 
did n't say that , it only claimed that most kidney stones are large 
ly calcium .  . 
perhaps it wo n't be long before another study comes up with the exact 
opposite findings .  . a curious phenomenon with researchers is that they 
are oftentimes just plain wrong. it would n't be the first time. 

sodium magnesium calcium ratios are , in my opinion , still 
the most reliable indicators for the cause , treatment , and prevention 
of kidney stones .  . 
i , for one , will continue to recommend the most logical changes in 
one 's diet or through supplementation to counteract or prevent kidney 
stones of either type and they definitely wo n't include an increase 
in calcium if the stones have been identified as being of the calcium 
type and people 's chemical analysis confirms that they would benefit 
from a raising approach instead ! 

ron roth 

ron , you are absolutely right. not all kidney stones have calcium and not 
all calcium stones are calcium oxalate .  . but the vast majority are calcium 
oxalate .  . calcium is just one piece of the puzzle .  . i cited that nejm article 
as a way of pointing out to some of the physicians in this group that 
conventional wisdom is used in medicine , always has been and probably 
always will be. if one uses conventional wisdom , there is a chance that 
you will be wrong. as long as the error is not going to cause a lot of 
damage , what 's the big  ( deal(why call a physician who gives anti fungals to 
sinus suffers or gi distress patients a quack ) .  . 

on the kidney stone problem. i 'd want a mineral profile run in a clinical 
chemistry lab. balance is much more important than the dietary intake of 
calcium .  . i know that you use an electrical conductance technique to 
measure mineral balance in the body. i know that you do n't think that the 
serum levels for minerals are very  ( useful(i  . if i can get a good 
nutritional assessment lab setup where i can actually measure the tissue 
reserve for minerals , i 'd like to do a collaborative study with you to see 
how your technique compares with mine. 


marty b. 

from 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) bloom , fact or fiction 
lines 68 
nntp posting host vms . ocom . okstate . edu . 
organization osu college of osteopathic medicine 

in article , (david rind ) writes 
in article 
writes 
 ( oxygen(just like it does in the vagina) .  . as much stuff as there is in the 
lay press about l. acidophilus and vaginal yeast infections , i'm really 
amazed that someone has not done a clinical trial yet to check it out. 

i 've mentioned this study a couple of times now ingestion of yogurt 
containing lactobacillus acidophilus as prophylaxis for 
vaginitis , annals of internal medicine , 3 1 92  ( 116(5 ) 353 7. do you 
have a problem with the study because they used yogurt rather than 
capsules of lactobacillus  ( even though it had positive results) 

the study was a crossover trial of daily ingestion of 8 ounces of 
yogurt .  . there was a marked decrease in infections while women were 
ingesting the yogurt .  . problems with the study included very small 
numbers  ( 33 patients enrolled ) and many protocol violations  ( only 
21 patients were  . still , the difference in rates of infection 
between the two groups was so large that the study remains fairly 
believable .  . 

david rind 

david , this study looks like a good one. gordon did a medline 
search and also sent me the same reference through e mail. since 
commercial yogurt does not always have a good lactobacillus a. or 
bulgaricus culture , a negative finding would not have been too informative. 
this is often the reason why lactobacillus acidophilus tablets are 
recommended rather than yogurt .  . 

i guess the next question is why would this introduction of good bacteria 
back into the gut decrease the incidence of vaginal candida blooms if the 
anus was not serving as a candida  ( reservoir(a fact that gordon r. 
denys ) i see two possible theories .  . one , the l. acidophilus , which is a 
anaerobic bacterium , could make it through the gut and 
the rectal area to the candida .  . this would not explain 
the of candida blooms in the vagina after the yogurt ingestion 
was stopped though. the other is that the additional bacteria in the 
intestinal tract remove most of the glucose from the feces and candida 
it 's major food source. 

getting lactobacillus acidophilus to the vaginal  ( tract(where it is 
normally found) would have a much better effect on the of vaginal 
yeast blooms though. an acetic acid , lactobacillus acidophilus douche has 
been used to get this effect but i 've not seen any such treatment reported in 
the medical literature. this would be an example of physicians conducting 
their own clinical trials to try to come up with treatments that help their 
patients .  . when this is done in private practice , the results are rarely , if 
ever published .  . it was the hallmark of medicine until the modern age 
emerged with clinical trials .  . it really raises a big question. does the 
medical profession cast out the few who try new treatments to 
help patients or does it look the other way. 

this particular issue is really a very simple one since no real dangerous 
therapy is  ( involved(even the anti fungals are not all that dangerous) .  . but 
there are some  ( areas(like therapy) , where the fire is pretty 
hot and somebody could get burned .  . it 's really tough. do i follow only 
well established protocols and then give up if they do n't work that well or 
do it try something that looks like it will work but has n't been proven to 
work yet 

my stand is to consider other treatment possibilities , especially if they 
involve little or no risk to the patient. getting good bacteria back into 
the gut after antibiotic treatment is one treatment possibility .  . the other 
is getting l. acidophilus into the vaginal tract of a woman who is having a 
problem with recurring yeast infections .  . 

marty b. 

from  ( don husby ) 
subject re photography 
organization 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host fnal . gov . 
summary poor person 's kirlian 


poor person 's kirlian photography  ( try this at home) 

1. hold your hand up to a cold window. 
2. look closely at the stunning corona effects around 
your fingertips .  . 
3. remove hand (from window) and observe after image. 
4. invent crackpot theory to explain the effect. 

from (michael a vincze ) 
subject re chromium for weight loss 
nntp posting host localhost 
organization texas instruments 
lines 101 

in article , writes 
there is no data to show chromium is effective in promoting weight loss. the 
few studies that have been done using chromium have been very flawed and 
biased (the investigators were making money from marketing it) .  . 
theoretically it really doesnt make sense either. the claim is that chromium 
will increase muscle mass and decrease fat. of course , chromium is also used t 
o cure diabetes , high blood pressure and increase muscle mass in  ( athletes(just 
as well as anabolic  . sounds like snake oil for the 1990 's ) 



where are your references i have been unable to find studies that state 
that chromium cures . it can reduce the amount of insulin you 
have to take. high blood pressure i have never heard of this claim 
before. ... anabolic steroids i have also never heard of this claim 
before. sounds like you are making things up and stretching the truth 
for god knows what reason. did somebody piss you off at one time 



on the other hand , it really cant hurt you anywhere but your wallet , and place 
bo effects of anything can be pretty dramatic .  .  .  . 



i agree with you that chromium by itself is n't likely 
to make a fat person thin .  . but it can be the decisive component 
of an overall strategy for long term weight control and make an 
important contribution to good health. it is important to 
exercise (11 , 12) and also avoid fat calories (9 , 10) .  . 

chromium has shown to reduce fat and increase 
lean muscle (1 , 2 , 3) .  . i will not bore you with the 
statistics. you would n't believe these anyway. 

chromium is an exceptionally source of 
the essential mineral chromium .  . chromium plays a vital role 
in the body 's tissues to the hormone insulin .  . 
weight gain in the form of fat tends to impair sensitivity 
to insulin and thus , in turn , makes it harder to lose 
weight (4) .  . 

insulin directly stimulates protein synthesis and 
protein breakdown in muscles (5 , 6) .  . this protein sparing 
effect of insulin tends to decline during low diets 
as insulin levels decline , which results in loss of muscle 
and organ tissue .  . by muscle to insulin , 
chromium helps to preserve muscle in dieters 
so that they burn more fat and less muscle .  . preservation 
of lean body mass has an important long term positive 
effect on metabolic rate , helping dieters keep off the 
fat they 've lost. 

chromium promotes efficient metabolism by aiding 
the  ( heat producing ) effects of insulin .  . 
insulin levels serve as a rough index of the availability 
of food calories , so it 's not at all surprising that insulin 
stimulates metabolism (4 , 7 , 8) .  . note that i did not say 
that chromium increases metabolism .  . 

in summary , you need to change your life style in order to 
loose weight and stay healthy 

a. reduce dietary fat consumption to no more than 20 of calories .  . 
eating fat makes you fat. 

b. increase dietary fiber 
low in calories high in nutrients .  . 

c. get regular aerobic exercise at least 3 times a week 
burn calories .  . 

d. take chromium daily 
lose fat keep muscle 


references 

1. gr , fisher ja , blum k. abstract , american aging 
association , 21st annual meeting , denver , october 1991. 
2. evans , gw .  . int j med res 1989 11 163 180 .  . 
3. page tg , ward tl , southern ll .  . j animal sci 69 , 1 
abstract 403 , 1991. 
4. p. clin physiol 1984 4 267 273 .  . 
5. kimball sr , jefferson ls .  . diabetes rev 4 , 1988. 
6. nk , kl , rowe jw .  . et al. j clin invest 76 
2306 , 1985 .  . 
7. m , p. biol chem 256 , 1981 
8. cs , ak , chambers jb , jr. , ray  . metabolism 
28 333 , 1979 .  . 
9. danforth e , jr. am j clin nutr 41 1132 , 1985 .  . 
10. mccarty mf .  . med 20 183 , 1986 .  . 
11. r , y , e. am j clin nutr 42 69 , 1985 .  . 
12. young jc , jl , tw , hp , nb .  . 
metabolism 35 1048 , 1986 .  . 


best regards , 
michael 



from  ( leon traister ) 
subject re 
keywords 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 32 

(stephen montgomery smith) writes 

what is the healthiest way to deal with should one just leave 
it in your ear and not mess with it , or should you clean it out 
every so often can cleaning it out damage your 
are there any tubes in your ear that might get blocked 

assuming that the wax is causing hearing loss , congestion or popping 
in the ears , you can try some cautious water irrigation with a 
bulb syringe , but it is awkward to do for oneself and may not work or 
may even make things worse.  ( my wife would disagree , she does it 
successfully every six months or so . ) . in any case do not attempt 
anything with q tips ! ! ! 

my experience has been that this is initially best handled by a 
ear nose throat person. i say initially , because an ent can evaluate 
whether or not you might have success on your own with a little 
instruction .  . 

i am not a physician  ( obviously , because i eschew the term 
otolaryngologist ) this posting is based only on personal experience. 



usual disclaimer the best is the enemy of the good voltaire 

leon 

c o amdahl corporation  ( 408)737 ) 
1250 e. ave. m s 338 
p.o. box 
sunnyvale , ca 94088 

from  ( ralph yozzo ) 
subject cold sore location 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host king arthur . watson . ibm . com . 
organization ibm t.j. watson research center 
lines 11 

i 've had cold in the past. but they have always been in the 
corner of my mouth. recently , i 've had what appears to be 
a cold sore , but on my lower lip in the middle  ( above the  . 

can cold appear anywhere around the mouth  ( or body) 

is there a medical term for cold sore 


ralph yozzo 
from the beautiful and historic new york state mid hudson valley .  . 

from (david dodell ) 
subject medical news part 1 4 
reply to (david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 707 

cut here 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 


! ! 
! health info com network ! 
! medical newsletter ! 

editor david dodell , d . m . d .  . 
10250 north 92nd street , suite 210 , scottsdale , arizona 85258 4599 usa 
telephone 1 (602) 860 1121 
fax 1 (602) 451 1165 

compilation copyright 1993 by david dodell , d . m . d .  . all rights reserved. 
license is hereby granted to republish on electronic media for which no 
fees are charged , so long as the text of this copyright notice and license 
are attached intact to any and all republished portion or portions .  . 

the health info com network newsletter is distributed biweekly .  . articles 
on a medical nature are welcomed .  . if you have an article , please contact 
the editor for information on how to submit it. if you are interested in 
joining the automated distribution system , please contact the editor. 

e mail address 
editor 
internet 
fidonet 1 114 15 
bitnet 
listserv  ( or internet 
anonymous ftp vm1 . nodak . edu . 
notification list notify 
fax delivery contact editor for information 




t a b l e o f c o n t e n t s 


1. centers for disease control and prevention 
23 april 1993 rates of delivery  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1 
malaria among u.s. embassy personnel  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5 
fda approval of vaccine for children infants  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8 

2. dental news 
workshop explores oral manifestations of hiv infection  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11 

3. food drug administration news 
fda approves depo , injectable contraceptive  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14 
new rules speed approval of drugs for life threatening illnesses ..... 16 

4. articles 
research promises preventing slowing blindness from retinal disease  .  .  . 18 
affluent diet increases risk of heart disease  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20 

5. general announcments 
publications for health professionals from national cancer institute . 23 
publications for patients available from national cancer institute ... 30 

6. aids news summaries 
aids daily summary for april 19 to april 23 , 1993  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38 

7. aids statistics 
worldwide aids statistics  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48 





medical newsletter page i 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 




centers for disease control and prevention 


rates of delivery united states , 1991 

source  ( 42(15 ) date apr 23 , 1993 

deliveries have accounted for nearly 1 million of the 
approximately 4 million annual deliveries in the united states since 1986 
 ( table 1) .  . the rate in the united states is the third highest among 
21 reporting countries , exceeded only by brazil and puerto rico (1) .  . this 
report presents data on deliveries from cdc 's national hospital 
discharge survey  ( nhds ) for 1991 and compares these data with previous years. 
data on discharges from short stay , hospitals have been 
collected annually since 1965 in the , conducted by cdc 's national center 
for health statistics. for 1991 , medical and demographic information were 
from a sample of 274 , 000 discharged from 484 
participating hospitals .  . the 1991 and vaginal births after a prior 
 ( vbac ) presented in this report are based on weighted national 
estimates from the sample of approximately 31 , 000 (11 ) women discharged 
after delivery. the estimated numbers of live births by type of delivery were 
calculated by applying rates from the to live births from 
national vital registration data. therefore , estimates of the number of 
in this report will not agree with previously published data based 
solely on the (2) .  . stated differences in this analysis are significant at 
the 95 confidence level , based on the two tailed t test with a critical value 
of 1 . 96 .  . 
in 1991 , there were 23.5 per 100 deliveries , the same rate as 
in 1990 and similar to rates during 1986 1989  ( table 1) .  . the primary 
rate (i . e .  . , number of first per 100 deliveries to women who had no 
previous cesareans ) for 1986 1991 also was stable , ranging from 16.8 to 17 . 5 .  . 
in 1991 , the rate in the south was 27.6 , significantly (p 0 . 05) . 
higher than the rates for the west (19 . 8) . , midwest (21 . 8) . , and northeast 
(22 . 6) .  . rates were higher for mothers aged greater than or equal to 30 years 
than for younger women in proprietary hospitals than in nonprofit or 
government hospitals in hospitals with fewer than 300 beds than in larger 
hospitals and for deliveries for which blue cross blue shield and other 
private insurance is the expected source of payment than for other sources of 
payment  ( table 2) .  . the same pattern characterized primary deliveries .  . 
since the early 1970s , the number and percentage of births to older women 
increased however , if the age distribution of mothers in 1991 had remained 
the same as in 1986 , the overall rate in 1991 would have been 23.3 , 
essentially the same as the 23.5 observed .  . 
based on the , of the approximately 4 , 111 , 000 live births in 1991 , an 

medical newsletter page 1 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

estimated 966 , 000 (23 . 5 . ) were by delivery. of these , an estimated 
338 , 000 (35 . 0 . ) births were repeat , and 628 , 000 0 . ) were primary 
 . since 1986 , approximately 600 , 000 primary have been 
performed annually .  . in 1986 , 8.5 of women who had a previous 
delivered , compared with 24.2 in 1991. of all in 1991 , 
35.0 were associated with a previous , 30.4 with (i . e .  . , 
failure of labor to progress ) , 11 . 7 . with breech presentation , 9 . 2 . with fetal 
distress , and 13 . 7 . with all other specified complications .  . 
the average hospital stay for all deliveries in 1991 was 2.8 days. in 
comparison , the hospital stay for a primary delivery was 4.5 days , 
and for a repeat , 4.2 days nearly twice the duration for 
deliveries (2 . 2 . days) or for vaginal deliveries that were not (2 . 3 . 
days) .  . in 1986 , the average hospital stay for all deliveries was 3.2 days , for 
primary 5.2 days , for repeat 4.7 days , and for and 
non vaginal deliveries 2.7 and 2.6 days , respectively .  . 

reported by office of vital and health statistics systems , national center 
for health statistics , cdc .  . 

editorial note the rate in the united states steadily increased from 
1965 through 1986 however , the findings in this report indicate that rates 
have been stable since 1986 (3) .  . because there is little evidence that 
maternal and child health status has improved during this time and because 
are associated with an increased risk for complications of 
childbirth , a national health objective for the year 2000 (4) is to reduce the 
overall rate to 15 or fewer per 100 deliveries and the primary 
rate to 12 or fewer per 100 deliveries  ( objective 14 . 8) .  . 
complications including urinary tract and wound infections 
may account in part for the longer hospital stays for deliveries 
than for vaginal births (5) .  . moreover , the prolonged hospital stays for 
deliveries substantially increase health care costs. for example , in 
1991 , the average costs for and vaginal deliveries were and 
, respectively .  . the additional cost for each delivery includes 
611 for physician fees and 2495 for hospital charges (6) .  . if the 
rate in 1991 had been 15 (the year 2000 objective ) instead of 23.5 , the number 
of births would have decreased by 349 , 000  ( 617 , 000 versus 966 , 000) , 
resulting in a savings of more than 1 billion in physician fees and hospital 
charges .  . 
despite the steady increase in rates since 1986 , several factors may 
impede progress toward the year 2000 national health objectives for 
delivery. for example , rates substantially reflect the number of women 
offered trial of labor , which has been increasingly encouraged since 1982 (7) .  . 
of women who are offered a trial of labor , 50 70 could deliver (7) 
a level already achieved by many hospitals (8) .  . trial of labor was routinely 
offered in 46 of hospitals surveyed in 1984 (the most recent year for which 

medical newsletter page 2 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

national data are available) (9) when the rate  ( according to data) 
was 5.7 . the year 2000 objective specifies a rate of 35 , based on all 
women who had a prior , regardless of whether a trial of labor was 
attempted .  . to reach the overall rate goal , however , increases in the 
rate will need to be combined with a substantial reduction in the primary 
rate. 
one hospital succeeded in reducing the rate of delivery by 
applying objective criteria for the four most common indications for 
delivery , by requiring a second opinion , and by a peer review 
process (10) .  . other recommendations for decreasing delivery rates 
include eliminating incentives for physicians and hospitals by equalizing 
for vaginal and deliveries public dissemination of 
physician and hospital specific delivery rates to increase public 
awareness of differences in practices and addressing malpractice concerns , 
which may be an important factor in maintaining the high rates of 
delivery (4) .  . 

references 

1. fc .  . international differences in the use of interventions .  . 
jama 1990 263 91 .  . 

2. graves ej ,  . 1991 summary national hospital discharge survey .  . 
, maryland us department of health and human services , public 
health service , cdc , 1993.  ( advance data no.  . 

3. sm , pj , cl .  . u.s. section rates , 1990 an 
update. birth 1992 19 21 2. 

4. public health service. healthy people 2000 national health promotion and 
disease prevention objectives full report , with commentary .  . washington , dc 
us department of health and human services , public health service , 1991 
publication no.  ( phs)91 ) 50212 .  . 

5. danforth dn .  . section. jama 1985 253 811 8. 

6. hospital insurance association of america .  . table 4.15 cost of maternity 
care , physicians  fees , and hospital charges , by census region , based on 
consumer price index  . in 1992 source book of health insurance data. 
washington , dc hospital insurance association of america , 1992. 

7. committee on obstetrics .  . committee opinion no. 64 guidelines for 
vaginal delivery after a previous birth. washington , dc american 
college of and gynecologists , 1988. 


medical newsletter page 3 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

8. rosen mg , dickinson jc .  . vaginal birth after a meta analysis of 
indicators for success. 1990 76 865 9. 

9. ph , fielden jg , d , gg , wh .  . recent trends in 
birth and trial of labor rates in the united states. jama 
1987 257 494 7. 

10. myers sa , n. a successful program to lower section 
rates. n engl j med 1988 319 6. 

use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and 
does not imply endorsement by the public health service or the u.s. department 
of health and human services. 
































medical newsletter page 4 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

malaria among u.s. embassy personnel , , 1992 

source  ( 42(15 ) date apr 23 , 1993 

the treatment and prevention of malaria in africa has become a 
challenging and complex problem because of increasing drug resistance. 
although the risk of acquiring malaria for u.s. citizens and their 
stationed overseas generally has been low , this risk varies substantially and 
unpredictably .  . during may 1992 , the office of medical services , department of 
state  ( oms dos) , and cdc were notified of an increased number of malaria cases 
among official u.s. personnel stationed in ,  . a review of the 
health records from the embassy health unit  ( ehu ) in indicated that 27 
cases of malaria were diagnosed in official personnel from march through june 
1992 compared with two cases during the same period in 1991. , oms dos , and 
cdc conducted an investigation to confirm all reported malaria cases and 
identify potential risk factors for malaria among u.s. embassy personnel .  . this 
report summarizes the results of the investigation .  . 
malaria blood smears from 25 of the 27 reported case patients were 
available for review by oms dos and cdc .  . a case of malaria was confirmed if 
the slide was positive for sp. of the 25 persons , 17 were slide 
confirmed as having malaria .  . 
a questionnaire was distributed to all persons served by the to 
obtain information about residence , activities , use of malaria 
, and use of personal protection measures (i . e .  . , using 
and insect , having window and door screens , and wearing long 
sleeves and pants in the evening) .  . of the 157 persons eligible for the survey , 
128  ( 82 ) responded .  . 
risk for malaria was not associated with sex or location of residence in 
 . although the risk for malaria was higher among children aged less 
than or equal to 15 years (6 32 19 ) than among persons greater than 15 
years (11 94 12 ) , this difference was not significant  ( relative risk 
rr 1.6 95 confidence interval ci 0.6 4 . 0) .  . eighty two percent of the 
cases occurred among persons who had been living in for 1 5 years , 
compared with those living there less than 1 year. travel outside of the 
area to more rural settings was not associated with increased risk for 
malaria .  . 
four malaria were used by persons who 
participated in the survey , and , 
alone , and alone. in addition , 23 (18 ) persons who responded were 
not using any malaria  . the risk for malaria was significantly 
lower among persons using either or and (8 88 
9 ) than among persons using the other or no prophylaxis (9 37 
24 )  ( rr 0.4 95 ci 0.2 0 . 9) .  . twelve persons not using prophylaxis reported 
side effects or fear of possible side effects as a reason. 
the risk for malaria was lower among persons who reported using 

medical newsletter page 5 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

all or most of the time (2 27 7 ) than among persons who sometimes or rarely 
used (15 99 15 )  ( rr 0.5 95 ci 0.1 2 . 0) .  . the risk for malaria was 
also lower among persons who consistently used insect repellent in the evening 
(0 16) , compared with those who rarely used repellent (17 110 15 )  ( rr 0 
upper 95 confidence limit 1 . 2) .  . risk for malaria was not associated with 
failure to have window or door screens or wear long sleeves or pants in the 
evening. 
as a result of this investigation , staff reviewed with all personnel 
the need to use and comply with the recommended malaria 
 . staff also emphasized the need to use personal protection 
measures and made plans to obtain impregnated and to 
provide window and door screens for all personnel .  . 

reported by u.s. embassy health unit , , office of medical 
svcs , dept of state , washington , d.c. malaria br , div of parasitic diseases , 
national center for infectious diseases , cdc .  . 

editorial note in , the increase in malaria among u.s. personnel was 
attributed to poor adherence to both recommended malaria 
and use of personal protection measures during a period of increased 
malaria transmission and intensified resistance in sub 
africa .  . the findings in this report underscore the need to provide initial and 
continued counseling regarding malaria prevention for persons living abroad in 
malaria endemic areas preventive measures that are also important for 
short term travelers to such areas. 
is an effective prophylaxis regimen in africa and in most 
other areas with resistant p. however , in some areas 
(e . g .  . , thailand ) , resistance to may limit its effectiveness .  . in 
africa , the efficacy of , compared with alone , in 
preventing infection with p. is 92 (1 ) .  . is safe and 
well tolerated when given at 250 mg per week over a 2 year period. the risk 
for serious adverse reactions possibly associated with prophylaxis 
(e . g .  . , psychosis and convulsions ) is low (i . e .  . , 1.3 1.9 episodes per 100 , 000 
users 2) , while the risk for less severe adverse reactions (e . g .  . , dizziness , 
gastrointestinal complaints , and sleep disturbances ) is similar to that for 
other (1) .  . 
has similar efficacy to , but the need 
for daily dosing may reduce compliance with and effectiveness of this regimen 
(3 , 4) .  . alone is not effective as prophylaxis in areas of intense 
resistance (e . g .  . , southeast asia and  . in africa , for 
persons who cannot take or , and 
is an alternative , although less effective , regimen .  . should be 
used for malaria prevention in areas only where resistant p. 
has not been reported .  . 
country specific recommendations for preventing malaria and information 

medical newsletter page 6 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

on the dosage and precautions for malaria are 
available from health information for international travel , 1992 (i . e .  . , 
yellow book ) (5) or 24 hours a day by telephone or fax , (404) 332  . 

references 

1. ho , m , eng t , et al. long term malaria prophylaxis with weekly 
in peace corps volunteers an effective and well tolerated regimen .  . 
lancet 1993 341 848 51 .  . 

2. world health organization. review of central nervous system adverse events 
related to the drug ,  ( 1985 1990) .  . geneva world health 
organization , 1991 publication no. who mal 91 . 1063 .  . 

3. pang l , n , p. treatment of and 
malaria with low dose  . j infect dis 1988 158 1124 7. 

4. pang l , n , boudreau ef , p. prophylaxis for 
malaria .  . lancet 1987 1 1161 4. 

5. cdc .  . health information for international travel , 1992. atlanta us 
department of health and human services , public health service , 1992 98 
publication no.  ( cdc)92 )  . 






















medical newsletter page 7 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

fda approval of use of a new b vaccine and a 
combined and b 
vaccine for infants and children 

source  ( 42(15 ) date apr 23 , 1993 

influenzae type b  ( hib ) vaccines have been 
recommended for use in infants since 1990 , and their routine use in infant 
vaccination has contributed to the substantial decline in the incidence of 
disease in the united states (1 3) .  . vaccines against , , and 
during infancy and childhood have been administered routinely in the 
united states since the late 1940s and has been associated with a greater than 
90 reduction in morbidity and mortality associated with infection by these 
organisms .  . because of the increasing number of vaccines now routinely 
recommended for infants , a high priority is the development of combined 
vaccines that allow simultaneous administration with fewer separate 
injections .  . 
the food and drug administration  ( fda ) recently licensed two new products 
for children against these diseases 1) the b 
vaccine  ( tetanus , trademark ) , for 
vaccination against disease only and 2) a combined and 
and whole cell vaccine  ( dtp ) and vaccine 
 ( tetramune trademark ) , a combination of vaccines formulated for use in 
children against , , , and disease. 

trademark 

on march 30 , 1993 , the fda approved a new b 
vaccine , phosphate  ( prp t) , 
manufactured by pasteur serum et and distributed as 
trademark by connaught laboratories , inc.  ( swiftwater ,  . this 
vaccine has been licensed for use in infants in a three dose primary 
vaccination series administered at ages 2 , 4 , and 6 months. previously 
infants 7 11 months of age should receive two doses 2 months 
apart. previously children 12 14 months of age should receive one 
dose .  . a booster dose administered at 15 months of age is recommended for all 
children. previously children 15 59 months of age should receive 
a single dose and do not require a booster .  . more than 90 of infants receiving 
a primary vaccination series of trademark  ( consecutive doses at 2 , 4 , 
and 6 months of age) develop a geometric mean of anti b 
greater than 1 ug ml (4) .  . this response is similar to 
that of infants who receive recommended series of previously licensed 
b vaccines for which efficacy has been demonstrated in 
prospective trials .  . two u.s. efficacy trials of t were terminated early 
because of the licensure of other b vaccines 

medical newsletter page 8 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

for use in infants (4) .  . in these studies , no cases of invasive disease 
were detected in approximately 6000 infants with t. these and 
other studies suggest that the efficacy of t vaccine will be similar to 
that of the other licensed vaccines .  . trademark 
on march 30 , 1993 , the fda approved a combined and 
and whole cell vaccine  ( dtp ) and b 
vaccine .  . trademark , available from  ( pearl 
river , new york ) , combines two previously licensed products , dtp  ( triimmunol 
registered , manufactured by laboratories pearl river , new york ) and 
b vaccine  ( hibtiter registered , manufactured by 
biologics , inc. rochester , new  . 
this vaccine has been licensed for use in children aged 2 months 5 years 
for protection against , , , and disease when 
indications for vaccination with dtp vaccine and b 
vaccine coincide .  . based on demonstration of co or higher 
responses to each of the components of the two vaccines , trademark 
is expected to provide protection against , as well as , , 
and , equivalent to that of already licensed formulations of other 
dtp and b vaccines .  . 
the advisory committee for immunization practices  ( acip ) recommends that 
all infants receive a primary series of one of the licensed b 
vaccines beginning at 2 months of age and a booster dose at age 12 
15 months (5) .  . the also recommends that all infants receive a four dose 
primary series of and and vaccine at 2 , 
4 , 6 , and 15 18 months of age , and a booster dose at 4 6 years (6 8) .  . a 
complete statement regarding recommendations for use of trademark and 
trademark is being developed .  . 

reported by office of vaccines research and review , center for biologics 
evaluation and research , food and drug administration. div of immunization , 
national center for prevention svcs meningitis and special pathogens br , div 
of bacterial and mycotic diseases , national center for infectious diseases , 
cdc .  . 

references 

1. adams wg , ka , sl , et al. decline of childhood 
influenzae type b  ( hib ) disease in the vaccine era. jama 1993 269 221 6. 

2. le , erickson rl , kelley pw .  . decrease in invasive 
influenzae disease in u.s. army children , 1984 through 1991. jama 
1993 269 227 31. 

3. murphy tv , white ke , pastor p , et al. declining incidence of 
influenzae type b disease since introduction of vaccination .  . jama 

medical newsletter page 9 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

1993 269 246 8. 

4. b , s. efficacy and safety of a influenzae type 
b protein vaccine .  . j 
1992 121 355 62 .  . 

5.  . b vaccines for prevention of 
influenzae type b disease among infants and children two months of age and 
older recommendations of the immunization practices advisory committee 
 . 1991  . rr 1) .  . 

6.  . , , and recommendations for vaccine use 
and other preventive measures recommendations of the immunization practices 
advisory committee  . 1991  . rr 10) .  . 

7.  . vaccination vaccine for reinforcing 
and booster use supplementary statement recommendations of the 
immunization practices advisory committee  . 1992  . rr 1) .  . 

8.  . vaccination vaccine for the fourth and 
fifth doses of the dtp series update to supplementary statement 
recommendations of the immunization practices advisory committee  . 
1992  . rr 15) .  . 

use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and 
does not imply endorsement by the public health service or the u.s. department 
of health and human services. 


















medical newsletter page 10 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 




dental news 


international workshop explores oral manifestations of 
hiv infection 

research digest 
written by jody dove 
march 1993 
national institute of dental research 

at the second international workshop on the oral manifestations of hiv 
infection , held january 31 february 3 in san francisco , participants explored 
issues related to the epidemiology , basic molecular , mucosal 
immunology , and oral clinical presentations of hiv infection .  . 
the workshop was organized by dr. john and dr. deborah 
of the department of , school of dentistry , university of 
california , san francisco .  . an international steering committee and scientific 
program committee provided guidance .  . 
the conference drew more than 260 scientists from 39 countries , including 
asia , africa , europe , central america , south america , as well as the united 
states and canada .  . support tor the workshop was provided by the national 
institute of dental research , the national cancer institute , the national 
institute of allergy and infectious diseases , the nih office of aids research , 
and the and gamble company. 
among the topics discussed were the epidemiology of hiv lesions ethics , 
professional responsibility , and public policy occupational issues provision 
of oral care to the hiv positive population hiv transmission and 
mucosal immunity opportunistic infections pediatric hiv infection and 
women 's issues. 

recommendations 

recommendations emerged from the workshop to define the association 
between the appearance of oral lesions and rate of progression of hiv , to 
establish a universal terminology for hiv associated oral lesions , to look for 
more effective treatments for oral manifestations , to expand molecular biology 
studies to understand the relationship between hiv infection and common oral 
lesions , and to study the effects of hiv therapy on oral lesions .  . 

epidemiology 

since the first international workshop on oral manifestations of hiv 
infection was five years ago , the epidemiology of hiv infection has 

medical newsletter page 11 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

radically changed. in 1988 , hiv infection was detected and reported largely 
in homosexual and bisexual males , intravenous drug users , and  . 
today , more hiv infection is seen in heterosexual males and females and in 
children and adolescents .  . 
while the predominant impact of hiv infection has been felt in africa , a 
major increase in infection rate is being seen in southeast asia as well. 
five hundred thousand cases have been reported to date in this region and more 
are appearing all the time. 
researchers are continuing to document the epidemiology of oral lesions 
such as hairy and candidiasis .  . they also are beginning to explore 
the relationships between specific oral lesions and hiv disease progression 
and prognosis .  . 

social political issues 

discussion on the social and political implications of hiv infection 
focused on changing the public 's attitude that aids is retribution for 
indiscriminate sexual behavior and drug use. speakers also addressed health 
care delivery for hiv infected patients , and the need to educate the public 
about what aids is , and how it is acquired .  . 

and glands 

conference speakers described transmission issues and the hiv 
activity of , the strength of which varies among the different 
secretions .  . whole has a greater effect than 
secretions , which in turn have a greater effect than 
secretions .  . research has shown that at least two mechanisms are responsible 
for activity. they attributed the hiv effect 
of to the 1) agglutination of hiv by , which may both 
promote clearance of virus and prevent it reaching a target cell , and 2) 
direct effects on the virus or target cells. 
other topics discussed were the manifestation of gland disease 
in hiv infected persons and current research on oral mucosal immunity .  . 

pediatric issues 

pediatric aids recently has emerged as an area of intense interest. with 
early and accurate diagnosis and proper treatment , the life expectancy of hiv 
infected children has tripled .  . the prevention of transmission of hiv from 
mother to child may be possible in many cases , particularly if the mother 's 
status is known prior to giving birth. 

and tissue disease 


medical newsletter page 12 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 

oral health researchers continue to explore diseases and 
found in individuals with hiv infection .  . recommendations made at 
the workshop include the standardization of terminology , refinement of 
diagnostic markers , standardization of study design , and proper consideration 
of confounding variables resulting from therapy. 

occupational and treatment issues 

occupational issues surrounding the treatment of hiv infected individuals 
and treatment rendered by hiv infected health care professionals still command 
considerable attention. factors under consideration include the cost benefit 
of hiv testing , patient to health care provider transmission of hiv infection 
and the reverse , and the use of mainstream versus dedicated facilities for the 
treatment of hiv infected patients .  . 
conference participants anticipate that a third international workshop on 
the oral manifestations of hiv infection will be held in five years or less. 
proceedings from the second workshop will be published by the quintessence 
company in late 1993. 






















end of part 1 


internet fax 1 (602) 451 1165 
bitnet fidonet 1 114 15 
amateur packet ax25 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re we can supply you with the other 
organization the portal system (tm) 
distribution world 
lines 1 

harvested to order 

from uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . ! (stephen holland ) 
subject re annual inguinal hernia repair 
organization gastroenterology univ. of alabama 
lines 28 


in article , 
(j .  . porter clark ) wrote 
synopsis young man with hernia on one side , repaired , now has 
new hernia on other side. what gives , he asks and he continues .  .  .  . 
of course , my wife thinks it 's from sitting for long periods of time at 
the computer , reading news .  .  .  . 

there is the possibility that there is some degree of causing 
chronic straining which has caused the bowel movements .  . the classic 
problems that are supposed to be looked for in someone with a hernia are 
, chronic cough , colon cancer  ( and you 're not too young for 
that) and sitting for long periods of time at the computer , reading news. 

good luck with your surgery ! 

steve holland 

well , that post was not that accurate. people with early life 
are felt to have a congenital sack that promotes the formation of  . 
the of later life may be more associated with chronic straining .  . 
however , the risk of damage to the intestine without an operation is 
high enough that it ought to be repaired .  . the risk of cancer is probably 
no higher than the general population , but since you are near 40 , it would 
be sensible to have some sort of cancer screening , such as a flexible 
 . sorry for the misleading info. 

steve holland 

from mrc (paul johnson ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
reply to mrc (paul johnson ) 
organization gec marconi research centre , great , uk 
lines 28 

in article  ( mats winberg ) writes 

is n't there a relatively new treatment for kidney stones involving 
a non invasive use of ultra sound where the patient is lowered 
into some sort of liquid when he she undergoes treatment i'm sure 
i 've read about it somewhere. if i remember it correctly it is a 
painless and effective treatment. 
a couple of weeks ago i visited a hospital here in stockholm and 
saw big signs showing the way to the kidney stone ... 

i saw this a few years ago on tomorrow 's world  ( low brow bbc 
technology news program) .  . the patient is lowered into a bath of 
de water and carefully positioned .  . high intensity pressure 
waves are generated by an electric spark in the water  ( you do n't get 
because de water does not  . these waves are 
focused on the kidneys by a parabolic reflector and cause the stone to 
break up. this is completely painless .  . 

of course , you then have to get these little bits of gravel through 
the  . ouch ! 

paul .  . 


paul johnson  ( paj@gec mrc . co . uk) .  . tel 44 245 ext 3245 

these ideas and others like them can be had gec marconi research is not 
for 0.02 each from any reputable idealist .  . responsible for my opinions 

from 
subject re pregnency without sex 
nntp posting host uky . edu . 
organization the university of kentucky 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 
lines 27 

in article node . hub . org . 
node . hub . org . (brian tao ) writes 

in article , harry matthews writes .  .  .  . 

i 've heard of community swimming pools refered to as public so what 
else is going on 

do you swim nude in a public swimming pool ) i doubt sperm can 
penetrate material , assuming they are n't immediately dispersed 
by water currents .  . 

brian tao node . hub . org . (r node bbs , 416 249 5366 , free ! ) 
 ( university of toronto ) 

here we go again. 



u uk k university gary w. gregory 
u uk k of kentucky 
u 
uu kk 
uuu k kk department of ob gyn 
ms 335 medical center 
lexington , kentucky 0084 


from (mike g . ) . 
subject re need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
organization drexel university 
lines 32 
x useragent v1 . 

need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 

in article gunnar , 
writes 
i need information on the medical  ( including emotional ) pros and 
cons of circumcision (at birth) .  . i am especially interested in 
references to studies that indicate disadvantages or refute studies 
that indicate advantages .  . a friend who is a medical student is 
writing a survey paper , and apparently the studies she has run into 
are all for circumcision , the main argument being a lower risk of 
cancer. 

please email responses as i am not a frequent reader of either group. 
i will summarize to the net. 

i'm very surprised that medical schools still push routine circumcision 
of newborn males on the population .  . since your friend is not a man , she 
ca n't imagine what it 's like to have a penis , much less a foreskin .  . i 
guess if american medicine did an artistic job of circumcising every 
male , then the visual result would be somewhat more natural in 
appearance .  .  .  . 

the cancer thing has been completely  .  . she . must be 
going to school on a south pacific island. tell her to check the journal 
or urology for circumcision articles. i remember at least 1 on an old 
jewish man  ( cut at birth) who developed cancer .  .  .  . i . mean , if the 
cancer risk was that great , the europe who have been circumcising like 
crazy , too. teaching a boy how to keep his clean is the issue a 
little proper goes a long way americans are just too hung up on 
the penis to consider cleaning it that 's just way too much like 
 . so you have surgical intervention that is basically 
unnecessary .  . 

from (robert werckmeister ) 
subject data needed 
organization university of illinois at chicago 
lines 3 

i need some data , uncompressed , hopefully in ascii format. 
do n't care what it looks like , this is for a signal processing 
project. 

from  ( steve giammarco ) 
subject help. info  ( allergies ) 
organization sdf public access unix dallas , tx 214 436 3281 
lines 14 

my doc handed me 10mg samples of  ( brand of tablet 
from corp . ) . i tried to find it in the pdr to no avail. i 
do remember she mentioned this drug was relatively new to the us but 
available overseas for quite some time. 

looking mostly for side effect , , and mode of action 
such that it differs from and  . 

email or newsgroup is fine. thanx in advance. 


steve giammarco 5330 peterson lane dallas tx 75240 

loveyameanit .  . 

from  ( barbara hlavin ) 
subject re ring pvc 's 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 42 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . uabdpo . dpo . uab . edu . ! (stephen holland ) writes 
in article , 
wrote 

the second issue summarized he has had extra for the past 
3 to 4 years , and once was symptomatic from them , with some 
lightheadedness .  . 
he is young , (30 ish ) , thin and in good 
health  ( recent were all normal) , and do not smoke , use drugs or 
caffeine , etc. i'm willing to accept the extra beats as normal , but do n't 
want to ignore them if they might be some kind of warning symptom .  . the number 
of pvc 's seems to increase throughout the day , and with exercise  ( or something 
as simple as climbing some  . also , if i get up after sitting or lying 
down for a while , i tend to get a couple of extra beats .  . could they possibly 
be related to the problems both seemed to develop at about the 
same time. 

i' not an expert on heart problems , but pvc 's are common and have been 
in the past. my personal experience , and i have the same 
history an build you do  ( related to the heart , that is) , is that my pvc 's 
come and go , with some months causing anxiety .  . taking on more fluids 
seems to help , and they seem worse in the summer. remember that a slow 
heart rate will allow more pvc 's to be apparent , so perhaps it is an 
indication of a healthy cardiac system  ( but ask an expert about that 
last point , especially) 

i too have had premature ventricular heartbeat , starting in 1974 .  .  ( these 
are not , by the way , extra  . this is how they feel , and 
this is how i described them initially to the doctor , but they 're 
actually premature  . i would sometimes experience a lapse 
after one of these that went on for a long period of time , 
making me wonder if my heart were ever going to beat again . ) . 

i had them persistently for eighteen years. then i went on a low fat 
diet , and they just stopped .  . i have n't had a single episode of 
for almost two years. i know correlation does not imply  . 
this is just fwiw .  . 

barbara 




from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re eye dominance 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 35 

 ( barry d benowitz ) writes 

in article (richard silver ) writes 

is there a right eye dominance  ( eyedness ) as there is an 
overall right handedness in the population i mean do most 
people require less lens corrections for the one eye than the 
other if so , what kinds of percentages can be attached to this 
thanks. 


yes , there is such a thing as eye dominance , although i am not sure if 
this dominance refers to perscription strength. 

as i recall , if you selectively close your dominant eye , you will percieve 
that the image shifts .  . this will not happen if you close your other eye. 

i believe that which eye is dominant is related to handedness , but i 
ca n't recall the relation at the moment. 

barry d. benowitz 

i read a great book about eye dominance several years ago. so there is one 
book out there .  . at . least one ) .  . 

there were several types of eye dominance .  . where a person looks in their 
memory usually indicates a type of eye another type is related to 
coordination activities like hitting a ball. another for reading. 

i did n't read one that discussed prescription strength. although people 
with bad vision , near or far sighted would tend to depend on the stronger 
eye. 

jackie 


from  ( jeff silva ) 
subject re help for kidney stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization hp sonoma county  ( srsd mid ) 
lines 29 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 9 . 

wrote 
my girlfriend is in pain from kidney stones .  . she says that because she has no 
medical insurance , she cannot get them removed. 

my question is there any way she can treat them herself , or at least mitigate 
their effects any help is deeply appreciated.  ( advice , referral to literature , 
etc .  .  . ) . 

thank you , 

dave 


first off , i would consider the severity of the pain. i had stones 
several years ago , and there 's now way i could have made it without 
heavy duty doses of morphine and demerol and a two week stay in the 
hospital. i was told that there was nothing that i could take that would 
dissolve them. if the stones are , the best thing she could do 
is drink lots of water , and hope that they pass , but every time they 
move a little , the pain will be excrutiating .  . i was told by my doctor 
at that time that the pain was comparable to that of childbirth .  . (yes , 
by a male doctor , so i'm sure some of you women will  . i 'd 
really like to know the truth in this , so maybe some of you women who 
have had a baby and a kidney stone could fill me in. 


jeff silva 
 ( 707 ) 577 


from  ( will estes ) 
subject use of haldol in elderly 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 14 

does anyone know of research done on the use of haldol in the elderly does 
short term use of the drug ever produce long term side effects after 
the use of the drug my grandmother recently had to be hospitalized 
and was given large doses of haldol for several weeks. although the 
drug has been terminated , she has changed from a , slightly 
senile woman into a virtual vegetable who does not talk to anyone 
and who cannot even eat or brush her teeth without assistance. it 
seems incredible to me that such changes could take place in the 
course of just one and one half months. i have to believe that the 
combination of the hospital stay and some  ( drug(s ) are in part 
for this. any comments 


will estes internet 

from  ( resinfo ) 
subject investigating 
reply to 
organization demon 
lines 10 
x mailer simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 19) . 

 ( research and information) is currently seeking contact 
in the united kingdom with researchers of   , or is 
this amino acid uninspiring 

is not a regular subscriber to sci . med . due to the 
excessive load of data and regrettably , our limited ability 
to monitor. it would therefore be appreciated if replies 
could be sent direct to 

using the ref mr t . a . t .  . 

from end . pad . otc . com . au .  ( johnathon goldstein ) 
subject bates eye exercises 
organization limited 
lines 23 

have i mailed this to the correct  ( newsgroup(s ) are there other  ( newsgroup(s ) 
which cover the following topic 


has anyone with myopia  ( short sightedness ) ever done the bates eye exercises 

if so , could you please e mail me the following information 

age and state of sight before exercises were commenced 

type , frequency , and length of time spent on exercises performed 

improvements noticed immediately after performing exercises 

length of period before any improved sight 

thanks in advance for any replies. i 'll summarise and post results if there 's 
enough interest. 

jonathan 


jonathan 61 2 339 

from  ( felix the cat ) 
subject re a good place for back surgery 
distribution usa 
organization public access unix , nyc 
lines 36 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

gary . wrote 


hello , 

just one quick question 
my father has had a back problem for a long time and doctors 
have diagnosed an operation is needed. since he lives down in 
mexico , he wants to know if there is a hospital anywhere in 
the united states particulary famous for this kind of surgery , 
kind of like houston has a reputation for excellent doctors 
in eye surgery. any additional info or pointers will be 
appreciated a whole lot ! ... 

there is one hospital that is here in new york city that is famous for its 
orthopedists , namely the hospital for special surgery. they are located on 
the upper east side of manhattan .  . if you want their address and phone let 
me know , i 'll get them , i dont know them off hand. 

for those who are interested the hospitals i was referring to are 

the hospital for special surgery 
535 east street 
new york , ny 10021 
212 606  ( physician referral service info) 

the hospital for joint diseases 
301 east 17th street 
new york , ny 
212 598 7600 


felix the cat 
0 0 the wonderful , wonderful cat ! 
@ 
! 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re deficiency 
organization s.p. dyer computer consulting , cambridge ma 

in article (erik the viking ) writes 
she has been to a doctor and taken the ordinary ( ) 
tests and her values were regarded as low. the doctor  ( and my wife) are 
not very interested in starting medication as this the 
gland , giving life long dependency to the drug  ( hormone ) .  . 

this is ridiculous , and your doctor sounds like a nut , if what is 
reported here is what the doctor actually said. if your wife 's 
pancreas stops producing insulin and therefore becomes diabetic , she 'll 
need insulin replacement .  . that does n't mean she 's dependent on 
insulin , anymore than she was beforehand if her body does n't make 
enough , she 'll have to get it elsewhere. oral thyroid replacement 
hormone therapy is the cornerstone of treatment for , and 
it 's really the only effective therapy available anyway. plus , it 's 
cheap. taking thyroid hormone when it is n't needed does cause your 
thyroid gland to reduce its own production of the hormone , but that 's a 
feature , not a bug , and it 's irrelevant in any case in the face of 
, because her problem that her gland is n't producing 
enough. there is n't a clinical phenomenon of thyroid 
caused by a sudden of exogenous thyroid hormone 
analogous to adrenal caused by the sudden cessation of 
prolonged administration of corticosteroids , so there should be no 
worry about inappropriately suppressing the thyroid gland .  . 

the last couple of 
monthes she has been seeing a (sp ) and been given 
some drops to re activate either her gland and or the 
 message center  in the brain (sorry about the approximate language , 
but i have n't got many clues to what the english terms are , but the 
brain area is called the   in norwegian . ) . 

homeopathy is nonsense. tell her to stop wasting her money , health and time , 
and get her to a legitimate doctor who will be in a position to make 
a proper diagnosis and recommend the right therapy. 


steve dyer 
major . spdcc . com . aka ima , harvard , , linus , m2c ! spdcc ! dyer 

subject re localized fat reduction due to exercise  ( question 
from  ( ruth ginzberg ) 
distribution world 
organization philosophy dept. , wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . 20in . reply to 's message of sun , 25 apr 93 20 32 23 22 
lines 22 

in writes 

i was just wondering if exercises specific to particular regions of the 
body  ( such as thighs) will basically only tone the thighs , or if fat 
from other parts of the body  ( such as breasts ) would be affected just as 
much. 

there are two different mechanisms here toning of muscles and reduction of 
fat. exercises specific to particular muscles will tone only those muscles 
exercised  ( example look at differences in arm between pitching 
arms and non pitching arms in major league  . however , if exercise 
also leads to reduction of body fat , the loss of body fat will be equally 
distributed over the entire body. there is no way to spot reduce body fat 
other than surgically , through  . distribution of body fat is 
genetically determined .  . sometimes a very flabby muscle will look like fat , 
so when that muscle gains some muscle tone it may appear as though the fat 
is changing into muscle , but really fat and muscle tissues are totally 
separate , and one does not ever change into the other. 


ruth ginzberg 
philosophy department wesleyan university usa 

from  ( tad cook ) 
subject re photography 
organization very little 
lines 37 

in article emporium ) writes 
in article ,  ( bill dowding ) writes 
(brian m. huey ) writes 

i think that 's the correct spelling .  .  . 
i am looking for any information supplies that will allow 
do it yourselfers to take pictures. i'm thinking 
that education suppliers for schools might have a appartus for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the companies. any info is greatly 
appreciated. 

photography involves taking pictures of minute decapods resident in 
the seas surrounding the antarctic .  . or pictures taken by them , perhaps. 

bill from oz 



bill , 
no flame intended but you 're way , way off base. in simple terms kirilian 
photography registers the fields around objects , in simple , 
it takes pictures of your aura .  . 



greg 

you 're confused. you are talking about kirilian photography. 

bill is talking photography. 



 ( if it bounces , use 
tad cook packet amateur radio home phone 
seattle , wa @ wa . usa . na . 206 527 


from  ( gunnar blix ) 
subject need info on circumcision , medical cons and pros 
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 20 

i need information on the medical  ( including emotional ) pros and 
cons of circumcision (at birth) .  . i am especially interested in 
references to studies that indicate disadvantages or refute studies 
that indicate advantages .  . a friend who is a medical student is 
writing a survey paper , and apparently the studies she has run into 
are all for circumcision , the main argument being a lower risk of 
cancer. 

please email responses as i am not a frequent reader of either group. 
i will summarize to the net. 


gunnar good advice is one of those insults that 
ought to be forgiven .  . unknown 



gunnar good advice is one of those insults that 
ought to be forgiven .  . unknown 

