from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re rocket types 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 14 

in article  ( glen justin balmer ) writes 
it said that in the 60 's they developed a rocket that used ions or nuclear 
particles for  . 
the government however , did n't give them 1billion for the developement .  .  .  . 

i 'd guess this was a garbled report of the effort to develop a 
solid core fission rocket (the most mundane type of nuclear  . 
that was the only advanced propulsion project that was done on a large 
enough scale to be likely to attract news attention. it could be any 
number of things the description given is awfully vague but i 'd 
put a small bet on  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( dave kappl ) 
subject re abyss breathing fluids 
organization microsoft corp. 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

in article wrote 
are breathable liquids possible 

i remember seeing an old nova or the nature of things where this idea was 
touched upon (it might have been some other tv show) .  . if nothing else , i know 
such liquids are possible because .  .  .  . 

they showed a large glass full of this liquid , and put a white mouse  ( rat ) in 
it. since the liquid was not dense , the mouse would float , so it was held down 
by tongs clutching its tail. the thing struggled quite a bit , but it was 
certainly held down long enough so that it was breathing the liquid .  . it never 
did slow down in its frantic attempts to swim to the top. 

now , this may not have been the most humane of demonstrations , but it certainly 
shows breathable liquids can be made. 

isaac kuo 
o 
twinkle , twinkle , little  . sig . , ( ( ) ) 
keep it less than 5 lines big. 

this was on that 's incredible several years ago. the volume of liquid 
the rat had to breath was considerably smaller than what a human would have 
to breath , so maybe it is possible for a rat but not a human. 



from  ( glen justin balmer ) 
subject rocket types 
organization university of wollongong , nsw , australia .  . 
lines 13 
nntp posting host cs . uow . edu . au . 


the other week i saw a tv program about the american space industry and nasa .  . 
it said that in the 60 's they developed a rocket that used ions or nuclear 
particles for  . 
the government however , did n't give them 1billion for the developement 
of a full scale rocket .  . 
did anybody see this program 
if not , has anybody heard of the particle system 

thanx .  . 8 ) 

glen  .  .  . 


from  ( rob unverzagt ) 
subject re moon image in weather sat image 
organization organization you must be kidding. 
lines 26 
nntp posting host aerospace . aero . org . 

in article (richard ottolini ) writes 
in article (george wm turner) writes 

an image of the moon has been caught in a weather satellite images of the earth. 
it appears in both the 0430 ir and visual images of the earth. 
the gif images can be down loaded from vmd . cso . uiuc . edu . and are named 
gif . and gif . for the ir and visual images respectively .  . 

pretty cool pictures in the ir it 's saturated but in the visual image 
details on the moon are viewable .  . 

near , you can see the of the sun in the ocean .  . 
also during solar you can see the shadow of the sun move 
across the clouds .  . 

speaking of which , a paper was out a few years ago about a 
weather sat imaging a lunar eclipse are those images 
uploaded anywhere i could dig out the reference if there 's interest. 

shag 



rob unverzagt 
tuesday is soylent green day. 


from 
subject re statement by nasa administrator daniel s. g 
reply to 
organization bell telephone 
lines 20 
nntp posting host 138 . 203 . 8 . 26 . 

if this man clark is a nasa administrator then god save nasa .  . of course 
the shuttles record is ! there is only one shuttle .  . furthermore , 
there is only likely to be one shuttle now that hermes and are 
effectively cancelled .  . 

these officials should spend more of their time explaining to their 
european and asian partners how we are expected to believe in them 
when their change their minds on major international 
projects everytime a new us administration takes office  ( considering 
the major impacts this has on the european and asian  ( japanese ) 
 . it is also appreciated how this affects american 
industry. i am of course talking about space freedom .  . 


dennis newport , email 
bell telephone , 
33 , phone ( 32) 3 829 . 
2660 hoboken , 
belgium .  . 


subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they 
from 

organization mankato state university 
nntp posting host vax1 . mankato . msus . edu . 
lines 53 

in article , (it 's enrico palazzo ! ) writes 
from graydon 

if all of these things have been detected in space , has anyone 
looked into possible problems with the detectors 

that is , is there some mechanism  ( cosmic rays , whatever) that 
could cause the dector to think it was seeing one of these 
things 

graydon 

that would not explain why widely separated detectors , such as on ulysses 
and pvo and ginga et al. , would see a burst at the same  ( time ) .  . in fact , be 
fore batse , having this widely separated interplanetary network was the 
only sure way to locate a random burst .  . with only one detector , one cannot 
locate a burst (except to say it 's somewhere in the field of view. ) .  . with 
two detectors , one can use the time that the burst is seen in each detector 
to narrow the location to a thin annulus on the sky. with three detectors , 
one gets intersecting annuli , giving two possible locations .  . if one of these 
locations is impossible  ( because , say , the earth blocked that part of the 
sky ) , voila , you have an error box. 

batse , by having 8 detectors of its own , can do its own location determination , 
but only to within about 3 degrees  ( would someone at gsfc , like david , like 
to comment on the current state of location determination ) .  . having inde 
pendent sightings by other detectors helps drive down the uncertainty .  . 

you did touch on something that you did n't mean to , though. some believe 
 ( in a reference that i have somewhere) that absorption like features seen 
in a fraction of grbs can actually be caused by the detector .  . it would be 
a mean , nasty god , though , that would have a nai crystal act like a 10 12 gauss 
neutron star .  .  . but . this is getting too far afield .  . 

peter 



all of this is very valid and very true. but to add to this 
, each individual detector also has a built in fail safe , just so 
the detector does not read the background e .  . cosmic rays ) , 
if i remember right , the detectors go off about 3 to 5 sigma above the 
background. this is so they do n't catch particularly energetic cosmic rays 
that would normally set it off. even with this buffer , they still have to throw 
out something like 1 2 of the bursts that they do get , because of the earth 's 
van allen belts , the south atlantic anomaly , the sun , if i remember right , 
there is either a radar station , or a radio station in australia , and there are 
a couple other sources as well. 
jeremy 





from 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
lines 46 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) writes 
in (george f. krumins ) writes 

i was suggesting that the minority of professional and amateur astronomers 
have the right to a dark , uncluttered night sky. 

and from whence does this right stem , that it overrides the  rights  
of the rest of us 

let me get this right sorry , try again. let me get this straight 
well maybe that too is a poor choice of words someone might think 
i'm pushing a gay agenda .  . how about let me try to understand this 
by re phrasing it as an extreme .  . i , as a minority of one , have no right 
to a beautiful world. you , on the other hand have the right to make an 
ugly one because you presume to speak for all the rest. and i cannot 
complain. curious. 

 .  .  . 

i say 
what i'm objecting to here is a floating billboard that , presumably , 
would move around in the sky. i , for one , am against legislating 
at all. i just wish that people had a bit of common courtesy , and 
would consider how their greed for money impacts the more ethereal and 
aesthetic values that make us human. this includes the need for wild 
and unspoiled things , including the night sky. 

oh , i see. you do n't want any legislation that might impinge on you 
you just want everyone else on the planet to do what you want. 


and do you want everyone to do as you wish  ( insist on putting something 
up that will impact everyone for selfish reasons) without any legislation 
and no one else can even object somehow i think this whole shoving 
contest has gotten way off the track. i'm ready to let this thread 
die a quick and merciful death. 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 


wm. hathaway 
baltimore md 

from (george f. krumins ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 65 

 ( greg stewart nicholls ) writes 

in george f. krumins writes 
i was suggesting that the minority of professional and amateur astronomers 
have the right to a dark , uncluttered night sky. 
sorry , you have a wish for an uncluttered night sky , but it 
is n't a right. when you get down to it , you actually have no rights 
that the majority have n't agreed to give you  ( and them in the process) .  . 
it 's a common misconception that being born somehow you with 
rights to this that and the other. sadly this is not true. 
now if you want to talk about the responsibility that should go with 
the power to clutter the night sky , then that 's a different matter. 

greg nicholls ... vidi 
or vici 
veni 

according to this reasoning there are no rights , at least none that i can think 
of .  .  .  .  . 

let 's see. do i have a right to air no , because the majority 
drive cars and use goods that create air pollution in the manufacturing process. 

do i have the right to clean water i guess not , by the same reasoning .  . 
i could go on with these examples for a long time .  .  .  .  . 

look at nazi germany .  . because of the majority , jews , homosexuals , blacks , 
and others that were different had no rights. in fact they were terrorized , 
imprisoned , and slaughtered .  . in this country did blacks have the right to be 
free from slavery i guess not , because the majority said that slavery was 
good for them. 

i think that a right has a moral imperative .  . if a law , imposed by the majority , 
is immoral , one should not follow it. in fact , one should do everything in 
his her power to stop it. of course , that does n't mean that i would lose all 
common sense to break the law , just because i thought it was immoral .  . i pay 
my federal income tax even though i am morally opposed to the u.s. government 
taking my money and spending it on weapons of mass destruction and terrorism .  . 
this is precisely the point i am trying to make. we should people 
by logic , pointing out that it is in their self interest to let all have 
equal rights in all aspects of life , including adequate housing , food , and 
medical care. i just happen to think that for a full life the aesthetic of 
beauty and joy is also necessary. that is why i consider an uncluttered 
night sky a right. 

have you ever been out in the desert , away from local lights , and most people 
the sky is dark and transparent .  . the milky way is ablaze with more detail 
than you thought possible. the beauty and wonder takes your breath away. 

now imagine you live in the worst ghetto , say in l.a. due to light pollution 
you have never seen a dark sky. you might in fact never , not in your whole 
life , ever see the majesty of the night sky. every where around you , you see 
squalor , and through your life runs a thread of dispair .  . what is there to live 
for 

i admit these two scenarios are extreme examples , but i have seen both. 
i , for one , need dreams and hopes , and yes , beauty , as a reason for living. 
that is why i consider an uncluttered night sky a right. 

george 

george krumins the serpent and the rainbow 
. . 
pufferfish observatory  ( o ) 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re electrical spacecraft via magnetic field of earth 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 13 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
no. a satellite does not magically have no drag it burns fuel 
constantly to fight drag , maintaining the exact orbit it would have if 
there was no drag .  . this is why there are quotes around . 


i did n't exactly follow the thread. 

what is the point of it are they used for laser geodesy missions 
triad seemed to be some sort of navy navigation bird , but why 
be why not just update orbital parameters 

pat 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re satellite around pluto mission 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 35 

in article writes 
is there a plan to put a satellite around each planet in the solar system to 
keep watch ... 

there would be some point to doing long term monitoring of things like 
particles and fields , not to mention atmospheric phenomena .  . however , 
there is no particular plan to establish any sort of monitoring network. 
to be precise , there is no particular plan , period. this is a large 
part of the problem. in this context , it 's not surprising that 
but useful missions like this get short at budget time. the closest 
approach to any sort of long term planetary monitoring mission is the 
occasional chance to piggyback something like this on top of a 
mission like galileo or cassini .  . 

how about a mission  ( unmanned ) to pluto to stay in orbit and record things 
around and near and on pluto .  .  .  . 

it is most unlikely that there is much happening on pluto that would be 
worth monitoring , and it is a prohibitively difficult mission to fly 
without new propulsion technology  ( something the planetary community 
has firmly resisted being the pigs for) .  . the combined need to 
arrive at pluto within a reasonable amount of time , and then kill nearly 
all of the cruise velocity to settle into an orbit , is beyond what can 
reasonably be done with current  ( that is , 1950s vintage ) propulsion .  . 

it could do some scanning of not only pluto , but also of the solar system , 
objects near and , as well as seti and looking at the galaxy 
without having much of the solar system to worry about .  .  . 

most of this can be done just about as well from earth. the few things 
that ca n't be , can be done better from a voyager like spacecraft that is 
not constrained by the need to enter orbit around a planet. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re space dock .  .  . 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 19 

in article writes 
why not build a inflatable space dock .  . 

if you 're doing large scale satellite servicing , being able to do it in 
a pressurized hangar makes considerable sense. the question is whether 
anyone is going to be doing large scale satellite servicing in the near 
future , to the point of justifying development of such a thing. 

 .  .  . inflate . the dock with a gas  ( is does not have to be oxygen , just to 
be non , non damaging to the satellite and abel to maintain  .  .  . 

you 'd almost certainly use air. given that you have to with 
something , safety considerations strongly suggest making it breathable 
 ( even if the servicing crew is using oxygen masks for normal breathing , 
to avoid needing a ventilation system , it 's nice if the hangar atmosphere 
is breathable in a pinch it makes mask functioning much less  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( thomas a. baker ) 
subject re another sf irritation relieved ! doctor who vindicated .  . 
reply to  ( thomas a. baker ) 
organization thomas a. baker , unlimited 
lines 35 

in article (richard a. schumacher ) writes 
this reverse the polarity ! crap always bugged the hell out of me , too , 
until i found an actual , live , real life example of it working ! i quote 
from aviation week and space technology for 2 july 1990 , page 25 

he colonel charles f. stirling , speaking of the problem of 
fuel bubble formation in titan 4 engines said 
engineers at nasa 's jet propulsion laboratory had run into 
the same problem and suggested that the air force look at the 
effect of 50 decomposition .  . the fix , now flown three 
times without incident , was to reverse the inlet and outlet 
portions of the hot gas cooler .  . 

! once again , life art. 

how about the discussion of the sts tether experiment .  . ran forward , 
it would suck energy from the earth 's magnetic field , while trivially 
slowing the shuttle .  . it could also have run backward if they ran 
electricity through the tether the other way , it would have trivially 
propelled the shuttle faster. 

but an even better example comes to mind. there 's this electronics guy , 
someone like craig anderton or don lancaster .  . ten years ago he wrote about 
an invention of his. he could take a light detector , run current through 
it at about a hundred times its rating , and it would glow .  . he got legal 
rights to this design of a combination fiber optic receiver . this 
turned out to be the basic unit of att 's (i think) plan to bring brazil 's 
communications system into the 21st century. (the article was mostly about 
his legal with the company that eventually got him well compensated 
for his invention . ) . 


(yes that 's my real name) 
 ( my employer 's opinion 's are not my own . ) . 
(i am self employed ) 

from  ( chris best ) 
subject re space marketing boycott 
organization your service 
lines 14 
nntp posting host hpctdkz . col . hp . com . 

according to the person i talked to , the proposed billboard 
will be too small to resolve with the naked eye so small 
and visually unimportant .  .  .  . 

anyway , he suggested that the 
visual impact would approximate that of a jumbo jet 
at 45k feet  ( 12km ) altitude .  . 



are you sure he did n't tailor his comments according to what he guessed 
you wanted to hear in other words , lie think about it what good 
would a billboard do for an advertiser if nobody can see it who would 
advertise , telescope companies pretty narrow audience here. 

from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re what planets are 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
distribution sci 
lines 35 

in article  ( jonathan p. gibbons ) writes 
i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet for humans. 
i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere evolve given a range 
of physical aspects of the planet. the question is what physical aspects 
simply earth like conditions. 

eg temperature range of to (where temp is purely dependant on dist 
from the sun and the suns temperature .  . ) . 
atmospheric i know nothing of human tolerance 
planetary mass again gravity at surface is important , how much 
can human bodies take day after day. also how does the mass effect 
atmosphere. i thinking of planets between .3 and 3 times mass of the 
earth. i suppose density should be important as well. 

climate etc does not concern me , nor does axial tilt etc etc. just the above 
three factors and how they relate to one another. 

dandridge cole and isaac asimov collaborated on a book titled , 
planets for man (i think) in 1964 .  . it should be available 
in most good libraries , or through inter library loan .  . 

it answered the questions you ask  ( speculatively , of course) , along 
with many more that need to be considered in habitability studies 
length of day  ( for day night temperature variation , and agricultural 
concerns ) , partial pressures of certain unexpected gasses  ( ever hear of 
xenon neither did i) , density of particulates in the atm , and 
their composition  ( ever hear of not much fun ) , etc. 

climate is n't a global phenomenon and probably need n't concern you , 
but axial tilt ought to. it plays a large part in determining the 
severity of seasonal differences , and a lesser but still significant 
part in determining the speed of prevailing winds .  . 

doug loss 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject temperature of the dark sky 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 14 

does anyone have a reference  ( something i can look up , not just your own 
recollections i have a few of those myself) on the temperature of the 
 ( night ) sky as seen from space 

note , i am not talking about the temperature of the microwave background 
radiation .  . there are more things in the sky than just the mbr what i'm 
after is total temperature what a thermal radiator would see , 
disregarding  ( or shielding against ) the sun and nearby large warm objects .  . 
my dim recollection is that the net effective temperature is substantially 
higher than that of the mbr , once you figure in things like stars and the 
light , but i 'd like numbers. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( jeff sio ) 
subject political banner in space 
organization san diego supercomputer center @ ucsd 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host penelope . sdsc . edu . 

i propose that pepsico , mcdonalds and other companies could put 
into orbit banners that have timely political messages , such as , 

stop the slaughter in bosnia ! 

, etc. 



from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
nntp posting host ucsu . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 29 

in article  ( opirg ) writes 
i do n't think that idea means what you think it does. having everyone 
on earth subject to some ad agency 's poor taste is an abomination .  . 
 ( abomination n. loathing odious or degrading habit or act an 
object of disgust .  .  ( oxford concise dictionary ) maybe you do n't mind 
having every part of your life saturated with commercials , but many of 
us loathe it. 

it 's a moot point step out of your door go anywhere (except possibly 
your  . you will be subject to some ad agency 's  poor taste  

 .  .  . i . 'd rather not have the beauty of the night sky always marred 
by a giant billboard , and i 'll bet the idea is virtually sacrilegious 
to an astronomer like sagan .  . 

while i'm sure sagan considers it sacrilegious , that would n't be 
because of his credibility as an astronomer .  . modern , 
ground based , visible light astronomy  ( what these proposed 
orbiting billboards would upset ) is already a dying field the 
and distortions caused by the atmosphere itself have 
driven most of the field to use radio , far infrared or space based 
telescopes .  . in any case , a bright point of light passing through 
the field does n't ruin observations .  . if that were the case , the 
thousands of existing satellites would have already done so  ( satelliets 
might not seem so bright to the eyes , but as far as astronomy is concerned , 
they are extremely bright . ) . 

frank crary 
cu boulder 

from  ( jeff cook ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 


distribution world 
organization none 
lines 22 
in reply to 's message of 26 apr 93 18 10 00 gmt 

in article (scott i chase ) writes 

in article ,  ( phil g. fraering ) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( jeff cook ) writes 
.... 
people in primitive tribes out in the middle of nowhere as they look up 
and see a can of budweiser flying across the sky .  .  .  . d 

seen that movie already .  .  .  . 

actually , the idea , like most good ideas , comes from jules verne , not 
the gods must be crazy. ... 

my comment was off the top of my head i was n't aware that it had 
already been thought of. guess it 's true that there 's nothing new under 
the sun  ( or in this case , the flying billboards . ) . 




jeff cook 


from (david fox ) 
subject space marketing boycott 
nntp posting host graphics . cs . nyu . edu . 
organization courant institute of mathematical sciences 
lines 132 

in the new york times on sunday may 9th in the week in review 
section there was a report of a group called space marketing 
in atlanta , georgia who is planning to put up a one mile wide 
reflective earth orbiting which will appear as large 
and as bright as the moon and carry some sort of advertising .  . 
there was an editorial about this in the times the following 
tuesday .  . 

are others as upset about this as i am i feel that a global 
boycott of anyone involved with such a project would be a good 
idea. perhaps it could be made illegal in various countries 
around the world do others agree 

david 

relevant messages found on the net 

from (peter webb ) 
newsgroups sci . space . 
subject stopping the sky vandals 
date 13 may 1993 21 17 22 gmt 
organization , inc. 
distribution world 



if you do n't want to see space marketing put up orbiting billboards , write 
them , or call them , and tell them so. you might also write your 
 . space marketing can be reached at 

attn mike lawson 
public relations dept. 
space marketing 
1495 rd. , suite 600 
, ga 
(404) 442 


peter webb 
, karlsson sorensen , inc. voice 401 727 4200 
1080 main st , ri fax 401 727 4208 

alternatively , you could try to find out who their clients 
will be and tell them how you feel. 

newsgroups sci.astro , sci . space . , sci . misc . , sci . environment . , talk . environment . 
from  ( larry klaes ) 
subject light pollution  ( space ads ) information 
keywords light pollution , advertisements 
organization digital equipment corporation 
date thu , 13 may 1993 20 45 36 gmt 

dave crawford , executive director of the 
international dark sky association  ( ida ) , sent me information on where 
you can write in regards to the proposed billboards in the sky and 
asked me to post it 

karen brown 
center for the study of 
connecticut avenue , suite 300 
washington , d.c. 
u.s.a. 

telephone 202 797 
fax 202 265 

please note that i have no involvement whatsoever with the csc .  . 

larry klaes 
or ... ! ! enet . dec . com . ! klaes 
or klaes 
or klaes 

all the universe , or nothing ! h. g. wells 

editor , astronomical society of the atlantic 

from 
newsgroups sci . space . 
subject re vandalizing the sky 
date 10 may 93 21 51 11 gmt 
distribution sci 
organization nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
x posted from jsc . nasa . gov . 

f . baube . tm wrote 
... 
that 's roughly akin to saying let 's let strip mine 
the grand canyon so that strip mining can boldly go where no 
strip mining technology has gone before  .  .  . because after all , 
mining means profits , and profits mean technological advance 
ment , and advancement means prosperity , and pros 
means happiness , and so to hell with the grand canyon  .  .  . 

space advertisement in low earth orbit is very short term on the 
order of a few years before the orbit  .  ( higher orbits last 
longer . ) . advertisers will certainly be aware of the environmental 
aspects of their advertising .  . fred 's argument is roughly akin to 
saying that it 's bad to cut down trees , so we should n't advertise in 
newspapers. think that through , fred .  . 

picture this our space billboard is a large inflatable structure , 
filled with bio foam instead of gas. it up space 
debris as it orbits , thus cleaning the space environment and bringing 
you the pause that refreshes at the same time. because of the large 
drag coefficient , it will de orbit safely burning up within a 
year. 

embedded in the foam structure is a small re entry vehicle , which does 
not burn up during entry. it contains the electronics and propulsion 
system (which may be refurbished and re used) as well as space science 
experiments proposed and built by high school students in 
advertiser sponsored science  . 

advertisers buy time on the billboard , whose surface is made up of 
tiny mirrors controlled by the avionics package. the avionics can 
reconfigure the mirrors to reflect different messages at different 
parts of the globe. clever programming allows different languages 
to every country. 

during orbital night , the mirrors turn perpendicular to the surface , 
and small lights are revealed .  . the lights spell out messages for all 
to see. 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

here men from the planet earth 
first set foot upon the moon 
july 1969 , a.d. 
we came in peace for all mankind .  . 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
distribution na 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 75 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article  ( greg moore ) writes 

as pointed out , you have to develop the thruster .  . 
also , while much lighter , you still have to lift the mass of 
the thruster to orbit , and then the thruster lifts its own 
weight into a higher orbit .  . and you take up room in the payload 
bay. 


a yes , but the improvement in boost orbit to the hst is significant , 

i do not understand what you are saying here. what is improved , what 
is significant , and what does this have to do with carrying more 
equipment on a servicing mission also , as implied by other posters , why 
do you need to boost the orbit on this mission anyway maybe you have 
something here , but could you please clarify it for us on the net 


right now the hst mission is listed as 11 days. before 
it was listed as 9 days. they just kicked up the number of spacewalks 
to 5 , after simulations indicated that it was not do able in 4. 

after all the space walking , they are going to re boost the hst 's 
orbit .  . i think right now it 's sitting at 180 miles up , 
they would like 220 .  . i do n't know the exact orbit numbers. 
i know when hst was first flown , it was placed in the highest 
possible shuttle orbit .  . 

now the shuttle can cary a thing called the edo pallet , or extended 
duration orbiter pallet .  . it 's mostly lox lh for the fuel cells 
and rcs gear , plus more o2 and canisters for the life support 
re  . maybe more nitrogen too. 

the limit on space walking is a function of suit supplies  ( mass ) 
and orbiter duration .  . 

in order to perform the re boost of the hst , the oms engines 
will be fired for a long period. now the shuttle is a heavy 
thing. the hst is n't light either. the amount of oms fuel 
needed to fly both up is substantial .  . a small booster 
carried up and used to boost hst on it 's own will weigh significantly 
less then the oms fuel required to boost both hst and shuttle , 
for a given orbital change. 

from what i understand , the mass margins on the hst missions are 
tight enough they ca n't even carry extra suits or mmu 's .  . 

now if they used a small tug , i would bet , just a wild guess , 
that the savings on margin would allow carrying the 
edo pallet , extra suits , more consumables , parts for the 
flaky fgs sensor , parts for the solar electronics , 

and still enough for a double magnum of  . 

or the hst could even get placed into some sort of medium orbit .  . 
the reason they want a high orbit , is less antenna pointing , 
and longer drag life. 

and that means you can then carry edo packs and enough consumables 
so the shuttle mission can go on long enough to also fix the 
array tilt motors , and god knows what else is going to wear out 

from what i 've heard , the motors are fine it is one of the two 
sets of electronics that control the motors that needs a fix. the 
motors and electronics are separate pieces of hardware. i expect 
to be corrected if i'm wrong on this. 


a 
whatever it is , the problem in the tilt array is a big constraint 
on hst ops .  . 

pat 

from 
subject for flybys and cutting costs .  .  . 
lines 27 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

getting wierd again 

okay we have figure out that a mission specifically to pluto is to large and to 
expensive .  .  . 

okay what about launching one probe with multiple parts .  .  . kind of liek the old 
principle of old cold war days. 
basically what i mean is design a mother ship that has piggy backed probes for 
different missions , namely different planets .  . each probe would be tied in with 
the mother ship  ( or earth as the case may be) .  .  . this is good when and if we go 
for mars (the mars mission can act as either mother ship or relay point for the 
probes .  . 

also the mother ship would be powered  ( if not the mars mission ) by a normal 
propulsion , but also a solar sail  ( main reason for solar sail race is to see 
what can be done and ) the sail would get the probes to were they 
needed .  .  . i know the asteroid meteor clouds  ( and such) might get in the way of a 
sail 

main ro mother ship idea is to make it more to send 
multiple probes mission satellites to different places and cut 
costs .  .  . 
the probes could do fly bys or we shall see .  .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re sdio kaput ! 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 6 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


not to mention how those those liberal presidents , nixon , ford , 
reagan , bush .  . did nothing to support true commercial space 
activities. 

pat 

from (ron baalke ) 
subject re astronauts what does weightlessness feel like 
keywords weightlessness 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 26 
nntp posting host kelvin . jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( jerry liebelson ) writes .  .  .  . 
i want to know what weightlessness actually feels like. for example , is 
there a constant sensation of falling 

yes , weightlessness does feel like falling .  . it may feel strange at first , 
but the body does adjust .  . the feeling is not too different from that 
of sky diving .  . 

and what is the motion sickness 
that some astronauts occasionally experience 

it is the body 's reaction to a strange environment. it appears to be induced 
partly to physical discomfort and part to mental distress .  . some people are 
more prone to it than others , like some people are more prone to get sick 
on a roller coaster ride than others. the mental part is usually induced by 
a lack of clear indication of which way is up or down , ie the shuttle is 
normally oriented with its cargo bay pointed towards earth , so the earth 
 ( or ground) is above the head of the astronauts .  . about 50 of the astronauts 
experience some form of motion sickness , and nasa has done numerous tests in 
space to try to see how to keep the number of occurances down. 

ron baalke 
jet propulsion lab 
) m s 525 3684 telos the from new zealand 
pasadena , ca 91109 is part caterpillar and 
part vegetable .  . 

from  ( melissa sherrin ) 
subject re moon image in weather sat image 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 14 
originator 


i'm afraid i was not able to find the gifs .  .  .  . is the list 
updated weekly , perhaps , or am i just missing something 


( ) 
( ( ) 
( ) 
( ) ) 
( ( ) 
( ) 

melissa 


from 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
lines 46 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 

in article writes 
this is a real world too. you ca n't do science like this with out doing 
politics as well , unfortunately. good pr keep the coming in. 


do you know what makes rocket ships fly funding , makes them fly. 
no bucks , no buck rogers ) 



ok , so you have proven you saw the right stuff. however , as i said above , 
it takes politics and pr to keep the bucks coming. 
no politics , no bucks , no buck rogers .  . 


i think you are missing the point. if an agency has gathered some data 
on something. and once tax dollars have been spent , the data is now 
property of the people of the us government. the government may 
charge to recover some of the cost , or they may charge to maintain 
the data , but they cannot claim the data is proprietary , unless it 
is classified national security data. 


yes this may be true in the case of the science data coming from the spacecraft 
and other stuff about the operations .  . however , there is still stuff regarding 
regular operation that belongs to the company and they have ever legal right 
to keeping it theirs. but this does not mean that everything can or 
should be swept under the umbrella of company data. 

i live down the road from nih .  . they run studies all the time. 
i can go into their library and all the raw data from 
any study e done. just bring a roll of quarters .  . 


you can do the same here .  .  . you . just have to wait a year. 

i'm not saying you guys do n't have internal rules , but they are 
not supported by us law. 


safeguard internal company data are indeed supported by us law. 

dempsey 


from o . berkeley . edu .  ( isaac kuo ) 
subject re drag free satellites 
organization u . c .  . berkeley math. department. 
lines 37 
nntp posting host o . berkeley . edu . 

in article writes 
on sat , 1 may 1993 23 13 39 gmt ,  ( henry spencer ) said 

no. a satellite does not magically have no drag it burns fuel 
constantly to fight drag , maintaining the exact orbit it would have if 
there was no drag .  . 

well , almost. it turns out that clever orbital mechanics can 
engineer things so that resonant interactions with the higher order 
harmonics of the earth 's gravitational field can pump energy into a 
satellite , and keep it from experiencing drag effects for periods of 
months to years. 

a harmonic of the earth 's gravitational field what is a harmonic of the 
earth 's gravitational field 

my favorite example of this is the soviet russian heavy 
satellites of the cosmos 1603 class , which are in 14 1 resonance .  . in 

14 1 resonance with what it 's not like there 's any wavelength or frequency 
to the earth 's gravitational field. now , there  might be some interesting 
interactions with the moon 's tidal effect is that what you 're talking about 

this probably has little relevance to space stations , since the 71 
degree orbits of the satellites are at 850 km , which is 
unacceptably far into the inner van allen belt for manned platforms .  . but 
it 's kind of interesting from the point of view of the physics of the 
situation. 

what are the physics of the situation the only way i can see gravitational 
effects being useful in adding energy to an object orbiting earth is some 
sort of interaction with the moon. 

isaac kuo 
o 
twinkle , twinkle , little  . sig . , ( ( ) ) 
keep it less than 5 lines big. 

from  ( rob unverzagt ) 
subject re satellite around pluto mission 
organization organization you must be kidding. 
lines 32 
nntp posting host aerospace . aero . org . 

in article writes 
being wierd again , so be warned 

being what oh , weird . ok , i'm warned ! 

is there a plan to put a satellite around each planet in the solar system to 
keep watch i help it better to ask questions before i spout an opinion. 

keep watch for what 

how about a mission  ( unmanned ) to pluto to stay in orbit and record things 
around and near and on pluto .  .  . i know it is a strange idea , but why not 

oh , the several tens  ( or hundreds ) of millions of dollars it would cost 
to record things there. and i 'd prefer a manned mission , anyway. 

it could do some scanning of not only pluto , but also of the solar system , 
objects near and , as well as seti and looking at the galaxy 
without having much of the solar system to worry about .  .  . 

we 've already got a pretty good platform to scan the solar 
system , as well as seti and looking at the galaxy without having 
much of the solar system to worry about .  .  . 
care to guess where it is 

shag 



rob unverzagt 
tuesday is soylent green day. 


from 
subject re single launch space station 
organization nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
x posted from jsc . nasa . gov . 
nntp posting host sol . ctr . columbia . edu . 
lines 26 

andy cohen writes 
the single launch core station concept. a shuttle external tank and solid 
rocket boosters would be used to launch the station into orbit .  . shuttle 
main engines would be mounted to the tail of the station module for launch 
and jettisoned after et separation .  . 

karl replied 
why jettison the why not hold on to them and have a shuttle 
bring them down to use as spares 

one performance reason comes to mind if you jettison the 's , you 
do n't have to drag them with you when you perform your 
 . on orbit , 's are just dead weight , since we do n't have an 
h2 o2 mechanism which works in zero g. this means 
that you ca n't use them for re boost or anything else. dead weight has 
a couple of advantages , but more disadvantages .  . 

throw away 's might let us use some of the old 's which are not 
quite man  . but i doubt we 'd do that the cost of a launch 
failure is too high. 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

 .  .  . development . of the space station is as inevitable as 
the rising of the sun. von braun 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re long term space and effect newsgroup 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 11 

in article writes 
i vote for a later on sci . space . medicine . or similar newsgroup fro the 
discussion of long term missions into space and there affects on humans and 
such .  .  . 

why bother with a new newsgroup if you want to discuss the subject , 
start discussing it . if there is enough traffic to annoy the rest of 
us , we will let you know .  .  .  . and then it will be time for a new newsgroup .  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( bruce watson ) 
subject re life on mars .  . 
organization alpha science computer network , denver , co. 
lines 10 

in article writes 

no if you 're fred hoyle .  . he rejects the big bang , and proposes an infinitely 
old universe ( really ) , so in his model life always starts on a given planet 
by from outer space there has always been life somewhere. 

did n't fred hoyle abandon the steady state theory 


bruce watson 

from 
subject space surveillance what i really meant 
organization science applications int l corp. san diego 
lines 33 

thanks to the people who have answered here and in email to my 
question about which countries engage in space surveillance .  . 
unfortunately , i apparently did n't make the meaning of the message 
clear , since most replies have addressed satellite reconnaissance , 
rather than space surveillance 

what i meant was not which countries use satellites to look at 
the earth  ( satellite reconnaissance ) , but was which countries have 
programs to detect and track (i . e .  . , determine the orbital elements of) 
satellites as they pass overhead  ( space  . 

the us uses missile defense radars , supplemented by a fascinating 
quasi radar operated by the navy , to do this for satellites in leo , and 
systems for objects at altitudes above 5 , 000 km or so. 
the fee , i understand , does much the same thing. 

amateur satellite observers use eyeballs , binoculars , 
and pcs for objects out to around 1500 km , enabling them to keep track 
of satellites for which , ah , official element sets are n't available. 
see the fascinating books by desmond king for details , as well as 
the files in the directory on kilroy . jpl . nasa . gov .  . the 
material posted in my previous message suggests that japan engages in 
optical and radar space surveillance to a modest degree , and it may be 
that other countries do also. 

which was the question i meant to ask who are they , how do they do 
it , and why do they do it 


allen thomson saic mclean , va 

oh , yes i do n't speak for saic .  . 


from (richard ottolini ) 
subject re moon image in weather sat image 
organization corporation 
lines 14 

in article (george wm turner) writes 


an image of the moon has been caught in a weather satellite images of the earth. 
it appears in both the 0430 ir and visual images of the earth. 
the gif images can be down loaded from vmd . cso . uiuc . edu . and are named 
gif . and gif . for the ir and visual images respectively .  . 

pretty cool pictures in the ir it 's saturated but in the visual image 
details on the moon are viewable .  . 

near , you can see the of the sun in the ocean .  . 
also during solar you can see the shadow of the sun move 
across the clouds .  . 

from  ( tamoor a. zaidi ) 
subject hall generators from ussr 
keywords hall generators , thrusters , ussr , jpl 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 21 

hi folks , 

last year america bought two hall generators which are 
used as thrusters for space vehicles from former ussr , if i could recall 
correctly these devices were sent to jpl , pasadena labs for testing and 
evaluation .  . 

i am just curious to know how these devices work and what 
what principle is involved  . what . became of them . there . was also some 
controversy that the russian actually cheated , sold inferior devices and 
not the one they use in there space vehicles .  . 

any info will be appreciated .  .  .  . 
ok thank in advance .  .  .  . 
a 
lockheed commercial aircraft center 
norton afb , san bernardino 





from  ( andy cohen ) 
subject re single launch space station 
organization mda w 
lines 14 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host q5022531 . mdc . com . 

in article ,  ( karl dishaw ) 
wrote 

andy cohen writes 
the single launch core station concept. a shuttle external tank and solid 
rocket boosters would be used to launch the station into orbit .  . shuttle 
main engines would be mounted to the tail of the station module for launch 
and jettisoned after et separation .  . 

why jettison the why not hold on to them and have a shuttle 
bring them down to use as spares 

good question .  .  .  . i . asked that myself .  .  .  . however . , since this option is as 
expensive as the freedom derivative , the issue will likely be moot .  . 

from  ( dave stephenson ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
nntp posting host ngis . geod . emr . ca . 
organization dept. of energy , mines , and resources , ottawa 
lines 15 

(keith mancus ) writes 
 ( jeff cook ) writes 
people in primitive tribes out in the middle of nowhere as they look up 

that has sort of happened for real. back in the 1920 's travellers 
in the sudan would find strange cigar shaped designs on native huts .  . 
when asked the locals would say it was a picture of the great omen 
that appeared in the sky. this was lz 53 a zepplin flying from bulgaria 
to german east africa with supplies in 1917  ( and back since it was fooled 
by the british secret service . ) . 

dave stephenson 
geological survey of canada 
ottawa , ontario , canada 
internet 

from  ( rob jr . ) . 
subject re long term human missions 
nntp posting host rac3 . wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 15 


excerpt from (robert kaye ) 

just a few contributions from the space program to regular society 

1. calculators 
2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 
3.  ( kept my grandfather alive from 1976 until 1988) 

do n't forget tang ! smile 


robert m. , jr. university of maryland , college park , maryland 
e mail will work for chocolate 


from  ( raymond fairfield ) 
subject re surviving large accelerations 
organization university of southern queensland 
lines 27 

 ( lan pham ) writes 
 ( in answer to laxman 
are you sure 45g is the right number as far as i know , pilots are 
blackout in dives that exceed 8g 9g .  . 45g seems to be out of human 
tolerance .  . would anybody clarify this please. 

lan 

apart from the fact that you get g in the pull out , not the dive , that 
figure is about right for sustained g , no protection. 
the duration of g , it 's rate of onset , body position and support aids are 
all critical parts of the equation .  . i remember one note about 
players recording peaks about  . , the aviation doctor , 
either by accident or design , took a short period in a rocket 
, eye balls out against a standard  ( 1950 's) harness .  . it had 
to be short , calculate the stopping time , even from 500 at that 
g. a bang seat can get up to about 60 g , and you 'd better be sitting 
straight. find the book by martin human pig to hear how bad 
it can get if the rate of onset is too high. a position and a 
good g suit can keep a pilot functioning at around  . 

a tank should be a good bet , since you can treat the body as a 
fluid , and high pressure situations are not new. anyone have any figures 

ray fairfield 



subject rocket launch observed ! 
from  ( leo wikholm ) 
distribution world 
organization bbs , helsinki finland , 358 0 506 (20 lines v . 32bis) . 
lines 44 



a bright light phenomenon was observed in the eastern finland 
on april 21. at 00 . 25 . ut two people saw a bright , luminous 
pillar shaped phenomenon in the low eastern near 
 . the head of the pillar was circular .  . the lower part 
was a little winding .  . it was like a monster they told. they 
were little frightened .  . soon the yellowish pillar became 
enlarged .  . a bright spot like the sun was appeared in the middle 
of the phenomenon .  . at last the light landed behind the nearby 
forest .  . now there was only luminous trails in the sky which were 
visible till morning sunrise .  . 

the same phenomenon was observed also by in 
 . at 00 . 26 . ut he saw a luminous yellowish trail in 
the low northeastern  . the altitude of the trail was 
only about 3 4 degrees. soon the trail began to grow taller .  . 
a loop was appeared in the head of the trail. it was like a 
spoon .  . this lasted only 10 seconds. now the altitude was about 
five above  . he noted a bright spot at the 
upper stage of loop. the spot was at magnitude 2. the loop 
became enlarged and the spot was now visible in the middle of 
the loop. a shaped trail was appeared round the bright 
spot. after a minute the spot disappeared and only fuzzy trails 
were only visible in the low  . luminous trails were still 
visible at 01 . 45 . ut in the morning sky. 

the phenomenon was caused by a russian rocket .  . i do n't know if 
there were satellite launches in cosmodrome near 
, but this may be a rocket experiment too. since 1969 
we have observed over 80 rocket phenomena in finland .  . most of 
these are rocket experiments  ( military missile tests ) , barium 
experiments and other chemical releases .  . during these years we 
have observed 17 satellite launches .  . 

leo 


ursa astronomical association i phone 358 0 
satellite and rocket phenomena sect .  . i fax 358 0 
9 c 54 i bbs 358 0 
fin helsinki i inter 
finland i 


from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . positional stuff. 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 24 

writes 

actually , my advisor , another classmate of mine , and me were 
talking the other day about putting just one detector on one of the 
pluto satellites .  . then we realized that the satellite alone is only 
carrying something like 200 pounds of eq. well , a batse detector 
needs lead shielding to protect it , and 1 alone weighs about 200 
pounds itself. 

we decided against it. 
jeremy 
are you talking about a single batse component , or 
the whole thing 

you could propose a batse probe launch two or three with ion 
drive on various planetary trajectories .  .  .  . your resolution 
the more they 're spaced apart. you could probably cheaply eject them 
from the solar system with enough flybys and patience. 

things would start out slow , then slowly get better and better 
resolution .  .  .  . 

phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 

from 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
lines 81 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

newsgroups sci.astro , sci . space . 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 


my apologies if this is a re post i submitted it on friday , but 
got a message that my post might not have gone out. considering 
the confusing spitting contest over  rights  ,  ( there are too 
inalienable rights damn it ! the majority can be just as destructive 
of liberty as a despot ) , i suspect that my post did not get out 
of my site. (i ai n't saying that dark skies are included in these 
rights , although we can only preserve any rights by exercising them . ) . 



anyway , here are my thoughts on this 


i 'd like to add that some of the protests do not come from a strictly 
practical consideration of what pollution levels are acceptable for 
research activities by professional astronomers .  . some of what i 
would complain about is rooted in aesthetics .  . many readers may 
never have known a time where the heavens were pristine sacred 
unsullied by the actions of humans. the space between the stars 
as profoundly black as an abyss can be. with full horizons and 
a pure sky one could look out upon half of all creation at a time 
none of which had any connection with the petty matters of man. 
any lights were supplied solely by nature by men. 
whole religions were based on mortal man somehow getting up there 
and becoming immortal as the stars , whether by apotheosis or a belief 
in an afterlife .  . 

the space age changed all that. the effect of the first 
and echo , etc. on this view could only happen once. to see a light 
crossing the night sky and know it was put there by us puny people 
is still impressive and the sense of size one gets by assimilating 
the scales involved is also awesome even if the few hundreds or 
thousands of miles involved is still dwarfed by the rest of the universe. 
but there is still a hunger for the pure beauty of a virgin sky. 

yes , i know aircraft are almost always in sight. i have to live 
in a very populated area (6 miles from an international airport 
currently ) where light pollution on the ground is ghastly .  . the 
impact of humans is so extreme here virtually no place exists 
that has not been shaped , sculpted , modified , trashed or whipped 
into shape by the hands of man. in some places the only life 
forms larger than bacteria are humans , cockroaches , and squirrels 
 ( or rats) .  . i visited some friends up in the mountains 
one weekend , getting away from it all  ( paved roads , indoor plumbing , 
malls ,  .  .  . ) . and it felt good for a while then i quickly noticed 
the hollow was directly under the main flight path into dulles 60 80 
miles to the east .  .  ( their  security light  did n't help matters 
much either . ) . but i 've heard the artic wilderness gets lots of 
high air traffic. so i know the skies are rarely perfect. 

but there is still this desire to see a place that man has n't 
fouled in some way. (i mean they 've been trying this forever 
like , concerning tesla 's idea to banish night , wow ! ) i do n't watch 
commercial television , but i can imagine just how disgusting beer , 
truck , or ointment advertisements would be if seen up so high. 
if ya' gotta make a buck on it  ( displaying products in heaven ) , at 
least consider the reactions from those for whom the sky is a last 
beautiful refuge from the baseness of modern life. 

to be open about this though , i have here my listing of the passage 
of hst in the evening sky for this weekend tonight friday at 
8 25 p.m. edt it will reach an altitude of 20.1 degrees on the 
local meridian from baltimore vicinity .  . i 'll be trying to see it 
if i can it is my after all. so i suppose i could 
be called an elitist for supporting this intrusion on the night sky 
while complaining about billboards proposed by others. be that 
as it may , i think my point about a desire for beauty is valid , 
even if it ca n't ever be perfectly achieved .  . 

regards , 
wm. hathaway 
baltimore md 


(p . s .  . added tuesday this again is not a rights vs. reality tome , 
just a warning that someone into destroying beauty had better know 
that other people may not accept it without a complaint . ) . 

from 
subject re space manuevering tug  ( was hst servicing mission ) 
lines 39 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 

given that what i described for the hst seemed to be the smt , and given 
the mass on the discovery mission is tight enough that spacewalking 
has to be carefully constrained .  .  .  .  .  . no edo pallets , no spare suits , 
no extra mmu 's .  . 

why not do this 

quick test of faster cheaper , better. 

build a real fast space tug , to handle the re boost of the hst using 
clean cryo fuels , and get it ready before the hst mission. 

if nasa could build mercury in 13 months , they should be able to make 
an smt in 9. 

how much would it need 

guidance package. use a voyager spare .  . 

thruster gear , use , or lox lh .  . 

bus use a  . 

grapple fixture .  . use a stripped down  . 

comms package. spare x band omni gear. 

pat 


and then why not build a space dock .  .  . 
either inflated or not .  .  . some place a crew can work on a item without having to 
wear much of the items they have to for  .  . such as most of he bulky suit .  .  . 
more idea to come .  .  . 

michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 


from  ( kevin w. plaxco ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena , ca 
lines 35 
nntp posting host sgi1 . wag . caltech . edu . 

in article (david ward ) writes 

given that fact , and the spacecraft attitude knowledge 
of approx. 2 , we might be able to figure out how well batse can 
determine the location  ( rotational ) of a gamma ray burster from knowledge 
of the all sky map 's accuracy .  . pr material for the other three instruments 
give accuracies on the order of fractions of a degree , if that 's 
any help. 

but i believe that there is a fundamental difference here. the other x 
three instruments are focusing instruments , that , more or less , form 
an image , so positional errors are limited by craft attitude and the 
resolving power of the optics .  . batse is an altogether different 
beast , effectively just 8 coincidence counters , one on each corner of 
the craft .  . positional information is triangulated from the 
differential signal arrival times at each of the detectors .  . 
positional error would be predominantly determined by timing errors 
and errors in craft attitude. since none of the 8 detectors have 
any independant angular resolution whatsoever , they can not be used to 
determine parallax .  . indeed , parallax would just add a very small 
component to the positional error. 

demonstrating that these puppies are beyond the oort cloud would 
require resolution on the order of , since the oort 
cloud is postulated to extend to about 0.5 parsec  ( all together 
now parallax arc second , a parsec is the distance of an object 
that demonstrates one arc second of parallax with a 2 au base line) .  . 
if the 3 degree accuracy reported above is true , we 're going to 
have to add a to the pluto fast flyby to get enough baseline .  . 

the beauty of is that it both gives positional information and 
watches the entire sky simultaneously , a realy handy combination 
when you have no idea where the next burst is coming from. 

kevin 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( pat ) writes 
no , the thing is designed to be retrievable , in a pinch .  . indeed , this 
dictated a rather odd design for the solar arrays , since they had to be 
as well as extendable .  .  .  . 

why not design the solar arrays to be detachable .  . if the shuttle is going 
to the hst , what bother are some arrays .  .  .  . 

they can be detached in an emergency .  . but expensive hardware is not thrown 
away casually  ( bearing in mind that nobody knew the design was  . 
if the deployment crew had found some nasty flaw the lid failing to open , 
for example it would have been a bit embarrassing to have to throw the 
solar arrays away to get the thing back in the payload bay. 


i guess it 's kind of an aesthetics argument. 

i can see the solar arrays being expensive , and there could be 
where you would be throwing away brand new 
solar cells , but it seems so cheap compared toa shuttle 
mission , i would n't think they would bother .  . 

pat 


from  ( bob kierski ) 
subject re philosophy quest .  . how boldly 
originator 
lines 47 
nntp posting host 
organization cray research , inc. 


in article ,  ( doug loss ) writes 

analog sf magazine did an article on a similar subject quite a few 
years ago. the question was , if an alien spacecraft landed in 
washington , d.c. , what was the proper organization to deal with it the 
state department  ( alien ambassadors ) , the defense department  ( alien 
invaders ) , the immigration and service  ( illegal aliens ) , 
the department of the interior  ( new non human species ) , etc. it was 
very much a question of our perception of the aliens , not of anything 
intrinsic in their nature. the bibliography for the article cited a 
philosophical paper (the name and author of which i sadly forget i 
believe the author was italian ) on what constitutes a legal and or moral 
person , i.e. , a being entitled to the rights normally accorded to a 
person. the paper was quite interesting , as i recall .  . 

this is a whole different situation. if aliens were able to get here prior 
to us being able to get there , one might conclude that they would be more advanced 
and therefore more that we are. however if we get somewhere where there 
is life , chances are we wont be able to communicate with them. so we will have 
no clue as to weather they are or not. 

i think you 'd have to be very careful here if the answer is yes. the 
human track record on helping those poor cultures  ( does 
mean not having enough priveleges ) is terrible. the 
usual result is the destruction or radical reorganization of the 
culture. this may not always be wrong , but that 's the way to bet. 

that 's a good point , i had n't thought of it that way. my question however was 
more along the lines of .  .  .  . every year the us spends millions of tax dollars 
and giving tax breaks to individuals and companies who feed the poor of foreign 
countries while thousands of our own people sleep on the streets at night. 
would we give to the on another planet if we had n't resolved 
these issues on our own 


but .  .  .  . your comment brings up another good question. over the years we have decided 
that certain cultures need improvements .  . the native americans is a good example. prior 
to our attempt to civilize them , the native american culture had very little crime , no 
, no poverty .  . then the europeans came along and now they have those and 
more. if we encounter life elsewhere , do we tell them they have to live in houses , farm 
the land and go to church on sunday 

have a day , 

@ @ 
( ) 

from (robert ostroff ) 
subject comet launch date 
originator 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 7 

hello out there , 
if your familiar with the comet program then this concerns you. 
comet is scheduled to be launched from wallops island sometime in june .  . 
does anyone know if an official launch date has been set 

thanks , 
rob 

from 
subject france spied on by the u.s. 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 20 

a young french skeptic , who reads  ( skeptically ) the ufo review 
presence (o . p . ) . , sent me the following excerpt from an august 92 
issue of this review (r . g .  . robert galley , french minister of 
defense in 1974 , answering about the ufo wave ) 

o . p .  . can you conceive that the u.s. could allow themselves to send 
their most modern crafts over foreign territory , with the 
hierarchy ignoring that 
r . g .  . absolutely ! the best proof which i can give is that , some time 
ago , without informing the french authorities , the u.s. based in 
germany sent a plane to make photos of ( ) .  . we followed 
this plane , and , after its landing on the airport , colonel x 
got back the shots of  . the u.s. had not informed us .  .  .  . 
( ) there is an important military plant of enrichment of uranium at 
 . 

what kind of plane could it be surely not an sr 71 , which our planes 
could not follow  ( and still ca n't) .  .  .  . 

j. 

from  ( tom van flandern ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization whole earth  link 
lines 29 


 ( henry spencer ) writes 

does anyone have a reference  ( something i can look up , not just your own 
recollections i have a few of those myself) on the temperature of the 
 ( night ) sky as seen from space 

you 'll find that in allen , c . w .  . , astrophysical quantities , 
press , dover , nh , 3rd edition , pp. 268 269  . to the accuracy it can 
be calculated  ( see specific references in allen about how it is 
calculated ) , the temperature is 3 degrees k. 

lots of people have remarked on this temperature .  . the first may have 
been in 's book , internal constitution of stars , ch. 13  ( 1926 
reprinted 1986) , where he gives the temperature of space as 3 degrees. 

the source of this temperature is the radiation of starlight .  . 

my dim recollection is that the net effective temperature is 
substantially higher than that of the mbr , once you figure in things like 
stars and the light , but i 'd like numbers. 

to the accuracy of measurement , it 's the same temperature .  . some of us 
think this may not be a coincidence .  . tom 


tom van flandern washington , dc 
meta research was founded to foster research into ideas not otherwise 
supported because they conflict with mainstream theories in astronomy .  . 

from 
subject words from the chairman of boeing on ssto type stuff 
article i.d. max . 1993apr27 . 1 . 
distribution world 
lines 57 
nntp posting host max . u . washington . edu . 


yesterday , i went to the boeing meeting. it was a bit shorter 
than i expected. last year  ( when the stock was first down) , they made a big 
presentation on the 777 , and other programs. this year , it was much more 
bare bones .  . 

in any case , i wanted to ask a question that the board of directors would 
hear , and so i got there early , and figured that if i did n't get to the mike , 
maybe they would read mine off of a card , and so i wrote it down , and handed it 
in. 

after the meeting started , mr. said that he would only answer written 
questions , in order to be fair to the people in the overflow room that only 
had monitors downstairs .  . naturally , i was crushed .  . 

so , when question and answer time came , i was suprised to find my question 
being read and answered. admittedly near the end of the ones that he took .  . 
presumably getting there early , and getting the question in early made all 
the difference. 

so , on to the substance .  . the question was 

is boeing looking at anything beyond the high speed civil transport , such 
as a commercial space launch system , and if not , how will boeing compete 
with the reusable single stage to orbit technology presently being developed 
by mcdonnell douglass 

well , he read it without a hitch , and without editing , with impressed me , 
then he answered it very quickly treating it as a two part question , last 
part first. 

this is to the best of my recollection what he said. 

as far as single stage to orbit technology , we think that we have a better 
answer in a two stage approach , and we are talking to some of our customers 
about that. as far as commercialization , that is a long ways off. the high 
speed civil transport is about as far out as our commercial planning goes at 
this point. 

so , this tells me that boeing still considers space to be a non commercial 
arena , and for the most part this is true , however it also tells me that 
they consider there to be enough money in building space launchers for them 
to work on their own. 

now , i do have a friend on the program at boeing .  . actually , 
this is a mis , as there is no contract for the work that this 
guy is doing , however , he is doing work in preparation of a proposal for space 
lifter contracts .  . he wo n't tell me what he is doing , but maybe this is where 
the action is taking place at boeing .  . at the very minimum , the chairman 
of the board of boeing said that they have an approach in mind , and they are 
trying to do something with it. 

anybody know anything further 
is this really news 
does this threaten further work on dc 

john .  . 

from  ( bill higgins beam jockey ) 
subject why we like dc x  ( was re shuttle 0 defects bizarre dc x ) 
organization fermi national accelerator laboratory 
lines 90 
nntp posting host fnalf . fnal . gov . 

ken 

your arguments are thoughtful but you are going up against the big 
boys if you 're tackling henry .  . allen sherzer will doubtless chime in 
on the subject of staggering operational costs , too. good luck , son. 

in article ,  ( ken hayashida ) writes 
shuttle is the only method in the free world of orbiting large life sciences 
and medical related packages. 

ahem .  . the russians are in the free world now , or at least it would be 
politically correct to contend so. 

i am hopeful that dc x , or whatever the follow on is eventually called , 
will perform as you state. but right now , i must admit that i am more 
skeptical than ever. 

it will be tough to make dc x succeed , and to turn it into an 
operational orbital vehicle. doubtless it will fail to meet some of 
the promised goals. the reason people are so fond of it is that it 's 
the only chance we have now , or will have for a long time to come , 
to develop a launch vehicle with radically lower costs. 

there is no shuttle successor in funded development , nasp is 
away , and als nls sure as hell are n't gonna knock any 
off that 2000 3000 per pound cost. part of the blame for 
this must be placed on a shuttle program that consumes many annual 
billions of the , er , free world 's available space cash. as you will 
no doubt hear from many correspondents in the days to come. ( 

dc x is an attempt to break out of the vicious cycle by keeping 
development costs low and flying incremental x plane hardware. 
it 's been , to my mind , incredibly successful already they 've built a 
complex prototype in under 600 days for under 60  . i would 
have been extremely skeptical that this could be accomplished in 1990s 
america , never mind flying the thing , getting a successor funded , or 
building the dc y. 

i'm sure you know well that launch costs are the basic problem for any 
expansion of astronautics .  . i do n't see a realistic prospect for 
beating down those costs , for multi ton payloads , anywhere else. if 
the dc flops , it 'll be business as usual in space. the nineties and 
the double will look just like the seventies and eighties , a 
prospect too depressing to bear. 

 ( pegasus represents another assault on the problem from a different 
direction. it does n't lower cost per pound but it offers an orbital 
launch for under ten  . it 's creating its own market for 
small payloads . ) . 

i read the magazines and i 've attended the last two  . there are 
plenty of engineers with paper ideas for cheaper launch systems , some 
of them as good as or better than ssto .  . there is no sign in today 's 
world that any of these designs will be allowed anywhere near an 
assembly line. 

you could change my view on dc x if you could prove the following 
 .  .  . deleting . some things i'm not going to prove tonight .  .  .  . 
3 that the shuttle need not go on to allow development of a man 
dc x successor 

strawman .  . is anybody seriously proposing this references , please. 
the dc must be developed in the real world funding climate , which 
includes a nasa committed to continuing shuttle 
operations , as well as the bird in the hand argument your common 
sense tells you. if dc y flies at all , it flies alongside the 
shuttle , not instead of it. 

also , of course , dc y and its operational descendants will be useful 
for a wide variety of jobs even if they are not man rated .  . 

4 most importantly , that the dc x will open up leo to more scientific and 
technical payloads .  . 

if a dc x successor can fly a 10 , 000 kg payload for 1m , or even 5m , 
rather than the 40m it now costs , more people will be able to afford 
more payloads .  .  .  . for the same money , you can fly several satellites 
instead of one. big outfits can fly multi satellite series. little 
outfits will be able to fly spacecraft of their own , instead of 
begging a ride. this is just supply and demand .  . you should be able 
to convince yourself that point 4 will be true , assuming dc makes a 
big difference in costs. do you have some reason to think not 

o ) ' ' , , ' , 
) ( ) ( ) zap ! 
( ) ( ) 
bill higgins fermi national accelerator laboratory 
bitnet 
internet 
span 43011 higgins 

from (scott fisher ) 
subject re true globe , who makes it 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 22 
nntp posting host wapsy . psy . uwa . oz . au . 

 ( bill vance ) writes 

it has been known for quite a while that the earth is actually more pear 
shaped than globular spherical .  . does anyone make a globe that is accurate 
as to actual shape , landmass configuration long lat lines etc. 
thanks in advance. 

even if they did , a globe at a scale that you could fit into your average room 
or even average hall the deviations you mention would not be visually 
evident .  . in other words a micrometer would be required to test the fact that 
the globe was infact pear shaped .  . 

regards scott .  . 

scott fisher ph aus 61 perth (09) local  ( 380 3272) .  . 
n 
department of psychology w e 
university of western australia .  . perth 32s , . . s 
, 6009 .  . perth , w.a. v 

error 144 reboot is a registered trademark of corp 


from (david ward ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 

no , the thing is designed to be retrievable , in a pinch .  . indeed , this 
dictated a rather odd design for the solar arrays , since they had to be 
as well as extendable , and may thus have indirectly contributed 
to the array problems. 


why not design the solar arrays to be detachable .  . if the shuttle is going 
to the hst , what bother are some arrays .  . just fit them with a quick release. 

i did n't think the bi stem design was used so much for the retrieval as 
for the ability to launch in a tight  ( size ) sts envelope. this is my own 
guess , based on similar designs flown on other large sts launched s c 
 ( gro ,  . also , there might be some consideration given to mass 
requirements  ( bi stems weight less than conventional s a) .  . finally , 
the hst arrays do have the ability to be detached remember , they 're 
going to be replaced with new arrays .  . 

however , as an acs guy who 's seen his branch management pull their 
collective hair out over hst , i would voice a hearty  yea  to using 
conventional arrays over bi stems , whenever possible. no half hertz 
flexible modes , no thermal snap , no problem. 

david w. @ gsfc 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re space manuevering tug  ( was hst servicing mission ) 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 83 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

given that what i described for the hst seemed to be the smt , and given 
the mass on the discovery mission is tight enough that spacewalking 
has to be carefully constrained .  .  .  .  .  . no edo pallets , no spare suits , 
no extra mmu 's .  . 

has someone actually verified that mass is the predominant constraint on this 
mission you seem to be assuming it without giving supporting evidence. 


someone from nasa posted that there were very significant mass margins 
on the hst re boost mission. a while back i had asked why not carry 
the edo pallet up , and the answer was the mass margins were tight enough , they were n't even carrying extra suits .  . 

why not do this 

quick test of faster cheaper , better. 

build a real fast space tug , to handle the re boost of the hst using 
clean cryo fuels , and get it ready before the hst mission. 

pat , this would be slower , more expensive and worse. 

slower the shuttle mission is scheduled to go up in december .  . that 's less 
than eight months away. there is no way you could build new hardware , retrain 
and the eva 's in that time. 


where 's wingo when you need him ) 

come on. knock that s t off. 

you forget , that during skylab , they did overnight mission planning 
for the repair eva 's .  . also during the 
mission , they did overnight simulations .  . 
i somehow think they could train up a new eva in 8 months. 

and as for building hardware , anything can be built if you want it 
bad enough. 

you forget , the bus 1 is already built .  . all they 'd ahve to do 
is soup it up , even test it on a delta mission. 

do n't get into this mode of  . besides , at the rate 
missions slip , the discovery wo n't launch on this mission until 
march .  . that 's almost a year. 

more expensive your proposal still requires the shuttle to do everything it 
was going to do fire the oms .  . in addition , you 've added significant 
extra cost for a new piece of complex hardware. 


ah , but how much more expensive is the second hst servicing mission. 

you forget , there is a bum fgs , the solar array electronics , are 
getting and there is still 8 months until the servicing mission. 

the time for the space walks are growing rapidly .  . this was 
planned out as 3 spacewalks , now they are at 5 eva 's with 3 reserve 
walks .  . 

if the smt can avoid a second servicing mission that 's 500 million 
saved .  . if the weight savings , means they can sit on orbit for 30 days. 
and handle any contingency problems , that 's quite a savings .  . 


according to a gao report on the i have before me , there are 
only two currently planned missions that could use such a vehicle hst and 
axaf .  . since axaf has since been scaled back and hst can rely on the shuttle , 
there does n't seem to be any need for your vehicle. 


of course , there was n't any need for the saturn v after apollo too. 

as for the problems with the aperture door , i am sure they can 
work out some way to handle that. maybe a plug made from 
frozen ice. it 'll keep out any contamination , 
yet sublime away after teh boost .  . 

pat 


from (michael corvin ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
keywords hst 
organization martin marietta astronautics group 
lines 24 
nntp posting host den . mmc . com . 

regarding the feasability of retrieving the hst for repair and 
it 

 ( caution speculation mode engaged ) 
there is another consideration that has n't been mentioned yet. 
i expect that retrieving hst would involve  damaging  it considerably in 
order to return it to its cradle in the cargo bay. most of the deployed 
items  ( antennas and , especially , the solar arays ) probably are not 
into their fully position , even by hand. they would 
have to be removed by the astronauts .  . (the only advantage that this 
might yield is that we could put new panels on that do n't  ring  due 
to thermal cycle stresses .  .  . ) . 

i also expect that , as has been discussed , the landing loads on the 
hst optics structure is a big issue  ( but that the reentry loads are 
much less so . ) . can the optical components even be re 
(i assume that they were for launch ) 


michael 
gn c r d martin marietta astronautics 

my views , not martin marietta 's 


from 
subject nasa contributions 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 6 

teflon a contribution from the space program since the french were using 
teflon on household items in the early 1950 's , it is unlikely that it was 
invented by nasa .  . as for and calculators , again those are 
connected with nasa .  . 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from ( f . baube . tm ) 
subject enterprise 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 26 

from 

commercial space news space technology investor number 22 

7 another pegasus competitor is announced 
 .  .  . 
enterprise is described as a ex military 
establishment , focusing on aerodynamics and thermal protection 
of spacecraft and which has participated in the development of 
the shuttle system , they are located near the npo energia 
facility in kaliningrad , outside of moscow .  . 

if this facility is in kaliningrad , this is not near moscow , 
it is in fact the ex east prussian , now a russian 
enclave on the baltic coast. it is served by ships and rail , 
and the intrepid traveller in europe would find it accessible 
and might even want to try to arrange a tour ( ) .  . 

fred baube (tm) in times of intellectual ferment , 
advantage to him with the intellect 
include disclaimer . h . most fermented 
may '68 , paris it 's retrospective time ! ! 

p.s. i'm quite glad that a couple of people stated quite eloquently 
the aesthetic natural objections to the space billboard .  . 


from  ( william f brown) 
subject re space offs 
organization worcester polytechnic institute 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host wpi . wpi . edu . 

i just wanted to point out , that teflon was n't from the space program. 
it was from the wwii nuclear weapons development program. pipes in the 
system for and uranium had to be lined with it. 

uranium was the chemical they turned the into for 
enrichment .  . it is massively corrosive .  . even to stainless  . hence 
the need for a very inert to line the pipes with. teflon has 
all its molecular sockets bound up already , so it is very  . 

my 2 sense worth. 

bill 


from 
subject re u.s. government and science and investment 
organization quake public access , san fernando valley , ca  ( 818)362 ) 6092 
lines 46 

in article  ( phil g. fraering ) writes 
 ( gregory mccolm ) writes 
in article  ( conor frederick prischmann ) writes 
in article  ( gregory mccolm ) writes 

huh please state your criteria for selecting the greatest philosopher 
title. p.s. ever read any nietzsche 

greatest most likely to be remembered five hundred years hence .  . 
i must admit that that makes many of my personal favorites not 
that great. i make no comment on except to remark that 
he was no immanuel kant .  . interpret that cryptic remark as you 
please. 

some people have appended that remark , that was no kant , 
with thankfully .  . i have n't read enough of either to comment , although 
everyone tells me i should read  . 

i would have to say that the greatest philosopher title would have to 
go to plato since the whole enterprise of philosophy was essentially 
defined by him. although he got most of his answers wrong , he did 
definitively identify what the important questions are. i think it 
was descartes who said that all philosophy is just a footnote to plato .  . 

if i were to choose which philosopher made the most important advances 
in human knowledge over his lifetime , that 's simple .  .  . it . is aristotle .  . 
this is so much the case that many simply refer to him as the philosopher . 

regarding nietzsche , he 's one of the most entertaining , although since his 
ideas were so fragmented  ( and since his life was cut short) it is doubtful 
that his influence as a philosopher is likely to be very extensive 500 years 
from now. they 'll probably still be reading him in 500 years though. 

as for modern philosophers , i would have to say that kant was the most 
influential since he had such a strong influence on almost everyone who 
came after him  ( and unfortunately , they maintained his errors and 
amplified them over time) .  . 

i would say that the most influential american philosopher would have to 
be dewey .  . 

but as to the question of what philosopher will be most highly regarded in 
500 years , it may very well be ayn rand  ( who in every important respect 
was american , but was born in russia) .  . but i guess that remains to be seen. 

brian 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re why we like dc x  ( was re shuttle 0 defects bizarre dc x ) 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
 ( however , i do agree with richard that if you 're planning short missions , 
it may not be worth the trouble of providing anything more than a urine 
disposal rig and a few baggies . ) . 

i do n't know about c 5 's , but on c 130 's which are regularly used 
for medium haul personnel transport by the army , only have a 
funnel and a garden hose in the aft .  . the female personnel 
hate long trips in the box cars. 

pat 

from 
subject re hst servicing mission 
distribution na 
organization space telescope science institute 
lines 22 

in article , writes 

i have never heard of any serious consideration that hst might be brought 
down for refurbishment .  . you would have the horrendous cost of transporting , 

back in january and february there were several articles  ( wash post , time .  .  . ) . 
saying that nasa was considering the option just as it is now considering 
a followup mission 6 12 months after the servicing mission. however , the 
down time was estimated to be a year  ( servicing , checkout , 
and training another shuttle , orbit verification .  .  . ) . and to be quite 
expensive. i think it may have been more a mental exercise than a 
real plan. do n't know. 



robert dempsey (410) 338 1334 
stsci 

he which hath no stomach for this fight , let him depart his passport 
shall be made , and for convoy put into his purse we would not die 
in this man 's company that fears his fellowship to die with us. shakespeare 


from  ( jonathan p. gibbons ) 
subject what planets are 
organization bnr europe ltd , london rd , , essex , , u.k. 
lines 21 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host 128 . 199 . 200 . 40 . 

i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet for humans. 
i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere evolve given a range 
of physical aspects of the planet. the question is what physical aspects 
simply earth like conditions. 

eg temperature range of to (where temp is purely dependant on dist 
from the sun and the suns temperature .  . ) . 
atmospheric i know nothing of human tolerance 
planetary mass again gravity at surface is important , how much 
can human bodies take day after day. also how does the mass effect 
atmosphere. i thinking of planets between .3 and 3 times mass of the 
earth. i suppose density should be important as well. 

climate etc does not concern me , nor does axial tilt etc etc. just the above 
three factors and how they relate to one another. 

jonathan 


with eyes and fiery breath the dragon burnt the girl to death 
from too late saint george 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject llnl inflated space stations  ( was space dock .  . ) . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 20 

writes 

in article writes 
why not build a inflatable space dock .  . 

discussion of pros and cons deleted 

these are some of the technical difficulties which the llnl proposal 
for an inflatable space station dealt with to varying degrees of 
success. 

could someone give me the references to the llnl proposal i 've been meaning 
to track it down in with something i'm working on. it 's not 
directly related to space stations , but i think many of the principles will 
carry over. 


josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters how energetic could they be 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 21 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article (david m. palmer ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

in article writes 
energetic for close by. for the coronal model , we found around 10 43 erg sec. 
and lastly , for the cosmological model an l 10 53 .  . that 's what you 'd call 
moderately energetic , i 'd say. any suggestions about what could put out that 
much energy in one second 
jeremy 

big capacitor ) real big capacitor .  . 

it 's been suggested .  .  ( specifically , lightning strikes between clouds 
in the interstellar medium . ) . 



how big of a lightning rod , would you need for protection 
and would you need jupiter as a ground plane. 

pat 

from 
subject u.s. government and investment 
organization nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 44 

people who criticize big government and its projects rarely seem to 
have a consistent view of the role of government in science and 
technology. basically , the u.s. government has gotten into the role of 
supporting research which private industry finds too expensive or too 
long term. 

 ( historically , this role for the u.s. gov't was forced upon it because 
of socialism in other countries. in order for u.s. industries to 
compete with government subsidized foreign competitors , the u.s. gov't 
has taken on the role of big ticket or long lead r d . ) . 

as a republican , i abhor the necessity for our government to involve 
itself in technology this way. i believe that market forces should 
drive technology , and the world would be a better place for it. but 
the whole world would have to implement this concept simultaneously , or 
some countries would have subsidized r d , while others would not. so 
the u.s. must subsidize because everybody else does.  ( this sounds a 
lot like the farm subsidies arguments behind our gatt negotiations , 
does n't it ) 

but this role of government subsidies is antithetical to 
cost effectiveness .  . the general idea is to spend money on new 
technology , and thereby maintain and promote our technological culture , 
despite the forces in the business world  ( like the dreaded quarterly 
earnings report ) which erode the ability of u.s. industry to invest in 
new technology. and since our goal is to spend money , it makes little 
sense to try to save money. 

of course , we could always spend our money more wisely , but everybody 
disagrees about that the wisdom should be. 

it 's interesting to note that some of our best tools for cost control 
available in industry today were derived from government projects. 
charts , cp m , and most of the modern scheduling software comes 
from dod projects and their contractors .  . the construction industry 
has taken these tools to the core of their businesses every large 
construction project now uses these tools. 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

a scientist can discover a new star , but he cannot make one. 
he would have to ask an engineer to do that. 
gordon l. , american engineer , 1969 

from (david ward ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
lines 38 

in article , (david m. palmer ) writes .  .  .  . 

you may want to put hubble back in the payload bay for a reboost , 
and you do n't want to clip off the panels each time. 

the artist renderings that i 've seen of the hst reboost still have 
the arrays fully extended , with a cradle holding hst at a 30 degree 
angle to the shuttle .  . i think the rendering was conceived before the 
array was approved , so i'm not sure if the current reboost 
will occur with the arrays deployed or not. however , it does n't 
appear that an array retraction was necessary for reboost .  . 

for the gamma ray observatory , one of the design requirements was that 
there be no stored energy  ( springs , explosive , gas shocks , 
etc . ) . used for deployment .  . this was partially so that everything could 
be back in to put it back in the payload bay , and partially for 
safety considerations .  . (i 've heard that the wings on a cruise missile 
would cut you in half if you were standing in their when they opened . ) . 


thanks for the input on gro 's s a design constraints .  . that would 
explain the similar design on  . 

back when the shuttle would be going up every other day with a cost to 
orbit of 3.95 per pound ) , everybody designed things for easy servicing .  . 


heck , the project used to design missions with servicing in mind. 
the spacecraft was originally designed as an on orbit replacement 
for the instrument module on  . that way , you get two instruments 
for the price of one spacecraft bus (the explorer  . a 
second on orbit replacement was also considered , with the fuse telescope .  . 


david m. palmer 


david w. @ gsfc 

from  ( tom ) 
subject mcelwaine 's secret messages 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 32 

robert sez  ( again ! ) 

astronomy and physics 
etc. 

ok , i got it. actually , these message of 's are coded messages. 
read only the caps , and it all comes clear ! 

are a few more types of anti matter atoms worth the 8.3 
billion cost ! ! do n't we have much more important uses for 
this wasted money ! 

another thing to consider is that the primary proposed 
location in texas has a serious and growing problem with some 
kind of fire ants eating the insulation off underground 
cables .  . how much poisoning of the ground and ground water 
with insecticides will be required to keep the ants out of 
the supercollider ! 

naming the super collider after ronald reagon , as 
proposed , is totally absurd ! if it is built , it should be 
named after a leading particle physicist .  . 

maybe it 's a message telling us what actually happened to the legendary 
larson .  . perhaps it 's a warning that one should not expend too much 
effort trying to counter 's postings .  . who can be sure ) 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk they communicated with the communists , 
336 9591 hm and pacified the  . 


from  ( julie moses ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
organization nasa ames research center 
lines 29 

does anyone have a reference  ( something i can look up , not just your own 
recollections i have a few of those myself) on the temperature of the 
 ( night ) sky as seen from space 

note , i am not talking about the temperature of the microwave background 
radiation .  . there are more things in the sky than just the mbr what i'm 
after is total temperature what a thermal radiator would see , 
disregarding  ( or shielding against ) the sun and nearby large warm objects .  . 


i'm not sure if this will help you , but the  ( local ) interstellar 
radiation field has been measured and modeled by various groups. if i 
remember things correctly , the models involved contributions from three 
different bb sources , so there 's no obvious temperature of background 
radiation in our local area. however , the following references give the 
interstellar radiation density as a function of wavelength , and you can 
integrate and average in an appropriate manner to get an effective 
temperature if you like 

witt and johnson  ( 1973 ) astrophys .  . j. 181 , 363 368 
henry et al. (1980) astrophys .  . j. 239 , 859 866 
et al.  ( 1983 ) astron .  . astrophys .  . 128 , 212 229 

as you can see , the references are out of date , but they might get you 
started. 

hope this helps , 

julie 

from  ( ts kelso ) 
subject two line orbital element set space shuttle 
keywords space shuttle , orbital elements , 
nntp posting host scgraph . afit . af . mil . 
organization air force institute of technology 
lines 18 

the most current orbital elements from the norad two line element sets are 
carried on the celestial bbs , (513) 427 0674 , and are updated daily  ( when 
possible) .  . documentation and tracking software are also available on this 
system. as a service to the satellite user community , the most current 
elements for the current shuttle mission are provided below. the celestial 
bbs may be accessed 24 hours day at 300 , 1200 , 2400 , 4800 , or 9600 bps using 
8 data bits , 1 stop bit , no parity .  . 

element sets  ( also updated daily ) , shuttle elements , and some documentation 
and software are also available via anonymous ftp from archive . afit . af . mil . 
(129 . 92 . 1 . 66) . in the directory pub space. 

sts 55 
1 93 27 a 93117 .  . 00000 0 3 0 47 
2 28 . 264 . 261 . 194 . 3250 . 15 . 104 

dr ts kelso assistant professor of space operations 
air force institute of technology 

subject re gamma ray bursters how energetic could they be 
from 
organization mankato state university 
nntp posting host vax1 . mankato . msus . edu . 
lines 38 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu . , (john f carr ) writes 

if gamma ray bursters are extragalactic , would absorption from the 
galaxy be expected how transparent is the galactic core to gamma 
rays 

how much energy does a burster put out i know energy depends on 
distance , which is unknown. an answer of the form x ergs per 
megaparsec 2 is ok. 



john carr 
i had to turn to one of my problem sets that i did in class for this 
little problem. i do n't have a calculator , but i do have the problem set that 
we did not too long ago , so i 'll use that , and hope it 's what you wanted. 
this is a highly simplified problem , with a very simple burst .  . bursts are 
usually more complex than this example i will use here. 
our burst has a peak flux of 5 . 6 ergs cm 2 sec 1 and a duration 
of 8.95 seconds. during the second of the burst , and the last 4 seconds , 
its flux is half of the peak flux .  . it 's flux is the peak flux the rest of the 
time. assume that the background flux is 7 erg cm 2 sec 1. 
then we had to find the integrated luminosity of the burst , for several 
different spheres r  . cloud radius) , r 22 . the edge of the 
galaxy ) , r 183 . or the edge of the galactic corona , and lastly at a 
r  . 
we integrated the flux over all time to find the , then used the 
old standby formula 
luminosity  ( 4(pi)(r ) 2)fpeak ) 
for a radius of .25 pc , we found an l around 10 32 erg sec. pretty 
energetic for close by. for the coronal model , we found around 10 43 erg sec. 
and lastly , for the cosmological model an l 10 53 .  . that 's what you 'd call 
moderately energetic , i 'd say. any suggestions about what could put out that 
much energy in one second 
jeremy 




from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters how energetic could they be 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 31 

 ( pat ) writes 

in article (david m. palmer ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

in article writes 
energetic for close by. for the coronal model , we found around 10 43 erg sec. 
and lastly , for the cosmological model an l 10 53 .  . that 's what you 'd call 
moderately energetic , i 'd say. any suggestions about what could put out that 
much energy in one second 
jeremy 

big capacitor ) real big capacitor .  . 

it 's been suggested .  .  ( specifically , lightning strikes between clouds 
in the interstellar medium . ) . 



how big of a lightning rod , would you need for protection 
and would you need jupiter as a ground plane. 

pat 

sounds to me like you 'd want a star for the ground plane. 


phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 



from 
subject the universe of motion  ( book review) 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 141 



 ( book review) 


the universe of motion , by dewey b. larson , 1984 , north 
pacific publishers , portland , oregon , 456 pages , indexed , 
hardcover .  . 


the universe of motion contains final solutions to 
most all astrophysical mysteries .  . 

this book is volume iii of a revised and enlarged 
edition of the structure of the physical universe , 1959 .  . 
volume i is nothing but motion  ( 1979 ) , and volume ii is 
the basic properties of matter (1988) .  . 

most books and journal articles on the subject of 
astrophysics are with integrals , partial 
differentials , and other fancy mathematics .  . in this book , by 
contrast , mathematics is conspicuous by its absence , except 
for some relatively simple formulas in the text. 
larson emphasizes concepts and declares that mathematical 
agreement with a theory does not guarantee its conceptual 
validity .  . 

dewey b. larson was a retired engineer with a bachelor 
of science degree in engineering science from oregon state 
university .  . he developed the theory described in his books 
while trying to find a way to mathematically calculate the 
properties of chemical compounds based only on the elements 
they contain .  . 

the universe of motion describes the astrophysical 
portions of larson 's consistent , integrated , comprehensive , 
general unified theory of the physical universe , a kind of 
grand unified field theory that orthodox physicists and 
astro physicists claim to be looking for. it is built on two 
postulates about the physical and mathematical nature of 
space and time 

(1) the physical universe is composed entirely of one 
component , motion , existing in three dimensions , in discrete 
units , and with two reciprocal aspects , space and time. 

(2) the physical universe conforms to the relations of 
ordinary commutative mathematics , its primary magnitudes are 
absolute , and its geometry is euclidean .  . 

from these two postulates , larson was able to build a 
complete theoretical universe , from photons and subatomic 
particles to the giant elliptical galaxies , by combining the 
concept of inward and outward scalar motions with 
translational , vibrational , rotational , and rotational 
vibrational motions .  . at each step in the development , he was 
able to match parts of his theoretical universe with 
corresponding parts in the real physical universe , including 
even things not yet discovered .  . for example , in his 1959 
book , he first predicted the existence of exploding galaxies , 
several years before astronomers started finding them. they 
are a necessary consequence of his comprehensive theory. and 
when quasars were discovered , he had a related explanation 
ready for those also. 

as a result of his theory , which he called the 
reciprocal system , larson totally rejected many of the 
sacred doctrines of orthodox physicists and astrophysicists , 
including black holes , neutron stars , degenerate matter , 
quantum wave mechanics  ( as applied to atomic structure ) , 
nuclear physics , general relativity , relativistic mass 
increases , relativistic doppler shifts , nuclear fusion in 
stars , and the big bang , all of which he considered to be 
nothing more than mathematical fantasies .  . he was very 
critical of the ad hoc assumptions , uncertainty principles , 
solutions in principle , no other way declarations , etc. , 
used to maintain them. 

the universe of motion is divided into 31 chapters .  . 
it begins with a description of how galaxies are built from 
the gravitational attraction between globular star clusters , 
which are formed from intergalactic gas and dust clouds that 
accumulate from the decay products of cosmic rays coming in 
from the anti matter half of the physical universe.  ( galaxy 
formation from the mythical big bang is a big mystery to 
orthodox astronomers . ) . he then goes on to describe life 
cycles of stars and how binary and multiple star systems and 
solar systems result from type i supernova explosions of 
single stars. 

several chapters are devoted to quasars which , according 
to larson , are densely packed clusters of stars that have 
been ejected from the central of exploding galaxies 
and are actually traveling faster than the speed of light 
 ( although most of that speed is away from us in time) .  . 

astronomers and astrophysicists who run up against 
observations that contradict their theories would find 
larson 's explanations quite valuable if considered with an 
open mind. for example , they used to believe that gamma ray 
bursts originated from pulsars , which exist primarily in the 
plane or central bulge of our galaxy .  . but the new gamma ray 
telescope in earth orbit observed that the bursts come from 
all directions uniformly and do not correspond with any 
visible objects , (except for a few cases of directional 
coincidence) .  . larson 's explanation is that the gamma ray 
bursts originate from supernova explosions in the anti matter 
half of the physical universe , which larson calls the cosmic 
sector . because the anti matter universe exists in a 
reciprocal relation to our material universe , with the speed 
of light as the boundary between them , and has three 
dimensions of time and only one dimension of space , the 
bursts can pop into our material universe anywhere seemingly 
at random. 

larson heavily quotes or statements from 
books , journal articles , and leading physicists and 
astronomers .  . in this book , 351 of them are 
with numbers identifying entries in the reference list at the 
end of the book. for example , a quote from the book 
astronomy the cosmic journey , by william k. hartmann , 
says , our hopes of understanding all stars would brighten if 
we could explain exactly how binary and multiple stars 
form .  .  .  .  . unfortunately we cannot .  . larson 's book contains 
logical consistent explanations of such mysteries that are 
worthy of serious consideration by all physicists , 
astronomers , and astrophysicists .  . 


for more information , answers to your questions , etc. , 
please consult my cited sources  ( larson 's books) .  . 


un altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
important book review is encouraged .  . 


robert e. mcelwaine 
b.s. , physics and astronomy , uw ec 



from  ( bruce scott ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
nntp posting host lambada . oit . unc . edu . 
organization university of north carolina extended bulletin board service 
lines 17 

if re boosting the hst by carrying it with a shuttle would not damage it , 
then why could n't hst be brought back to earth and the repair job done 
here 

is it because two shuttle flights would be required , adding to the 
horrendous expense 

gruss , 
dr bruce scott the deadliest bullshit is 
max planck institut fuer odorless and transparent 
bds at spl6n1 . aug . ipp . garching . mpg . de . w gibson 


the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of 
north carolina at chapel hill , the campus office for information 
technology , or the experimental bulletin board service. 
internet launchpad . unc . edu . or 152 . 2 . 22 . 80 . 

from  ( gary coffman ) 
subject re math  ( was us govt investment 
keywords science 
reply to  ( gary coffman ) 
organization destructive testing systems 
lines 23 

in article  ( mark wilson ) writes 
in  ( gary coffman ) writes 

it is , however , now somewhat of an experimental science with the exploration 
of fractals , strange , and artificial life. whether important 
insights will be gained from these experiments is unknown , but it does 
tend to change the shape of what has mostly been viewed as an abstract 
deductive field. 

how do you do experiments in mathematics 

nowadays , usually with a computer. no theory predicted the numeric 
discoveries listed above. no one can yet write an algorithm that will 
predict the precise behavior of any of these at any precise level of 
their evolution .  . so it remains for experimenters to gather data on their 
behavior. 

gary 

gary coffman you make it , gatech ! ! ! gary 
destructive testing systems we break it. uunet ! ! ! gary 
534 shannon way guaranteed ! emory ! ! ! gary 
lawrenceville , ga 

from 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
lines 66 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article  ( greg moore ) writes 

 .  .  . 

after all the space walking , they are going to re boost the hst 's 
orbit .  . i think right now it 's sitting at 180 miles up , 
they would like 220 .  . i do n't know the exact orbit numbers. 

as ben says this re boost idea is all news to us here. do you know 
something we do n't please supply a source it would be nice for 
the schedulers of observations to know where the thing is going to 
be. these altitude numbers are also way off. 

my best source has 
minimum st altitude in the is 573 kilometers 
maximum st altitude in the is 603 kilometers 
delta st altitude in the is 3 kilometers 

 ( pmdb is proposal management data base used to schedule observations . ) . 
 .  .  . 

in order to perform the re boost of the hst , the oms engines 
will be fired for a long period. now the shuttle is a heavy 
thing. the hst is n't light either. the amount of oms fuel 
needed to fly both up is substantial .  . a small booster 
carried up and used to boost hst on it 's own will weigh significantly 
less then the oms fuel required to boost both hst and shuttle , 
for a given orbital change. 


could you supply some calculations you might check some recent 
postings that explained that  a small booster  as suggested does 
not now exist , so comparing the mass of something that does n't 
exist to the mass of the oms fuel seems impossible. the contamination 
threat also remains .  . 

 .  .  . 

or the hst could even get placed into some sort of medium orbit .  . 
the reason they want a high orbit , is less antenna pointing , 
and longer drag life. 

longer drag life i can understand , but could you explain the 
antenna pointing 

whatever it is , the problem in the tilt array is a big constraint 
on hst ops .  . 

tell me about it. although the arrays can be  ( and are) moved perfectly 
well utilizing the second electronics box. getting them both working 
is much desireable so as to reclaim redundancy .  . 


pat 


i do n't mean to jump on you helpful suggestions are always welcome 
and we all know the more ideas the better , but i do want the true 
situation to be described clearly and correctly , lest some get 
confused. 

regards , 
wm. hathaway 

from  ( dan tilque ) 
subject teflon  ( re long term human missions 
organization public access 
lines 25 
nntp posting host techbook . techbook . com . 

 ( alejo hausner ) writes 
(robert kaye ) writes 

just a few contributions from the space program to regular society 

2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 

sorry to split hairs , but i just read in the making of the atomic 
bomb ( ) that teflon was developed during world war 2. a sealant was 
needed for the tubing in which uranium passed as it was 
gradually enriched by  . is very corrosive , and some very 
inert yet flexible material was needed for the seals .  . 

i think you 're both right. teflon was actually discovered by accident 
before wwii .  . from what i 've heard , they had some chemical (i assume it 
was tetrafluoroethylene ) in a tank and but the valve got up. 
cutting it open revealed that it had  . 

the material was useful for seals , but it had a major problem for , say 
the linings of vessels it would n't stick to metal. what the space 
program did was to find a way to get it to stick. thus we had no stick 
on the market in the late '60s .  . 


dan 

from (michael daniel fennell ) 
subject for tracking payload deployed by tether .  . 
summary can beacons be used for purposes 
keywords tether , , navigation 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization the whole earth  link , sausalito , ca 
lines 38 



we are interested in constructing a reentry vehicle to be deployed from a 
tether attached to an orbiting platform. this will be a follow on to our 
succesful deployment of a 20 kilometer tether on the march 29 flight of 
seds  ( small expendable deployment system) , which released an 
payload that reentered the earth 's atmosphere and burned up over the west 
coast of mexico .  . this time we want to make a payload that can be recovered .  . 
we want to build it from off the shelf technology so as to do this as 
quickly and inexpensively as possible. we want to be able to track the 
payload after it has deployed its parachute .  . an idea we have is to put the 
same kind of radio beacon on it that is used with  ( search and rescue 
 . it would turn on with the opening of the parachute and aid in 
tracking .  . these beacons are known in the marine industry as 
 ( emergency position indicating radio  . they are rugged  ( they have to 
be to survive a ship wreck ! ) and cheap. we have several questions 

1. what is the world authority regulating the use of beacons .  . are 
there multiple , i.e. military and civilian 

2. what are the regulations regarding the use of signals .  . can they 
be used for one of a kind situations with a long lead time of warning the 
relevant authorities , or are they strictly reserved for life threatening 


3. what is the coverage of are they in leo with only intermittant 
coverage of a fixed position on the earth , or are they in geosynchronous 
orbit 

4. is there an industry organization governing the use and manufacture of 
these transponders 

please post replies here or send e mail to me at 

you very much for any assistance you can provide .  . 

mike 


from (david ward ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
lines 27 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
batse , by having 8 detectors of its own , can do its own location determination , 
but only to within about 3 degrees  ( would someone at gsfc , like david , like 
to comment on the current state of location determination ) .  . having inde 
pendent sightings by other detectors helps drive down the uncertainty .  . 


well , i 'll avoid your question for now  ( got some  to do) with a 
promise to come back with more info when i can find it. i do know that 
batse is the primary instrument in the development of the all sky map of 
long term sources. given that fact , and the spacecraft attitude knowledge 
of approx. 2 , we might be able to figure out how well batse can 
determine the location  ( rotational ) of a gamma ray burster from knowledge 
of the all sky map 's accuracy .  . pr material for the other three instruments 
give accuracies on the order of fractions of a degree , if that 's 
any help. 

speaking of gro , the net world probably was happy to see that the 
for orbit adjust appear to be going well. our branch guy who 's helping 
out says that things have gone smoothly with the iso valve and the 
burns will take place in mid june .  . 

anyway , i'm off to find out more.  be back when i get some info. 

david w. @ gsfc 
i do n't know nuthin   bout  no gamma rays 
gone with the wind , paraphrased 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 37 

(david nash ) writes 

we 're talking about an orbiting ad here , not some little point 
of light that puts a streak or two on a photograph .  . it should have been 
clear that anything used for advertisement is going to be a bit larger than 
a point source. even if this was not clear there 's a previous post on this 
topic that makes it clear 


message id 
sender  ( notes person) 
nntp posting host graphics . cs . nyu . edu . 
organization courant institute of mathematical sciences 
date sun , 16 may 1993 03 30 05 gmt 
lines 132 

in the new york times on sunday may 9th in the week in review 
section there was a report of a group called space marketing 
in atlanta , georgia who is planning to put up a one mile wide 
reflective earth orbiting which will appear as large 

and as bright as the moon and carry some sort of advertising .  . 


from the description i 've read , it 's prob. only going to be 
as bright as jupiter .  . anything else is probably hype from the 
opponents or wishful thinking from the sponsors .  . 

if we could do something as bright as the full moon that soon , 
that cheap , the cis would have done it already. 



phil fraering number one good faith ! you convert , 
you not tortured by demons ! anon. missionary 



from ( rd48 ) 
subject re soyuz and shuttle comparisons 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 11 
nntp posting host violet . berkeley . edu . 

are you guys talking about the soviet shuttle it 's not soyuz , 
it 's called which means snow storm .  . 

(at least that 's what they call it on russian tv) .  . 



gavin helf 
uc berkeley political science 
berkeley stanford program in soviet studies 


from  ( ken hayashida ) 
subject re what planets are 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 53 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host hsc . usc . edu . 

in article  ( jonathan p. gibbons ) writes 
i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet for humans. 
i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere evolve given a range 
of physical aspects of the planet. the question is what physical aspects 
simply earth like conditions. 

eg temperature range of to (where temp is purely dependant on dist 
from the sun and the suns temperature .  . ) . 
atmospheric i know nothing of human tolerance 
planetary mass again gravity at surface is important , how much 
can human bodies take day after day. also how does the mass effect 
atmosphere. i thinking of planets between .3 and 3 times mass of the 
earth. i suppose density should be important as well. 

climate etc does not concern me , nor does axial tilt etc etc. just the above 
three factors and how they relate to one another. 

jonathan 

jonathan , interesting questions. some wonder whether or not the moon could 
have ever supported an atmosphere. i 'd be interested in knowing what 
our geology environmental sciences friends think. 

as for human tolerances , the best example of human endurance in terms 
of altitude (i . e .  . low atmospheric pressure and lower oxygen partial pressure ) 
is in my opinion to the scaling of mt. everest without oxygen assistance. 
this was accomplished by a team of who trained at high 
altitudes for quite awhile (i think a few months) and then were flown by 
helicopter from that training altitude to the equivalent altitude on 
mount everest , where they began the ascent of our planet 's highest peak 
without oxygen tanks .  . this is quite a feat of physiological endurance , because 
if you or i tried to go to 20 , 000 feet and exert ourselves , we would probably 
pass out , get altitude sick , and could even die from cerebral  . so 
this is the limit of low pressure. high pressure situations would be 
limited by the duration of time which it takes to slowly acclimate to a higher 
pressure. skin divers would know alot about high pressure situations and 
could tell you about how they safely make deep dives without getting the 
bends .  . some military experiments have put people under several atmospheres of 
pressure (not sure what the high limit was because the papers are n't in 
front of me) .  . usually at a certain point , the nitrogen in the air becomes 
toxic to the body and you start acting idiotic .  . divers call this nitrogen 
 . those afflicted can do very dangerous and irrational things , like 
taking off a diving mask and oxygen tank in order to talk to fish at 100 feet 
under water.  ( hope any diving folk can elaborate on this matter , as i 
am not a diving  . 

mars cannot support human life without because the atmosphere 
is too thin (1 100 th our earth 's atmospheric  . in addition , 
the mars atmosphere is mostly carbon dioxide .  . basically , you would need a 
pressure suit there , or you 'd die from the low pressure. interesting huh 

ken 


from  ( andy cohen ) 
subject re space station redesign , jsc alternative 4 
organization mda w 
lines 42 
distribution world 
nntp posting host q5022531 . mdc . com . 

in article ,  ( dave 
michelson ) wrote 

in article (michael f. santangelo ) writes 
(david b. mckissock ) writes 

 .  .  . text . of options a and b deleted .  .  .  . 

option c single core launch station. 
this is the jsc lead option. basically , you take a 23 ft diameter 
cylinder that 's 92 ft long , slap 3 space shuttle main engines on 
the backside , put a nose cone on the top , attached it to a 
regular shuttle external tank and a regular set of solid rocket 
motors , and launch the can. some key features are 
complete end to end ground integration and checkout 
4 tangentially mounted fixed solar panels 
body mounted radiators (which adds protection against 
orbital debris ) 
2 centerline docking ports  ( one on each end) 
7 berthing ports 
a single pressurized volume , approximately 26 , 000 cubic feet 
 ( twice the volume of skylab) .  . 
7 floors , center passageway between floors 
10 kw of housekeeping power 

somehow i have a strange attraction for this idea  ( living in 
a modular home maybe has altered my mind) .  . the only thing 
that scares me is the part about simply strapping 3 's and 
a nosecone on it and just launching it. i have this vision 
of something going terribly wrong with the launch resulting in the 
complete loss of the new modular space station (not just a peice of 
it as would be the case with staged in orbit construction) .  . 

i certainly like this option c ... it 's much more like the original 
phase b studies from the early 1970 's .  . good stuff ! 

this is actually more like the stuff from phase a and mol .  .  .  . phase . b ended 
with a power tower approach .  .  .  .  . 

it 's also very expensive in terms of upfront development costs .  .  .  . so . all 
you get is a redistribution of costs from the shuttle flights to the 
contractors who build it. 

from (david lesher ) 
subject re no. re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization nrk clinic for habitual netnews abusers beltway annex 
lines 11 
reply to (david lesher ) 
nntp posting host skybridge . scl . cwru . edu . 

others said 
coca cola company will want to paint the moon red and white.  ( well , 
if not this moon , then a moon of  .  .  . 

this reminds me of the old arthur c. clarke story about the coca cola 
ad stashed inside an experiment .  . 

a host is a host from coast to 
no one will talk to a host that 's close .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . (301) . 56 linux 
unless the host  ( that is n't close) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . pob . 1433 
is busy , hung or dead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20915 . 1433 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re space manuevering tug  ( was hst servicing mission ) 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 121 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

i wrote 
 ( pat ) writes 

my data shows that the oms engines hold 10 , 900 kg of propellant .  . of that , a 
substantial fraction is going to be used for the first oms burn , the reentry 
burn and the reserve .  . so pat , tell us how much fuel the altitude change is 
going to take , and how much the edo pallet , bus 1 and extra parts are going 
mass. if you can make the numbers work out , then i 'll be interested. after 
you show us that it can be done , then tell us how much the edo pallet , bus 1 
and extra equipment is going to cost. 


i do n't know. does anyone in nasa land know how much fuel is 
budgeted for the altitude change 

henry , any figures on the mass  ( full ) for the edo pallet plus 
it 's dry weight how about for the dry mass of bus 1 it was 
being de classified as i checked last. 

also , i need. 

1) current orbital parameters of hst 

2) projected orbital parameters after re boost .  . 

3) discovery 's dry weight 

4) hst 's dry weight. 


i somehow think they could train up a new eva in 8 months. 

first , while astronauts certainly have done evas with minimal planning , that was 
because they had to. they do n't like to do that as a general rule. 


so how long do they need to train a year 2 years somehow 
i think 2 3 should be adequate .  . 

second , remember why they had to during 6 they were trying 
to attach a motor to a piece of hardware that was n't designed to do that. 
trying to shortcut the training is only going to make a repeat more likely. 


also because they significantly lacked on orbit eva experience. 
the hst is designed for on orbit servicing .  . it should be a lot easier. 

third , they do n't have eight months. they have however much time is left 
after someone comes up with a plan , shows it can work and gets it approved .  . 
you may think i have a pessimistic attitude. i think it 's realistic .  . i'm not 
saying that the engineering task is impossible  ( few engineering tasks are) .  . 
what i'm saying is that this is neither cost effective nor feasible under nasa 
management. 


there comes a time in every project , to kill the management. 

they can if neccessary , re schedule the hst mission. december is 
not a drop dead date , unlike say the retrieval mission. 



all they have to do is soup it up just what does that mean 


i suspect , the bus 1 , may not have enough basic thrust for the hst 
re boost .  . it need bigger tanks , or bigger thrusters .  . 


my understanding is the second hst servicing mission is not 
a contingency .  . my understanding is the mission needs both 
a new foc and work on the electrical system , plus 
another re boost .  . 


if the smt can avoid a second servicing mission that 's 500 million 
saved .  . 

no pat .  . that 's 500 million minus the cost of the new hardware , minus the cost 
of the extra you want to bring along , minus development and mangement 
costs , minus extra operating costs. tanstaafl .  . 


somehow , i think the cost of an expendable smt will be less then 
500 million. 

and the extra stuff is real cheap. nasa has lots of suits , mmu 's , 
and the edo pallets are re usable .  . oh , one double magnum of , 
now there 's a couple hundred bucks. 





pat , not only is this messy and less reliable than a device that 's made to 
perform this task , it also ignores the point. there is a desire to have 
astronauts available so that if the door fails to open , something can be done 
about it. unless you can provide a very reliable way of reopening the door , 
you have n't solved the problem. 


that door has cycled , x times already. once after massive g loading .  . 
i somehow think they can work ou reliability methods to ensure the 
door works. 

also , please tell me how some sort of material like 
co2 , or h2o would manage to contaminate the mirror , anything 
that goes to vapor state , should n't adhere to the mirror. 

somehow , the door , problem can be worked. maybe they can put a one 
time spring on it. 

what do they do now , if the door hangs up. that door is part 
of a safing mechanism .  . if it hangs up tomorrow , it 'll 
be 8 months until someone gets up there witha crowbar to fix it. 

pat 


from 
subject alternative heavy element creation in universe 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 103 
important info it is humbly suggested by robert 's fans that you redirect all 
followups into alt . fan . robert . mcelwaine . , or at least consider doing so. 



biological alchemy 

( another form of cold fusion ) 

( alternative heavy element creation in universe ) 

a very simple experiment can demonstrate  ( prove ) the 
fact of biological transmutations  ( reactions like mg o 
ca , si c ca , k h ca , n2 co , etc . ) . , as 
described in the book biological transmutations by louis 
, 1972 edition is best. , and in chapter 17 of the 
book the secret life of plants by peter and 
christopher bird , 1973 

(1) obtain a good sample of plant seeds , all of the same 
kind. some kinds might work better that others. 

(2) divide the sample into two groups of equal weight 
and number. 

(3) sprout one group in distilled water on filter paper 
for three or four weeks. 

(4) separately both groups. 

(5) weigh the residue from each group. the residue of 
the group will usually weigh at least 
several percent more than the other group. 

(6) analyze quantitatively the residue of each group for 
mineral content. some of the mineral atoms of the 
group have been into heavier 
mineral elements by fusing with atoms of oxygen , 
hydrogen , carbon , nitrogen , etc .  .  . 


biological transmutations occur routinely , even in our 
own bodies .  . 

ingesting a source of organic silicon  ( silicon with 
carbon , such as extract , or radishes ) can speed 
healing of broken bones via the reaction si c ca ,  ( much 
faster than by merely ingesting the calcium  . 

some mineral deposits in the ground are formed by micro 
organisms fusing together atoms of silicon , carbon , nitrogen , 
oxygen , hydrogen , etc .  .  . 

the two reactions si c ca , by micro organisms , 
cause stone sickness in statues , building bricks , etc .  .  . 

the reaction n2 co , by very hot iron , 
creates a carbon monoxide poison hazard for welder operators 
and people near  ( even properly sealed ones) .  . 

some bacteria can even neutralize radioactivity ! 


all of these things and more happen , in spite of the 
currently accepted laws of physics ,  ( including the law 
which says that atomic fusion requires extremely high 
temperatures and pressures . ) . 



biological transmutations , and their applications in 
chemistry , physics , biology , ecology , medicine , 
nutrition , , geology , 
1st edition , 
by c. louis , active member of new york academy of 
science , 
1972 , 
163 pages , illustrated , 
swan house publishing co. , 
p.o. box 638 , 
binghamton , ny 


the secret life of plants , 
by peter and christopher bird , 
1973 , 
402 pages , 
harper row , 
new york 
chapters 19 and 20 are about radionics . entire book is 
fascinating ! 


for more information , answers to your questions , etc. , 
please consult my cited sources (the two books) .  . 



un altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
important information is encouraged .  . 


robert e. mcelwaine 
b.s. , physics and astronomy , uw ec 



from (mr .  . krinkle ) 
subject re moon image in weather sat image 
nntp posting host rac2 . wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 14 

in article (richard ottolini ) writes 
in article (george wm turner) writes 


an image of the moon has been caught in a weather satellite images of the earth. 
near , you can see the of the sun in the ocean .  . 
cool ! 
also during solar you can see the shadow of the sun move 
across the clouds .  . 
i think you mean moon. 
(sorry , i had to . ) . ) 




from (peter g. ford ) 
subject re help viewing voyager cd roms on mac 
organization mit center for space research 
lines 30 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article , (david m . d . ) . writes 
two and a half years ago i purchased a set of cd roms from the 
university of colorado lab for atmos .  . and space physics .  . they 
were space sciences sampler and voyagers to the outer planets .  . 
... 
with pixel pusher we could never get past messages something like 
this file has no pds label , please fill in the following info 
(a bunch of slots with most  . yet , we could open the 
image file in word and see the label file at the beginning. 

the compressed image format used for the voyager disks is not (yet) 
supported by any macintosh display software that i know of. however , 
there does exist a program that can convert the images to a format that 
is recognized by recent versions of both pixel pusher and nih image. it 
is called pds decompress and is available via anonymous ftp from the 
pub directory on mit . edu . 18 . 75 . 0 . 80 . . this is a binhex 
stuffit archive and contains the application itself , think c source , 
and a very brief description. 

the most recent version of nih image (1 . may be down loaded from 
jpl . nasa . gov . , where it is located in hqx . in the 
pub directory. this archive also contains source code , but not the 
documentation , which is located in the hqx . archive in the 
same directory. 

regards , 
peter g. ford 
manager , microwave 
nasa planetary data system 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re teflon  ( re long term human missions 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 18 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( dan tilque ) writes 

the material was useful for seals , but it had a major problem for , say 
the linings of vessels it would n't stick to metal. what the space 
program did was to find a way to get it to stick. thus we had no stick 
on the market in the late '60s .  . 


who was a full professor at clarkson university , last 
i heard , developed the process for sticking teflon to metals .  . 

i do n't think it was a nasa project , cuz i heard he held the patent 
on it , and had made quite a bundle off it. 

anyone from clarkson know the exact story. i never wanted to ask 
him myself. 

pat 

from 
subject satellite around pluto mission 
lines 14 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

being wierd again , so be warned 

is there a plan to put a satellite around each planet in the solar system to 
keep watch i help it better to ask questions before i spout an opinion. 

how about a mission  ( unmanned ) to pluto to stay in orbit and record things 
around and near and on pluto .  .  . i know it is a strange idea , but why not 
it could do some scanning of not only pluto , but also of the solar system , 
objects near and , as well as seti and looking at the galaxy 
without having much of the solar system to worry about .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 


from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re space manuevering tug  ( was hst servicing mission ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 113 

 ( pat ) writes 

i wrote 
 ( pat ) writes 

given that what i described for the hst seemed to be the smt , 

has someone actually verified that mass is the predominant constraint on this 
mission you seem to be assuming it without giving supporting evidence. 

someone from nasa posted that there were very significant mass margins 
on the hst re boost mission. a while back i had asked why not carry 
the edo pallet up , and the answer was the mass margins were tight enough , 
they were n't even carrying extra suits .  . 

so how much mass is saved by not burning the oms that 's the critical question. 
my data shows that the oms engines hold 10 , 900 kg of propellant .  . of that , a 
substantial fraction is going to be used for the first oms burn , the reentry 
burn and the reserve .  . so pat , tell us how much fuel the altitude change is 
going to take , and how much the edo pallet , bus 1 and extra parts are going 
mass. if you can make the numbers work out , then i 'll be interested. after 
you show us that it can be done , then tell us how much the edo pallet , bus 1 
and extra equipment is going to cost. 

why not do this 

quick test of faster cheaper , better. 

build a real fast space tug , to handle the re boost of the hst using 
clean cryo fuels , and get it ready before the hst mission. 

pat , this would be slower , more expensive and worse. 

where 's wingo when you need him ) 
come on. knock that s t off. 

you forget , that during skylab , they did overnight mission planning 
for the repair eva 's .  . also during 
mission , they did overnight simulations .  . 
i somehow think they could train up a new eva in 8 months. 

first , while astronauts certainly have done evas with minimal planning , that was 
because they had to. they do n't like to do that as a general rule. 

second , remember why they had to during 6 they were trying 
to attach a motor to a piece of hardware that was n't designed to do that. 
trying to shortcut the training is only going to make a repeat more likely. 

third , they do n't have eight months. they have however much time is left 
after someone comes up with a plan , shows it can work and gets it approved .  . 
you may think i have a pessimistic attitude. i think it 's realistic .  . i'm not 
saying that the engineering task is impossible  ( few engineering tasks are) .  . 
what i'm saying is that this is neither cost effective nor feasible under nasa 
management. 

and as for building hardware , anything can be built if you want it 
bad enough. 

you forget , the bus 1 is already built .  . all they 'd ahve to do 
is soup it up , even test it on a delta mission. 

all they have to do is soup it up just what does that mean 

do n't get into this mode of  . besides , at the rate 
missions slip , the discovery wo n't launch on this mission until 
march .  . that 's almost a year. 

more expensive your proposal still requires the shuttle to do everything it 
was going to do fire the oms .  . in addition , you 've added significant 
extra cost for a new piece of complex hardware. 

ah , but how much more expensive is the second hst servicing mission. 

the second servicing mission is a contingency .  . you have neither shown that it 
would be necessary without your plan nor that it would be unnecessary with your 
plan. 

you forget , there is a bum fgs , the solar array electronics , are 
getting and there is still 8 months until the servicing mission. 

no , pat , i have n't forgotten. 

if the smt can avoid a second servicing mission that 's 500 million 
saved .  . 

no pat .  . that 's 500 million minus the cost of the new hardware , minus the cost 
of the extra you want to bring along , minus development and mangement 
costs , minus extra operating costs. tanstaafl .  . 

according to a gao report on the i have before me , there are 
only two currently planned missions that could use such a vehicle hst and 
axaf .  . since axaf has since been scaled back and hst can rely on the shuttle , 
there does n't seem to be any need for your vehicle. 

of course , there was n't any need for the saturn v after apollo too. 

i'm sure that if you reread this you 'll see that your argument is  . 

as for the problems with the aperture door , i am sure they can 
work out some way to handle that. maybe a plug made from 
frozen ice. it 'll keep out any contamination , 
yet sublime away after teh boost .  . 

pat , not only is this messy and less reliable than a device that 's made to 
perform this task , it also ignores the point. there is a desire to have 
astronauts available so that if the door fails to open , something can be done 
about it. unless you can provide a very reliable way of reopening the door , 
you have n't solved the problem. 


josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from wingo 
subject re 
organization university of houston 
lines 45 
nntp posting host judy . uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article heidelberg . de . , heidelberg . de .  ( georg tuparev ) writes .  .  .  . 


announcement the project for nextstep 

motivation 

we are a heterogeneous group of scientists and students who feel that our 
work is continuously hindered by computer environments dominated by 
incompatible scientific tools and monstrous software packages  ( too often 
claiming to do everything) .  . 

what we need is an object oriented scientific environment where the tools 
we choose to use are integrated without being parts of a closed system , 
highly interactive , and extendable  ( both by the addition of our own 
specialized objects and by combining the available tools  . 
the use of such an environment should be a natural extension of our work , 
requiring a very short learning phase and practically no 
user documentation .  . 


i know this is kinda off the subject of sci . space . , but not really , i want to 
answer this for their , as well as everyone else 's information. what these 
people are proposing , by and large already exists and can be purchased today. 

it is called labview by national instruments .  . it is a wonderful object 
oriented graphical programming language. it has been implemented on 
both mac 's pc 's and vme unix boxes. it is fare superior to any programming 
approach that i have ever seen and allowed us to decrease the software 
development time for our shuttle payloads by 90 percent. this program is 
not on specific hardware and already has analysis 
capability .  . 

why re invent the wheel on a platform that may not exist it is a great 
idea but look out there at what is available today. the hydrogen leak on 
the shuttle was found using this software. all control and simulation 
studies , along with the real testing at msfc is handled with labview .  . there 
are tons of applications , with the ability to create virtual instruments 
that can accomplish any specific custom task the maker desires .  . with the 
addition of ieee 488 support , the computer becomes a virtual control station , 
allowing the graphic representation of remote instrumentation .  . with serial 
i o support that instrument can be anywhere. the ground control software 
for the main control of 1 will utilize this approach. 

dennis , university of alabama in huntsville 

from  ( jay brinkmeyer ) 
subject re rocket types 
organization compaq computer corp. 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( glen justin balmer ) says 
message id 
... 
if not , has anybody heard of the particle system 

thanx .  . 8 ) 

glen  .  .  . 

i believe that my former employer hughes aircraft company has a working ion 
propulsion system for satellites .  . 

jay 

from  ( ken hayashida ) 
subject long term human missions 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 38 
nntp posting host hsc . usc . edu . 

mike adams suggested discussions on long term effects of spaceflight 
to the human being. i love this topic , as some of you regulars know. 

so , having seen henry 's encouraging statement about starting to talk 
about it i shall .  . 

i feel that we as a community of people have unique resources 
to deliver to the world a comprehensive book which can elaborate 
on the utility of spaceflight to fields which are as divergent 
as medical intensive care , agriculture , environmental protection , and 
probably more. i do not believe that the general public understands 
the impact of spaceflight on the whole of society. in the absence 
of such knowledge , we see support of the world 's space effort. 

i believe that we as a group have the responsibility to not only 
communicate amongst ourselves , but also with others through print media. 

a well orchestrated and technically oriented analysis of life science 
variables required to support long duration spaceflight  ( like long 
to the moon or mars ) would be entertaining and educational 
to the general public. the objective of such an effort would be to 
compile resources and publications from accepted scientific and technical 
journals which would address each major life science area. in addition , 
ideas for further research and development could be put forward for 
the general public to ponder .  .  . allowing . the general public to take 
part in the excitement of exploration .  . 

individuals interested should be willing to devote an hour per week 
to running literature searches and finding journal articles. in addition , 
we need to obtain the assistance of personnel from within the halls 
of nasa and industry. 

i have appreciated the positive responses to date and i am personally 
eager to start this project. perhaps we could start with debate regarding 
how best to grade the viability of various technologies for application 
to spaceflight .  . 

ken 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 16 

in article  ( tom van flandern ) writes 
 .  .  . the . temperature of the  ( night ) sky as seen from space 
you 'll find that in allen , c . w .  . , astrophysical quantities , 
press , dover , nh , 3rd edition , pp. 268 269  .  .  . 

@ ! ! i have a copy of allen , and it never occurred to me to look 
in there .  .  .  . i must be getting old .  .  .  . i 'll look it up when i get home. 
thanks. 

... the temperature is 3 degrees k. 

i 'd remembered a rather higher number , but that may have been for the 
lunar nearside , where the earth is a significant heat source. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . positional stuff. 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 21 

in article writes 
actually , my advisor , another classmate of mine , and me were talking 
the other day about putting just one detector on one of the pluto satellites .  . 
then we realized that the satellite alone is only carrying something like 200 
pounds of eq. well , a batse detector needs lead shielding to protect it , 
and 1 alone weighs about 200 pounds itself. 

actually , the situation is even worse than that. the total mass of the 
pluto fast flyby spacecraft is only pounds , and most of that is 
support equipment like power and communications .  . the mass available for 
instruments is maybe 10 of that. i do n't think a batse will fit .  .  .  . 

actually , would you need the shielding my understanding is that it 's 
mostly there to give the detectors some directionality .  . no point in 
doing that if you 've only got one. i'm sure the burst detectors that 
have flown on other deep space missions have n't weighed that much. 
 ( mind you , they 're probably still too heavy the pff people would put 
more pluto specific instruments on first , if they had any mass to spare . ) . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from (richard ottolini ) 
subject re life on mars .  . 
organization corporation 
lines 13 

in article  ( eric h seale ) writes 
i ca n't speak for the russian probes , but the last i heard , the 1997 us 
probe is planned to have air bags on it  ( seriously ! ) to cushion the 
impact. hopefully , it wo n't be a  ( should just hit and go 
thud ) .  . 

the jpl san gabriel aiaa session last week showed the russian 
lander encased in a single large airbag with stitches .  . 
the russian design is pretty firm and hardware is due from 
international experimenters by 1 94 .  . 
the proposed 1997 american lander has a bunch of airbags shaped 
like a bunch of grapes .  . they were dropping it in the desert last 
month. it may have a 20 kg mini rover in it. 

from (scott i chase ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization lawrence berkeley laboratory berkeley , ca , usa 
lines 35 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 128 . 3 . 254 . 198 . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , (keith mancus ) writes .  .  .  . 

that 's five weeks in a balloon . and if anyone can tell me where to 
get it , i sure would like a reply ! i 've been looking for that book for 
ten year , and never found it.  ( note that i am not looking for a 200 
collector 's item i'm hoping that someone has published it in modern 
times , either in paperback or hardcover .  . i'm willing to spend 50 or 
so to get a copy. 

i too am a jules verne collector , and can tell you that though tough 
to find , it is out there. i keep my eyes open all the time for his 
books at various bay area used book stores , and every once in a while 
get very lucky. you just need diligence .  . i do n't know if the book 
store situation near jsc is as good as the bay area , but good luck. 
i have also had excellent luck at the book fair which comes 
to sf every other year , though the prices are more in the 100 200 range 
than the 50 you want to spend .  . my guess is that if you find it , 
you wo n't need to spend even that much , since most people do n't care 
about it. i think i paid about 15 for my dust jacket less but otherwise 
good condition copy , which i found one day at a small that happened 
to have just bought a lot of random books at an estate sale. 

of course , if you re willing to buy blind , you can put a 2 advertisement 
in the 's newsletter (the exact title of which escapes 
me at the moment . ) . five weeks in a balloon is not the of jules 
verne books. someone has it for sale somewhere , and the ab is the way to 
find it. in fact , i would be surprised if you did n't get multiple offers 
of sale. of course , that takes the fun out of hunting for it yourself .  .  .  . 

good luck. 

scott 
new  . sig . under construction 
scott i. chase please be patient 
thank you 

from cfa . harvard . edu .  ( jonathan mcdowell ) 
subject re sts 57 inclination 
organization smithsonian astrophysical observatory , cambridge , ma , usa 
lines 11 

from article , by 
primary payload 1 1 r inclination 57 degrees 
i have seen elsewhere that inclination is 28 degrees. 
which is correct 

hmmm .  .  .  . atlantis left in a 28 degree orbit .  . retrieving it is 
going to be really fun if they fly to 57 degrees. torque that 
! ) 

jonathan 


from (robert bunge ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization express access online communications service , greenbelt , maryland usa 
lines 27 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
i'm wondering if vandalize is the proper word to use in this situation. my 
dictionary defines vandalism as the willful or malicious of 
public or private property , especially of anything beautiful or  . i 
would agree the sky is beautiful , but not that it is public or private property. 

it 's public because it belongs to everybody. it 's vandalism because many people power companies do maliciously waste light. if they can sell you 
or your city or your state an unshielded light that wastes 30 to 50 percent 
of its light , they make more money . never mind that your money is wasted .  . 
never mind that 's money is wasted .  . never mind that the sky is ruined .  . 


bob bunge 

greed is great gordon 













from (john baez ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization university of california , riverside 
lines 13 
nntp posting host 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 
in article  ( pat ) writes 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray bursters are very far away 

their distribution is very isotropic and the intensity distribution , 
crudely speaking , indicates we 're seeing an edge to the distribution .  . 

how can you tell the difference between an intensity distribution which 
is due to an edge in the spatial distribution and an intensity 
distribution which is due an a sharp of intrinsic 
below a certain threshold could you describe  ( roughly ) what the 
intensity distribution is like 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 33 

 ( ethan bradford ) writes 

 ( walker andrew john ) writes 
also , if they did come from the oort cloud we would expect to 
see the same from other stars oort clouds .  . 

that 's a very good point. perhaps none of the nearby stars have oort 
clouds alpha centauri is a multiple star system you would n't expect 
an oort cloud in it. 

sure about that maybe proxima might cause problems , but at oort 
cloud distances ac a and ac b together look like a point source. 

besides , even the solar system 's oort cloud is unstable over 
time , right , and needs to be from somewhere 
else , like the short period comets of the belt 

 ( or maybe i'm something i read or heard somewhere .  .  . ) . 

what 's the nearest single star that is likely to 
have a planetary system 

until we 're able to perform a broad band survey of nearby stars 
to detect planets , we wo n't know enough to say whether or not 
a single star has planets .  . and we 're likely to find out about the 
close ones first. 

heck , if neutron stars can have planets , anything can have planets .  . 
 ( or was that discovery ) 


phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 

from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re internet resources 
organization delco electronics corp. 
distribution sci 
lines 15 

in article writes 
i am taking a course entitled exploring science using internet . 
for our final project , we are to find a compendium of internet resources 
dealing with a science related topic. i chose astronomy .  . anyway , i was 
wondering if anyone out there knew of any interesting resources on internet 
that provide information on astronomy , space , nasa , or anything like that. 

robert mcelwaine is the authoritative source of scientific data on internet. 
he can be reached alt . fan . mc .  .  .  . 

spiros 

spiros triantafyllopoulos 
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815 
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in i post , therefore i 

from  ( steve derry ) 
subject hst antenna ok 
keywords hst hga 
reply to 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va usa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host larc . nasa . gov . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

i have n't seen any mention of this in a while , so here goes .  .  .  . 

when the hubble telescope was first deployed , one of its high gain antennas 
was not able to be moved across its full range of motion. it was suspected 
that it had been on a cable or something. operational procedures 
were modified to work around the problem , and later problems have overshadowed 
the hga problem. 

is there any plan to look at the affected hga during the hst repair mission , 
to determine the cause of its limited range of motion is the affected hga 
still limited , or is it now capable of full range of motion 


steve 


from  ( tom ) 
subject transistor tube 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 29 


also , ask any electric guitar enthusiast which type of amp they prefer , and 
they 'll tell you tube type , since tubes have lower distortion and noise 
than transistors .  .  course , most of your electric guitar types just say 
tubes sound better , dude .  . ) 

of course , they then turn up the reverb , the gain , add in the analog 
delay line and the fuzz box. i 'd think they would n't notice the 
distortion .  . oh i forgot the phase shifters .  . 

it is kind of absurd , is n't it some players even want more distortion , 
especially the hendrix fans ) but there are a lot of them out there 
that can only afford the amp , or who like playing music without distortion .  . 
then there are your hard core fans that want particular types 
of distortion , i.e. , they make it , not their amps .  . 

also , transistors have the advantage in both waste heat and energy use , 
mainly because of the heaters on the cathodes of the tubes .  . 

ah , but how do they compare to mechanical systems ) 

i did n't see a thing about waste heat from , and have n't seen one 
of those mechanical tv 's in a while , so it 's 's guess ) 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk they communicated with the communists , 
336 9591 hm and pacified the  . 


from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re who is henry spencer anyway 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 15 

someone named asked about pictures. 

well , there is an archive of portraits in format at 
ftp . uu . net .  . henry spencer 's picture is there somewhere , along 
with several thousand others. 

i do n't remember the path , though it should be easy to find. 
remember , though , it seems to use both internet and uucp 
addresses .  . 


phil fraering number one good faith ! you convert , 
you not tortured by demons ! anon. missionary 



from  ( ata etemadi ) 
subject re abyss breathing fluids 
nntp posting host prawn . sp . ph . 
organization imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , london , england 
distribution usa 
lines 8 

the forever war , one of my favorite scifi books , had a passage devoted to 
breathing fluids .  . the idea was to protect people from the high accelerations 
required for interstellar travel by the passengers in dry cleaning 
fluid saturated with oxygen .  . plenty of very imaginative ideas is this book. 
i would certainly recommend it  ( won the hugo and the nebula  . 

regards 
ata ( ) . 

from  ( stupendous man) 
subject interstellar t is 3 4k notes on pluto charon talk and pluto mission 
originator 
keywords i goofed 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 73 

(sci . space . readers can skip the first paragraph) 

yesterday , in response to henry spencer 's question about the 
temperature of a in interstellar space , i said dust grains 
acts as , and they 're at 40 150 k. well , i was dead 
wrong. our local interstellar dust expert , bruce , has 
informed me that dust grains are n't good radiators in the far ir , 
which is why they are so warm actually , the ambient radiation field 
from distant stars can bring a true to only 3 or 4 kelvin .  . 
sorry , henry , and anyone else i misled .  . obviously , time for me to 
take another ism class ( 

in other news , alan stern of the southwest research institute gave 
a talk on the pluto charon binary system yesterday. he gave a brief 
overview of the currently accepted system parameters  ( volume ratio of 
about 8 1 , mass ratio about 15 1 or so , plus lots more .  .  . ) . and then 
gave his thoughts on the formation of pluto charon .  . his idea is 
that there were lots and lots of small in the outer 
solar system , with masses distributed as a power law of some kind 
over time , the accreted into larger bodies .  . most got 
scattered out of the solar system by close encounters with jupiter 
and saturn , but many accreted into the gas giants , especially 
uranus and neptune .  . a large was captured by neptune 
we call it triton captured how perhaps by a collision with a smaller , 
already existing moon , perhaps by a very close passage through 
neptune 's atmosphere mondo aerobraking ! . 

he notes that the two recently discovered kuiper belt objects , 
1992 and 1993 fw , plus chiron and , are all about the same 
mass , and he identifies this group as one accretion down from the 
larger bodies of triton and pluto charon .  . pluto charon , he thinks , 
formed when an impacting body hit proto pluto , knocking some material 
into a ring around pluto which later accreted in charon similar to 
ideas about the formation of earth 's moon. there is good evidence 
from spectra that the surfaces of pluto and charon are very different 
 ( pluto has methane frost , charon does n't) , which can be used as evidence 
for the impact theory. 

he believes that there may be around 1000 pluto to chiron sized objects 
remaining in a relatively stable dynamical zone just outside neptune 's 
orbit , beyond 35 au or so. 1992 and 1993 fw are the first members 
of this population to be found , in his model. note that such bodies 
will be very dark , since if their surfaces are covered with methane 
frost , it will have into very dark , long chain hydrocarbons 
by now. the reason that pluto has such a high albedo  ( around 0.5 , i think) 
is that its surface warms up just enough around perihelion to , 
and when the atmosphere freezes out again , thirty years later , it forms 
bright , new frost .  . so any bodies much farther away than 30 au are going 
to be very hard to see. 

i hope i have n't made any errors in the transcription if you see 
a howling mistake , it 's undoubtedly mine , not his. 

by the way , he 's one of the top guns behind the pluto fast flyby 
mission (i think) , and said that the current plans are to use a 
titan 4 to send the probe on just about a trajectory 
to pluto  ( we were speaking loosely at the time .  .  . ) .  . he 'd like 
to use a proton , which gives a slightly smaller velocity but costs 
much less. his figures 500 million for 2 titan 4 launches  ( there 
will be two separate probes , launched separately) , or 120 million 
for 2 proton launches .  . he told a story about how the soviets originally 
offered to sell proton launches for 30 million each , but were forced 
to increase their prices in the us in order to be allowed in the 
marketplace .  . 

i'm just telling you what he said. 

michael 


michael richmond 
this is the heart that broke my finger. 


from  ( steve derry ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va usa 
lines 30 
reply to 
nntp posting host larc . nasa . gov . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

pat wrote 
the limit on space walking is a function of suit supplies  ( mass ) 
and orbiter duration .  . 

in order to perform the re boost of the hst , the oms engines 
will be fired for a long period. now the shuttle is a heavy 
thing. the hst is n't light either. the amount of oms fuel 
needed to fly both up is substantial .  . a small booster 
carried up and used to boost hst on it 's own will weigh significantly 
less then the oms fuel required to boost both hst and shuttle , 
for a given orbital change. 

from what i understand , the mass margins on the hst missions are 
tight enough they ca n't even carry extra suits or mmu 's .  . 

pat 

i have n't seen any specifics on the hst repair mission , but i ca n't see why 
the mass margins are tight. what are they carrying up replacement components 
 ( wfpc ii , costar , gyros , solar panels , and probably a few others) , all sorts of 
tools , eva equipment , and as much oms fuel and consumables as they can. this 
should be lighter than the original hst deployment mission , which achieved the 
highest altitude for a shuttle mission to date. and hst is now in a lower 
orbit .  . 

seems like the limiting factors would be crew fatigue and mission complexity .  . 


steve 


from (keith harwood ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
originator 
lines 20 
nntp posting host 
organization pacing systems 


in article , (david m. palmer ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray bursters are very far away 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

. . . david gives good explaination of the deductions from the isotropic , 
 edged  distribution , to whit , they are either part of the universe or 
part of the oort cloud .  . 

why could n't they be earth centred , with the edge occuring at the edge 
of the i know there is n't any mechanism for them , but there 
is n't a mechanism for the others either. 

keith harwood .  . 

from  ( dan herrin ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization uc davis 
lines 14 

in article  ( tom r courtney ) writes 
in some sense , i think that the folks who think the idea is wonderful , and the 
i got incensed when i read that carl sagan called this idea an abomination .  . 
i do n't think that word means what he thinks it does. children starving in the 
richest country in the world is an abomination an ad agency is at worst just 
in poor taste. 

is it not also an abomination that somebody would spend money on space 
advertising when those children are starving perhaps some redistribution 
of wealth would help them ... 

dan 



from  ( pat ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article wingo writes 
in article ,  ( pat ) writes .  .  .  . 
is this a big enough problem , to create a new area of physics 
just a little speculative thinking folks. 
pat 
well pat for once i agree with you and i like your first idea that you had. 
it probably is the gamma ray signature of the warp transitions of interstellar 
spacecraft ! ) 


dennis .  . 

we agree a lot , it 's just we do n't both post when we agree 
on something. and when we disagree , it tends to be a lot more 
noticeable .  . ) 

pat 

from 
subject 1bil space race ideas moon base on the cheap. 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 19 

although the 1 billion scheme is a fantasy (it 's an old canard in the space 
business called for ) , there is a good chance that a 
much smaller program ( 65 million ) will pass the 103rd congress .  . this is the 
back to the moon bill , put together by the people who passed the launch 
services purchase act. the bill would private companies to develop 
lunar orbiters , with vendors selected on the basis of competitive bidding .  . 
there is an aggregate cap on the bids of 65 million. 

having a single rich individual paying billions for lunar missions is probably 
worse than having the government a 65 million program , as the delta 
clipper program has shown  ( dc x was funded by sdio at 59  . we have a 
clear chance of making a lunar mission happen in this decade as opposed to 
simply wishing for our dreams to come true. please support the back to the 
moon bill. 

for more information , please send e mail with your u.s. postal service 
address. 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re france spied on by the u.s. 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 5 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


you mena in the same way french agents steal 
documents from us corporate executives 

pat 

from  ( tom ) 
subject billboards in space 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 24 

from phil g. fraering 
finally this is n't the bronze age ,  .  .  . 
please try to remember that there are more human activities than 
those practiced by the warrior caste , the farming caste , and the 
priesthood .  . 

f baube responds 
right , the profiting caste is blessed by god , and may 
freely blare its presence in the evening twilight  .  .  . 

steinn sez 
the priesthood has never quite forgiven 
the merchants  ( aka profiting caste sic ) 
for their rise to power , has it 

if we are looking for evidence of by god ness , i 'd say the ability 
to blare lights all over the evening sky is about the best evidence you 
could ever hope to get. no wonder the classes are upset ) 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk as the radius of vision increases , 
336 9591 hm the circumference of mystery grows .  . 


from  ( igor ) 
subject re questions for kc 135 veterans 
organization texas a m university , academic computing services 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host zeus . tamu . edu . 
keywords kc 135 experiments research 
news software vax vms 1.41 

if you think you may have some problems you may want to make it stand up on the 
side so that the gees wo n't affect too much the writing on the disk or on the 
hard disk .  .  .  .  . 

hmm .  . i would think being on edge would be worse , since that might 
make the tracks unsymmetrical around the spindle due to the sideways 
force on the head. older drives used to tell you to reformat if you 
were going to stand the drive on edge at 3 g , this side force might 
even be a problem for new drives .  . 


well it seemed to work for the mac ii installation i was talking about. 
oh yeah there is something i forgot to mention 
even though you 're not to have water around , there is 
some d 
dripping from the roof of the plane make sure that your hardware is covered. 
make also sure that your keyboards are protected from the two phase flow 
coming out of sick people. it happened to us .  .  .  .  .  . 

good luck. 


igor 
texas a m university 



from (paul dietz ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they 
organization university of rochester 

in article  ( kevin w. plaxco ) writes 

resolving power of the optics .  . batse is an altogether different 
beast , effectively just 8 coincidence counters , one on each corner of 
the craft .  . positional information is triangulated from the 
differential signal arrival times at each of the detectors .  . 

obviously not. count rates are too low and signal rise times too long 
for this to be possible. the cgro , is , what , 10 meters long you 'd 
need to time to an accuracy of nanoseconds to do this. 

what batse actually does is measure the relative strength in each of 
the detectors  ( also as a function of photon  . each of the 
detectors does not have isotropic response. to do this right one must 
model the scattering of photons in the material around each detector , 
and even scattering of photons off the earth 's atmosphere back onto 
the spacecraft .  . i believe they have now reduced the error to about 2 
degrees. 

paul f. dietz 


from 
subject private support of exploration  ( russian america) 
article i.d. aurora . 1 . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 
lines 8 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 

commericial support for exploration examples 

also much if exploration and utilization of alaska  ( russian america , 
also included parts of washington state , oregon , and n. california) was doen by 
private funds (yes some royal governmental funds at times .  . ) .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 36 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


well , i seem to have struck an interesting discussion off. given that i 
am not an or nuclear physicist , i 'll have to boil it 
down a bit. 

1) all the data on bursts to date , shows a smooth random distribution .  . 

2) that means they are n't concentrated in galactic cores , our or someone 
elses .  . 

3) if the distribution is smooth , we are either seeing some enormously 
large phenomena scattered at the edge of the universe said phenomena 
being subject to debate almost as as the phenomena 
or 
we are seeing some phenomena out at like the oort cloud , but then it needs 
some potent little energy source , that is n't detectable by any other 
current methods. 

4) we know it 's not real close , like slightly extra solar , because 
we have no parallax measurements on the bursts .  . 

5) the bursts seem to bright to be something like black hole quanta or 
super string impacts or something like that. 

so everyone is watching the data and arguing like mad in the meanwhile .  . 

what i am wondering , is this in people 's opinion , a new physics problem. 

einstein got well known for photoelectric effect. 

copernicus , started looking at irregularities in planetary motion. 

is this a big enough problem , to create a new area of physics 
just a little speculative thinking folks. 

pat 

from  ( gregory n. bond ) 
subject re lindbergh and the moon  ( was why not give 1g ) 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 03 56 14 gmt 
nntp posting host baby 
organization burdett , young , melbourne , australia 


lines 14 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 

re voyages of discovery .  .  .  . 
could you give examples of privately funded ones 

if you believe 1492 (the film) , columbus had substantial private 
funds .  . when columbus asked the merchant why he put the money in , the 
guy said  ( slightly paraphrased ) , there is faith , hope and charity .  . 
but greater than these is banking .  . 

gregory bond burdett young ltd melbourne australia 
knox 's 386 is slick .  . fox in sox , on knox 's box 
knox 's box is very quick. plays lots of lsl .  . he 's sick ! 
 ( apologies to john iron bar mackin . ) . 

from  ( gary coffman ) 
subject re philosophy quest .  . how boldly 
reply to  ( gary coffman ) 
organization destructive testing systems 
lines 104 

in article (david m. palmer ) writes 
 ( gary coffman ) writes 
lack of a skeleton means that muscles have to actively resist 
gravity at all times on land rather than supplying only balancing 
forces .  . that means that much more energy would be required for the 
creature to function. the bones also supply leverage points for 
pushing and lateral movement. that 's why you do n't find large 
active creatures on land. 

hydraulics can make rigid tubes .  . no energy required just for 
support. hydraulics also allow a creature to produce large 
forces with weak muscles , using the principle of a hydraulic jack 
rather than a lever .  . 

this is one of those yes , but things. it 's true that a 
pressurized tube can be somewhat more rigid than an unpressurized tube , 
but even at 2000 psi levels a hydraulic hose will bend rather easily , 
though it 's straight on compressive strength is high , and it 's 
resistance increase is practically nil .  . on the other grasping member , 
there 's no doubt that hydraulic leverage exists in nature. tree roots 
are an example. given time they can shatter concrete as pressure 
increases .  . 

it 's interesting to note that , on 
land , creatures are either two legged or 4 legged , with tiny insects 
having 6 or 8 legs , but never 3 legged , though that would be a 
stable configuration .  . it can be argued that 2 legged creatures 

kangaroos are 3 legged .  . the specific number of limbs a creature has is 
an accident of evolution , it is hard to make changes in some 
structures .  . the panda has a thumb plus as many fingers as its 
ancestors  ( five ) on each hand , but the thumb is a modified 
rather than a modified finger , and extra fingers are much more common 
than extra limbs , especially fully functional ones. 

kangaroos 3 i do n't think so. if you take the view that the 
tail is a limb , then monkeys and kangaroos are 5  . i think the 
tail is a different kind of structure , grossly enlarged in the case 
of the kangaroo , but primarily still an instrument of balance rather 
than  . i do n't know much about panda thumbs , so i 'll ask 
is it 

thermodynamic considerations of surface volume relationships would 
seem to dictate that active complex creatures stay in a size range 
similar to what we see about us. 6 inch tall intelligent aliens 
seem unlikely , as do those much larger than the elephant .  . 

why ca n't a lemur or a be intelligent 

yes , i know that the is a mythical beast produced by 
putting the head of another dinosaur on an , but so far 
space aliens are also mythical .  . 

well i wo n't say flat out that they ca n't be intelligent , but i 'll 
bring a couple of lines of argument to bear to try to show why i 
do n't think it 's likely. first let me say that when i say intelligent 
i mean complex behaviors in response to novel situations on a level 
with , or greater than , human tool use and tool building. ie assuming 
suitable are present on the creature to allow it to alter 
it 's enviroment in a planned way , it will do so. that 's certainly not 
a universal or complete definition of intelligence , but it will suffice 
for a putative technological alien .  . 

now no one knows exactly what makes a brain capable of thought , but 
it 's generally accepted that one of the criteria is a certain level 
of complexity .  . this is generally determined by the number of neuron 
cells , and their  . so a creature the size of a lemur 
would n't have enough neurons to support complex thought. this argument 
is considerably less clear in the case of the dinosaur .  . there 's room 
for a large brain , though no indication that one ever developed .  . one 
reason this may be true is speed. the electrochemical messages 
that trigger neurons require time to propagate .  . this makes it difficult 
for a highly complex central brain to coordinate the movements of very 
large creatures .  . so there 's little selection pressure for such brains .  . 
instead , a simpler distributed network evolves .  . this does n't rule out 
intelligent dinosaurs , but it points in that direction. 

then there are the thermodynamic arguments .  . a tiny creature like the 
lemur needs to eat frequently because it 's internal heat is rapidly 
lost due to it 's high surface to volume ratio .  . i contend that a creature 
that must spend most of it 's time and energy feeding wo n't have the time 
to develop and exercise intelligence .  . that argument may be somewhat weak. 
the dinosaur 's problem is the reverse , it must moderate it 's heat production 
because it 's high volume to surface ratio makes it tend to retain waste heat. 
i'm assuming that a certain temperature range is optimal for chemical 
reasons for productive neuron function. so creatures would 
tend to need to maintain a regulated temperature in a range near that 
of humans if they are carbon based .  . that tends to rule out cold blooded 
creatures as potential homes of intelligence .  . some people contend that 
some of the dinosaurs may have been warm blooded .  . but for a creature 
the size of a , it 's activity levels would have to be restrained 
or it would be prone to generate an internal steam explosion from the 
waste heat. whales are similar size , but they can reject heat to the 
ocean , a much more efficient sink than air. i suspect that for intelligence 
to manifest itself , a certain degree of activity in interacting with the 
environment is necessary. ie monkey curiousity .  . i doubt a large dinosaur 
would be capable of that much activity. 

gary 

gary coffman you make it , gatech ! ! ! gary 
destructive testing systems we break it. uunet ! ! ! gary 
534 shannon way guaranteed ! emory ! ! ! gary 
lawrenceville , ga 

from  ( greg moore ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
keywords hst 
nntp posting host acm . rpi . edu . 
organization the voice of fate 
lines 21 

in article  ( pat ) writes 

my guess is why bother with usingthe shuttle to reboost 

why not grapple , do all said fixes , bolt a small liquid fueled 
thruster module to hst , then let it make the re boost .  . it has to be 
cheaper on mass then usingthe shuttle as a tug .  . that way , now that 
they are going to need at least 5 spacewalks , then they can carry 
an edo pallet , and sit on station and even maybe do the solar array 
tilt motor fix. 


as pointed out , you have to develop the thruster .  . 
also , while much lighter , you still have to lift the mass of 
the thruster to orbit , and then the thruster lifts its own 
weight into a higher orbit .  . and you take up room in the payload 
bay. 

pat 



from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 69 

(robert bunge ) writes 

that 's fine idea , but it only works if the lighting power company even bothers to supply good light fixtures .  . for instance , a power company in virginia 
recently asked a state commission for permission to sell more lights of various 
type. yet , all of the different fixture that they sold and wanted to sell 

uh , why do they have to ask a state commision unless the state 's buying .  .  .  . 

such a process will only the overhead to the power company 
of selling different types of light , and will the 
that they will do so. and any efficient lights they might have been 
planning in the future , go down the drain .  .  .  .  .  . 

were bad designs one that wasted the light. thus , you could n't even buy 
a good light from them. in most places , to get a good light , you have to 
either order it special at high cost or call a store in arizona .  . 

you could order it special. if enough people did so , it would be 
low cost. last i checked , you could use ups to buy stuff in arizona 
before going there. 

finally , i'm sure your state has things like small factories and 
machine shops .  . you could go into business making lights that are 
cheaper to use  ( thanks to their higher efficiency and the 
fact that they are n't wasting energy on broadcasting to space) 
and therefore better than the old style .  .  .  . 

at some 
point , society starts to make rules. cars have to pass safety tests. 

five year plans have to be enacted or the planning for the economy 
will fall apart. 

companies have to meet pollution standards , etc .  .  . 

as if the clean air act really cleaned up the air .  .  .  . 

there are two ways to achieve this educate the public so that they demand good lighting or force code 
down the lighting companies backs .  . history seems to suggest that the latter 
is more likely to work. 

my experience seems to suggest that you 're trying too hard 
to educate them  ( with the same methods used in american schools 
to make any subject whatsoever as relevant and boring as proto ugric ) 
instead of selling them on the idea. 

... 
agreed , so i wo n't respond again. it 's important for all you out 
there to realize that some people will object to various wild ideas that 
have been presented .  . just like congress , it would be best to consult 
the astronomers lovers of the night sky before you try some pr stunt 
to boost public knowledge about space. 

well , wake up. space is becoming a field of human endeavor 
instead of just something we can look at from a long long 
way away. there are practical space projects that could conceivably 
 ( although probably not) cause lots of light pollution , and 
have been argued against on those grounds , even though they 
might open up such possibilities , that people could vacation on 
mars if they wanted really dark skies .  .  .  . 


bob bunge 


phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 



from  ( rob douglas ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
originator 
organization space telescope science institute 
lines 52 


in article ,  ( bruce scott ) writes 
if re boosting the hst by carrying it with a shuttle would not damage it , 
then why could n't hst be brought back to earth and the repair job done 
here 


reboost may not be a problem , if they have enough fuel .  . if they do n't do a 
reboost this time , they will definitely have to do one on the next servicing 
mission. but try to land a shuttle with that big huge telescope in the 
back and you could have problems. the shuttle just is n't designed to land 
with that much weight in the payload .  . 

is it because two shuttle flights would be required , adding to the 
horrendous expense 


of course that is a concern too , and the loss of science during the time 
that it is on the ground. plus a fear that if it comes down , some 
big wig might not allow it to go back up. but the main concern , i 
believe is the danger of the landing .  . just to add another bad , 
they also increase the risk of damaging an instrument .  . finally , 
this is a chance for nasa to prove they could build and 
service a space station. hubble was designed for in flight servicing .  . 

bringing the telescope down , to my understanding , was considered 
even very recently , but all these factors contribute to the 
decision to do it the way it was planned in the beginning. 

gruss , 
dr bruce scott the deadliest bullshit is 
max planck institut fuer odorless and transparent 
bds at spl6n1 . aug . ipp . garching . mpg . de . w gibson 

rob 


rob douglas space 3700 san martin drive 
ai software engineer telescope baltimore , md 21218 , usa 
advance planning systems branch science phone (410) 338 
internet institute fax (410) 338 1592 


disclaimer type these opinions are mine ! unless of course 
they fall under the standard intellectual property guidelines .  . 
but with my intellect , i doubt it. besides , if it was useful 
intellectual property , do you think i would type it in here 


rob douglas space 3700 san martin drive 
ai software engineer telescope baltimore , md 21218 , usa 
advance planning systems branch science phone (410) 338 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject nasa budget and sts costs 
organization lick observatory uco 
lines 12 
nntp posting host topaz . ucsc . edu . 


what fraction of the nasa is civil servant 
as opposed to contractor and what are the rules on 
reduction in work force for civil servants 

eg , if say the shuttle program is terminated , how 
much is payroll reduced and how 

steinn sigurdsson i saw two shooting stars last night 
lick observatory i wished on them but they were only satellites 
is it wrong to wish on space hardware 
standard disclaimer i wish , i wish , i wish you 'd care b.b. 1983 

from (paul dietz ) 
subject re life on mars .  . 
organization university of rochester 
lines 27 

in article (john mckernan ) writes 

some new information has been discovered recently. microscopic fossils 
have been found in very old rocks. the theory is that this life is so 
old that it must have been destroyed during the periodic intense 
meteorite bombardments that were a feature of the early solar system. 
under this theory life originated on earth multiple times  ( between 
multiple meteorite bombardments ) , and therefore the conditions for 
the creation of life cannot be that unlikely .  . 


this was all badly reported in the news. there is no evidence that 
signs of life found in old rock predate putative planet sterilizing 
events. rather , the argument was that if life arose shortly the last 
sterilizing event , then it must be easily formed .  . the inference 
was that life originated before and was destroyed , but there was 
no evidence of that. 

however , even this argument is flawed .  . it could well be that origin of 
life requires specific conditions  ( say , a certain composition of the 
atmosphere) that do not last for long. so , perhaps life formed 
early only because it would have had no other chance to do so , 
not because it was likely that life would originate under those 
conditions. 

paul f. dietz 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re i want that billion 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 27 

in article writes 
what 's more , if you buy titans , the prize money is your entire return on 
investment .  . if you develop a new launch system , it has other uses , and 
the prize is just the icing on the cake .  . 

unless you 're martin marietta , since  ( as i recall) they bought out the gd 
line of aerospace products. 

i think you 've got an off by one error in your memory. ) mm bought the 
satellite building side of ge .  . e , not d. mm and gd are still competitors .  . 

if mm gd does it as an in house project , their costs would look much better 
than buying at list price. 

better , yes , but we 're not talking order of magnitude .  .  ( especially if you 
want to use titan iv , which belongs to the usaf , not mm . ) . 

... c'mon .  . allen is telling us how cheap we can get improved this 
or that .  .  .  . 

sure , you can get a launcher fairly cheap if you do it privately 
rather than as a gummint project. but we 're still talking about something 
that will cost nine digits per launch , unless you can guarantee a large 
market to justify volume production. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( steve lecompte ) 
subject re boeing  ( was words from chairman of boeing ) 
reply to 
organization system tools 
lines 12 

in article , (richard a. schumacher ) writes 
description of boeing study of two staged using 
supersonic ramjets deleted. 

in other words , boeing is not seriously thinking about 
reliable , less expensive access to orbit .  . they just like 
to fool around with exotic airplanes .  . 


no , it means that boeing has something called foresight and vision .  .  .  . 
boeing became the success it is today by working on what you call exotic 
airplanes . 

from 
subject u.k. see mir in evening skies tell friends ! 
lines 27 
nntp posting host vax1 . tcd . ie . 
organization trinity college dublin 
lines 27 

astronomy space magazine 's uk telephone carries the times to 
see the russian space station mir which will be visible every evening (some 
time between 9 o'clock and midnight ) from april 27 to may 7. it 's about as 
bright as jupiter at its best. there are two on board. 

for the time to watch , tel. 0891 88 19 50  ( 48p min peak min all other 
times , but prediction is at start of the weekly message so it only costs a 
few  . 

e mail reports of sightings would be appreciated give lat long and ut (a 
few seconds accuracy if possible) when it passes above or below any bright 
star  ( say brighter than mag .  . 3) , planet or moon. 

with moon in evening sky also , note that from somewhere in u.k. mir will 
pass in front of the moon each night ! please alert local clubs to the 
telephone , and general public as mir can cause quite a stir ! 

tony ryan , astronomy space , new international magazine , available from 
astronomy ireland , p.o.box 2888 , dublin 1 , ireland .  . 
6 issues  ( one year sub . ) . uk 10.00 pounds , us 20 surface  ( add us 8 airmail) .  . 
access visa mastercard accepted  ( give number , expiration date , name address) .  . 

 ( world's largest astro .  . soc .  . per capita unless you know better 0.033 ) 
tel 0891 88 1950  ( uk n . ireland) . 1550 111 442 (eire) .  . cost up to 48p per min 

p.s. mir seen right on time april 28th , passed just above jupiter .  . brighter 
than but dimmer than jupiter (not one of its highest passes ! ) .  . 

from (richard a. schumacher ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
nntp posting host starman . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
distribution na 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 21 

in  ( pat ) writes 

how different would the contamination threat of a small manuevering tug 
be from that of the shuttle and it 's oms engines 

the aperture door will be shut during reboost .  . using the shuttle 
means that there will be someone nearby to pry the door open again 
if it should stick. 



i just figured , if goldin wants to really , prove out faster , cheaper 
better , have some of the whiz kids slap together an expendable 
space manuevering tug out of a , and use that for the re boost .  . 

it 's clear that the whiz kids are not running the show. in any 
case it 's not prudent to stick a slapped together explosive device 
on the end of a billion dollar asset that you 'd like to see again. 
 ( wiseacres might say that a shuttle is a slapped together explosive 
device , but at least it 's had some testing . ) . 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re dc x publicity 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 4 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


even better. make up pete conrad in a martian suit , 
and have him get ou t and throw a football 
to the refs. 

from (keith stein ) 
subject re gps launch 
lines 3 

next gps launch is scheduled for june 24th .  . 

origin no. va astronomy club 703 256 4777 (1 109 118) 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 12 

in article  ( thomas clarke ) writes 
now , if they wanted to paint the symbol on the 
moon in , that would give me pause .  .  .  . 

would n't bother me. i 'd laugh. it would n't work the surface of the 
moon is already pretty dark , and the contrast would be so poor you 
could n't possibly see it. the only reason the moon looks bright is that 
it 's in bright sunlight against an otherwise dark sky. evidently heinlein 
did n't know that .  .  .  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( tom ) 
subject vandalizing the sky 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 30 

dale sez 
mr. hathaway 's post is right on the money , if a little lengthy .  . in short , 
an orbiting billboard would be trash , in the same way that a billboard on 
the earth is trash .  . billboards make a place look trashy .  . that is why there 
are laws in many places prohibiting their use. the light pollution 
complaints are mainly an attempt to find some tangible reason to be against 
orbiting billboards because people do n't feel morally justified to complain 
on the grounds that these things would the beauty of the sky. 

i do n't buy it. if the things had no value at all , people would n't 
spend money to make them. so their lack of value is just your 
opinion , not an actual fact , which is neither a philisophical or 
legal basis for prohibiting them. 

on the other hand , i lived in oakbrook il for a while , where zoning 
laws prohibit billboards , as you mention above. i think it was a 
fine law , despite it 's contradictory basis. 

i would guess that the best legal and moral basis for protest would 
be violation of private property. i bought this house , out in 
the , specifically to enjoy my hobby , amateur astronomy .  . now 
this billboard has made that investment worthless , so i want the 
price of the property , in damages .  . it would n't take too many 
succesful cases like that to make bill sats prohibitively expensive. 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk they communicated with the communists , 
336 9591 hm and pacified the  . 


from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 50 

writes 

phil , your point is well taken. it is still a sad idea. 

i'm worried by the concern about it though , for a number of reasons 
that have nothing to do with space advertising (which for a number of 
reasons is probably doomed to fail on financial  . 

 ( and i 've been reading and  ( and writing) this thread since way 
back when it was only on sci . space) .  . 

for starters , i do n't think the piece of light pollution apparatus 
would be as bright as the full moon. that seems to me to be a bit 
of propaganda on the part of opponents , or wishful thinking on the 
part of proponents .  . 

second , this charge of ruining the night sky permanently has been 
levelled against other projects , that either 1) do n't light 
pollution significantly , or 2) light pollution only over the 
target area. 

you may or may not recognize 1 as being solar power sattelites .  . 
i think it was josh hopkins who actually did the math , showing that 
sps 's were n't that bright after all , ending some two months of 
opposition on the part of dark sky activists and various other types. 

2 is mainly projects like the orbiting mirror the cis tested 
recently. while slightly more worrisome , i 'd like to point out that 
any significant scattering of light outside the target area for one of 
these mirrors would be wasted as far as the project would be 
concerned , and something any project like that would work against 
anyway. and given some of the likely targets , i do n't think there 's 
going to be much of an outcry from the inhabitants .  . there is too much 
dark sky in the northern cis during the winter , and i doubt you 'll find 
many activists in demanding the natural sky back. if anything , 
he 'll probably be inside , stripped buck naked in front of the uv lamp , 
making sure he 'll get enough vitamin d for the day. 

the mirror experiments are n't something they 're doing for crass 
advertising .  . they think that if they can build one , it 'll be one of 
those things people in the affected areas will think they could n't 
have lived without before. and i doubt anyone 's going to really be 
able to convince them to stop. 



phil fraering number one good faith ! you convert , 
you not tortured by demons ! anon. missionary 



from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 34 

(scott i chase ) writes 

in article ,  ( phil g. fraering ) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( jeff cook ) writes 
.... 
people in primitive tribes out in the middle of nowhere as they look up 
and see a can of budweiser flying across the sky .  .  .  . d 

seen that movie already. or one just like it. 
come to think of it , they might send someone on 
a quest to get rid of the dang thing .  .  .  . 

actually , the idea , like most good ideas , comes from jules verne , not 

( like most good ideas , ... please , people ! ) 

the gods must be crazy. in one of his lesser known books (i ca n't 
remember which one right now) , the protagonists are in a balloon gondola , 
travelling over africa on their way around the world in the balloon , 

five weeks in a balloon . not a good idea unless you have helium .  . 
verne 's protagonists did n't .  . they just got lucky. 

and yes , i knew the title of the movie too , just did n't want to start 
talking about it. except to bring up the image of a team of s. african 
showing up at a launch site with spears and flint knives 
to stop the launch  ( anyone want to bet on their success in doing so 
especially since they could probably stop a shuttle launch by 
too hard within a couple miles of the launch site) .  . 

phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 



from  ( ken hayashida ) 
subject re long term space and effect newsgroup 
keywords mars and lunar missions 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 42 
nntp posting host hsc . usc . edu . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) 
writes in response to michael adams post 
i vote for a later on sci . space . medicine . or similar newsgroup fro the 
discussion of long term missions into space and there affects on humans and 
such .  .  . adams 

why bother with a new newsgroup if you want to discuss the subject , 
start discussing it . if there is enough traffic to annoy the rest of 
us , we will let you know .  .  .  . and then it will be time for a new newsgroup .  . 

well , here goes. 

the first item of business is to establish the importance space life 
sciences in the whole of scheme of humankind .  . i mean compared 
to football and baseball , the average joe schmoe does n't seem interested 
or even curious about spaceflight .  . i think that this forum can 
make a major change in that lack of insight and education. 

all of us , in our own way , can contribute to a comprehensive document 
which can be released to the general public around the world. the 
document would scientifically analyze the technical aspects of long 
term human habitation in space. 

i believe that if any long term space exploration program is to 
succeed we need to basically learn how to engineer our own 
(i . e .  . the  . only through the careful analyses of engineering , 
chemical , biological , and medical factors will a good be created 
to facilitate human life on a long duration flight. 

so , i would like to see posts of opinions regarding the most objective 
methods to analyze the accepted scientific literature for technologies 
which can be applied to long duration spaceflight .  . such a detailed 
literature search would be of interest to ourselves as space advocates 
and clearly important to existing space programs. 

in essence , we would be dividing the space life science issues into 
various technical problems which could be solved with various technologies .  . 
this database of acceptable solutions to various problems could form the 
basis of detailed discussions involving people from the , , 
and any other source ! 

i'm eager to hear your comments and see posts on this thread. 

from  ( matthew deluca ) 
subject re for flybys and cutting costs .  .  . 
organization the grey captains 
lines 16 
nntp posting host oit . gatech . edu . 

in article writes 
getting wierd again 

or perhaps even weird 

okay we have figure out that a mission specifically to pluto is to large and to 
expensive .  .  . 

hmmm , you might want to read this group more carefully there 's been a good 
amount of discussion of the proposed pluto fast flyby  ( pff ) mission that is 
specifically designed to be small and cheap. 

matthew deluca 
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332 
uucp ... ! , hplabs , , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! matthew 
internet 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re lindbergh and the moon  ( was why not give 1g ) 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 26 

 ( gregory n. bond ) writes 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 

re voyages of discovery .  .  .  . 
could you give examples of privately funded ones 

if you believe 1492 (the film) , columbus had substantial private 
funds .  . when columbus asked the merchant why he put the money in , the 
guy said  ( slightly paraphrased ) , there is faith , hope and charity .  . 
but greater than these is banking .  . 


heck , some of his ships were  . one was owned by a  .  .  . 
 ( you know , one of those groups that probably crossed the atlantic 
before columbus came  . 

gregory bond burdett young ltd melbourne australia 
knox 's 386 is slick .  . fox in sox , on knox 's box 
knox 's box is very quick. plays lots of lsl .  . he 's sick ! 
 ( apologies to john iron bar mackin . ) . 

phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 



from  ( gene wright ) 
subject will nasa 's mars observer image the face on mars 
organization jack 's amazing cockroach capitalist ventures 
lines 12 

all theories aside ,  ( they are watching though )) , will nasa 
try to image the region of mars where the face 
is if they can image it with the high resolution camera , it would 
settle the face question once and for all. i mean , with a camera that 
will have a pixel resolution of about 6 feet , we 'd know whether all this 
stuff is real or imagination. 

come on jpl and nasa folks , try to image it and settle this thing. 


 ( gene wright ) 
jackatak . raider . net . (615) 377 5980 

from  ( gord wait s mos systems vancouver design center) 
subject re life on mars .  . 
organization s mos systems , inc.  ( vancouver design center) 
lines 16 


here is a potentially dumb question what prevents the martian landers 
themselves from polluting the martian environment with earth based 
critters is the long trip in cold radiation bathed space enough to 
completely sterilize the landers 

i could imagine that a few could manage to get all the 
way there unharmed , and then possibly thrive given the right 
circumstances .  . 



gord wait systems vancouver design centre 
uunet ! jericho ! gord 
gord 
or even some days 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 40 

(robert bunge ) writes 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
i'm wondering if vandalize is the proper word to use in this situation. my 
dictionary defines vandalism as the willful or malicious of 
public or private property , especially of anything beautiful or  . i 
would agree the sky is beautiful , but not that it is public or private property. 

it 's public because it belongs to everybody. 

no , the sky does not , at this time , belong to anyone. ownership is necessary 
to the definition because someone has to have the authority to decide if the 
action was good or bad. if neither you or i own a brick wall , then i ca n't 
unilaterally declare that my name on it is right , and you do n't 
have the authority to declare that it is wrong. the owner may find it artistic 
or she may be call the police .  . 

 ( this applies to the argument on bright satellites more than street lights) 

it 's vandalism because many people power companies do maliciously waste light. 

maliciously implies evil intent .  . the lighting companies are n't going out 
of their way to spoil the sky. they just do n't care. 

if they can sell you 
or your city or your state an unshielded light that wastes 30 to 50 percent 
of its light , they make more money . never mind that your money is wasted .  . 

it is the responsibility of the customer to choose the most efficient hardware. 
if that 's what your city will buy , that 's what the lighting company will sell. 
write a letter to city hall .  . 

please note that i'm not defending light pollution .  . the focus of 
this thread was space based light sources. 



josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from (richard a. schumacher ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
nntp posting host starman . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 3 

you should have been following the discussion of grbs 
going on in sci . astro .  . it 's been discussed in some detail , 
with references even. 

subject re math  ( was us govt investment 
from  ( tal kubo ) 
organization dept. of math , harvard univ. 
keywords science 
nntp posting host zariski . harvard . edu . 
lines 14 


greg suggested that math is a good example of the inertia 
 ( silver age) of current science .  .  .  .  .  . 

is math really a science what new has math told us recently 
please dont flame me .  .  .  . ive taken no math since 11th grade .  .  .  . 
completed bc calc early and go the hell out .  .  .  . is there really 
new stuff going on  ( im not flaming , but honestly  .  . ) . 


nope .  . we 're just living off the inheritance from our , 
reading dusty old books , and exchanging baroque among 
a small circle of devotees .  . 


from  ( eric h seale ) 
subject re surviving large accelerations 
organization martin marietta astronautics , denver 
lines 24 
nntp posting host pogo . den . mmc . com . 

laxman writes 
... humans  ( and this was published 
in 1986) have already withstood accelerations of 45g .  . all this is very 
long winded but here 's my question finally are 45g accelerations in 
fact humanly tolerable with the aid of any mechanical devices of 
course. 

 ( lan pham ) writes 
are you sure 45g is the right number as far as i know , pilots are 
blackout in dives that exceed 8g 9g .  . 45g seems to be out of human 
tolerance .  . would anybody clarify this please. 

actually , both numbers are correct. the difference is in the direction 
of the acceleration .  . for pilots , accelerations tend to be to 
the direction you 're facing  ( pulling out from a steep dive , the 
acceleration will force blood toward your feet , for instance) .  . in this 
case , you can only put up with about 8 g 's even with a pressure suit. 

the record for acceleration , though , is measured along the direction 
you 're facing  ( for lack of a better term) .  . as i recall , this record 
was set in rocket back in the 60 's and was about 40 g 's or so. 

eric seale 


from  ( frederick roeber ) 
subject re internet resources 
reply to 
organization cern european organization for nuclear research 
distribution sci 
lines 39 

in article , writes 
i am taking a course entitled exploring science using internet . 
for our final project , we are to find a compendium of internet resources 
dealing with a science related topic. i chose astronomy .  . anyway , i was 
wondering if anyone out there knew of any interesting resources on internet 
that provide information on astronomy , space , nasa , or anything like that. 

do you know of the world wide web this is a global hypertext  ( well , 
hypermedia ) network running on the internet. one of the nice things 
about it is that is understands and incorporates virtually all of the 
other systems being used , like wais , gopher , ftp , archie , etc. it 
is usually quite easy to add existing resources to the web. 

if you 'd like to explore , i 'd suggest getting the xmosaic program , 
written at the ncsa .  . it 's an x windows web browser , and is pretty 
slick .  . it can understand and cope with more than text gif , jpeg , mpeg , 
audio , etc. there are other browsers , including a text mode browser 
for people stuck on a text terminal , but i'm most with mosaic .  . 

under the page the world wide web virtual library subject catalogue 
 ( this is available under the documents menu in mosaic , or by any 
browser via the url 
http info . cern . ch . hypertext overview . html . ) 
there is a subject space science. currently this points to a 
page under construction , with only the nasa jpl ftp archive .  . i 've 
volunteered to take over this page , and in fact i have a replacement 
with all sorts of information pointers  ( mostly gleaned from the 
sci . space . faq) .  . as soon as the overworked subject catalogue 
maintainer switches the space science pointer , it 'll be visible .  . 

i 'll post a short note when this happens. 


frederick g. m. roeber cern european center for nuclear research 
e mail or work 41 22 767 31 80 
r mail cern ppe , 1211 geneva 23 , switzerland home 33 50 20 82 99 

sorry , baby , i ca n't take you to the pizza joint tonight , i 've got to go 
back to the lab and split the atom .  . ayn rand , what is 

from  ( marcus inf ) 
subject re for flybys and cutting costs .  .  . 
in reply to 's message of sat , 1 may 1993 13 13 12 gmt 
organization abo akademi university , finland 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 52 

in writes 

getting wierd again 

okay what about launching one probe with multiple parts .  .  . kind of liek the old 
principle of old cold war days. 
basically what i mean is design a mother ship that has piggy backed probes for 
different missions , namely different planets .  . each probe would be tied in with 
the mother ship  ( or earth as the case may be) .  .  . this is good when and if we go 
for mars (the mars mission can act as either mother ship or relay point for the 
probes .  . 

i ca n't see the need for a single  ( big expensive heavy ) except 
for voyager style flyby missions .  . a few years ago , i did some calculations on a 
grand tour space probe launched by a saturn v in 1975 76 .  . at the time , i felt 
that 
the idea of a big mother ship had some merit the voyagers had to be rather 
small , lightweight craft due to the limitations imposed by using weak titan 
iii centaur launchers .  . the concept i examined  ( and michael 's ) had a lot in 
common with the british interplanetary society 's daedalus project for sending a 
probe to 's star i.e. a large bus spacecraft carrying several 
smaller probes to be dispatched when the ship arrives at its destination .  . 
the saturn v supposedly would have been able to launch a 10 ton payload towards 
jupiter and beyond .  . the bus could have included far more powerful 
cameras telescopes scientific equipment and a heavier more powerful power 
source than the voyagers as there would be no limitations on weight anymore. 
extremely important as the voyagers had to perform most of their measurements 
within a couple of weeks before and after planetary encounter , and usually at a 
relatively great distance. 

the smaller probes carried aboard might have been based on the real voyagers , 
and an even smaller version like the one scheduled for launch towards pluto in 
the early 21st century , and would have been released at various points during 
the mission. the advantages are obvious the bus would have carried out the 
same basic jupiter saturn uranus neptune mission than voyager 2 did , but in 
addition two sub probes could have been at saturn , examining 
that planet 's south polar regions before moving on to pluto .  . this would have 
enabled nasa to map both hemispheres of pluto charon by 1986 .  .  . and . several 
other probes could have examined parts of the jupiter saturn uranus neptune 
systems that were n't examined in great detail by the voyagers due to 
trajectory related factors .  . a small of camera equipped miniature space 
probes released a month before encounter would have been too costly for a 
small voyager type mission but entirely feasible if launched from a heavy , 
well equipped spacecraft .  . and would we have learned a lot more about the outer 
planets ! the reason why the grand tour was cancelled was lack of money , of 
course. 




michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 


from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re revival of san marco  ( was re commercial space news 22) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 32 

 ( bill higgins beam jockey ) writes 

in article , writes 
commercial space news space technology investor number 22 
... 
other commercial launch site ventures including those at 
, poker flat , cape york , white sands , alabama off shore 
platform , hawaii , and vandenberg have to also be judged against 
these criteria .  . in my opinion , some of these ventures are flying 
on hope and speculation , and not on sound financial grounds .  . 

this reminds me .  .  .  . my fuzzy brain recalls that somebody was thinking 
of the san marco launch platform off the coast of , 
where the copernicus satellite was launched around 1972 .  . is this 
true , or am i it possibly it 's connected with one of the 
italian programs to revive the scout in a new version. 

that old platform must be getting pretty rusty , and there ai n't a lot 
of infrastructure to go with it .  .  .  . 

my information shows that the last san marco launch was 1988. there seem to 
have been a total of seven before that. i seem to recall that someone , either 
asi or the university of rome ( ) includes money in their annual budget for 
maintainance of the platforms  ( there are actually  . 

the italians have been spending money to develop an advanced scout .  . however , 
recent events in the italian space program , and the italian government overall 
make me skeptical that this will get off the ground in the near future. 

josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from  ( terry f figurelle ) 
subject re true globe , who makes it 
reply to 
organization boeing defense space group 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( bill vance ) writes 
it has been known for quite a while that the earth is actually more pear 
shaped than globular spherical .  . does anyone make a globe that is accurate 
as to actual shape , landmass configuration long lat lines etc. 

i do n't think you 're going to be able to see the differences from a sphere 
unless they are greatly exaggerated .  . even the equatorial bulge is only 
about 1 part in 300 you 'd never notice a 1mm error in a 30cm globe 
and the other deviations from spherical shape are much smaller. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

i remember a physic prof. who talked about scaling a cue ball to earth size. 
its was significantly less spherical that the earth ! 


terry f boeing defense space group 
email po box 3999 , mail stop ea 
phone 206 394 3115 fax 206 394 4300 seattle , wa 98124 


terry f boeing defense space group 
email po box 3999 , mail stop ea 
phone 206 394 3115 fax 206 394 4300 seattle , wa 98124 

from (brian day) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization nasa msfc 
lines 13 

 ( rob douglas ) writes 

... but try to land a shuttle with that big huge telescope in the 
back and you could have problems. the shuttle just is n't designed to land 
with that much weight in the payload .  . 

is hst really that much heavier than a 

bd 

brian day 
new technology , inc. (205) 461 4584 
mission software development division opinions are my own 

from  ( william e. o'shaughnessy ) 
subject re moon image in weather sat image 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 6 

if you brighten up the dark part of gif . with your viewer you 
will see two other objects near the upper left part of the moon. 
one is actually between the weather satellite and the moon. 

bill o 


from  ( karl dishaw ) 
subject single launch space station 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 13 

andy cohen writes 
the single launch core station concept. a shuttle external tank and solid 
rocket boosters would be used to launch the station into orbit .  . shuttle 
main engines would be mounted to the tail of the station module for launch 
and jettisoned after et separation .  . 

why jettison the why not hold on to them and have a shuttle 
bring them down to use as spares 


karl 
sold my soul to uncle sam . . . now marked down for resale .  . 


from (john s. neff ) 
subject re what planets are 
nntp posting host pluto . physics . uiowa . edu . 
organization the university of iowa 
distribution sci 
lines 33 

in article  ( doug loss ) writes 
from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re what planets are 
date tue , 27 apr 1993 13 38 28 gmt 
in article  ( jonathan p. gibbons ) writes 
i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet for humans. 
i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere evolve given a range 
of physical aspects of the planet. the question is what physical aspects 
simply earth like conditions. 

eg temperature range of to (where temp is purely dependant on dist 
from the sun and the suns temperature .  . ) . 
atmospheric i know nothing of human tolerance 

there are people who have adapted to high altitudes in the andes and in 
tibet .  . i suspect that it took them several generations to make the 
adaptation because europeans had difficulty making the adaptation .  . they 
had to send the women to a lower altitude when they were pregnant in order 
to insure sucessful childbirth .  . 

planetary mass again gravity at surface is important , how much 
can human bodies take day after day. also how does the mass effect 
atmosphere. i thinking of planets between .3 and 3 times mass of the 
earth. i suppose density should be important as well. 


another factor you should consider is the x ray of the atmosphere 
in case of stellar flares , the uv is also important because uv 
radiation can kill or damage , plants , and animals. 

climate etc does not concern me , nor does axial tilt etc etc. just the above 
three factors and how they relate to one another. 


from (ron baalke ) 
subject mars exploration lecture 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 45 
distribution world 
nntp posting host kelvin . jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords mars , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

the aiaa san gabriel valley section is sponsoring the following lecture 
on mars exploration at the jet propulsion lab. admission is free and open to 
the public. 

the next frontier 
the challenge of mars exploration 

date may 6 , 1993 
time 6 00pm 8 30 pm 
location von karman auditorium 
jet propulsion lab 
4800 oak grove drive 
pasadena , california 

the following five speakers will be featured 

a science fiction perspective 
tom 
science fiction writer 

mars observer 
dr. arden albee 
project scientist , mars observer jpl 

mars '94 
dr. arthur l. lane 
instrument manager , mars '94 jpl 

mars environmental survey  ( mesur ) 
richard cook 
mission designer jpl 

manned mission to mars 
dr. robert 
senior engineer , martin marietta astronautics 

for more information , contact aiaa at 800 683 or mark leon at 
310 332 1098 .  . 

ron baalke 
jet propulsion lab 
) m s 525 3684 telos the from new zealand 
pasadena , ca 91109 is part caterpillar and 
part vegetable .  . 


from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re i want that billion 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 54 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 

only if he does n't spend more than a billion dollars doing it , since the 
prize is not going to be scaled up to match the level of effort. you can 
spend a billion pretty quickly buying titan launches .  . 

fine. i 'll buy from george .  . ! ! ! ! 

that assumes i ca n't weasel out a cooperative venture of some sort  ( cut me a 
break on the launcher , i 'll cut you in on the proceeds if it works) .  . only the 
government pays higher than list price. 

what 's more , if you buy titans , the prize money is your entire return on 
investment .  . if you develop a new launch system , it has other uses , and 
the prize is just the icing on the cake .  . 

unless you 're martin marietta , since  ( as i recall) they bought out the gd line 
of aerospace products. 

if mm gd does it as an in house project , their costs would look much better 
than buying at list price. does anyone really know the profit margins built 
in to the titan c'mon .  . allen is telling us how cheap we can get improved this 
or that .  .  .  . 

i doubt very much that a billion dollar prize is going to show enough 
return to justify the investment if you are constrained to use current 
us launchers .  . 

oh please. how much of a profit do you want pulling 100 150 million after 
all is said and done would n't be too shabby .  . not to mention the other goodies 
i 'll collect in 

a) movie tv rights  ( say 100 150 million conservatively ) 
b) advertising ( look , they 're drinking coke ! ) 
c)  ( name , experience data 
acculumated ) 

you 're going to have to invest your front money in building a new launch 
system rather than pissing it away on existing ones. being there first is 
of no importance if you go bankrupt doing it. 

if you want lean , fine. a 500 million prize would be more than adequate for a 
prize. 

maybe wales would be kind enough to define what a company would consider 
a decent profit .  . 

if you want r d done , you 'll have to write in r d clauses .  . i suppose you could 
make it a set aside ) 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
lines 17 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 

... 

astronomers have been using the night sky for thousands of years 
they own it. if they do n't complain now against scenic 
(eg light polluters ) , they will lose their common law right of ownership .  . 

is english  ( american , canadian , etc . ) . common law recognized as 
legally binding under international law after all , we 're talking about 
something that by its very nature is n't limited to the territory of one 
nation .  . 

doug loss 




from (the collective ) 
subject near miss asteroids 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 11 

if by chance you answered my request for neo asteroids in the last two days 
please send them to me directly .  . i by mistake deleted instead of read 
all the space request messages . 

thanks and sorry. 

harry g. 
science technology editor 
access news network 



from  ( bret wingert ) 
subject re level 5 
organization ibm , federal systems co. software services 
lines 33 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3.1 

from ( david harris ) 
message id 
to 
subject re level 5 shuttle software work 

bret , 

if you are familiar with the software work that received the level 5 
rating , could you post a description of it and or some references i 
think many people would be interested to know just what the ibm team 
on that effort is doing differently from most other organizations projects 
that earned them that rating. 

i am familiar with the project. it is the onboard shuttle flight 
software project. this software controls the space shuttle during 
all dynamic phases as well as on orbit .  . 
it has ultra high reliability and extremely 
low error rates. there have been several papers published on the 
subject and i 'll collect some references. there may be an 
article in the ibm systems journal late '93 , early '94 .  . 

there is no magic formula .  . we did it with dedicated and disciplined 
folks who worked to put together a process that finds and removes errors 
and is corrected based on errors that escape . we present a 
one day overview of our process periodically to interested folks. 
the next one is may 19th in washington , d.c. i can fax specifics 
to those who are interested. 

bret wingert 


(713) 282 7534 
fax (713) 282 8077 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re political banner in space 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 13 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


well , you better not get the shuttle as your launch vehicle. 

and most elv 's have too far of a backlog for political messages. 

if during the campaign season , the candidates for president had 
launched one , right around now we 'd be getting a launch 
for perot 92 .  . 

and if they had used the shuttle , we 'd be seeing launches 
for nixon now more then ever. 

pat 

from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 18 

in (george f. krumins ) writes 

it is so typical that the rights of the minority are extinguished by the 
wants of the majority , no matter how ridiculous those wants might be. 

right what right and do n't you mean something more like it so 
typical that the wants of the minority can obstruct the wants of the 
majority , no matter how ridiculous those minority wants might be or 
what benefits those majority wants might have 

my sole connection with the project is that i spent a lot of time in 
classes at the university of colorado .  . 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re solid state vs. tube analog 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 20 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( tom ) writes 

also , ask any electric guitar enthusiast which type of amp they prefer , and 
they 'll tell you tube type , since tubes have lower distortion and noise 
than transistors .  .  course , most of your electric guitar types just say 
tubes sound better , dude .  . ) 


of course , they then turn up the reverb , the gain , add in the analog 
delay line and the fuzz box. i 'd think they would n't notice the 
distortion .  . oh i forgot the phase shifters .  . 

also , transistors have the advantage in both waste heat and energy use , 
mainly because of the heaters on the cathodes of the tubes .  . 


ah , but how do they compare to mechanical systems ) 

pat 


from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re shuttle 0 defects bizarre dc x 
organization evil geniuses for a better tomorrow 
lines 92 

in article  ( ken hayashida ) writes 

well ,  .  . what . can i say 8 ) 
you 've attacked my beloved vehicle ! ) 

if i may offer a constructive criticism , perhaps you should decide if you 
love vehicles or the use they are put to. i , myself , think the f 86 is 
a beautiful aircraft , but rest assured , i would n't even think of flying 
it in combat today. most of us want access to space and judge vehicles 
on how they perform .  . 

we see zero defects operation in many area s of life. 

not to this degree. 

calling shuttle flight characteristics bizarre in the same post 
as dc x is interesting. 

why 

dc x will also have similar zero defects issues  ( am i wrong ) .  . 

your wrong. the dc approach is very of failure. it also has 
the advantage of far greater reliability do to its reusable nature  ( shuttle 
is n't reusable , it 's  . 

i am thinking of how dc x will deploy a chute or reverse orientation at 
supersonic speeds .  . 

the flip over happens at a very low speed , not supersonic .  . if the dc x 
shows the flip over works , it will work unless the laws of physics change. 

how much in dc x is redundant that 's the real question. 

the final dc 1 will have fully intact abort throughout the entire flight 
envelop .  . upon re entry for example , it can loose about 80 of available 
thrust and still land safely .  . 

everything we do in life has zero defects issues at times  ( agree ) .  . 

everything can suffer from catastrophic failure but that 's not the same 
thing. shuttle simply is n't a fault design , ssto is. 

as a doctor , i can not error in my diagnosis and treatment recommendations .  . 

you do n't put your patients in conditions where there is no way out. you 
would n't for example , give a patient a drug and not monitor them for 
harmful side effects would you 

while dc x 's r d program makes good sense , i am less optimistic about dc x 
as you  ( and apparently others) are. 

you are very much in the minority .  . if the dc series fails to make orbit , it 
will still be a very worthwhile effort. it will show us exactly what we do 
need to do to build ssto .  . 

but , dc x will still have failures .  . it is the nature of aerospace r d. 

again , refering to the dc 1 , it will provide fully intact abort 
the flight envelop .  . shuttle does n't .  . dc is fault , shuttle is n't .  . 

it 's successors are not slated to be passenger carrying .  . 

not true. build a passenger pallet (a fairly easy thing to do) and it will 
carry passengers .  . 

the impression i had 
when i visited huntington beach 's open house was that the payload space 
was limited and the man version was decades away. 

i would suggest you talk to the dc x crew themselves. their original 
schedule had an operational dc 1 flying in 96 .  . 

shuttle is the only method in the free world of orbiting large life sciences 
and medical related packages. as for now , it is our only ticket into space 
and has my support. 

your ignoring the dammage it does. space has a reputation for being 
unreliable and expensive. shuttle supporters only make it easy for 
opponents of manned space to kill it. 

you could change my view on dc x if you could prove the following 

the only way to prove those things is to build it. 

allen 



lady astor sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. churchill madam , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
35 days to first flight of dcx 

from (john mckay ) 
subject re math  ( was us govt investment 
keywords science 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 21 

 ( mark wilson ) writes 

report called it the science of order , but that 's probably pomposity .  . 

it is , however , now somewhat of an experimental science with the exploration 
of fractals , strange , and artificial life. whether important 
insights will be gained from these experiments is unknown , but it does 
tend to change the shape of what has mostly been viewed as an abstract 
deductive field. 

how do you do experiments in mathematics 
well ... 
have a look at a new journal journal of experimental mathematics 
it has several fields on its editorial board. 
you want to knwo more 
try klaus peters in boston or david epstein at warwick . 


deep ideas are simple. 
odd groups are even. 
even simples are not. 

from 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
lines 36 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article , 
 ( stupendous man) writes 

 ( henry spencer ) writes 
does anyone have a reference  ( something i can look up , not just your own 
recollections i have a few of those myself) on the temperature of the 
 ( night ) sky as seen from space 


henry , if i read you correctly , you may be asking if i put a 
in interstellar space (  disregarding the sun and nearby large warm objects' ) , 
what will it reach in thermal equilibrium with the ambient 
radiation field 

if that 's the case , let me point out that interstellar dust and 
molecules provide many instances of things that are , well , not too far 
from being  . many different observations , including iras 
and cobe , have determined that interstellar dust grain temperatures 
can range from 40k to 150k .  . 

yes , but that 's because interstellar grains are very poor radiators , not 
remotely black bodies .  . as a consequence they are a lot warmer than the 
ambient . 

inside the disk of the galaxy , the temperature varies quite a bit 
from place to place  ( how close are you to the nearest ob association , 
i would guess) .  . outside the galaxy , of course , things are n't so 
varied .  . 


when i was in graduate school , a long time ago , we used 10 , 000 deg k with 
a factor of 10 4 for representative values of the energy 
background in the galaxy due to starlight .  . 

ben 


from  ( ts kelso ) 
subject two line orbital element set space shuttle 
keywords space shuttle , orbital elements , 
nntp posting host scgraph . afit . af . mil . 
organization air force institute of technology 
lines 18 

the most current orbital elements from the norad two line element sets are 
carried on the celestial bbs , (513) 427 0674 , and are updated daily  ( when 
possible) .  . documentation and tracking software are also available on this 
system. as a service to the satellite user community , the most current 
elements for the current shuttle mission are provided below. the celestial 
bbs may be accessed 24 hours day at 300 , 1200 , 2400 , 4800 , or 9600 bps using 
8 data bits , 1 stop bit , no parity .  . 

element sets  ( also updated daily ) , shuttle elements , and some documentation 
and software are also available via anonymous ftp from archive . afit . af . mil . 
(129 . 92 . 1 . 66) . in the directory pub space. 

sts 55 
1 93 27 a  . 00000 0 3 0 129 
2 28 . 241 . 284 . 109 . 3644 . 15 . 580 

dr ts kelso assistant professor of space operations 
air force institute of technology 

from (t .  . joseph lazio ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization department of astronomy , cornell university 
lines 17 


reply to 
nntp posting host seti . tn . cornell . edu . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 16 may 1993 14 31 20 gmt 

on sun , 16 may 1993 14 31 20 gmt ,  ( frank crary ) said 
fc modern , 
fc ground based , visible light astronomy  ( what these proposed 
fc orbiting billboards would upset ) is already a dying field the 
fc and distortions caused by the atmosphere itself have 
fc driven most of the field to use radio , far infrared or space based 
fc telescopes .  . 

here 's one radio astronomer quite concerned about 
radio frequency interference from portable telephones , etc. 



e mail 
t. joseph phone  ( 607 ) 255 
icbm 42 deg. 20  08 n 76 deg. 28  48 w 
cornell knows i exist ! stop rape 

from (craig keithley ) 
subject aurora gif request 
organization not if i can help it 
lines 15 

has someone scanned in an artist 's rendering of aurora if so , is the gif 
available somewhere 

please reply via email. 

thanks , 


craig 


craig keithley if looks could kill , they probably will. 
apple computer , inc. in games without , war without tears 
peter gabriel , third album (1980) 


from  ( thomas a. baker ) 
subject re soyuz and shuttle comparisons 
reply to  ( thomas a. baker ) 
organization thomas a. baker , unlimited 
lines 22 

in article writes 
the most revealing comparison between shuttle and soyuz is cost. all 
other comparisons are apples and oranges .  . 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

i like this statement , though for my own reasons. cost comparisons depend 
a lot on whether the two options are similar , and then it becomes very 
revealing to consider what their differences are. can soyuz launch the 
long exposure facility course not. will the shuttle take my television 
relay to leo by year 's end almost certainly not , but the russians are 
pretty good about making space accessible on a tight schedule. 

comparing s and ss points up that there are two active space 
launcher and work platform resources , with similarities and differences .  . 
where they are in direct competition , we may get to see some market 
economics come into play. 



my employer 's opinions are not my own. 
i am self employed .  . 

from  ( ethan bradford ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
article i.d. 



organization u. of washington 
lines 8 
nntp posting host astro . washington . edu . 
to  ( walker andrew john ) 
in reply to 's message of 29 apr 1993 13 31 32 1000 

 ( walker andrew john ) writes 
also , if they did come from the oort cloud we would expect to 
see the same from other stars oort clouds .  . 

that 's a very good point. perhaps none of the nearby stars have oort 
clouds alpha centauri is a multiple star system you would n't expect 
an oort cloud in it. what 's the nearest single star that is likely to 
have a planetary system 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 13 

i'm wondering if vandalize is the proper word to use in this situation. my 
dictionary defines vandalism as the willful or malicious of 
public or private property , especially of anything beautiful or  . i 
would agree the sky is beautiful , but not that it is public or private property. 

i personally prefer natural skies , far from city lights and sans aircraft .  . 
however , there is also something to be said for being able to look up into the 
sky and see a satellite .  . many people get a real kick out of it , especially if 
they have n't seen one before. 

josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re dc x and publicity .  .  .  . is there any 
organization evil geniuses for a better tomorrow 
lines 17 

in article writes 

its seems a bit to me that such a project which for the first 
time in years some hope in changing the current trend in 
massively overpriced boosting capability , lacks much publicity .  . 

that may change next month at least i hope it will. a couple of hundred 
journalists have requested press passes for the test flights .  . sustaining 
that publicity however , will be a problem. 

allen 



lady astor sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. churchill madam , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
33 days to first flight of dcx 

subject re gamma ray bursters .  . positional stuff. 
from 

organization mankato state university 
nntp posting host vax1 . mankato . msus . edu . 
lines 52 

in article ,  ( kevin w. plaxco ) writes 
in article (david ward ) writes 

given that fact , and the spacecraft attitude knowledge 
of approx. 2 , we might be able to figure out how well batse can 
determine the location  ( rotational ) of a gamma ray burster from knowledge 
of the all sky map 's accuracy .  . pr material for the other three instruments 
give accuracies on the order of fractions of a degree , if that 's 
any help. 

but i believe that there is a fundamental difference here. the other x 
three instruments are focusing instruments , that , more or less , form 
an image , so positional errors are limited by craft attitude and the 
resolving power of the optics .  . batse is an altogether different 
beast , effectively just 8 coincidence counters , one on each corner of 
the craft .  . positional information is triangulated from the 
differential signal arrival times at each of the detectors .  . 
positional error would be predominantly determined by timing errors 
and errors in craft attitude. since none of the 8 detectors have 
any independant angular resolution whatsoever , they can not be used to 
determine parallax .  . indeed , parallax would just add a very small 
component to the positional error. 

demonstrating that these puppies are beyond the oort cloud would 
require resolution on the order of , since the oort 
cloud is postulated to extend to about 0.5 parsec  ( all together 
now parallax arc second , a parsec is the distance of an object 
that demonstrates one arc second of parallax with a 2 au base line) .  . 
if the 3 degree accuracy reported above is true , we 're going to 
have to add a to the pluto fast flyby to get enough baseline .  . 

the beauty of is that it both gives positional information and 
watches the entire sky simultaneously , a realy handy combination 
when you have no idea where the next burst is coming from. 

kevin 
batse alone is n't always used to determine position. when a 
particularly bright burst occurs , there are a couple of other detectors that 
catch it going off. pioneer 10 or 11 is the one i'm getting at here. this 
puppy is far enough away , that if a bright burst happens nearby , the huge 
annulus created by it will hopefully intersect the line or general circle given 
by batse , and we can get a moderately accurate position. say oh , 2 or 3 
degrees. that is the closest anyone has ever gotten with it. 
actually , my advisor , another classmate of mine , and me were talking 
the other day about putting just one detector on one of the pluto satellites .  . 
then we realized that the satellite alone is only carrying something like 200 
pounds of eq. well , a batse detector needs lead shielding to protect it , and 1 
alone weighs about 200 pounds itself. 

we decided against it. 
jeremy 


from 
subject re astronauts what does weightlessness feel like 
organization nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
x posted from jsc . nasa . gov . 
nntp posting host sol . ctr . columbia . edu . 
lines 81 

in article ,  ( jerry liebelson ) writes .  .  .  . 
i want to know what weightlessness actually feels like. for example , is 
there a constant sensation of falling 

ron baalke replied 
yes , weightlessness does feel like falling .  . it may feel strange at first , 
but the body does adjust .  . the feeling is not too different from that 
of sky diving .  . 

i'm no astronaut , but i 've flown in the kc 135 several times. i 'll 
tell you about my first flight. 

at the on set of weightlessness , my shoulders lifted and my spine 
straightened .  . i felt a momentary panic , and my hands tried to grab 
onto something  ( like the strap keeping me firmly against the floor ) 
to prevent me from falling i remember over ruling my 
involuntary motions .  . my ears felt (not heard) a rush and i could 
feel fluid moving in my head  ( like when you get up from bed while 
you have a cold) .  . 

at that point , i ceased to concentrate on my physiological response , 
since i had some science to do. i was busy keeping my experiment 
going and keeping track of all the parts during the return of 
gravity and subsequent 1.8 g pull out , so i did n't really pay 
attention to physiology at that time. 

after about 5 parabolas , i discovered that i was performing one 
of the tricks i 've discovered to keep myself from getting motion 
sickness i was keeping my head very still and moving very slowly 
all except my hands and arms , which needed to be in rapid , 
concious motion for my experiment .  . during the pull out to 
5 , my finally started to get to me , and i 
had to use one of those air sickness bags .  . i was basically 
useless for the rest of that flight , so i went to the seats in 
the back of the plane while my partner  ( whom i drafted for just 
this purpose) kept working on the experiment while i was ill. 
 ( he was a vomit comet rider , one of those anomalous 
people who do n't get sick on the thing . ) . 

i did n't think of it as a constant sensation of falling so 
much as like swimming in air. it 's very close to the 
i feel when i'm scuba diving and i turn my head down and fins up. 

jerry 
and what is the motion sickness 
that some astronauts occasionally experience 

ron 
it is the body 's reaction to a strange environment. it appears to be 
induced partly to physical discomfort and part to mental distress .  . 
some people are more prone to it than others , like some people are more 
prone to get sick on a roller coaster ride than others. the mental 
part is usually induced by a lack of clear indication of which way is 
up or down , ie the shuttle is normally oriented with its cargo bay 
pointed towards earth , so the earth  ( or ground) is above the head of 
the astronauts .  . about 50 of the astronauts experience some form of 
motion sickness , and nasa has done numerous tests in space to try to 
see how to keep the number of occurances down. 

i'm a volunteer in jsc 's space biomedical laboratory where they do , 
among other things , some of the tests ron mentions .  . i was in one 
called the pre flight adaptation trainer , which consisted of a chair on 
a several degree of freedom motion base with moving geometric visual 
aids .  . the goal was to measure the victim 's h h h h h h h h subject 's 
responses and subjective physiological descriptions and see if repeated 
exposure to this environment could reduce future motion sickness 
symptoms .  . 

jerry 

i do n't know of any former or active duty astronauts who personally 
read this group. i know that bruce 's office had been 
waiting anxiously for the space station redesign option i posted 
last week , but i do n't think bruce reads the group himself. 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

the man who makes no mistakes does not usually make 
anything. 
edward john phelps , american diplomat lawyer  ( 1825 1895 ) 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re dc x and publicity .  .  .  . is there any 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 15 

in article writes 
its seems a bit to me that such a project which for the first 
time in years some hope in changing the current trend in 
massively overpriced boosting capability , lacks much publicity .  .  .  . 

the people involved in it have been building hardware rather than writing 
press releases .  . this is not a high manpower project they do n't have 
spare people sitting around. 

as i understand it , there has also been some feeling on the part of some 
of the project management that publicity was not a good idea. a lot of 
people have been working on changing this view , with some success. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re philosophy quest .  . how boldly 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 25 

in article  ( bob kierski ) writes 
 .  .  . over . the years we have decided that certain 
cultures need improvements .  . the native americans is a good example. prior 
to our attempt to civilize them , the native american culture had very 
little crime , no , no poverty .  .  .  . 

this is , shall we say , an overly broad statement. in particular , are you 
referring to the native american culture that existed in 1400 , or the one 
that existed in 1800  ( simplify things by assuming we 're talking about 
the eastern us rather than the whole continent . ) . given that those were 
radically different cultures , which one are you referring to 

 .  .  . if . we encounter life elsewhere , do we tell them they have to live in 
houses , farm the land and go to church on sunday 

note that the pre columbian native americans , east of the mississippi , 
did all of these things.  ( well , maybe not on sunday , but they did 
have organized religions , not to mention cities and governments . ) . if 
you are judging the native americans by the tribal culture that existed 
in 1800 , you might want to read an account of the de soto expedition 
to find out what pre columbian native american culture , at least in the 
more civilized parts of the continent , was like. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from (keith mancus ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization 
lines 26 

(scott i chase ) writes 
 ( phil g. fraering ) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( jeff cook ) writes 
people in primitive tribes out in the middle of nowhere as they look up 
and see a can of budweiser flying across the sky .  .  .  . d 

seen that movie already. or one just like it. 
come to think of it , they might send someone on 
a quest to get rid of the dang thing .  .  .  . 

in one of his lesser known books (i ca n't 
remember which one right now) , the protagonists are in a balloon gondola , 
travelling over africa on their way around the world in the balloon .  .  .  . 

that 's five weeks in a balloon . and if anyone can tell me where to 
get it , i sure would like a reply ! i 've been looking for that book for 
ten year , and never found it.  ( note that i am not looking for a 200 
collector 's item i'm hoping that someone has published it in modern 
times , either in paperback or hardcover .  . i'm willing to spend 50 or 
so to get a copy. 


keith mancus 

black powder and alcohol , when your states and cities fall , 
when your back 's against the wall .  .  .  .  . leslie fish 

from  ( dave michelson ) 
subject re for flybys and cutting costs .  .  . 
organization university of bc , electrical engineering 
lines 11 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
by what the voyagers did they exploited a lineup that occurs only 
every couple of centuries , and even so voyager 2 took a rather indirect 
route to neptune .  . 

indirect compared to what did voyager 2 traverse a substantially greater 
distance than , say , a orbit i 've never heard voyager 's path 
described as indirect before .  .  .  . 


dave michelson university of british columbia 

from (john e. curtis ) 
subject space surveillance 
summary space surveillance 
nntp posting host starbase . spd . louisville . edu . 
organization university of louisville 
keywords satellites spy space 
lines 6 

one of the main reasons nations like the us and russia observe satellite 
that have been launched is system loft nuclear bombs into 
orbit which are planned to be detonated in leo causing emp pulses 
interfering with the target command and control system. 



from  ( dick wilmot ) 
subject re looking for planet maps 
keywords maps 
nntp posting host zen . holonet . net . 
organization holonet national internet access system 510 704 1058 modem 
lines 24 

 ( josh hopkins ) writes 

 ( tim spock larson ) writes 

where can i get maps of mars , venus , other terrestrial 
bodies 

i still use the old national geographic maps from the apollo and viking eras .  . 

the other people to ask would be the us geological survey .  . they have maps of 
just about everything. unfortunately , i do not have their address. 

there is an office on the middle left us coast on road in 
menlo park , ca (415) 329 


josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

dick 
editor , independent raid report 
(510) 938 


from 
subject update back to the moon bill 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 51 

introducing the back to the moon in congress 
the next step 

the next key hurdle for the lunar resources data purchase 
act is introduction of the act in congress .  . at this point , many 
congresspersons have been approached about the bill. however , 
for a successful effort to pass the bill , we need the best 
possible congressperson to introduce the bill. due to his 
position as chair of the house committee on space and science , 
congressman george brown is the logical choice. he has a long 
record of support and interest in space development , and helped 
pass the launch services purchase act and the space settlements 
act. 
there is a small group of activists in southern california 
who have assisted george brown in his recent re election campaigns .  . 
we are this group to have them tell congressman brown 
about the back to the moon bill. we are also asking pro space 
constituents to let him know that they care about getting 
america back to the moon. 
finally , there is a good chance that a nationwide alert 
for space activists to call or write george brown to have him 
introduce the back to the moon bill may be staged during late 
spring , 1993. 
all this should produce a positive reaction from brown 's 
office. as more is known , it will be passed on. 
however , even if we are successful in getting him to support 
the bill , this alone will not ensure passage of the bill. for 
any bill to become law , one of three conditions must exist 
either the bill must reflect widespread national support for an 
issue  ( such as extension of unemployment insurance benefits ) be 
propelled by high priced lobbyists  ( we 're out of luck there) or 
have widespread support within congress , due to small , but 
widespread , constituent support. the latter is the path that we , 
by necessity , must choose. 
this means that the introduction of the lunar resources 
data purchase act must be immediately accompanied by a large number 
of congresspersons  sponsorship of the bill. to accomplish 
this , we need activists to ask their congressperson to support 
the lunar resources data purchase act now. to wait until the 
bill is introduced is simply too late it takes time to have a 
congressperson 's staff review a bill. 
if your congressperson mentions that the bill is not yet 
introduced , please elicit their opinion of the bill as currently 
written. we appreciate all comments on the bill from activists 
and politicians .  . 
if you have yet to see the back to the moon bill , please 
request a copy by email (please include your u.s. postal service 
address) , or contact your local chapter of the national space 
 . 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re what planets are 
lines 32 
nntp posting host skndiv . dseg . ti . com . 
reply to 
organization ti dseg vax support 


in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( ken hayashida ) writes 
as for human tolerances , the best example of human endurance in terms 
of altitude (i . e .  . low atmospheric pressure and lower oxygen partial pressure ) 
is in my opinion to the scaling of mt. everest without oxygen assistance .  .  .  . 
... this is quite a feat of physiological endurance .  .  .  . 

indeed so it 's at the extreme limit of what is humanly possible. it is 
possible only because mount everest is at a fairly low latitude there 
is a slight equatorial bulge in the atmosphere beyond what is induced 
by the earth 's rotation thanks to the overall circulation pattern of 
the atmosphere  ( air cools at poles and descends , flowing back to equator 
where it is warmed and rises ) , and this helps just enough to make everest 
without oxygen feasible .  . only just feasible , mind you the guys who did 
it reported hallucinations and other indications of oxygen starvation , 
and probably incurred some permanent brain damage. 

regard 8000 metres and up as the death zone . even on 100 oxygen , 
you are slowly dying. at  ( everest ) , most spend only a short 
period of time before descending .  . i 've been above 8000 once. descending as 
little as feels like walking into a jungle , the air is so thick .  . everest 
in winter without oxygen , no support party  ( alpine style) .  . that is the 
ultimate challenge  ( or is it solo ) 

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the 
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 ) 3556  ( when i'm here) 
 ( 214)492 ) 4656  ( when i'm home) texans vote no on robin hood. we need 
solutions , not gestures .  . 
padi dm 


from  ( ts kelso ) 
subject two line orbital element set space shuttle 
keywords space shuttle , orbital elements , 
organization air force institute of technology 
lines 18 
nntp posting host scgraph . afit . af . mil . 

the most current orbital elements from the norad two line element sets are 
carried on the celestial bbs , (513) 427 0674 , and are updated daily  ( when 
possible) .  . documentation and tracking software are also available on this 
system. as a service to the satellite user community , the most current 
elements for the current shuttle mission are provided below. the celestial 
bbs may be accessed 24 hours day at 300 , 1200 , 2400 , 4800 , or 9600 bps using 
8 data bits , 1 stop bit , no parity .  . 

element sets  ( also updated daily ) , shuttle elements , and some documentation 
and software are also available via anonymous ftp from archive . afit . af . mil . 
(129 . 92 . 1 . 66) . in the directory pub space. 

sts 55 
1 93 27 a  . 00000 0 3 0 90 
2 28 . 249 . 3697 . 260 . 9747 . 152 . 15 . 425 

dr ts kelso assistant professor of space operations 
air force institute of technology 

from 
subject life on mars 
organization nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 12 

i know it 's only wishful thinking , with our current president , 
but this is from last fall 

is there life on mars maybe not now. but there will be. 
daniel s. goldin , nasa administrator , 24 august 1992 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

the man who makes no mistakes does not usually make 
anything. 
edward john phelps , american diplomat lawyer  ( 1825 1895 ) 

from 
subject boeing  ( was words from chairman of boeing ) 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 83 

writes 
re response from cob of boeing on ssto ... 
as far as single stage to orbit technology , we think that we have 
a better answer in a two stage approach , and we are talking to some 
of our customers about that. as far as commercialization , that is 
a long ways off. ... 
anybody know anything further is this really news does this 
threaten further work on dc 

boeing has been looking at several vehicles and has carried 
out extensive conceptual studies of advanced launch systems for some 
time. a good reference on this might be comparison of propulsion 
options for advanced earth to orbit  ( eto ) applications  ( iaf 92 
 . by v . a .  . and l.e. fink from boeing .  . the paper 
describes a propane fueled launch system claimed to achieve 
aircraft like operational efficiencies without the problems 
associated with liquid hydrogen fuel .  . basically , it 's a high speed 
airplane launching a hermes type 
the design (the concept is also called beta ) as laid out in the 
paper can launch at least 10 , 000 pounds into polar orbit , or 20 , 000 
pounds to space station orbit including a crew of eight persons and 
life support. system design reliability is  . 9995 .  . 
beta is a 360 foot long first stage powered by two large ramjets 
and 12 high speed civil transport  ( hsct )  . a 108 foot 
long reusable orbiter is mounted in the belly of the first 
stage aircraft , which also could accommodate a longer and heavy 
payload on an expendable second stage. 
to launch the orbital vehicle , the first stage takes off like a 
normal and accelerates to mach 3. at that point the , 
modified to burn jp 7 , would shut off and the ramjets , 
would take over. at mach 5.5 the orbiter or the elv would swing 
out , ignite and proceed to orbit .  . both vehicles would land like 
aircraft at the conclusion of their respective missions .  . 
estimated total weight of the combined configuration at takeoff 
is about 1.5 m lbs , roughly to a fully loaded an 225 .  . 
the orbiter stages weighs about 400 , including 335 
of lox and propane to power two 250 vacuum thrust 
rocket engines. propellants would be stored at 91 degrees kelvin , 
with the propane in a spherical tank mounted forward of the 15 by 
25 foot cargo bay and the two seat orbiter crew station. lox would 
be stored aft .  . and fink claim the key to this design 's 
success is the structurally efficient airframe and the compact 
tankage allowed by the high density supercooled hydrocarbon fuel .  . 
the paper compares design to ssto design. they conclude 
while a ssto has a slightly lower recurring cost , a is easier , 
cheaper , and less risky to develop , simpler to build , has greater 
safety and mission versatility and does n't carry the hard to handle 
and bulky hydrogen fuel .  . the in conjunction with its major 
use of airplane type engines and fuel , as well as its inherent self 
capability , it is probably the system most likely to provide 
as close to airline like operations as possible with a practical 
configuration , until a single stage rocket concept can 
be shown to be operationally viable .  . 

is this really news does this threaten further work on dc 
and others at boeing have been working on designs for 
some time. i expect this , or a similar concept  ( perhaps the 
ssto they proposed for the sdio ssto first phase) is being re 
examined as a basis for a bid on the first phase of  . 
does it threaten dc . possibly there is a set of on going 
studies trying straighten out the government 's future space 
transportation strategy .  . mdc and boeing  ( as well as other firms) 
are providing data to a joint study team back in dc .  . there are 
various factions and options for attention including 
shuttle upgrades , shuttle replacement  ( what was called the 4 2 3 
architecture ) , , elv upgrades , and various advanced 
vehicles  ( ales , beta , dc , nasp , , of several types , 
etc . ) . nasa dod dot are trying to put together a coherent strategy 
for future us gov't space transportation systems , and trying to 
juggle near term launch needs  ( like for dod and nasa ) against 
medium term needs  ( including commercial considerations ) , and against 
the investment and risk of going to leap frog new technologies 
like sdio ssto and nasp and beta. 
it 's a heck of a problem. the worst part of the problem is n't 
that there are n't promising ideas and concepts there are dozens 
of them but how they balance cost and risk versus real needs in 
the near term. they should have a draft report in mid june , with a 
final report coming by the end of the fiscal year. 

wales larrison space technology investor 


maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( theodore f. ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization lehigh university 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( dan 
herrin ) writes 
deleted 
is it not also an abomination that somebody would spend money on space 
advertising when those children are starving perhaps some redistribution 
of wealth would help them ... 

dan 


not to flame  ( really ) , but thats an abominable viewpoint  ( while were 
on the subject of  . if we followed the 
of wealth  ( and by the way , ist that what and the democrats are 
trying to do .  .  . ) . , everyone would starve in short order. not only is 
it to organize a fair distribution that depends on every 
 ( wo)man ) 's altruism  ( can you say black market under 
anyone ) , but the current methods of resource production are entirely 
energy dependant .  . there are not enough sources of cheap capital 
 ( aside from human capital ) to allow us to stop looking at space a an 
excellent source of materials and  . more directly , perhaps 
you consider the fact that billions are spent by tv companies , 
and their sponsors ,  ( abc , nbc , cbs .  .  . ) . on the superbowl , the olympics , 
and even on monday night baseball games. perhaps we should boycott 
those games if dc x and company get finished , and there is a market 
for it , those abominable space will probably be much more cost 
effective for the companies , and those starving children. more people 
buy products , the company hires more workers , end result fewer 
children die of starvation .  . 




polar caps or 
student making the world safe for computing ! 
never before have we owed so little to so many .  .  .  . r . t . folk . 
one must not confuse john dunne 's famous quote man is an island  with 
new york telephone 's 're all connected  dad 

from (george f. krumins ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 44 

 ( theodore f. ) writes 

in article , (george f. krumins ) writes 
deleted 
to say that visible light astronomy is already a dying field is 
pure hokum .  . to use the logic that things are already bad , so it does n't 
matter if it gets worse is absurd .  . maybe common sense and logic 
are the dying fields .  . 

deleted 
ok , so those scientists can get around the atmosphere with fancy 
computer , but have you looked ad the hubble results , the 
defects of the mirror are partially correctable with software  ( see 
those jupiter pictures for results) , but is the effects are completely 
, why is there going to be a shuttle mission to fix it 
deleted 

the main effect of the spherical aberration problems with the 
primary mirror was to drive the computer engineers to develop the image 
processing software that much faster. when they use the same deconvolution 
software on the images from the fixed hubble , be ready for some 
incredible results ! there is every reason to believe that the results will 
exceed the original specs by a fair margin .  . 

adaptive optics is a combination of hardware and software. it works 
realtime , not after the fact , as is the case with hubble .  . you might be 
interested to know this technology has made it to the amateur market , in 
the form of the ao 2 adaptive optics system. starting on page 52 of the 
april , 1993 sky telescope is a three page review of this new product. 
it lists for 1 , 290 .  . the article states the ao 2 adaptive optics system 
comes in a handy soft plastic case that a three year old could carry 
around. even though this device is really only good for the brightest 
objects , it could cope with image movements of up to 0.8 millimeter 
in the telescope 's focal plane. now just imagine how well this infant 
technology will do in a few years , especially in a dedicated system that 
has hundreds of thousands of dollars , and many man hours invested in its 
development. 

george krumins 

pufferfish observatory the universe had its origin 
in two colliding 

home of the memorial telescope 

from (herman rubin ) 
subject u.s. government and science and investment 
organization purdue university statistics department 
lines 75 

in article writes 
people who criticize big government and its projects rarely seem to 
have a consistent view of the role of government in science and 
technology. basically , the u.s. government has gotten into the role of 
supporting research which private industry finds too expensive or too 
long term. 

 ( historically , this role for the u.s. gov't was forced upon it because 
of socialism in other countries. in order for u.s. industries to 
compete with government subsidized foreign competitors , the u.s. gov't 
has taken on the role of big ticket or long lead r d . ) . 

this definitely had nothing to do with the entry of the government into 
the support of science some of it is relevant in technology. there 
was little involvement of federal funds , or except through support of 
state universities , of state funds , for scientific research before wwii .  . 
the us research position had been growing steadily , and the funding was 
mainly from university and private foundation funds .  . there were not that 
many research universities , but they all provided their researchers with 
low teaching loads , laboratories , assistants , and equipment , and funds for 
travel to scientific meetings .  . not that much , but it was provided , and a 
university wishing to get a scholar had to consider research funding as well 
as salary .  . 

during wwii , the military and the defense departments found that pure 
scientists could do quite well with their problems , even though they 
were not exactly in the areas of the scientists  expertise .  . this is 
probably because of the research mind approach , which is not to try 
to find a solution , but to understand the problem and see if a solution 
emerges .  . this works in stages , and as research scientists were used to 
discussion about their problems , the job got done. 

the military realized the importance of maintaining scientists for the 
future , and started funding pure research after wwii .  . but congress was 
unwilling to have military funds diverted into this investment into the 
future supply of scientists , and set up other organizations , such as 
nsf , to do the job. it also set up an elaborate procedure to supposedly 
keep politics out. also , the government did a job on private foundations , 
making it more difficult for them to act to support research. 

the worst part of the federal involvement is that in those areas in which 
the government supports research the university will not provide funding , 
and in fact expects its scholars to bring in net government money. suppose , 
as has been the case , i have a project which could use the assistance of 
a graduate student for a few months. what do you think happens if i ask 
for one the answer i will get is , get the money from nsf .  . now the 
money at the university level is a few thousand , but at the nsf level it 
comes to about 20 thousand , and is likely to keep a faculty member from 
getting supported .  . so the government is , in effect , deciding which projects 
get supported , and how much. 

also , the government decided that the wealth should be spread .  . so instead 
of having a moderate number of universities which were primarily research 
institutions , the idea that more schools should get into the act came into 
being. and instead of evaluating scholars , they had to go to evaluating 
reseach proposals .  . as a researcher , i can tell you that any research proposal 
has to be mainly wishful thinking , or as now happens , the investigator 
already done work to release it as the results of the research. what i am 
proposing today i may solve before the funding is granted , i may find 
impossible , or i may find that it is too difficult. in addition , tomorrow 
i may get unexpected research results. possibly i may bet a bright idea 
which solves yesterday 's too difficult problem , or a whole new approach to 
something i had not considered can develop .  . this is the nature of the beast , 
and except for really vague statements , if something can be predicted , it 
is not major research , but development or routine activity not requiring 
more than minimal attention of a good researcher .  . 

i believe that at this time less quality research is being done than would 
have happened if the government had never gotten into it , and the government 
is trying to divert researchers from thinkers to  . 

herman rubin , dept. of statistics , purdue univ. , west lafayette 1399 
phone  ( 317)494 ) 6054 
 ( internet , bitnet ) 
purdue , pur ee ! snap . stat . !  ( hrubin(uucp ) 

from (john s. neff ) 
subject re space offs 
nntp posting host pluto . physics . uiowa . edu . 
organization the university of iowa 
lines 23 

in article  ( william f brown) writes 
from  ( william f brown) 
subject re space offs 
date 30 apr 1993 19 27 24 gmt 
i just wanted to point out , that teflon was n't from the space program. 
it was from the wwii nuclear weapons development program. pipes in the 
system for and uranium had to be lined with it. 

uranium was the chemical they turned the into for 
enrichment .  . it is massively corrosive .  . even to stainless  . hence 
the need for a very inert to line the pipes with. teflon has 
all its molecular sockets bound up already , so it is very  . 

my 2 sense worth. 

bill 


the artifical was invented in 1958 by wilson an 
american biomedical engineer .  . the bill authorizing nasa was signed 
in october of 1958 so it is clear that nasa had nothing to do with 
the invention of the  . 


from  ( tom ) 
subject object smiley 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 25 

james sez 
if the new kuiper belt object is called  karla  , the next 
one should be called 'smiley' .  . 

jeff responds 
unless i'm imaging things ,  ( always a possibility ) 1992 , the kuiper belt 
object discovered last year , is known as smiley .  . 


jeff foust 49 days ! you 're from outer space. 
senior , planetary science , caltech no , i'm from iowa .  . i only work in 
outer space. 
from star trek iv the voyage home 

i would n't worry too much about it , jeff .  . if you work for jpl , then your 
job is imaging things ) 

(i know , it was a just a typo , but i could n't resist. at least , i hope it 
was a typo , or my stupid joke is stupider than i intended ) 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk as the radius of vision increases , 
336 9591 hm the circumference of mystery grows .  . 


from (george f. krumins ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 21 

 ( kevin w. plaxco ) writes 

in article (david ward ) writes 

demonstrating that these puppies are beyond the oort cloud would 
require resolution on the order of , since the oort 
cloud is postulated to extend to about 0.5 parsec  ( all together 
now parallax arc second , a parsec is the distance of an object 
that demonstrates one arc second of parallax with a 2 au base line) .  . 

according to my glossary of astronomy and astrophysics 
parsec  ( abbreviation for parallax second) the distance at which 
one astronomical unit an angle of 1 second of arc .  . 1 pc 
206 , 265 au 3 . x 10 13 km 3 . 26 . lt yr. 

george 

george krumins the serpent and the rainbow 
. . 
pufferfish observatory  ( o ) 


from  ( isaac kuo ) 
subject re electrical spacecraft via magnetic field of earth 
organization u . c .  . berkeley math. department. 
lines 41 
nntp posting host skippy . berkeley . edu . 

in article writes 
okay , the earth has a magnetic field  ( unless someone missed something ) 

okay if you put a object in the earth magnetic field , it produces electricty .  .  . 

no , if you put a conductor in a changing magnetic field , it produces a voltage .  . 
the two ways you can do that with a permanent magnet is to move the magnet or 
move the conductor .  . the slow shifting of the earth 's magnetic field is n't 
really significant , especially when you consider how weak the earth 's magnetic 
field is to begin with. 

now the question. can you use electricity to power a space low earth orbit 
vehicle and i can , can you use the magnetic field of the earth to power 
it 

well , it would require generating an incredibly large magnetic field to repel 
the earth 's magnetic field  ( as a magnet can repel another magnet) .  . of course , 
this force only works in one direction , and the magnetic field generated has 
to be powerful .  . magnetic drops off as 1 r 3 , and the 
earth 's magnetic field on the surface is already very weak. it would require 
some sort of unknown , and special construction. 
and seriously electronics  ( optical computers , perhaps) .  . and the 
physiological danger would be significant  ( due to the iron content in our 
blood , among other things) .  . in other words , forget it. 

can the idea of a satellite be used in part to create the electrical 
field 

after all the satellite is (i might be wrong) , a suspended between to 
, the the compensate for drag .  .  . i think i know what i want to say , 
just not sure how to say it .  .  . 

a satellite sounds interestingly enough liek a generator .  . 

i missed out on the satellite thread , but it sounds totally bogus , 
from this little bit. 

isaac kuo 
o 
twinkle , twinkle , little  . sig . , ( ( ) ) 
keep it less than 5 lines big. 

from  ( ethan bradford ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
article i.d. 
bedfellow . mit . edu . 

organization u. of washington 
lines 13 
nntp posting host astro . washington . edu . 
to 
in reply to 's message of 26 apr 93 15 59 15 est 

in article writes 

i assume that can only be guessed at by the assumed energy of the 
event and the 1 r 2 law. so , if the 1 r 2 law is incorrect  ( assume 
some unknown material dark matter inhibits gamma ray propagation ) , 
could it be possible that we are actually seeing much less energetic 
events happening much closer to us the even distribution could 
be caused by the characteristic propagation distance of gamma rays 
being shorter then 1 2 the thickness of the disk of the galaxy .  . 

i believe the problem with this theory is that we see gamma ray 
sources at that energy range and their energy does n't seem to be 
significantly absorbed .  . 

from  ( pat ) 
subject shuttle and 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 26 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


if i have everything correct , was a highly valuable 
toxin , discovered during ww2 .  . it proved to have an amazing 
effect without human toxicity .  . it 's immediate 
administration showed immediate dramatic results solving 
problems that previously were fatal .  . although initially 
enormously expensive to culture , within 3 years , 
the price had fallen at least two orders of magnitude , 
and within 10 years , was not much more expensive then 
aspirin .  . penicillin was also usable for an amazingly wide 
class of infections .  . 

is a drug that is not passing fda approval .  . it promised 
amazing results for toxic shock , a rapidly fatal disease. 
it consumed enormous amounts of funding in testing and 
developement , however it works less then 1 in 5 times 
of administration and costs 2 , 000 per administration 
with no promise of any reduction in manufacturing cost. 
the drug thus costs 10 , 000 per useful case , and is 
implicated in a slight increase in mortality for some 
patients .  . 

i would not dare to compare the shuttle to , 
but to  . 

pat 

from  ( rob douglas ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
originator 
organization space telescope science institute 
lines 44 


in article ,  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) writes 
in (brian day) writes 

 ( rob douglas ) writes 

... but try to land a shuttle with that big huge telescope in the 
back and you could have problems. the shuttle just is n't designed to land 
with that much weight in the payload .  . 

is hst really that much heavier than a 

i ca n't speak to sheer mass , but part of the problem is that hst 
was n't built to ever be brought back down. it 's not built for those 
kinds of  jolt  forces and there is no support cradle for it (which is 
additional weight that would be required. 

just to throw it out there the mass of the telescope is 11 , 600 kg 
 ( 25 , 500  . i do not know what space lab weighs , but i believe it is 
less. can anyone verify 

also , remember that weight was not the only concern , as many others have 
noted , just one possible concern. i was responding to a statement that 
if you can boost it , why ca n't you land it. those are too different 
problems. 

rob 


rob douglas space 3700 san martin drive 
ai software engineer telescope baltimore , md 21218 , usa 
advance planning systems branch science phone (410) 338 
internet institute fax (410) 338 1592 


disclaimer type these opinions are mine ! unless of course 
they fall under the standard intellectual property guidelines .  . 
but with my intellect , i doubt it. besides , if it was useful 
intellectual property , do you think i would type it in here 


rob douglas space 3700 san martin drive 
ai software engineer telescope baltimore , md 21218 , usa 
advance planning systems branch science phone (410) 338 

from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 

i did n't want to quote all the stuff that 's been said recently , i 
just wanted to add a point. 

the whole question of a right to a dark sky revolves around the 
definition of a right. moral rights and natural rights are all well and 
good , but as far as i can see , a right is whatever you or someone 
representing you can enforce .  . in most civilizations , the government or 
the church  ( or both) defines what the rights of the citizens are , and 
then enforces those rights for them. here in the u.s. , the constitution 
provides a bill of rights from which most if not all legal rights are 
considered to derive .  . i'm sure that most other countries have 
comparable documents .  . if you can persuade a court that you have a right 
to a dark sky derived in some manner from the bill of rights  ( in the 
u . s . ) . , you can prevent  ( maybe ) these billboards from being launched .  . to 
keep anyone in the world from launching then gets into international law 
and the international court of justice  ( correct name ) in the hague , 
something i know little about. 

doug loss 


from  ( theodore f. ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization lehigh university 
lines 32 

in article , (george f. krumins ) writes 
deleted 
to say that visible light astronomy is already a dying field is 
pure hokum .  . to use the logic that things are already bad , so it does n't 
matter if it gets worse is absurd .  . maybe common sense and logic 
are the dying fields .  . 

george krumins 

deleted 
ok , so those scientists can get around the atmosphere with fancy 
computer , but have you looked ad the hubble results , the 
defects of the mirror are partially correctable with software  ( see 
those jupiter pictures for results) , but is the effects are completely 
, why is there going to be a shuttle mission to fix it 

the way i see it  ( and please , give me a swift net kick in 
the butt if i'm out of the ball park ) , the are making the 
best of limited , there 's only one hubble , and the shuttle 
makes another in the near future a non thought. perhaps those self 
same billboards could have small optical receptors of a limited kind 
mounted on the reverse sides of the mirror 's  ( if that is what is used) 
and then the whole thing becomes a giant array telescope .  .  .  . 




polar caps or 
student making the world safe for computing ! 
never before have we owed so little to so many .  .  .  . r . t . folk . 
one must not confuse john dunne 's famous quote man is an island  with 
new york telephone 's 're all connected  dad 

from (ron baalke ) 
subject mars observer update 04 28 93 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 40 
distribution world 
nntp posting host kelvin . jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords mars observer , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

forwarded from the mars observer project 

mars observer status report 
april 28 , 1993 
12 40 pm pdt 

flight sequence c9 is active as of 00 11 am , tuesday , april 27. with 
activities beginning at shortly before 5 00 am yesterday , c9 commanded 
the spacecraft to execute a series of and rolls to provide the mag 
 ( magnetometer ) team data points in varying spacecraft attitudes and 
orientations for the purpose of better characterizing the 
spacecraft generated magnetic field and its effect on their instrument .  . 

the spacecraft was commanded back to sun star init state at 9 07 am to 
re establish inertial reference. transition back to array normal spin 
began at 11 17 am , after which the sequence powered on the on board 
transmitter at 11 18 am. telemetry occurred at 
approximately 11 30 am at the 4 science and engineering downlink 
data rate on the high gain antenna .  . subsystem engineers report that all 
systems appear to be nominal .  . the command to terminate using the low 
gain antenna for uplink was sent at 12 31 pm. uplink and downlink are 
currently via the hga .  . 

mag calibration data has been recorded on digital tape recorders 2 and 3. 
playback of dtr 2 is scheduled to take place tomorrow morning between 
8 11 am and 12 42 pm. playback of dtr 3 is scheduled to take place 
tomorrow evening beginning at 11 57 pm and ending at 4 28 am on friday .  . 
dtr playback will be performed via the high gain antenna at 42 , 667 bits 
per second. upon verification of successful dtr , downlink will 
be maintained at the 4k s e rate. 

the mag cal activity timeline ends at shortly before 5 00 am on friday 
morning. 

ron baalke 
jet propulsion lab 
) m s 525 3684 telos the from new zealand 
pasadena , ca 91109 is part caterpillar and 
part vegetable .  . 


from  ( thierry lach ) 
subject re who is henry spencer anyway 
reply to  ( thierry lach ) 
organization none at all 
lines 32 

(the master ) writes 

 ( aaron thode ) writes 

having tracked sci . space . for quite a while , i have some questions 
about a mysterious figure called henry spencer .  . if there is anything 
going on in the space community , he seems to know it. 
the questions are somewhat tounge in cheek 
1) is sci . space . a hobby or a job for you 
1) do you ever eat or sleep 
3) does u of toronto zoology department conduct space research 
or do you just use an account there 
just curious. 

aaron 

well , henry spencer is also responsible for parts of , and other 
internet related things. 

quite a guy. ) 

henry ! 

c. 

this question comes up frequently enough that there should be a faq 
about it .  .  .  . 


thierry lach ! 
include std . disclaimer . 
sufficiently superior technology is from magic 

from (matt kennel ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization institute for nonlinear science , ucsd 
lines 34 
nntp posting host lyapunov . ucsd . edu . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 

 ( frank crary ) writes 
while i'm sure sagan considers it sacrilegious , that would n't be 
because of his credibility as an astronomer .  . modern , 
ground based , visible light astronomy  ( what these proposed 
orbiting billboards would upset ) is already a dying field the 
and distortions caused by the atmosphere itself have 
driven most of the field to use radio , far infrared or space based 
telescopes .  . 

hardly .  . the keck telescope in hawaii has taken its first pictures they 're 
nearly as good as hubble for a tiny fraction of the cost. 

in any case , a bright point of light passing through 
the field does n't ruin observations .  . if that were the case , the 
thousands of existing satellites would have already done so  ( satelliets 
might not seem so bright to the eyes , but as far as astronomy is concerned , 
they are extremely bright . ) . 

i believe that this orbiting space junk will be far brighter still 
more like the full moon. the moon upsets deep sky observation all 
over the sky  ( and not just looking at it) because of scattered light. 

this is a known problem , but of course two weeks out of every four are 
ok. what happens when this billboard circles every 90 minutes what 
would be a good time then 

frank crary 
cu boulder 


matt kennel 
institute for nonlinear science , university of california , san diego 
ad archive for nonlinear dynamics papers programs ftp to 
lyapunov . ucsd . edu . , username anonymous . 

from  ( chuck shotton ) 
subject re interesting dc x cost anecdote 
organization academic computing 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host hsc . uth . tmc . edu . 

in article ,  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
wrote 

a staffer just told me an interesting story about dc x. an air force 
costing team just looked at the dc x  ( now called the dc x1 btw) and 
gave an estimate on how much it would cost the air force to build it. 
it cost sdio 70m to build and it would cost the usaf 



320 million or four and a half times as much. 

i 'd be willing to bet that a majority of the cost difference could be 
accounted for by the af 's requirement for superfluous documentation , 5 
or 6 huge requirements and design reviews , travel expenses flying personnel 
around to meetings , and over specifying the hardware. i doubt that the 
actual fabrication cost in materials and labor would be very different from 
sdio 's costs. 

of course , this is my cynical opinion based on years of watching the 
government procurement process try to cover up a lack of creativity and 
innovation with reams of documentation .  . ) 

from  ( tom r courtney ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 17 

in some sense , i think that the folks who think the idea is wonderful , and the 
folks who want to boycott anyone who has anything to do with this project are 
both right. 

that is , i think that space advertising is an interesting idea , and if someone 
wants to try it out , more power to them. however , a company may discover that 
the cost of launch is not the only cost of advertising , and a company who 
that ill will would lose them more revenue than the advertising would 
gain might decide to bow out of the project. 

i got incensed when i read that carl sagan called this idea an abomination .  . 
i do n't think that word means what he thinks it does. children starving in the 
richest country in the world is an abomination an ad agency is at worst just 
in poor taste. 

tom courtney 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 21 

in article  ( julie moses ) writes 
 .  .  . radiation . field has been measured and modeled by various groups. if i 
remember things correctly , the models involved contributions from three 
different bb sources , so there 's no obvious temperature of background 
radiation in our local area .  .  .  . 

indeed , the sky does n't look much like a black body if you look carefully 
enough in particular , its temperature at radio frequencies is quite a 
bit higher than you would see from a black body. morgan gordon 's fat 
communications satellite handbook has a graph of sky temperature vs. 
wavelength , in fact , for communications design. 

however , in terms of energy content , the rf frequencies are negligible .  . 
for thermal purposes , at very large distances from the sun the sky 
looks like a black body at 3 . 5k .  ( allen , astrophysical quantities ) .  . 
i have n't found a number for non large distances , since solar radiation 
tends to be something you ca n't just ignore ) , but m g says about 4k 
in a brief discussion of why solar radiation dominates the problem. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re vandenberg launches 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 10 

in article (paul carroll ) writes 
i know about the phone numbers , etc. to get kennedy canaveral 
launch information , but is there any equivalent way of finding out 
about launches at vandenberg 

bear in mind that a lot of the vandenberg launch traffic is military and 
at least semi secret. they are n't interested in publicizing it beforehand .  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( larry klaes ) 
subject electronic journal of the asa  ( ejasa ) april 1993 
keywords venus , venera , soviet , probes 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 663 

the electronic journal of 
the astronomical society of the atlantic 

volume 4 , number 9 april 1993 



table of contents 



asa membership and article submission information 

the soviets and venus , part 3 larry klaes 



asa membership information 

the electronic journal of the astronomical society of the atlantic 
 ( ejasa ) is published monthly by the astronomical society of the 
atlantic , incorporated .  . the asa is a non profit organization dedicated 
to the advancement of amateur and professional astronomy and space 
exploration , as well as the social and educational needs of its members. 

asa membership application is open to all with an interest in 
astronomy and space exploration .  . members receive the journal of the 
asa  ( hardcopy sent through united states mail not a duplicate of this 
electronic journal ) and the astronomical league 's reflector magazine. 
members may also purchase discount subscriptions to astronomy and 
sky telescope magazines .  . 

for information on membership , you may contact the society at any 
of the following addresses 

astronomical society of the atlantic  ( asa ) 
c o center for high angular resolution astronomy  ( chara ) 
georgia state university  ( gsu ) 
atlanta , georgia 
u.s.a. 



asa bbs (404) 321 5904 , 300 1200 2400 baud 

or telephone the society recording at (404) 264 to leave your 
address and or receive the latest society news. 

asa officers and council 

president eric greene 
vice president jeff 
secretary ingrid 
treasurer mike 
directors long , , bob vickers 
council bill , , don barry , bill black , 
mike , jeff , frank , larry klaes , 
ken , jim rouse , , john , 
wess , harry taylor , gary thompson , cindy weaver , 
bob vickers 


article submissions 

article submissions to the on astronomy and space exploration 
are most welcome. please send your on line articles in ascii format to 
larry klaes , editor , at the following net addresses or the above 
society addresses 


or ... ! ! enet . dec . com . ! klaes 
or klaes 
or klaes 

you may also use the above addresses for back issue requests , 
letters to the editor , and asa membership information. 

when sending your article submissions , please be certain to include 
either a network or regular mail address where you can be reached , a 
telephone number , and a brief biographical sketch .  . 

back issues of the are also available from the asa anonymous 
ftp site at chara . gsu . edu . (131 . 96 . 5 . 29) .  . directory pub 

disclaimer 

submissions are welcome for consideration .  . articles submitted , 
unless otherwise stated , become the property of the astronomical 
society of the atlantic , incorporated .  . though the articles will not 
be used for profit , they are subject to editing , abridgment , and other 
changes. copying or reprinting of the , in part or in whole , is 
encouraged , provided clear attribution is made to the astronomical 
society of the atlantic , the electronic journal , and the  . 
opinions expressed in the are those of the authors  and not 
necessarily those of the asa .  . this journal is copyright (c) 1993 
by the astronomical society of the atlantic , incorporated .  . 


the soviets and venus 
part 3 

copyright (c) 1993 by larry klaes 

the author gives permission to any group or individual wishing 
to distribute this article , so long as proper credit is given , 
the author is notified , and the article is reproduced in its 
entirety .  . 

to the north pole ! 

on june 2 and 7 , 1983 , two of the soviet union 's mighty proton 
rockets lifted off from the space center in the kazakhstan 
republic .  . aboard those boosters were a new breed of venera probe 
for the planet venus .  . 

designated venera 15 and 16 , the probes were meant not for landing 
yet more spherical craft on the surface but to radar map the 
planet in detail from orbit .  . to accomplish this task , the basic 
venera design was modified in numerous areas. the central bus core 
was made one meter (39 . 37 . inches) longer to carry the two tons of 
propellant required for braking into orbit , double the fuel carried by 
the venera 9 and 10 orbiters eight years earlier. extra solar panels 
were added on to give the vehicles more power for handling the large 
amounts of data which would be created by the radar imaging .  . the 
dish shaped communications antennae were also made one meter larger 
to properly transmit this information to earth. 

atop the buses , where landers were usually placed , were installed 
the 1.4 by 6 meter (4 . 62 . by 19.8 foot ) , 300 kilogram  ( 660 pound ) 
v side looking radar antennae .  . the radar system , possibly a 
terrain imaging version of the nuclear powered satellites used by 
the soviets for earth ocean surveillance , would be able to map venus  
surface at a resolution of one to two kilometers (0 . 62 . to 1.2 miles) .  . 

the soviet probes  imaging parameters were a vast improvement over 
the united states pioneer venus orbiter , which could reveal objects 
no smaller than 75 kilometers (45 miles) in diameter .  . and while the 
 resolution was comparable to that of similar observations 
made by the 300 meter (1 , 000 foot ) radio telescope on the 
island of puerto rico , the orbiters would be examining the northern 
pole of venus .  . this region was by either or 
pioneer venus and appeared to contain a number of potentially 
interesting geological features worthy of investigation .  . 

on october 10 , 1983 , after an interplanetary journey of 330 
million kilometers  ( 198 million miles) and two mid course corrections , 
venera 15 fired its braking rockets over venus to place itself in a 
polar orbit 1 , 000 by 65 , 000 kilometers  ( 600 by 39 , 000 miles) around 
the planet , completing one revolution every twenty four hours. venera 
16 followed suit four days later. the twin probes thus became venus  
first polar circling spacecraft .  . 

radar operations began on october 16 for venera 15 and october 20 
for venera 16. for up to sixteen minutes every orbit over the north 
pole , the probes would make a radar sweep of the surface 150 kilometers 
 ( ninety miles) wide and nine thousand kilometers (5 , 400 miles) long. 
the craft would then head out to the highest part of their orbits over 
the south pole to recharge their batteries and transmit the data back 
to two large soviet antennae on earth. each strip of information took 
eight hours to process by computer. by the end of their main missions 
in july of 1984 , the had mapped 115 million square kilometers 
 ( 46 million square miles) , thirty percent of the entire planet. 

venera 15 and 16 revealed that venus has a surface geology more 
complex than shown by pioneer venus in the late 1970s .  . numerous hills , 
mountains , ridges , valleys , and plains spread across the landscape , 
many of them apparently formed by lava from erupting volcanoes in the 
last one billion years. in planetary terms this makes the 
surface rather young. hundreds of craters were detected as well , the 
largest of which had to have been created by  ( planetoids 
would be a better term here) at least fourteen kilometers (8 . 4 . miles) 
across , due to venus  very dense atmosphere. 

there were some disagreements between u.s. and soviet scientists 
on the origins of certain surface features. for example , the probes  
owners declared that the 96 kilometer 6 . mile ) wide crater at the 
summit of 10 , 800 meter (35 , 640 foot ) high maxwell montes , the tallest 
mountain on the planet , was the result of a meteorite impact. american 
scientists , on the other hand , felt the crater was proof that maxwell 
was a huge volcano sitting on the northern continent of ishtar terra .  . 

in any event , the u.s. decided to wait on making verdicts about 
venus until the arrival of their own radar probe , scheduled for later 
in the decade .  . originally named the venus orbiting imaging radar 
 ( voir ) , its initial design was scaled back and the craft was 
the venus radar mapper  . eventually the machine would be 
called magellan , after the portuguese navigator ferdinand magellan 
 ( circa  . this vehicle would map the entire planet in even 
finer detail than the  . for the time , however , the soviet 
probes maintained that distinction .  . 

radar imaging was not the only ability of the  . bolted 
next to the v radar antenna were the omega altimeter and the 
fourier infrared spectrometer , the latter for measuring the world 's 
temperatures .  . the majority of the areas covered registered about 
five hundred degrees celsius  ( 932 degrees fahrenheit ) , but a few 
locations were two hundred degrees hotter , possibly indicating 
current volcanic activity. the probes also found that the clouds 
over the poles were five to eight kilometers  ( three to 4.8 miles) 
lower than at the equator .  . in contrast , the polar air above sixty 
kilometers  ( thirty six miles) altitude was five to twenty degrees 
warmer than the equatorial atmosphere at similar heights. 

when the main mapping mission ended in july of 1984 , there were 
plans for at least one of the to radar image the surface at 
more latitudes .  . unfortunately this idea did not come to 
pass , as the orbiters may not have possessed enough attitude control 
gas to perform the operation. 

venera 15 and 16 ceased transmission in march of 1985 , leaving 
the soviet institute of and electronics with six 
hundred kilometers  ( 360 miles) of radar data tape to sort into an 
atlas of twenty seven maps of the northern hemisphere of venus .  . 

venus by balloon 

for years the thick atmosphere of venus had been a tempting 
target to scientists who wished to explore the planet 's mantle of 
air with balloon borne instruments .  . professor jacques of 
the french space agency centre national d etudes (cnes) 
had proposed such an idea as far back as 1967 , only to have a joint 
french soviet balloon mission canceled in 1982 .  . nevertheless , 
late in the year 1984 , such dreams would eventually come true. 

when two proton rockets were sent on december 15 and 21 , 
the soviet union provided western observers with the first clear , full 
views of the booster which had been launching every soviet venus probe 
since 1975 .  . this was but one of many for the complex mission. 

the unmanned probes launched into space that december were named 
vega 1 and 2 , a contraction of the words venera and 
being the russian word for halley .  . not only did the spacecraft 
have more than one mission to perform , they also had more than one 
celestial objective to explore , namely the comet halley .  . 

this famous periodic traveler was making its latest return to 
the inner regions of the solar system since its last visit in 1910 .  . 
since it was widely believed that comets are the icy remains from 
the formation of the solar system five billion years ago , scientists 
around the world gave high priority to exploring one of the few such 
bodies which actually come close to earth. 

most comets linger in the cold and dark outer fringes of the solar 
system. some , like halley , are perturbed by various forces and fall 
in towards the sun , where they circle for millennia out ice 
and debris for millions of kilometers from the warmth of each solar 
encounter .  . 

the soviet union , along with the european space agency  ( esa ) and 
japan 's institute of space and astronautical science  ( isas ) , did not 
wish to miss out on this first opportunity in human history to make a 
close examination of halley .  . the esa would be using the cylindrical 
giotto probe to make a dangerously close photographic flyby of the 
comet , while japan 's first deep space craft  ( pioneer ) and 
 ( comet ) would view halley from a much safer distance. 

scientists in the united states also desired to study the comet 
from the vantage of a space probe , at one time a vessel 
powered by solar sails or ion engines. however , government budget 
cuts to nasa canceled the american efforts. the u.s. would have to 
make do primarily with earth based observations and the sharing of 
data from other nations , though an instrument named the dust counter 
and mass analyzer  ( ducma ) , designed by chicago university professor 
john simpson , was added on the soviet mission in may of 1984 .  . 

the soviets  answer to halley were the vegas .  . instead of building 
an entirely new craft for the mission , the soviets decided to modify 
their venera bus design to encounter the comet while performing an 
advanced venus mission along the way. as vega 1 and 2 reached venus , 
the buses would drop off one lander balloon each and use the mass of 
the shrouded planet to swing them towards comet halley , much as the 
u.s. probe mariner 10 used venus to flyby mercury eleven years earlier. 
the soviet craft would then head on to halley , helping to pinpoint the 
location of the comet 's erupting nucleus for the giotto probe to dive 
in only 605 kilometers  ( 363 miles) away in march of 1986 .  . 

as planned , the two vegas arrived at venus in june of 1985 .  . vega 
1 released its payload first on the ninth day of the month , the lander 
making a two day descent towards the planet. the craft touched the 
upper atmosphere on the morning of june 11. sixty one kilometers 
(36 . 6 . miles) above the surface a small container was released 
by the lander , which produced a parachute at 55 kilometers  ( 33 miles) 
altitude .  . thus the first balloon probe ever to explore venus had 
successfully arrived. 

one kilometer after the opening of the parachute , helium gas was 
pumped into the teflon coated plastic balloon , it to a 
diameter of 3 . 54 . meters (11 . 68 . feet) .  . dangling on a tether thirteen 
meters 9 . feet) below was the instrument package , properly known as 
an  . the top part of the 6.9 kilogram (15 . 18 . pound ) 
consisted of a cone which served as an antenna and tether attachment 
point to the balloon .  . beneath it was the transmitter , electronics , 
and instruments .  . connected at the bottom was a for 
measuring cloud particles .  . the was painted with a special 
white finish to keep at bay the corroding mist of sulfuric acid which 
the planet 's atmosphere. 

the vega 1 balloon was dropped into the night side of venus just 
north of the equator .  . scientists were concerned that the gas bag 
would burst in the heat of daylight , so they placed it in the darkened 
hemisphere to give the craft as much time as possible to return data. 
this action that the landers come down in the dark as 
well , effectively removing the camera systems used on previous missions .  . 
the author wonders , though , if they could have used floodlights similar 
to the ones attached to venera 9 and 10 in 1975 , when soviet scientists 
had thought the planet 's surface was in a perpetual twilight 
due to the permanently thick cloud cover. 

the first balloon transmitted for 46.5 hours right into the day 
hemisphere before its lithium batteries failed , covering 11 , 600 
kilometers (6 , 960 miles) .  . the threat of bursting in the day heat did 
not materialize .  . the vega 1 balloon was stationed at a 54 kilometer 
4 . mile ) altitude after dropping ballast at fifty kilometers 
 ( thirty miles) , for this was considered the most active of the three 
main cloud layers reported by pioneer venus in 1978 .  . indeed the 
balloon was pushed across the planet at speeds up to 250 kilometers 
 ( 150 miles) per hour. strong vertical winds the craft up and 
down two to three hundred meters  ( 660 to 990 feet) through most of the 
journey. the layer 's air temperature averaged forty degrees celsius 
 ( 104 degrees fahrenheit ) and pressure was a mere 0.5 earth atmosphere. 
the could find no clear regions in the surrounding clouds .  . 

early in the first balloon 's flight , the vega 1 lander was already 
headed towards the surface. both landers were equipped with 
a soil drill and analyzer similar to the ones carried on venera 13 
and 14 in 1982 .  . however , vega 1 would become unable to report the 
composition of the ground at its landing site in planitia , the 
plain north of terra .  . while still ten to fifteen 
minutes away from landing , a timer malfunction caused the drill to 
accidentally begin its programmed activity sixteen kilometers (9 . 6 . 
miles) above the surface. 

there was neither any way to shut off the instrument before 
nor it after landing .  . this was unfortunate not 
only for the general loss of data but also for the fact that most of 
venus was covered with such smooth low level lava plains and had never 
before been directly examined .  . nevertheless , the surface temperature 
and pressure was calculated at 468 degrees celsius 4 . degrees 
fahrenheit ) and 95 earth atmospheres respectively during the lander 's 
56 minutes of ground transmissions .  . a large amount of background 
infrared radiation was also recorded at the site. 

as had been done when the drills and cameras on venera 11 and 
12 had failed in december of 1978 , the soviets focused on the data 
returned during the lander 's plunge through the atmosphere. the 
french soviet mass spectrometer detected sulfur , chlorine , 
and possibly  . it is the sulfur possibly from active 
volcanoes which gives the clouds their yellowish color. 
the sigma 3 gas found that every cubic meter of air 
between an altitude of 48 and 63 kilometers (28 . 8 . and 37.8 miles) 
contained one (0 . 015 . grain ) of sulfuric acid .  . 

the vega 1 data on the overall structure of the cloud decks 
appeared to be at odds with the information from pioneer venus .  . 
the case was made even stronger by the fact that vega 2 's results 
nearly matched its twin .  . the vegas found only two main cloud layers 
instead of the three reported by the u.s. probes .  . the layers were 
three to five kilometers (1 . 8 . to 3 miles) thick at altitudes of 50 
and 58 kilometers (30 and 34 . 8 . miles) .  . the clouds persisted like a 
thin fog until clearing at an altitude of 35 kilometers (21 miles) , 
much lower than the pv readings .  . one possibility for the 
may have been radical structural changes in the air 
over the last seven years. 

when the lander and balloon finally went silent , the last 
functioning part of the vega 1 mission , the flyby bus , sailed on 
for a 708 million kilometer 8 . million mile ) journey around 
the sun to become the first probe to meet comet halley .  . on march 
6 , 1986 , the bus made a 8 , 890 kilometer (5 , 334 mile ) pass at the 
dark and icy visitor before traveling on in interplanetary space. 
the soviets had accomplished their first mission to two celestial 
bodies with one space vessel .  . 

on june 13 , vega 2 released its lander balloon payload for 
a two day fall towards venus .  . like its duplicate , the vega 2 
balloon radioed information back to the twenty antennae tracking 
it on earth for 46.5 hours before battery failure on the morning 
side of the planet. during its 11 , 100 kilometer (6 , 660 mile ) 
flight over venus , the second balloon entered in a rather still 
environment which became less so twenty hours into the mission. 
after 33 hours mission time the air became even more 
for a further eight hours. when the balloon passed over a five 
kilometer  ( three mile ) mountain on the continent of 
terra , a powerful pulled the craft 2.5 kilometers (1 . 5 . 
miles) towards the surface. 

temperature sensors on the vega 2 balloon reported that the air 
layer it was moving through was consistently 6.5 degrees celsius 
7 . degrees fahrenheit ) cooler than the area explored by the vega 1 
balloon .  . this was corroborated by the vega 2 lander as it passed 
through the balloon 's level. no positive indications of lightning 
were made by either balloon , and the second 's 
failed to function. 

the vega 2 lander touched down on the northern edge of 
terra 's western arm on the fifteenth of june , 1 , 500 kilometers  ( 900 
miles) southeast of vega 1. the lander 's resting place was smoother 
than thought , indicating either a very ancient and worn surface or a 
relatively young one covered in fresh lava .  . the soil drill was in 
working order and reported a rock type known as , 
rare on earth but present in luna 's  . this rock is rich in 
aluminum and silicon but lacking in iron and magnesium .  . a high degree 
of sulfur was also present in the soil .  . the air around vega 2 measured 
463 degrees celsius 4 . degrees fahrenheit ) and 91 earth atmospheres , 
essentially a typical day  ( or night) on venus .  . 

far above the vega 2 lander , its carrier bus sped past venus at 
a distance of 24 , 500 kilometers (14 , 700 miles) and followed its twin 
to comet halley , making a closer flyby on march 9 , 1986 at just 8 , 030 
kilometers (4 , 818 miles) .  . both probes helped to reveal that the comet 
is a very dark and irregular shaped mass about fourteen kilometers 
(8 . 4 . miles) across , rotating once every 53 hours , give or take three 
hours. 

since both vega craft were still functioning after their halley 
encounters , soviet scientists considered an option to send the 
probes to other celestial objects .  . one prime target was the near 
earth , which vega 2 could pass at a distance 
of six million kilometers (3 . 6 . million miles) .  . sadly , the soviets 
had to back out on the opportunity to become the first nation to fly 
a spacecraft past a when it was discovered that there was 
not enough maneuvering fuel in the probe to reach as planned. 
vega 1 and 2 were quietly shut down in early 1987 .  . 

future plans diverted 

the impressive vega mission had given some scientists numerous 
ideas and hope for even more ambitious expeditions to the second 
world from the sun. one example was the vesta mission , planned for 
the early 1990s .  . 

this soviet french collaboration called for the launch of multiple 
probes on a single proton rocket in either 1991 or 1992. the craft 
would first swing by venus and drop off several landers and balloon 
probes .  . the would be designed to survive in the planet 's 
corrosive atmosphere for up to one month , a large improvement over 
the vega balloons  two days. the mission would then head out to 
investigate several and comets , including a possible 
landing on vesta  ( thus the mission name) , the most reflective main 
belt as seen from earth. 

unfortunately for venus exploration , plans began to change in 
the soviet union .  . in 1986 the soviets decided to reroute the vesta 
mission to the red planet mars instead of venus , keeping the comet 
and aspects intact .  . by this time in the soviet space 
program interest was focusing on mars .  . already under construction 
was an entirely new probe design called phobos .  . two members of this 
class were planned to leave earth in 1988 and orbit mars the next 
year. phobos 1 and 2 would then place the first instruments on 
mars  largest moon , phobos .  . 

all this was a prelude to even more advanced mars expeditions , 
including balloon probes , rovers , soil sample return craft , and 
eventually human explorers in the early twenty first century. 
the environment of venus was just too hostile for any serious 
consideration of human colonization in the near future. 

but things began to look bleak for soviet venus and mars 
exploration .  . both phobos probes failed to complete their missions , 
one losing contact on the way to the red planet in 1988 and the other 
going silent in mars orbit just one week before the planned moon 
landing in march of 1989. 

in 1989 a plan was devised for a venus orbiter to drop eight to 
ten around the planet in 1998 .  . several years later the 
mission launch date was moved to the year 2005 and has now been put 
on indefinite hold .  . no other official soviet missions to venus have 
since been put forth , a sad commentary after twenty five years of 
continuous robotic exploration of the planet. 

during the late 1980s a drastic political and economic change 
was taking over the soviet union .  . president mikhail began 
to open up his nation to the benefits of increased cooperation with 
the rest of the nations , particularly those in the west .  . while the 
culture became less oppressive than in the past , the economy was taking 
a very rough ride as it also underwent the effects of a free market . 

these effects hit everywhere , including the space program. 
missions at all levels were cut back. the soviets began making 
almost desperate attempts to cooperate with other space 
nations either to keep their remaining programs alive or just to 
make money. 

in early 1992 it was reported that the soviets were offering for 
sale several fully equipped they had in storage for the price 
of 1.6 million dollars each , an incredibly low price for any planetary 
probe .  . no nation took them up on the bargain .  . meanwhile the united 
states was gearing up for new venus missions of their own. 

magellan and galileo 

the u.s. reactivated their long planetary exploration 
with the launch of the space shuttle atlantis on may 4 , 1989. 
aboard the shuttle was the magellan spacecraft , a combination of 
spare parts from other u.s. probes designed to make the most 
detailed and complete radar mapping of venus in history. when 
magellan reached the second world in august of 1990 , it would be 
able to map almost the entire planet down to a resolution of 108 
meters  ( 360 feet) , the abilities of venera 15 and 16. 

in the interim another american probe was launched from a space 
shuttle which would make a quick flyby of venus on its way to orbit 
the giant planet jupiter in 1995. on october 18 , 1989 , the shuttle 
atlantis released its second unmanned planetary probe into space , 
named galileo after the famous italian astronomer who discovered the 
probe 's primary target 's major moons in  . 

in the absence of a powerful enough booster to send galileo on 
a direct flight to the jovian planet , the probe was sent around 
venus and earth several times to build up enough speed to reach 
jupiter .  . as a result , venus became galileo 's first planetary 
goal in february of 1990. the probe radioed back images of the 
planet 's swirling clouds and further indications of lightning in 
that violent atmosphere. 

on the drawing boards 

with the incredible success of magellan in the last few years , 
new plans have been laid out for further to venus .  . scien 
tists in the u.s. have talked to space scientists in the former soviet 
union now the commonwealth of independent states since january 1 , 
1992 of a cooperative effort to launch new venera lander missions 
within in the next decade .  . japan , india , and the esa have also 
considered their own venus missions in the next few decades .  . 

in february of 1993 nasa came up with several new venus projects 
as part of their discovery program for launching inexpensive probes 
throughout the solar system. for venus two missions were selected 
for further study a venus mission involving the landing 
of fourteen small probes over one hemisphere to measure winds , air 
temperature , and pressure and the venus composition probe , designed 
to study venus  atmosphere while descending through the thick air 
with the aid of a parachute , much as the soviets had done since 1967 .  . 
final project decisions will be made in 1994. 

humans on venus 

will a human ever be able to stand on the surface of venus 
at present the lead melting temperatures and crushing air pressure 
would be threatening to any earth life not protected in something 
even tougher than a venera lander .  . plans have been looked into 
changing the environment of venus itself into something more like 
earth 's .  . however , it should be noted that any such undertaking 
will require the removal of much of the thick carbon dioxide 
atmosphere , a major reduction in surface heat , and the ability 
to speed up the planet 's rotation rate to something a bit faster 
than once every 243 earth days. such a project may take centuries 
if not millennia .  . 

in the meantime efforts should be made to better understand 
venus as its exists today. we still have yet to fully know how 
a world so seemingly similar to earth in many important ways became 
instead such a deadly place. will earth ever suffer this fate 
perhaps venus holds the answers. such answers may best be found 
through international cooperation , including the nation which 
made the first attempts to lift the cloudy veils from venus .  . 

bibliography 

, v. l. , senior editor , venus geology , , and 
geophysics research results from the u . s . s . r .  . , university of 
arizona press , tucson , 1992 

beatty , j. kelly , and andrew , editors , the new solar 
system , cambridge university press and sky publishing corp. , 
cambridge , massachusetts , 1990 

burgess , eric , venus an errant twin , columbia university press , 
new york , 1985 

burrows , william e. , exploring space voyages in the solar 
system and beyond , random house , inc. , new york , 1990 

, eric , and steve mcmillan , astronomy today , prentice 
hall , inc. , cliffs , new jersey , 1993 

, kenneth , the illustrated encyclopedia of space technology , 
books , new york , 1989 

greeley , ronald , planetary landscapes , allen and unwin , inc. , 
winchester , massachusetts , 1987 

hart , douglas , the encyclopedia of soviet spacecraft , exeter 
books , new york , 1987 

hartmann , william k. , moons and planets  ( third edition) , wadsworth 
publishing company , belmont , california , 1993 

harvey , brian , race into space the soviet space programme , 
ellis limited , , england , 1988 

, nigel , the planets portraits of new worlds , viking 
penguin books ltd. , , middlesex , england , 1992 

johnson , nicholas l. , soviet space programs 1980 1985 , volume 
66 science and technology series , american astronautical 
society , , inc. , san diego , california , 1987 

johnson , nicholas l. , the soviet year in space 1989 1990 , 
brown engineering , colorado springs , colorado , 
1990 1991 

lang , kenneth r. , and charles a. whitney , in space 
exploration and discovery in the solar system , cambridge 
university press , new york , 1991 

magellan the unveiling of venus , jpl 400 345 , march 1989 

murray , bruce , michael c. , and ronald greeley , 
planets surfaces of mercury , venus , earth , moon , mars , w. h. 
freeman and company , san francisco , california , 1981 

murray , bruce , journey into space the first three decades of 
space exploration , w. w. norton and company , new york , 1989 

, william , venus revealed , national geographic magazine , 
volume 183 , number 2 , washington , d.c. , february 1993 

nicks , oran w. , far travelers the exploring machines , nasa 
sp 480 , washington , d.c. , 1985 

, james edward , new earths restructuring earth and other 
planets , a meridian book , new american library , inc. , new 
york , 1983 

robertson , donald f. , venus a prime soviet objective  ( parts 
1 2) , spaceflight , volume 34 , numbers 5 6 , british interplanetary 
society  ( bis ) , london , england , may june 1992 

smith , arthur , planetary exploration thirty years of unmanned 
space probes , patrick stephens , ltd. , , 
, england , 1988 

voyage through the universe the near planets , by the editors 
of time life books , inc. , alexandria , virginia , 1990 

wilson , andrew , jane's solar system log , jane 's publishing , inc. , 
new york , 1987 

about the author 

larry klaes , editor , is the recipient of the asa 's 1990 
service award for his work as editor of the since 
its founding in august of 1989. larry also teaches a course on 
basic astronomy at the concord adult and community 
education program in massachusetts .  . 

larry is the author of the following articles 

the one dream man robert h. goddard , rocket pioneer august 1989 
stopping space and light pollution september 1989 
the rocky soviet road to mars october 1989 
astronomy and the family may 1991 
the soviets and venus , part 1 february 1993 
the soviets and venus , part 2 march 1993 


the electronic journal of the astronomical society of the atlantic 

april 1993 vol. 4 , no. 9 

copyright (c) 1993 asa 


from 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
lines 31 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article  ( greg moore ) writes 

as pointed out , you have to develop the thruster .  . 
also , while much lighter , you still have to lift the mass of 
the thruster to orbit , and then the thruster lifts its own 
weight into a higher orbit .  . and you take up room in the payload 
bay. 


a yes , but the improvement in boost orbit to the hst is significant , 

i do not understand what you are saying here. what is improved , what 
is significant , and what does this have to do with carrying more 
equipment on a servicing mission also , as implied by other posters , why 
do you need to boost the orbit on this mission anyway maybe you have 
something here , but could you please clarify it for us on the net 

and that means you can then carry edo packs and enough consumables 
so the shuttle mission can go on long enough to also fix the 
array tilt motors , and god knows what else is going to wear out 

from what i 've heard , the motors are fine it is one of the two 
sets of electronics that control the motors that needs a fix. the 
motors and electronics are separate pieces of hardware. i expect 
to be corrected if i'm wrong on this. 

on the hst in the next 9 months. 

pat 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re why we like dc x  ( was re shuttle 0 defects bizarre dc x ) 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 26 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) writes 

hmmm .  . not sure what 's required for ships .  . probably not much , since 
if a ship goes down it does n't hurt too many people other than those 
on the ship and those who invested in it. if a plane or spacecraft 
goes down , it can make quite a nasty mess on the ground , should it 
land in an inappropriate place. 


considering the magnitude of loss of life in both the castle 
and titanic disasters , i ca n't believe you can be so blithe 
there fred .  . 

besides if a tanker breaks up in a close harbor , you can kiss 
off quite a lot of population .  . same thing for any chemical 
 . 

i know the coast guard makes mandatory safety equipment 
checks on all  . they use this as an excuse to 
make narcotics searches , without warrants .  . 

i suspect , that commercial craft need a certificate at least similiar 
in scope to an air worthiness certificate from the dot .  . 

pat 


from wingo 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization university of houston 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host judy . uh . edu . 
keywords hst 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , (michael corvin ) writes .  .  .  . 
regarding the feasability of retrieving the hst for repair and 
it 

 ( caution speculation mode engaged ) 
there is another consideration that has n't been mentioned yet. 
i expect that retrieving hst would involve  damaging  it considerably in 
order to return it to its cradle in the cargo bay. most of the deployed 
items  ( antennas and , especially , the solar arays ) probably are not 
into their fully position , even by hand. they would 
have to be removed by the astronauts .  . (the only advantage that this 
might yield is that we could put new panels on that do n't  ring  due 
to thermal cycle stresses .  .  . ) . 

i also expect that , as has been discussed , the landing loads on the 
hst optics structure is a big issue  ( but that the reentry loads are 
much less so . ) . can the optical components even be re 
(i assume that they were for launch ) 


it would be nice if someone here from the hst program was talking instead 
of all the speculation that is going on here. from what i understand from 
dr. frank six of the marshall space flight center there is no 
problem in bringing hst back. it was designed that way to begin with. 

also it is my understanding that the solar arrays will be one of the items 
replaced on this mission. the originals were built by brit aerospace and 
i think the new ones are too. i am currently working with the guys at msfc 
that are in charge is the hst power system , although i have not spoken with 
them in a long time about hst .  . 

dennis , university of alabama in huntsville 


from 
subject re hst servicing mission 
lines 28 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article , 
(richard a. schumacher ) writes 

in  ( pat ) writes 

how different would the contamination threat of a small manuevering tug 
be from that of the shuttle and it 's oms engines 

the aperture door will be shut during reboost .  . using the shuttle 
means that there will be someone nearby to pry the door open again 
if it should stick. 


well , no , during the original deployment mission the hst aperture door was 
not opened until after the shuttle had landed .  . 

i presume that during a re boost mission hst would be in the orbiter 
with the orbiter bay doors shut but still there would be lots of contamination 
worries .  . i understand that the eva suits are one of the hardest things to 
keep clean. 

but i still do n't know where the idea is coming from that hst needs a 
re boost .  . we have many problems but our orbit is the least of them. there 
is certainly no plan to change the orbit in the first servicing mission in 
december .  . 

ben 


from  ( andy cohen ) 
subject dc x news 
organization mda w 
lines 6 
distribution world 
nntp posting host q5022531 . mdc . com . 

static test firings are now scheduled for this saturday .  .  .  .  . after . many 
schedule changes .  .  .  .  .  . 

it may be difficult to get test status during the next two weeks .  .  .  . the . 
number of contacts are drying up as they all go to new mexico .  .  .  .  .  . go . delta 
clipper ! ! 

from 
subject electrical spacecraft via magnetic field of earth 
lines 22 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

okay , the earth has a magnetic field  ( unless someone missed something ) 

okay if you put a object in the earth magnetic field , it produces electricty .  .  . 

now the question. can you use electricity to power a space low earth orbit 
vehicle and i can , can you use the magnetic field of the earth to power 
it 
can the idea of a satellite be used in part to create the electrical 
field 

after all the satellite is (i might be wrong) , a suspended between to 
, the the compensate for drag .  .  . i think i know what i want to say , 
just not sure how to say it .  .  . 

a satellite sounds interestingly enough liek a generator .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 

sorry for spelling , have not brought windows 3.1 online with my modem and comm 
program. yet ! !  .  . 


from  ( stupendous man) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
originator 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 35 

 ( henry spencer ) writes 
does anyone have a reference  ( something i can look up , not just your own 
recollections i have a few of those myself) on the temperature of the 
 ( night ) sky as seen from space 

note , i am not talking about the temperature of the microwave background 
radiation .  . there are more things in the sky than just the mbr what i'm 
after is total temperature what a thermal radiator would see , 
disregarding  ( or shielding against ) the sun and nearby large warm objects .  . 

henry , if i read you correctly , you may be asking if i put a 
in interstellar space (  disregarding the sun and nearby large warm objects' ) , 
what will it reach in thermal equilibrium with the ambient 
radiation field 

if that 's the case , let me point out that interstellar dust and 
molecules provide many instances of things that are , well , not too far 
from being  . many different observations , including iras 
and cobe , have determined that interstellar dust grain temperatures 
can range from 40k to 150k .  . you might look in a conference proceedings 
interstellar processes , ed. d. j. and h. a. , jr. , 
published in 1987 .  . try the articles by et al. , , and 
black. 

inside the disk of the galaxy , the temperature varies quite a bit 
from place to place  ( how close are you to the nearest ob association , 
i would guess) .  . outside the galaxy , of course , things are n't so 
varied .  . 

i hope this is what you were looking for .  .  .  .  . 


michael richmond 
this is the heart that broke my finger. 


from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 34 

writes 

catalog .  . these tests all show , that the bursts have an isotropic 
 ( distribution(evenly spread out in a radial direction) , and they show signs of 
homogeneity , i.e. they do not clump in any one direction. so , unless we are 
sampling the area inside the disk of the galaxy , we are sampling the universe. 
not cool , if you want to figure out what the hell caused these things. now , i 
suppose you are saying , well , we stil only may be sampling from inside the 
disk .  . well , not necessarily .  . remember , we have what is more or less an 
interplanetary network of burst detectors with a baseline that goes waaaay out 
to beyond  ( pluto(pioneer 11) , so we should be able , with all of our detectors de 
tect some sort of difference in angle from satellite to satellite .  . here 's an 
analogy you see a plane overhead .  . you measure the angle of the plane from 
the origin of your arbitrary coordinate system. one of your friends a mile 
away sees the same plane , and measures the angle from the zero point of his 
arbitrary system , which is the same as yours. the two angles are different , 
and you should be able to triangulate the position of your burst , and maybe 
find a source. to my knowledge , no one has been able to do this. 

uh , no. these burst detectors are just that , burst detectors .  . 
they have no angular resolution. 

now a network of burst detectors could have angular resolution , 
but we do not have a decent set of different networks at the distances 
neccesary from each other to determine if they 're happening in the oort 
cloud or not. 

we have one network , and trying to make two networks out of it 
degrades what angular resolution we have. 

phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 



from  ( steve hix ) 
subject re true globe , who makes it 
organization sun 
lines 18 
nntp posting host concertina 

in article  ( bill vance ) writes 
it has been known for quite a while that the earth is actually more pear 
shaped than globular spherical .  . does anyone make a globe that is accurate 
as to actual shape , landmass configuration long lat lines etc. 

the variance from perfect in a model of the earth small enough 
to fit into your home would probably be  . 

any globe you can buy will be close enough. 






some things are too important not to give away 
to everybody else and have none left for yourself. 
dieter the car salesman 

from  ( jpl public information) 
subject jpl info summary our solar system at a glance 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 1160 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

this file and other text and image files from jpl missions are 
available from the jpl info public access computer site , 
reachable by internet via anonymous ftp to pubinfo . jpl . nasa . gov . 
(128 . 149 . 6 . 2) . or by dialup modem to 1 (818) 354 1333 , up to 
9600 bits per second , parameters n 8 1. 


our solar system at a glance 

information summary 
pms 010 a  ( jpl ) 
june 1991 

jpl 410 34 1 6 91 

nasa 
national aeronautics and space administration 

jet propulsion laboratory 
california institue of technology 
pasadena , california 


for a printed copy of this publication contact the public mail 
office at the nasa center in your geographic region. 



introduction 

from our small world we have gazed upon the cosmic ocean for 
untold thousands of years. ancient astronomers observed points of 
light that appeared to move among the stars. they called these 
objects planets , meaning , and named them after roman 
deities jupiter , king of the gods mars , the god of war 
mercury , messenger of the gods venus , the god of love and 
beauty , and saturn , father of jupiter and god of agriculture .  . the 
also observed comets with sparkling tails , and meteors 
or shooting stars apparently falling from the sky. 

science flourished during the european renaissance .  . 
fundamental physical laws governing planetary motion were 
discovered , and the orbits of the planets around the sun were 
calculated .  . in the 17th century , astronomers pointed a new device 
called the telescope at the heavens and made startling 
discoveries .  . 

but the years since 1959 have to a golden age of 
solar system exploration .  . advancements in rocketry after world 
war ii enabled our machines to break the grip of earth 's gravity 
and travel to the moon and to other planets .  . 

the united states has sent automated spacecraft , then 
human expeditions , to explore the moon. our automated 
machines have orbited and landed on venus and mars explored the 
sun 's environment observed comets , and made close range surveys 
while flying past mercury , jupiter , saturn , uranus and neptune .  . 

these travelers brought a quantum leap in our knowledge and 
understanding of the solar system. through the electronic sight 
and other senses of our automated spacecraft , color and 
complexion have been given to worlds that for centuries appeared 
to earth bound eyes as fuzzy disks or indistinct points of light. 
and dozens of previously unknown objects have been discovered .  . 

future historians will likely view these pioneering flights 
through the solar system as some of the most remarkable 
achievements of the 20th century. 


automated spacecraft 

the national aeronautics and space administration 's  ( nasa 's) 
automated spacecraft for solar system exploration come in many 
shapes and sizes. while they are designed to fulfill separate and 
specific mission objectives , the craft share much in common. 

each spacecraft consists of various scientific instruments 
selected for a particular mission , supported by basic subsystems 
for electrical power , trajectory and orientation control , as well 
as for processing data and communicating with earth. 

electrical power is required to operate the spacecraft 
instruments and systems. nasa uses both solar energy from arrays 
of photovoltaic cells and small nuclear generators to power its 
solar system missions .  . rechargeable batteries are employed for 
backup and supplemental power. 

imagine that a spacecraft has successfully journeyed 
millions of miles through space to fly but one time near a 
planet , only to have its cameras and other sensing instruments 
pointed the wrong way as it speeds past the target ! to help 
prevent such a , a subsystem of small thrusters is used to 
control spacecraft .  . 

the thrusters are linked with devices that maintain a 
constant gaze at selected stars. just as earth 's early 
used the stars to navigate the oceans , spacecraft use stars to 
maintain their bearings in space. with the subsystem locked onto 
fixed points of reference , flight controllers can keep a 
spacecraft 's scientific instruments pointed at the target body 
and the craft 's communications antennas pointed toward earth. the 
thrusters can also be used to fine tune the flight path and speed 
of the spacecraft to ensure that a target body is encountered at 
the planned distance and on the proper trajectory .  . 

between 1959 and 1971 , nasa spacecraft were dispatched to 
study the moon and the solar environment they also scanned the 
inner planets other than earth mercury , venus and mars .  . these 
three worlds , and our own , are known as the terrestrial planets 
because they share a solid rock composition .  . 

for the early planetary reconnaissance missions , nasa 
employed a highly successful series of spacecraft called the 
mariners .  . their flights helped shape the planning of later 
missions .  . between 1962 and 1975 , seven mariner missions conducted 
the first surveys of our planetary neighbors in space. 

all of the mariners used solar panels as their primary power 
source. the first and the final versions of the spacecraft had 
two wings covered with photovoltaic cells. other mariners were 
equipped with four solar panels extending from their 
bodies .  . 

although the mariners ranged from the mariner 2 venus 
spacecraft , weighing in at 203 kilograms  ( 447 pounds) , to the 
mariner 9 mars orbiter , weighing in at 974 kilograms (2 , 147 
pounds) , their basic design remained quite similar throughout the 
program. the mariner 5 venus spacecraft , for example , had 
originally been a backup for the mariner 4 mars flyby .  . the 
mariner 10 spacecraft sent to venus and mercury used components 
left over from the mariner 9 mars orbiter program. 

in 1972 , nasa launched pioneer 10 , a jupiter spacecraft .  . 
interest was shifting to four of the outer planets jupiter , 
saturn , uranus and neptune giant balls of dense gas quite 
different from the terrestrial worlds we had already surveyed .  . 

four nasa spacecraft in all two pioneers and two voyagers 
were sent in the 1970s to tour the outer regions of our solar 
system. because of the distances involved , these travelers took 
anywhere from 20 months to 12 years to reach their destinations .  . 
barring faster spacecraft , they will eventually become the first 
human artifacts to journey to distant stars. because the sun 's 
light becomes so faint in the outer solar system , these travelers 
do not use solar power but instead operate on electricity 
generated by heat from the decay of  . 

nasa also developed highly specialized spacecraft to revisit 
our neighbors mars and venus in the middle and late 1970s .  . twin 
viking landers were equipped to serve as and weather 
stations and as biology laboratories .  . two advanced orbiters 
descendants of the mariner craft carried the viking landers 
from earth and then studied martian features from above. 

two drum shaped pioneer spacecraft visited venus in 1978 .  . 
the pioneer venus orbiter was equipped with a radar instrument 
that allowed it to see through the planet 's dense cloud cover 
to study surface features. the pioneer venus carried 
four probes that were dropped through the clouds .  . the probes and 
the main body all of which contained scientific instruments 
radioed information about the planet 's atmosphere during their 
descent toward the surface. 

a new generation of automated spacecraft including 
magellan , galileo , ulysses , mars observer , the comet 
rendezvous asteroid flyby  ( craf ) and cassini is being 
developed and sent out into the solar system to make detailed 
examinations that will increase our understanding of our 
neighborhood and our own planet. 


the sun 

a discussion of the objects in the solar system must start 
with the sun. the sun dwarfs the other bodies , representing 
approximately 99 . 86 . percent of all the mass in the solar system 
all of the planets , moons , asteroids , comets , dust and gas add up 
to only about 0.14 percent. this 0.14 percent represents the 
material left over from the sun 's formation .  . one hundred and nine 
earths would be required to fit across the sun 's disk , and its 
interior could hold over 1.3 million earths .  . 

as a star , the sun generates energy through the process of 
fusion .  . the temperature at the sun 's core is 15 million degrees 
celsius  ( 27 million degrees fahrenheit ) , and the pressure there 
is 340 billion times earth 's air pressure at sea level. the sun 's 
surface temperature of 5 , 500 degrees celsius (10 , 000 degrees 
fahrenheit ) seems almost compared to its core temperature .  . 
at the solar core , hydrogen can fuse into helium , producing 
energy. the sun also produces a strong magnetic field and streams 
of charged particles , both extending far beyond the planets .  . 

the sun appears to have been active for 4.6 billion years 
and has enough fuel to go on for another five billion years or 
so. at the end of its life , the sun will start to fuse helium 
into heavier elements and begin to swell up , ultimately growing 
so large that it will swallow earth. after a billion years as a 
red giant , it will suddenly collapse into a white dwarf 
the final end product of a star like ours. it may take a trillion 
years to cool off completely. 

many spacecraft have explored the sun 's environment , but 
none have gotten any closer to its surface than approximately 
two thirds of the distance from earth to the sun. pioneers 5 11 , 
the pioneer venus orbiter , voyagers 1 and 2 and other spacecraft 
have all sampled the solar environment. the ulysses spacecraft , 
launched on october 6 , 1990 , is a joint solar mission of nasa and 
the european space agency .  . after using jupiter 's gravity to 
change its trajectory , ulysses will fly over the sun 's polar 
regions during 1994 and 1995 and will perform a wide range of 
studies using nine onboard scientific instruments .  . 

we are fortunate that the sun is exactly the way it is. if 
it were different in almost any way , life would almost certainly 
never have developed on earth. 


mercury 

obtaining the first close up views of mercury was the 
primary objective of the mariner 10 spacecraft , launched on 
november 3 , 1973 , from kennedy space center in florida .  . after a 
journey of nearly five months , which included a flyby of venus , 
the spacecraft passed within 703 kilometers  ( 437 miles) of the 
solar system 's innermost planet on march 29 , 1974 .  . 

until mariner 10 , little was known about mercury .  . even the 
best telescopic views from earth showed mercury as an indistinct 
object lacking any surface detail. the planet is so close to the 
sun that it is usually lost in solar glare .  . when the planet is 
visible on earth 's horizon just after sunset or before dawn , it 
is obscured by the haze and dust in our atmosphere. only radar 
telescopes gave any hint of mercury 's surface conditions prior to 
the voyage of mariner 10. 

the photographs mariner 10 radioed back to earth revealed an 
ancient , heavily cratered surface , closely resembling our own 
moon. the pictures also showed huge cliffs the 
planet. these apparently were created when mercury 's interior 
cooled and , the planet 's crust .  . the cliffs are as 
high as 3 kilometers (2 miles) and as long as 500 kilometers  ( 310 
miles) .  . 

instruments on mariner 10 discovered that mercury has a weak 
magnetic field and a trace of atmosphere a the 
density of earth 's atmosphere and composed chiefly of , neon 
and helium .  . when the planet 's orbit takes it closest to the sun , 
surface temperatures range from 467 degrees celsius  ( 872 degrees 
fahrenheit ) on mercury 's side to 183 degrees celsius 
( 298 degrees fahrenheit ) on the dark side. this range in surface 
temperature 650 degrees celsius (1 , 170 degrees fahrenheit ) 
is the largest for a single body in the solar system. mercury 
literally and freezes at the same time. 

days and nights are long on mercury .  . the combination of a 
slow rotation relative to the stars  ( 59 earth days) and a rapid 
revolution around the sun  ( 88 earth days) means that one mercury 
solar day takes 176 earth days or two mercury years the time 
it takes the innermost planet to complete two orbits around the 
sun ! 

mercury appears to have a crust of light rock like 
that of earth. scientists believe mercury has a heavy iron rich 
core making up slightly less than half of its volume. that would 
make mercury 's core larger , , than the moon 's core 
or those of any of the planets .  . 

after the initial mercury encounter , mariner 10 made two 
additional flybys on september 21 , 1974 , and march 16 , 1975 
before control gas used to orient the spacecraft was exhausted 
and the mission was concluded .  . each flyby took place at the same 
local mercury time when the identical half of the planet was 
illuminated as a result , we still have not seen one half of the 
planet 's surface. 


venus 

veiled by dense cloud cover , venus our nearest planetary 
neighbor was the first planet to be explored .  . the mariner 2 
spacecraft , launched on august 27 , 1962 , was the first of more 
than a dozen successful american and soviet missions to study the 
mysterious planet. as spacecraft flew by or orbited venus , 
plunged into the atmosphere or gently landed on venus  surface , 
romantic myths and speculations about our neighbor were laid to 
rest. 

on december 14 , 1962 , mariner 2 passed within 34 , 839 
kilometers (21 , 648 miles) of venus and became the first 
spacecraft to scan another planet onboard instruments measured 
venus for 42 minutes. mariner 5 , launched in june 1967 , flew much 
closer to the planet. passing within 4 , 094 kilometers (2 , 544 
miles) of venus on the second american flyby , mariner 5 's 
instruments measured the planet 's magnetic field , , 
radiation belts and temperatures .  . on its way to mercury , mariner 
10 flew by venus and transmitted ultraviolet pictures to earth 
showing cloud circulation patterns in the venusian atmosphere. 

in the spring and summer of 1978 , two spacecraft were 
launched to further unravel the mysteries of venus .  . on december 4 
of the same year , the pioneer venus orbiter became the first 
spacecraft placed in orbit around the planet. 

five days later , the five separate components making up the 
second spacecraft the pioneer venus entered the 
venusian atmosphere at different locations above the planet. the 
four small , independent probes and the main body radioed 
atmospheric data back to earth during their descent toward the 
surface. although designed to examine the atmosphere , one of the 
probes survived its impact with the surface and continued to 
transmit data for another hour. 

venus resembles earth in size , physical composition and 
density more closely than any other known planet. however , 
spacecraft have discovered significant differences as well. for 
example , venus  rotation  ( west to east) is  ( backward ) 
compared to the east to west spin of earth and most of the other 
planets .  . 

approximately 96 . 5 . percent of venus  atmosphere  ( 95 times as 
dense as earth 's) is carbon dioxide .  . the principal constituent of 
earth 's atmosphere is nitrogen .  . venus  atmosphere acts like a 
greenhouse , permitting solar radiation to reach the surface but 
trapping the heat that would ordinarily be radiated back into 
space. as a result , the planet 's average surface temperature is 
482 degrees celsius  ( 900 degrees fahrenheit ) , hot enough to melt 
lead. 

a radio altimeter on the pioneer venus orbiter provided the 
first means of seeing through the planet 's dense cloud cover and 
determining surface features over almost the entire planet. 
nasa 's magellan spacecraft , launched on may 5 , 1989 , has been in 
orbit around venus since august 10 , 1990. the spacecraft uses 
radar mapping techniques to provide resolution images 
of the surface. 

magellan has revealed a landscape dominated by volcanic 
features , faults and impact craters .  . huge areas of the surface 
show evidence of multiple periods of lava flooding with flows 
lying on top of previous ones. an elevated region named ishtar 
terra is a lava filled basin as large as the united states. at 
one end of this plateau sits maxwell montes , a mountain the size 
of mount everest .  . scarring the mountain 's is a 
100 kilometer (62 mile ) wide , 2.5 kilometer (1 . 5 . mile ) deep 
impact crater named cleopatra .  .  ( almost all features on venus are 
named for women maxwell montes , alpha and beta are 
the exceptions . ) . craters survive on venus for perhaps 400 million 
years because there is no water and very little wind erosion .  . 

extensive fault line networks cover the planet , probably the 
result of the same crustal that produces plate 
on earth. but on venus the surface temperature is sufficient to 
weaken the rock , which cracks just about everywhere , preventing 
the formation of major plates and large earthquake faults like 
the san andreas fault in california .  . 

venus  predominant weather pattern is a high altitude , 
high speed circulation of clouds that contain sulfuric acid .  . at 
speeds reaching as high as 360 kilometers  ( 225 miles) per hour , 
the clouds circle the planet in only four earth days. the 
circulation is in the same direction west to east as venus  
slow rotation of 243 earth days , whereas earth 's winds blow in 
both directions west to east and east to west in six 
alternating bands. venus  atmosphere serves as a simplified 
laboratory for the study of our weather. 


earth 

as viewed from space , our world 's distinguishing 
characteristics are its blue waters , brown and green land masses 
and white clouds .  . we are by an ocean of air consisting 
of 78 percent nitrogen , 21 percent oxygen and 1 percent other 
constituents .  . the only planet in the solar system known to harbor 
life , earth orbits the sun at an average distance of 150 million 
kilometers  ( 93 million miles) .  . earth is the third planet from the 
sun and the fifth largest in the solar system , with a diameter 
just a few hundred kilometers larger than that of venus .  . 

our planet 's rapid spin and molten nickel iron core give 
rise to an extensive magnetic field , which , along with the 
atmosphere , shields us from nearly all of the harmful radiation 
coming from the sun and other stars. earth 's atmosphere protects 
us from meteors as well , most of which burn up before they can 
strike the surface. active geological processes have left no 
evidence of the earth almost certainly received soon 
after it formed about 4.6 billion years ago. along with the 
other newly formed planets , it was showered by space debris in 
the early days of the solar system. 

from our into space , we have learned much about our 
home planet. the first american satellite explorer 1 was 
launched from cape canaveral in florida on january 31 , 1958 , and 
discovered an intense radiation zone , now called the van allen 
radiation belts , surrounding earth. 

since then , other research satellites have revealed that our 
planet 's magnetic field is distorted into a tear drop shape by 
the solar wind the stream of charged particles continuously 
ejected from the sun. we 've learned that the magnetic field does 
not fade off into space but has definite boundaries .  . and we now 
know that our upper atmosphere , once believed calm and 
, with activity swelling by day and 
contracting by night. affected by changes in solar activity , the 
upper atmosphere contributes to weather and climate on earth. 

besides affecting earth 's weather , solar activity gives rise 
to a dramatic visual phenomenon in our atmosphere. when charged 
particles from the solar wind become trapped in earth 's magnetic 
field , they collide with air molecules above our planet 's 
magnetic poles .  . these air molecules then begin to glow and are 
known as the or the northern and southern lights. 

satellites about 35 , 789 kilometers (22 , 238 miles) out in 
space play a major role in daily local weather forecasting .  . these 
electronic eyes warn us of dangerous storms .  . continuous 
global monitoring provides a vast amount of useful data and 
contributes to a better understanding of earth 's complex weather 
systems. 

from their unique vantage points , satellites can survey 
earth 's oceans , land use and resources , and monitor the planet 's 
health. these eyes in space have saved countless lives , provided 
tremendous conveniences and shown us that we may be altering our 
planet in dangerous ways. 


the moon 

the moon is earth 's single natural satellite .  . the first 
human footsteps on an alien world were made by american 
astronauts on the dusty surface of our , 
companion .  . in preparation for the human apollo 
expeditions , nasa dispatched the automated ranger , surveyor and 
lunar orbiter spacecraft to study the moon between 1964 and 1968 .  . 

nasa 's apollo program left a large legacy of lunar materials 
and data. six two astronaut crews landed on and explored the 
lunar surface between 1969 and 1972 , carrying back a collection 
of rocks and soil weighing a total of 382 kilograms  ( 842 pounds) 
and consisting of more than 2 , 000 separate samples .  . 

from this material and other studies , scientists have 
constructed a history of the moon that includes its infancy .  . 
rocks collected from the lunar date to about 4.0 4.3 
billion years old. the first few million years of the moon 's 
existence were so violent that few traces of this period remain .  . 
as a molten outer layer gradually cooled and solidified into 
different kinds of rock , the moon was bombarded by huge asteroids 
and smaller objects .  . some of the asteroids were as large as rhode 
island or delaware , and their collisions with the moon created 
hundreds of kilometers across .  . 

this catastrophic bombardment tapered off approximately four 
billion years ago , leaving the lunar covered with huge , 
overlapping craters and a deep layer of shattered and broken 
rock. heat produced by the decay of radioactive elements began to 
melt the interior of the moon at depths of about 200 kilometers 
 ( 125 miles) below the surface. then , for the next 700 million 
years from about 3.8 to 3.1 billion years ago lava rose 
from inside the moon. the lava gradually spread out over the 
surface , flooding the large impact to form the dark areas 
that galileo , an astronomer of the italian renaissance , 
called maria , meaning seas .  . 

as far as we can tell , there has been no significant 
volcanic activity on the moon for more than three billion years. 
since then , the lunar surface has been altered only by 
, by the atomic particles from the sun and stars , 
by the rare impacts of large and by spacecraft and 
astronauts .  . if our astronauts had landed on the moon a billion 
years ago , they would have seen a landscape very similar to the 
one today. thousands of years from now , the footsteps left by the 
apollo crews will remain sharp and clear. 

the origin of the moon is still a mystery .  . four theories 
attempt an explanation the moon formed near earth as a separate 
body it was torn from earth it formed somewhere else and was 
captured by our planet 's gravity , or it was the result of a 
collision between earth and an asteroid about the size of mars .  . 
the last theory has some good support but is far from certain .  . 


mars 

of all the planets , mars has long been considered the solar 
system 's prime candidate for harboring extraterrestrial life. 
astronomers studying the red planet through telescopes saw what 
appeared to be straight lines its surface. these 
observations later determined to be optical illusions led 
to the popular notion that intelligent beings had constructed a 
system of irrigation on the planet. in 1938 , when orson 
welles broadcast a radio drama based on the science fiction 
classic war of the worlds by h.g. wells , enough people believed 
in the tale of invading martians to cause a near panic .  . 

another reason for scientists to expect life on mars had to 
do with the apparent seasonal color changes on the planet 's 
surface. this phenomenon led to speculation that conditions might 
support a bloom of martian vegetation during the warmer months 
and cause plant life to become during colder periods .  . 

so far , six american missions to mars have been carried out. 
four mariner spacecraft three flying by the planet and one 
placed into martian orbit surveyed the planet extensively 
before the viking orbiters and landers arrived. 

mariner 4 , launched in late 1964 , flew past mars on july 14 , 
1965 , coming within 9 , 846 kilometers (6 , 118 miles) of the 
surface. transmitting to earth 22 close up pictures of the 
planet , the spacecraft found many craters and naturally occurring 
channels but no evidence of artificial or flowing water. 
mariners 6 and 7 followed with their flybys during the summer of 
1969 and returned 201 pictures. mariners 4 , 6 and 7 showed a 
diversity of surface conditions as well as a thin , cold , dry 
atmosphere of carbon dioxide .  . 

on may 30 , 1971 , the mariner 9 orbiter was launched on a 
mission to make a year long study of the martian surface. the 
spacecraft arrived five and a half months after lift off , only to 
find mars in the midst of a planet wide dust storm that made 
surface photography impossible for several weeks. but after the 
storm cleared , mariner 9 began returning the first of 7 , 329 
pictures these revealed previously unknown martian features , 
including evidence that large amounts of water once flowed across 
the surface , river valleys and flood plains .  . 

in august and september 1975 , the viking 1 and 2 spacecraft 
each consisting of an orbiter and a lander lifted off from 
kennedy space center. the mission was designed to answer several 
questions about the red planet , including , is there life there 
nobody expected the spacecraft to spot martian cities , but it was 
hoped that the biology experiments on the viking landers would at 
least find evidence of primitive life past or present. 

viking lander 1 became the first spacecraft to successfully 
touch down on another planet when it landed on july 20 , 1976 , 
while the united states was celebrating its bicentennial .  . photos 
sent back from the planitia ( plains of gold ) showed a 
bleak , rusty red landscape .  . images returned by the 
lander revealed a rolling plain , littered with rocks and marked 
by sand  . fine red dust from the martian soil gives 
the sky a salmon hue .  . when viking lander 2 touched down on utopia 
planitia on september 3 , 1976 , it viewed a more rolling landscape 
than the one seen by its predecessor one without visible 
 . 

the results sent back by the laboratory on each viking 
lander were inconclusive .  . small samples of the red martian soil 
were tested in three different experiments designed to detect 
biological processes .  . while some of the test results seemed to 
indicate biological activity , later analysis confirmed that this 
activity was in nature and related to the planet 's soil 
chemistry .  . is there life on mars no one knows for sure , but the 
viking mission found no evidence that organic molecules exist 
there. 

the viking landers became weather stations , recording wind 
velocity and direction as well as atmospheric temperature and 
pressure. few weather changes were observed .  . the highest 
temperature recorded by either craft was 14 degrees celsius (7 
degrees fahrenheit ) at the viking lander 1 site in  . 

the lowest temperature , 120 degrees celsius ( 184 degrees 
fahrenheit ) , was recorded at the more viking lander 2 
site during winter. near hurricane wind speeds were measured at 
the two martian weather stations during global dust storms , but 
because the atmosphere is so thin , wind force is minimal .  . viking 
lander 2 photographed light patches of frost probably 
water ice during its second winter on the planet. 

the martian atmosphere , like that of venus , is primarily 
carbon dioxide .  . nitrogen and oxygen are present only in small 
percentages .  . martian air contains only about 1 1 , 000 as much 
water as our air , but even this small amount can condense out , 
forming clouds that ride high in the atmosphere or around 
the slopes of volcanoes .  . local patches of early morning 
fog can form in valleys .  . 

there is evidence that in the past a martian 
atmosphere may have allowed water to flow on the planet. physical 
features closely resembling , , and 
islands suggest that great rivers once marked the planet. 

mars has two moons , phobos and deimos .  . they are small and 
shaped and possess ancient , cratered surfaces. it is 
possible the moons were originally asteroids that ventured too 
close to mars and were captured by its gravity .  . 

the viking orbiters and landers exceeded by large margins 
their design lifetimes of 120 and 90 days , respectively .  . the 
first to fail was viking orbiter 2 , which stopped operating on 
july 24 , 1978 , when a leak its attitude control gas. 
viking lander 2 operated until april 12 , 1980 , when it was shut 
down because of battery degeneration .  . viking orbiter 1 quit on 
august 7 , 1980 , when the last of its attitude control gas was 
used up. viking lander 1 ceased functioning on november 13 , 1983 .  . 

despite the inconclusive results of the viking biology 
experiments , we know more about mars than any other planet except 
earth. nasa 's mars observer spacecraft , to be launched in 
september 1992 , will expand our knowledge of the martian 
environment and lead to human exploration of the red planet. 


asteroids 

the solar system has a large number of rocky and metallic 
objects that are in orbit around the sun but are too small to be 
considered full fledged planets .  . these objects are known as 
asteroids or minor planets .  . most , but not all , are found in a 
band or belt between the orbits of mars and jupiter .  . some have 
orbits that cross earth 's path , and there is evidence that earth 
has been hit by asteroids in the past. one of the least eroded , 
best preserved examples is the barringer meteor crater near 
, arizona .  . 

asteroids are material left over from the formation of the 
solar system. one theory suggests that they are the remains of a 
planet that was destroyed in a massive collision long ago. more 
likely , asteroids are material that never into a 
planet. in fact , if the estimated total mass of all asteroids was 
gathered into a single object , the object would be only about 
1 , 500 kilometers  ( 932 miles) across less than half the 
diameter of our moon. 

thousands of asteroids have been identified from earth. it 
is estimated that 100 , 000 are bright enough to eventually be 
photographed through earth based telescopes .  . 

much of our understanding about asteroids comes from 
examining pieces of space debris that fall to the surface of 
earth. asteroids that are on a collision course with earth are 
called  . when a strikes our atmosphere at 
high velocity , friction causes this chunk of space matter to 
in a streak of light known as a meteor .  . if the 
does not burn up completely , what 's left strikes 
earth 's surface and is called a meteorite .  . one of the best places 
to look for is the ice cap of antarctica .  . 

of all the examined , 92.8 percent are composed of 
 ( stone ) , and 5.7 percent are composed of iron and 
nickel the rest are a mixture of the three materials. stony 
are the hardest to identify since they look very much 
like terrestrial rocks. 

since asteroids are material from the very early solar 
system , scientists are interested in their composition .  . 
spacecraft that have flown through the asteroid belt have found 
that the belt is really quite empty and that asteroids are 
separated by very large distances .  . 

current and future missions will fly by selected asteroids 
for closer examination .  . the galileo orbiter , launched by nasa in 
october 1989 , will investigate main belt asteroids on its way to 
jupiter .  . the comet rendezvous asteroid flyby  ( craf ) and cassini 
missions will also study these far flung objects .  . scheduled for 
launch in the latter part of the 1990s , the craf and cassini 
missions are a collaborative project of nasa , the european space 
agency and the federal space agencies of germany and italy , as 
well as the united states air force and the department of energy. 
one day , space factories will mine the asteroids for raw 
materials. 


jupiter 

beyond mars and the asteroid belt , in the outer regions of 
our solar system , lie the giant planets of jupiter , saturn , 
uranus and neptune .  . in 1972 , nasa dispatched the first of four 
spacecraft slated to conduct the initial surveys of these 
colossal worlds of gas and their moons of ice and rock. jupiter 
was the first port of call. 

pioneer 10 , which lifted off from kennedy space center in 
march 1972 , was the first spacecraft to penetrate the asteroid 
belt and travel to the outer regions of the solar system. in 
december 1973 , it returned the first close up images of jupiter , 
flying within 132 , 252 kilometers  ( 82 , 178 miles) of the planet 's 
cloud tops .  . pioneer 11 followed a year later. voyagers 1 
and 2 were launched in the summer of 1977 and returned 
spectacular photographs of jupiter and its family of satellites 
during flybys in 1979 .  . 

these travelers found jupiter to be a ball of 
liquid hydrogen and helium , topped with a colorful atmosphere 
composed mostly of gaseous hydrogen and helium .  . ice 
crystals form white jovian clouds .  . sulfur compounds  ( and perhaps 
phosphorus ) may produce the brown and orange hues that 
characterize jupiter 's atmosphere. 

it is likely that methane , , water and other gases 
react to form organic molecules in the regions between the 
planet 's cloud tops and the warmer hydrogen ocean lying 
below. because of jupiter 's atmospheric dynamics , however , these 
organic compounds if they exist are probably short lived .  . 

the great red spot has been observed for centuries through 
telescopes on earth. this hurricane like storm in jupiter 's 
atmosphere is more than twice the size of our planet. as a 
high pressure region , the great red spot spins in a direction 
opposite to that of low pressure storms on jupiter it is 
surrounded by swirling currents that rotate around the spot and 
are sometimes consumed by it. the great red spot might be a 
million years old. 

our spacecraft detected lightning in jupiter 's upper 
atmosphere and observed auroral emissions similar to earth 's 
northern lights at the jovian polar regions .  . voyager 1 returned 
the first images of a faint , narrow ring jupiter .  . 

largest of the solar system 's planets , jupiter rotates at a 
dizzying pace once every 9 hours 55 minutes 30 seconds. the 
massive planet takes almost 12 earth years to complete a journey 
around the sun. with 16 known moons , jupiter is something of a 
miniature solar system. 

a new mission to jupiter the galileo project is under 
way. after a six year cruise that takes the galileo orbiter once 
past venus , twice past earth and the moon and once past two 
asteroids , the spacecraft will drop an atmospheric probe into 
jupiter 's cloud layers and relay data back to earth. the galileo 
orbiter will spend two years circling the planet and flying close 
to jupiter 's large moons , exploring in detail what the two 
pioneers and two voyagers revealed .  . 


galilean satellites 

in , galileo aimed his telescope at jupiter and 
spotted four points of light orbiting the planet. for the first 
time , humans had seen the moons of another world. in honor of 
their discoverer , these four bodies would become known as the 
galilean satellites or moons .  . but galileo might have happily 
traded this honor for one look at the dazzling photographs 
returned by the voyager spacecraft as they flew past these 
planet sized satellites .  . 

one of the most remarkable findings of the voyager mission 
was the presence of active volcanoes on the galilean moon io .  . 
volcanic eruptions had never before been observed on a world 
other than earth. the voyager cameras identified at least nine 
active volcanoes on io , with of ejected material extending 
as far as 280 kilometers  ( 175 miles) above the moon 's surface. 

io 's pizza colored terrain , marked by orange and yellow 
hues , is probably the result of sulfur rich materials brought to 
the surface by volcanic activity. volcanic activity on this 
satellite is the result of tidal caused by the 
gravitational tug of war between io , jupiter and the other three 
galilean moons .  . 

europa , approximately the same size as our moon , is the 
brightest galilean satellite .  . the moon 's surface displays a 
complex array of streaks , indicating the crust has been 
 . caught in a gravitational tug of war like io , europa 
has been heated enough to cause its interior ice to melt 
apparently producing a liquid water ocean .  . this ocean is covered 
by an ice crust that has formed where water is exposed to the 
cold of space. europa 's core is made of rock that sank to its 
center. 

like europa , the other two galilean moons ganymede and 
callisto are worlds of ice and rock. ganymede is the largest 
satellite in the solar system larger than the planets mercury 
and pluto .  . the satellite is composed of about 50 percent water or 
ice and the rest rock. ganymede 's surface has areas of different 
brightness , indicating that , in the past , material out of 
the moon 's interior and was deposited at various locations on the 
surface. 

callisto , only slightly smaller than ganymede , has the 
lowest density of any galilean satellite , suggesting that large 
amounts of water are part of its composition .  . callisto is the 
most heavily cratered object in the solar system no activity 
during its history has erased old craters except more impacts .  . 

detailed studies of all the galilean satellites will be 
performed by the galileo orbiter .  . 


saturn 

no planet in the solar system is like saturn .  . its 
ring system is  . like jupiter , saturn is 
composed mostly of hydrogen .  . but in contrast to the vivid colors 
and wild turbulence found in jovian clouds , saturn 's atmosphere 
has a more subtle , hue , and its markings are 
by high altitude haze .  . given saturn 's somewhat looking 
appearance , scientists were surprised at the high velocity 
equatorial jet stream that blows some 1 , 770 kilometers (1 , 100 
miles) per hour. 

three american spacecraft have visited saturn .  . pioneer 11 
sped by the planet and its moon titan in september 1979 , 
returning the first close up images. voyager 1 followed in 
november 1980 , sending back breathtaking photographs that 
revealed for the first time the complexities of saturn 's ring 
system and moons .  . voyager 2 flew by the planet and its moons in 
august 1981 .  . 

the rings are composed of countless low density particles 
orbiting individually around saturn 's equator at progressive 
distances from the cloud tops .  . analysis of spacecraft radio waves 
passing through the rings showed that the particles vary widely 
in size , ranging from dust to house sized boulders .  . the rings are 
bright because they are mostly ice and frosted rock. 

the rings might have resulted when a moon or a passing body 
ventured too close to saturn .  . the unlucky object would have been 
torn apart by great tidal forces on its surface and in its 
interior. or the object may not have been fully formed to begin 
with and under the influence of saturn 's gravity .  . a 
third possibility is that the object was shattered by collisions 
with larger objects orbiting the planet. 

unable either to form into a moon or to drift away from each 
other , individual ring particles appear to be held in place by 
the gravitational pull of saturn and its satellites .  . these 
complex gravitational interactions form the thousands of ringlets 
that make up the major rings .  . 

radio emissions quite similar to the static heard on an am 
car radio during an electrical storm were detected by the voyager 
spacecraft .  . these emissions are typical of lightning but are 
believed to be coming from saturn 's ring system rather than its 
atmosphere , where no lightning was observed .  . as they had at 
jupiter , the voyagers saw a version of earth 's near 
saturn 's poles .  . 

the voyagers discovered new moons and found several 
satellites that share the same orbit .  . we learned that some moons 
shepherd ring particles , maintaining saturn 's rings and the gaps 
in the rings .  . saturn 's 18th moon was discovered in 1990 from 
images taken by voyager 2 in 1981 .  . 

voyager 1 determined that titan has a nitrogen based 
atmosphere with methane and one more like earth 's in 
composition than the carbon dioxide atmospheres of mars and 
venus .  . titan 's surface temperature of 179 degrees celsius ( 290 
degrees fahrenheit ) implies that there might be water ice islands 
rising above oceans of methane liquid or sludge .  . 
unfortunately , voyager 's cameras could not penetrate the moon 's 
dense clouds .  . 

continuing from solar radiation may be 
converting titan 's methane to , acetylene and in 
combination with nitrogen hydrogen cyanide .  . the latter 
compound is a building block of amino acids .  . these conditions may 
be similar to the atmospheric conditions of earth 
between three and four billion years ago. however , titan 's 
atmospheric temperature is believed to be too low to permit 
progress beyond this stage of organic chemistry .  . 

the exploration of saturn will continue with the cassini 
mission. the cassini spacecraft will orbit the planet and will 
also deploy a probe called , which will be dropped into 
titan 's atmosphere and fall to the surface. cassini will use the 
probe as well as radar to peer through titan 's clouds and will 
spend years examining the saturnian system. 


uranus 

in january 1986 , four and a half years after visiting 
saturn , voyager 2 completed the first close up survey of the 
system. the brief flyby revealed more information about 
uranus and its of icy moons than had been gleaned from 
ground observations since the planet 's discovery over two 
centuries ago by the english astronomer william  . 

uranus , third largest of the planets , is an oddball of the 
solar system. unlike the other planets  ( with the exception of 
pluto ) , this giant lies tipped on its side with its north and 
south poles alternately facing the sun during an 84 year swing 
around the solar system. during voyager 2 's flyby , the south pole 
faced the sun. uranus might have been knocked over when an 
earth sized object collided with it early in the life of the 
solar system. 

voyager 2 found that uranus  magnetic field does not follow 
the usual north south axis found on the other planets .  . instead , 
the field is tilted 60 degrees and offset from the planet 's 
center , a phenomenon that on earth would be like having one 
magnetic pole in new york city and the other in the city of 
, on the island of java in indonesia .  . 

uranus  atmosphere consists mainly of hydrogen , with some 12 
percent helium and small amounts of , methane and water 
vapor .  . the planet 's blue color occurs because methane in its 
atmosphere absorbs all other colors. wind speeds range up to 580 
kilometers  ( 360 miles) per hour , and temperatures near the cloud 
tops average 221 degrees celsius ( 366 degrees  . 

uranus  south pole is shrouded in a kind of 
photochemical smog believed to be a combination of acetylene , 
and other sunlight generated chemicals .  . surrounding the 
planet 's atmosphere and extending thousands of kilometers into 
space is a mysterious ultraviolet sheen known as  . 

approximately 8 , 000 kilometers (5 , 000 miles) below uranus  
cloud tops , there is thought to be a ocean of water and 
dissolved some 10 , 000 kilometers (6 , 200 miles) deep. 
beneath this ocean is an earth sized core of heavier materials. 

voyager 2 discovered 10 new moons , 16 169 kilometers (10 105 
miles) in diameter , orbiting uranus .  . the five previously known 
miranda , ariel , , titania and oberon range in size from 
520 to 1 , 610 kilometers  ( 323 to 1 , 000 miles) across .  . representing 
a geological showcase , these five moons are half ice , half rock 
spheres that are cold and dark and show evidence of past 
activity , including and ice flows .  . 

the most remarkable of uranus  moons is miranda .  . its surface 
features high cliffs as well as , crater plains and 
winding valleys .  . the sharp variations in terrain suggest that , 
after the moon formed , it was smashed apart by a collision with 
another body an event not unusual in our solar system , which 
contains many objects that have impact craters or are fragments 
from large impacts .  . what is extraordinary is that miranda 
apparently reformed with some of the material that had been in 
its interior exposed on its surface. 

uranus was thought to have nine dark rings voyager 2 imaged 
11. in contrast to saturn 's rings , which are composed of bright 
particles , uranus  rings are primarily made up of dark , 
boulder sized chunks .  . 


neptune 

voyager 2 completed its 12 year tour of the solar system 
with an investigation of neptune and the planet 's moons .  . on 
august 25 , 1989 , the spacecraft swept to within 4 , 850 kilometers 
(3 , 010 miles) of neptune and then flew on to the moon triton .  . 
during the neptune encounter it became clear that the planet 's 
atmosphere was more active than  . 

voyager 2 observed the great dark spot , a circular storm the 
size of earth , in neptune 's atmosphere. resembling jupiter 's 
great red spot , the storm spins counterclockwise and moves 
westward at almost 1 , 200 kilometers  ( 745 miles) per hour. voyager 
2 also noted a smaller dark spot and a fast moving cloud dubbed 
the scooter , as well as high altitude clouds over the main 
hydrogen and helium cloud deck .  . the highest wind speeds of any 
planet were observed , up to 2 , 400 kilometers (1 , 500 miles) per 
hour. 

like the other giant planets , neptune has a gaseous hydrogen 
and helium upper layer over a liquid interior. the planet 's core 
contains a higher percentage of rock and metal than those of the 
other gas giants .  . neptune 's distinctive blue appearance , like 
uranus  blue color , is due to atmospheric methane .  . 

neptune 's magnetic field is tilted relative to the planet 's 
spin axis and is not centered at the core .  . this phenomenon is 
similar to uranus  magnetic field and suggests that the fields of 
the two giants are being generated in an area above the cores , 
where the pressure is so great that liquid hydrogen assumes the 
electrical properties of a metal. earth 's magnetic field , on the 
other hand , is produced by its spinning metallic core and is only 
slightly tilted and offset relative to its center. 

voyager 2 also shed light on the mystery of neptune 's rings .  . 
observations from earth indicated that there were arcs of 
material in orbit around the giant planet. it was not clear how 
neptune could have arcs and how these could be kept from 
spreading out into even , rings .  . voyager 2 detected 
these arcs , but they were , in fact , part of thin , complete rings .  . 
a number of small moons could explain the arcs , but such bodies 
were not spotted .  . 

astronomers had identified the moons triton in 
1846 and in 1949 .  . voyager 2 found six more. one of the new 
moons is actually larger than , but since 
orbits close to neptune , it was lost in the planet 's 
glare for observers on earth. 

triton circles neptune in a orbit in under six 
days. tidal forces on triton are causing it to spiral slowly 
towards the planet. in 10 to 100 million years (a short time in 
astronomical terms ) , the moon will be so close that 
gravity will tear it apart , forming a spectacular ring to 
accompany the planet 's modest current rings .  . 

triton 's landscape is as strange and unexpected as those of 
io and miranda .  . the moon has more rock than its counterparts at 
saturn and uranus .  . triton 's mantle is probably composed of 
water ice , but the moon 's crust is a thin veneer of nitrogen and 
methane .  . the moon shows two dramatically different types of 
terrain the so called terrain and a ice 
cap. 

dark streaks appear on the ice cap. these streaks are the 
fallout from like volcanic vents that shoot nitrogen gas 
and dark , fine grained particles to heights of 2 to 8 kilometers 
(1 to 5 miles) .  . triton 's thin atmosphere , only 1 70 , 000th as 
thick as earth 's , has winds that carry the dark particles and 
deposit them as streaks on the ice cap the coldest surface yet 
found in the solar system ( 235 degrees celsius , 391 degrees 
 . triton might be more like pluto than any other 
object spacecraft have so far visited .  . 


pluto 

pluto is the most distant of the planets , yet the 
eccentricity of its orbit periodically carries it inside 
neptune 's orbit , where it has been since 1979 and where it will 
remain until march 1999. pluto 's orbit is also highly inclined 
tilted 17 degrees to the orbital plane of the other planets .  . 

discovered in 1930 , pluto appears to be little more than a 
celestial snowball .  . the planet 's diameter is calculated to be 
approximately 2 , 300 kilometers (1 , 430 miles) , only two thirds the 
size of our moon. ground based observations indicate that pluto 's 
surface is covered with methane ice and that there is a thin 
atmosphere that may freeze and fall to the surface as the planet 
moves away from the sun. observations also show that pluto 's spin 
axis is tipped by 122 degrees. 

the planet has one known satellite , charon , discovered in 
1978 .  . charon 's surface composition is different from pluto 's the 
moon appears to be covered with water ice rather than methane 
ice. its orbit is gravitationally locked with pluto , so both 
bodies always keep the same hemisphere facing each other. pluto 's 
and charon 's rotational period and charon 's period of revolution 
are all 6.4 earth days. 

although no spacecraft have ever visited pluto , nasa is 
currently exploring the possibility of such a mission. 


comets 

the members of the solar system occasionally pay a 
visit to the inner planets .  . as asteroids are the rocky and 
metallic remnants of the formation of the solar system , comets 
are the icy debris from that dim beginning and can survive only 
far from the sun. most comet nuclei reside in the oort cloud , a 
loose of objects in a halo beyond the planets and reaching 
perhaps halfway to the nearest star. 

comet nuclei orbit in this frozen abyss until they are 
gravitationally perturbed into new orbits that carry them close 
to the sun. as a nucleus falls inside the orbits of the outer 
planets , the volatile elements of which it is made gradually 
warm by the time the nucleus enters the region of the inner 
planets , these volatile elements are boiling .  . the nucleus itself 
is irregular and only a few miles across , and is made principally 
of water ice with methane and materials very similar 
to those composing the moons of the giant planets .  . 

as these materials boil off of the nucleus , they form a coma 
or cloud like head that can measure tens of thousands of 
kilometers across .  . the coma grows as the comet gets closer to the 
sun. the stream of charged particles coming from the sun pushes 
on this cloud , blowing it back like a flag in the wind and giving 
rise to the comet 's tails .  . gases and ions are blown directly 
back from the nucleus , but dust particles are pushed more slowly .  . 
as the nucleus continues in its orbit , the dust particles are 
left behind in a curved arc .  . 

both the gas and dust tails point away from the sun in 
effect , the comet chases its tails as it recedes from the sun. 
the tails can reach 150 million kilometers  ( 93 million miles) in 
length , but the total amount of material contained in this 
dramatic display would fit in an ordinary  . comets 
from the latin , meaning long haired are essentially 
dramatic light shows. 

some comets pass through the solar system only once , but 
others have their orbits gravitationally modified by a close 
encounter with one of the giant outer planets .  . these latter 
visitors can enter closed elliptical orbits and repeatedly return 
to the inner solar system. 

halley 's comet is the most famous example of a relatively 
short period comet , returning on an average of once every 76 
years and orbiting from beyond neptune to within venus  orbit .  . 
confirmed sightings of the comet go back to 240 b.c. this regular 
visitor to our solar system is named for sir halley , 
because he plotted the comet 's orbit and predicted its return , 
based on earlier sightings and newtonian laws of motion. his name 
became part of astronomical lore when , in , the comet 
returned on schedule. unfortunately , sir did not live to 
see it. 

a comet can be very prominent in the sky if it passes 
comparatively close to earth. unfortunately , on its most recent 
appearance , halley 's comet passed no closer than 62.4 million 
kilometers 8 . million miles) from our world. the comet was 
visible to the naked eye , especially for viewers in the southern 
hemisphere , but it was not spectacular .  . comets have been so 
bright , on rare occasions , that they were visible during daytime .  . 
historically , comet sightings have been interpreted as bad omens 
and have been rendered as in the sky. 

the comet rendezvous asteroid flyby  ( craf ) spacecraft will 
become the first traveler to fly close to a comet nucleus and 
remain in proximity to it as they both approach the sun. craf 
will observe the nucleus as it becomes active in the growing 
sunlight and begins to have its lighter elements boil off and 
form a coma and tails .  . several spacecraft have flown by comets at 
high speed the first was nasa 's international cometary explorer 
in 1985 .  . an armada of five spacecraft  ( two japanese , two soviet 
and the giotto spacecraft from the european space agency ) flew by 
halley 's comet in 1986 .  . 


conclusion 

despite their efforts to peer across the vast distances of 
space through an obscuring atmosphere , scientists of the past had 
only one body they could study closely earth. but since 1959 , 
spaceflight through the solar system has lifted the veil on our 
neighbors in space. 

we have learned more about our solar system and its members 
than anyone had in the previous thousands of years. our automated 
spacecraft have traveled to the moon and to all the planets 
beyond our world except pluto they have observed moons as large 
as small planets , flown by comets and sampled the solar 
environment. astronomy books now include detailed pictures of 
bodies that were only smudges in the largest telescopes for 
generations .  . we are lucky to be alive now to see these strange 
and beautiful places and objects .  . 

the knowledge gained from our through the solar 
system has redefined traditional earth sciences like geology and 
meteorology and spawned an entirely new discipline called 
comparative  . by studying the geology of planets , 
moons , asteroids and comets , and comparing differences and 
similarities , we are learning more about the origin and history 
of these bodies and the solar system as a whole .  . 

we are also gaining insight into earth 's complex weather 
systems. by seeing how weather is shaped on other worlds and by 
investigating the sun 's activity and its influence throughout the 
solar system , we can better understand climatic conditions and 
processes on earth. 

we will continue to learn and benefit as our automated 
spacecraft explore our neighborhood in space. one current mission 
is mapping venus others are flying between worlds and will reach 
the sun and jupiter after complex trajectory adjustments. future 
missions are planned for mars , saturn , a comet and the asteroid 
belt. 

we can also look forward to the time when humans will once 
again set foot on an alien world. although astronauts have not 
been back to the moon since december 1972 , plans are being 
formulated for our return to the lunar landscape and for the 
human exploration of mars and even the establishment of martian 
outposts .  . one day , taking a holiday may mean spending a week at a 
lunar base or a martian colony ! 

end 


from  ( hans erik martino hansen ) 
subject commercials on the moon 
organization computer science department , aarhus university , denmark 
lines 16 

i have often thought about , if its possible to have a powerfull laser 
on earth , to light at the moon , and show at the surface 
so clearly that you can see it with your eyes when there is a new 
moon. 

how about a coca cola logo at the moon , easy way to target billions of 
people. 

do you know if its possible 



erik m. hansen email 
69 aarhus university 
dk v 
denmark , europe 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re interesting dc x cost anecdote 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 13 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


that 's assuming it could get built by them. 

of course , it would probably sport cruise missile racks , 
missile tubes , bomb points , extra drop tanks , 
a full ecm suite , terrain following radar and stealth 
materials. 

it might not fly , but a technology demonstrator does 
not require actual flight. 

) 
pat 

from 
subject u.k. see mir in evening skies ! 
lines 24 
nntp posting host vax1 . tcd . ie . 
organization trinity college dublin 
lines 24 

astronomy space magazine 's uk telephone carries the times to 
see the russian space station mir which will be visible every evening (some 
time between 9 o'clock and midnight ) from april 27 to may 7. it 's about as 
bright as jupiter at its best. there are two on board. 

for the time to watch , tel. 0891 88 19 50  ( 48p min peak min all other 
times , but prediction is at start of the weekly message so it only costs a 
few  . 

e mail reports of sightings would be appreciated give lat long and ut (a 
few seconds accuracy if possible) when it passes above or below any bright 
star  ( say brighter than mag .  . 3) , planet or moon. 

with moon in evening sky also , note that from somewhere in u.k. mir will 
pass in front of the moon each night ! please alert local clubs to the 
telephone , and general public as mir can cause quite a stir ! 

tony ryan , astronomy space , new international magazine , available from 
astronomy ireland , p.o.box 2888 , dublin 1 , ireland .  . 
6 issues  ( one year sub . ) . uk 10.00 pounds , us 20 surface  ( add us 8 airmail) .  . 
access visa mastercard accepted  ( give number , expiration date , name address) .  . 

 ( world's largest astro .  . soc .  . per capita unless you know better 0.033 ) 
tel 0891 88 1950  ( uk n . ireland) . 1550 111 442 (eire) .  . cost up to 48p per min 

from (james thomas green ) 
subject re internet resources 
article i.d. zeus . 
distribution sci 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 16 

pontificated 
i am taking a course entitled exploring science using internet . 
for our final project , we are to find a compendium of internet resources 
dealing with a science related topic. i chose astronomy .  . anyway , i was 
wondering if anyone out there knew of any interesting resources on internet 
that provide information on astronomy , space , nasa , or anything like that. 


one of the sci . space . faq postings deal with this. it 's archived 
somewhere. perhaps someone can post where it is (i don  
remember) .  . 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i did n't do it ! nobody saw me do it ! you ca n't prove anything ! 
bart simpson 

from  ( tom ) 
subject moonbase race 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 22 

george william herbert sez 

hmm .  . 1 billion , lesse .  .  .  . i can probably launch 100 tons to leo at 
200 million , in five years , which gives about 20 tons to the lunar 
surface one way. say five tons of that is a return vehicle and its 
fuel , a bigger mercury or something  ( might get that as low as two 
tons ) , leaving fifteen tons for a one man habitat and a year 's supplies 
gee , with that sort of mass margins i can build the systems off 
the shelf for about another hundred million tops .  . that leaves 
about 700 million profit .  . i like this idea 8 ) let 's see 
if you guys can push someone to make it happen 8 ) 8 ) 

i like your optimism , george .  . i do n't know about raising that kind 
of dough , but if you need people to split the work and the , you just 
give me a ring ) living alone for a year on the moon sounds horrid , but 
i 'd even try that , if i got a bigger cut. ) 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk as the radius of vision increases , 
336 9591 hm the circumference of mystery grows .  . 


from 
subject urgent email nasa budget 
lines 13 
nntp posting host vax1 . tcd . ie . 
organization trinity college dublin 
lines 13 

what is nasa 's annual budget 
this year will do , a few years back be nice too 
but i need this item fast so emails off the top of your head very 
much appreciated  ( faqs vanish here ! ) .  . 

tony ryan , astronomy space , new international magazine , available from 
astronomy ireland , p.o.box 2888 , dublin 1 , ireland .  . 
6 issues  ( one year sub . ) . uk 10.00 pounds , us 20 surface  ( add us 8 airmail) .  . 
access visa mastercard accepted  ( give number , expiration date , name address) .  . 

 ( world's largest astro .  . soc .  . per capita unless you know better 0 . 034 . ) 
up another notch as of end april 1993 ! 
tel 0891 88 1950  ( uk n . ireland) . 1550 111 442 (eire) .  . cost up to 48p per min 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re long term human missions 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 46 

 ( grungy ) writes 

 ( ward paul) wrote 
1. calculators 
2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 
3.  ( kept my grandfather alive from 1976 until 1988) 

i do n't think contributions is a good idea. world war ii produced 
many many beneficial spinoffs .  . eg. radar , jet , rocket technology. 
i do n't think anyone would argue that world war ii was , in and of itself , 
a good thing. 

if you want people to back the space program it must be a good thing in 
and of itself. 

i disagree with what to tout , although i agree that the space program is 
inherently a good thing. most people today only care about what will it 
cost me and what 's in it for me and could care less about whether 
something is simply worthwhile in and of itself. our society has become 
increasingly geared toward the short term (which you could read as now ! ) .  . 
they could n't care less about next week , much less next century. they want 
something to show for the expenditure and they want it now . 

i think to some extent this is a case of to their level. you assume 
that the general public ca n't handle the truth and then , based on this 
assumption , go for the arguments .  . then someone , who can understand a 
good argument , comes along and asks why do n't you just develop the spinoffs 
or why ca n't we just get our spinoffs from some other program , like the 
military there are some good arguments for space development without relying 
on its side effects. i'm not ignoring the value of spinoffs .  . i simply think 
that the general public deserves more credit than you give them. 

btw do n't forget velcro .  .  .  . 

and if you 're going to use spinoffs you better make darn sure you are right. 
teflon has been around since before nasa .  . as i understand it , velcro was 
conceptualized by a french doctor who went walking in the woods and took the 
trouble to wonder how stick to your clothes. certainly velcro was 
available on hiking equipment by the early to mid sixties .  . i would need to 
see some good evidence before i believe that either of these would not be here 
today without nasa .  . 


josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from  ( andy cohen ) 
subject report on redesign team 
organization mda w 
lines 172 
distribution world 
nntp posting host q5022531 . mdc . com . 

the following is what they feed to us .  .  .  .  .  . most has been posted already , 
but there are a number of items not seen here yet .  .  .  .  .  . 

redesign activities update following is the weekly status on redesign , 
based on information provided by nasa headquarters .  . 

the station redesign team  ( srt ) provided a detailed status report to the 
advisory committee on the redesign of the space station on april 22. the 
day long meeting was held in anser facilities in crystal city , va topics 
covered by the srt included a preliminary mission and goals statement for 
the space station science , technology and engineering research the 
assessment process and the design approach. discussions on management 
options and operations concepts also were held .  . 

the design teams then presented the three options under study 

option a modular buildup pete priest presented the a option. priest 
said the team is working to define a station that meets cost goals and has 
identified three distinct phases of evolution power station , human tended 
and permanent presence .  . the team will define the minimum capability needed 
to achieve each phase , the total cost of each phase and the achievable 
capability for budget levels. the a option uses current or simplified 
freedom hardware where cost effective and is considering other existing 
systems such as the so called bus 1 spacecraft , the orbiter and  . 

the power station capability could be achieved in 3 flights with freedom 
photo modules providing 20 kw of power. 30 day shuttle 
missions docked to the power station are assumed for this phase .  . 

human tended capability would be provided by the addition of the u.s. 
common module module which adds subsystems and 9 payload racks and docking 
ports for esa and japanese laboratories .  . 60 day missions with the orbiter 
docked to the station are assumed for this phase .  . different 
operation utilization modes are being studied for this phase .  . 

option b freedom derived mike griffin presented the status of option 
b activities. griffin detailed the evolution of the freedom derived option , 
from initial research capability , to human tended capability , to permanent 
human presence capability , to two fault tolerance , and finally permanent 
human capability .  . griffin also outlined proposed systems changes to the 
baseline program , with minor changes to the communications and tracking 
system , crew health care system and , and a major change to the data 
management system. 

initial research capability would be achieved with 2 flights to 28 . 5 . degree 
inclination (3 flights to 51.6 degrees ) and consist of an extended duration 
orbiter combination docked to a truss segment with 2 photo 
arrays providing 18 . 75 . kw of power. 

human tended capability would be achieved in 6 flights and add truss 
segments and the u.s. lab. 

permanent human presence capability would be achieved in 8 flights with two 
orbiters providing habitation and assured crew return. 

two fault tolerance , achieved in 11 flights , would build out the other 
section of truss with another set of pv modules , thermal control and 
propulsion systems. 

the freedom derived configuration could achieve an international complete 
state with 16 flights .  . three more flights , to bring up the habitat module , 
a third pv array and two assured crew return vehicles  ( acrv ) would complete 
the permanent human capability with international stage. 

griffin told the redesign advisory committee that eliminating hardware 
would not , by itself , meet budget guidelines for the freedom derived 
option. major reductions or must occur in other areas including 
program management , contractor non hardware , early utilization and 
operations costs , he said. 

option c launch core station chet vaughn presented option c , 
the single launch core station concept. a shuttle external tank and solid 
rocket boosters would be used to launch the station into orbit .  . shuttle 
main engines would be mounted to the tail of the station module for launch 
and jettisoned after et separation .  . 

the module , 23 feet in diameter and 92 feet long , would provide 26 , 000 
cubic feet of pressured volume , separated into 7 decks connected by a 
centralized passageway .  . seven berthing ports would be located at various 
places on the circumference of the module to place the international 
modules , and other elements. this can would have two fixed photo 
arrays producing approximately 40 kw of power flying in a solar 
attitude. 

in his closing comments to the redesign advisory committee , bryan o'connor 
said a design freeze would be established for the 3 options on april 26 so 
that detailed costing of the options can begin. the next meeting with the 
redesign advisory committee will be may 3. 

russian consultants arrive in u.s. a delegation of 16 russian space 
experts arrived in the u.s. on april 21 and briefings to the srt by members 
of the russian team began on the 22nd .  . the group includes russian space 
agency general director y. m. , and v. a. , also of the rsa .  . 
others on the team include representatives from the ministry of defense , 
the design bureau , the institute of biomedical problems , the 
ministry of foreign affairs , npo energia and  . the russian team 
briefed the srt on environmental control and life support system , docking 
systems , the proton launch vehicle , mir operations and utilization , and the 
soyuz tm spacecraft .  . 

the russian consultants are available to the srt to assess the capabilities 
of the mir space station , and the possible use of mir and other russian 
capabilities and systems as part of the space station redesign .  . they will 
be available to the srt through may 5. 

management and operations review continues work continued in the srt 
subgroups .  . the management group under dr. walt brooks is working to 
develop a family of options that solve the current problems and build a 
foundation for the transition to development and operations .  . various 
management options have been developed including 

lead center with the center director in the programmatic chain of 
command. 

host center with the program manager reporting directly to an associate 
administrator .  . 

skunk works dedicated program office with a small dedicated co located 
hand picked program office. 

combine space station with shuttle , with the space station becoming an 
element of the current program. 

major tune up to current organization , with current contracts and 
geographical distribution maintained but streamlined .  . 

the operations group under dr. john cox is building on the work of the 
operations phase assessment team lead by gene of nasa jsc , which had 
already begun a comprehensive review of operations and had concluded in its 
preliminary results that significant cost reductions are possible. 

as part of its work , the operations group has identified teams of agency 
experts to develop detailed evaluations of each design in the areas of 
assembly and operations , utilization , maintenance and logistics and testing 
and ground operations .  . 

what 's in the week ahead the design support teams will provide a 
comprehensive status of their option to the station redesign team on monday 
and tuesday at which point the design will be frozen to begin the 
detailed cost assessment .  . also this week , the team will begin preparing 
for the next round of discussions with the redesign advisory committee , to 
be held may 3. 

dr. shea steps down dr. joe shea stepped down as director of the 
station redesign team on april 22 and bryan o'connor will take over the 
activities of the team. dr. shea submitted his resignation as assistant 
deputy administrator for space station analysis , but will continue to serve 
as a special advisory to nasa administrator goldin and be available to 
consult with the srt .  . mr goldin accepted the resignation so that a request 
from dr. shea to reduce his workload could be accommodated .  . 

key milestones the key dates for the srt as they are currently being 
carried on the schedule are 

april 26 
design freeze on options for costing 

april 27 
design support team present selected options to srt 

may 3 
status report to redesign advisory committee 

may 15 
interim report by redesign advisory committee 

june 7 
final report to redesign advisory committee 


 . 31 cancellation  .  .  .  .  . just . my opinion .  .  . 


from  ( gregory n. bond ) 
subject re death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion to .  .  .  . 
in reply to 's message of 22 apr 93 16 25 01 0500 
nntp posting host baby 
organization burdett , young , melbourne , australia 
lines 17 

in article writes 

... so how about this give the winning group 
(i ca n't see one company or corp doing it) a 10 , 20 , or 50 year 
moratorium on taxes .  . 

you are talking about the bozos who ca n't even manage in november to 
keep promises about taxes made in october , and you expect them to make 
 ( and keep ! ) a 50 year promise like that your faith in the political 
system is much higher than mine. i would n't even begin to expect that 
in australia , and we do n't have corruption like you 
do. 

gregory bond burdett young ltd melbourne australia 
knox 's 386 is slick .  . fox in sox , on knox 's box 
knox 's box is very quick. plays lots of lsl .  . he 's sick ! 
 ( apologies to john iron bar mackin . ) . 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 16 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
no , the thing is designed to be retrievable , in a pinch .  . indeed , this 
dictated a rather odd design for the solar arrays , since they had to be 
as well as extendable .  .  .  . 

why not design the solar arrays to be detachable .  . if the shuttle is going 
to the hst , what bother are some arrays .  .  .  . 

they can be detached in an emergency .  . but expensive hardware is not thrown 
away casually  ( bearing in mind that nobody knew the design was  . 
if the deployment crew had found some nasty flaw the lid failing to open , 
for example it would have been a bit embarrassing to have to throw the 
solar arrays away to get the thing back in the payload bay. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( ethan bradford ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
article i.d. 




organization u. of washington 
lines 46 
nntp posting host astro . washington . edu . 
to  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
in reply to 's message of 28 apr 93 15 07 43 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

this does not propose a mechanism for grbs in the oort  ( and , no , 
anti matter annihilation does not fit the spectra at least as far 
as i understand annihilation spectra .  .  . ) .  . big difference. 
that 's ignoring the question of how you fit a distribution 
to the oort distribution when the oort distribution is not well 
known in particular comet (which are not well known) 
are not a good measure of the oort cloud distribution .  .  .  . 

merging neutron stars is at least a mechanism with about the right 
energy , except it does n't explain why there is no apparent correlation 
with galaxies or galaxy structure , there is no mechanism for getting 
all the energy out in gamma rays  ( with any significant amount of 
around there will be a lot of pair production , which makes a 
plasma , which the energy ) , it has trouble generating 
enough energy to explain the most powerful bursts (10 52 53 ergs ) , it 
happens too fast compared to the burst duration , and it is hard to 
make tight binaries of neutron stars. 

another cosmological is the conversion of a 
neutron star to a strange star or the merger of two strange stars , but 
that uses pretty far out physics .  . 

my point is that we do n't have a good mechanism at any distance , so 
grb 's are likely to be happening by an unknown mechanism , so we ca n't 
rule out the oort cloud .  . what would be the spectrum of an event which 
converts a comet to strange matter the spectra for primordial black 
holes eating comets and antimatter comets colliding with matter comets 
are n't quite right , but perhaps there is an unusual mechanism which 
modifies the spectrum .  . the energy matches very well for both of these 
mechanisms .  . according to trevor weeks , if the meteorite 
was a mini black hole collision with the earth , then there are likely 
to be enough mini black holes around that the rate for bh comet 
collisions matches the grb rate well. 

the fact that we do n't know the distribution of comets in the oort 
cloud is n't a reason to rule them out it makes it harder to rule them 
out. the point of the cited paper was that if we assume they got the 
right distribution for the oort cloud , it is hard but not impossible 
to match that up with the distribution of grb 's .  . if they got the 
wrong distribution for the oort cloud , they ca n't any oort 
cloud grb 's at all. 

executive summary we do n't know enough to rule out out the oort 
cloud .  . 

from  ( matthew deluca ) 
subject re boeing  ( was words from chairman of boeing ) 
organization the grey captains 
lines 13 
nntp posting host oit . gatech . edu . 

in article (richard a. schumacher ) writes 

in other words , boeing is not seriously thinking about 
reliable , less expensive access to orbit .  . they just like 
to fool around with exotic airplanes .  . 

this presupposes that no supersonic aircraft spacecraft can be reliable 
or low cost. this is unproven .  . 

matthew deluca 
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332 
uucp ... ! , hplabs , , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! matthew 
internet 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re i want that billion 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 18 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
... c'mon .  . allen is telling us how cheap we can get improved this 
or that .  .  .  . 

sure , you can get a launcher fairly cheap if you do it privately 
rather than as a gummint project. but we 're still talking about something 
that will cost nine digits per launch , unless you can guarantee a large 
market to justify volume production. 

let 's make a deal ! if you 're going to put up a billion , i 'd want to budget 
the whole for 450 600 million. if i have that much money to throw 
around in the first place , you betcha i'm going to sign a contract committing 
to volume production .  .  .  . 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from (robert bunge ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization express access online communications service , greenbelt , maryland usa 
lines 44 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
(robert bunge ) writes 

it 's vandalism because many people power companies do maliciously waste light. 

maliciously implies evil intent .  . the lighting companies are n't going out 
of their way to spoil the sky. they just do n't care. 

if they can sell you 
or your city or your state an unshielded light that wastes 30 to 50 percent 
of its light , they make more money . never mind that your money is wasted .  . 

it is the responsibility of the customer to choose the most efficient hardware. 
if that 's what your city will buy , that 's what the lighting company will sell. 
write a letter to city hall .  . 

that 's fine idea , but it only works if the lighting power company even bothers to supply good light fixtures .  . for instance , a power company in virginia 
recently asked a state commission for permission to sell more lights of various 
type. yet , all of the different fixture that they sold and wanted to sell 
were bad designs one that wasted the light. thus , you could n't even buy 
a good light from them. in most places , to get a good light , you have to 
either order it special at high cost or call a store in arizona .  . at some 
point , society starts to make rules. cars have to pass safety tests. 
companies have to meet pollution standards , etc .  .  . there are two ways to achieve this educate the public so that they demand good lighting or force code 
down the lighting companies backs .  . history seems to suggest that the latter 
is more likely to work. 


please note that i'm not defending light pollution .  . the focus of 
this thread was space based light sources. 

agreed , so i wo n't respond again. it 's important for all you out 
there to realize that some people will object to various wild ideas that 
have been presented .  . just like congress , it would be best to consult 
the astronomers lovers of the night sky before you try some pr stunt 
to boost public knowledge about space. 


josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

bob bunge 


from (richard a. schumacher ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
nntp posting host starman . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 10 

in cfa . harvard . edu . cfa . harvard . edu .  ( steve willner ) writes 

cooked if that were the case. in any event , the energy density of 
starlight comes out about the same as that of the microwave 
background , and i believe that to be correct . ) . 


yeah , what about that is this just a weird coincidence  ( and 
let 's not see all the same hands this time , ) . 


from (david m. palmer ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters how energetic could they be 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 17 
nntp posting host alumni . caltech . edu . 

 ( pat ) writes 

in article writes 
energetic for close by. for the coronal model , we found around 10 43 erg sec. 
and lastly , for the cosmological model an l 10 53 .  . that 's what you 'd call 
moderately energetic , i 'd say. any suggestions about what could put out that 
much energy in one second 
jeremy 

big capacitor ) real big capacitor .  . 

it 's been suggested .  .  ( specifically , lightning strikes between clouds 
in the interstellar medium . ) . 


david m. palmer 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters how energetic could they be 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article writes 
energetic for close by. for the coronal model , we found around 10 43 erg sec. 
and lastly , for the cosmological model an l 10 53 .  . that 's what you 'd call 
moderately energetic , i 'd say. any suggestions about what could put out that 
much energy in one second 
jeremy 


big capacitor ) real big capacitor .  . 

pat 

from  ( bill higgins beam jockey ) 
subject revival of san marco  ( was re commercial space news 22) 
organization fermi national accelerator laboratory 
lines 31 
nntp posting host fnalf . fnal . gov . 

in article , writes 
commercial space news space technology investor number 22 
... 
this might point out some key discriminators in judging the 
feasibility of a commercial launch site. these include 
is there an identified key customer to provide core usage 
sufficient to recover setup costs 
is there a market advantage of using the site 
can existing infrastructure be used or modified at the site 
can financing be found at low enough cost to support the 
investment 
other commercial launch site ventures including those at 
, poker flat , cape york , white sands , alabama off shore 
platform , hawaii , and vandenberg have to also be judged against 
these criteria .  . in my opinion , some of these ventures are flying 
on hope and speculation , and not on sound financial grounds .  . 

this reminds me .  .  .  . my fuzzy brain recalls that somebody was thinking 
of the san marco launch platform off the coast of , 
where the copernicus satellite was launched around 1972 .  . is this 
true , or am i it possibly it 's connected with one of the 
italian programs to revive the scout in a new version. 

that old platform must be getting pretty rusty , and there ai n't a lot 
of infrastructure to go with it .  .  .  . 

bill higgins , beam jockey we 'll see you 
fermi national accelerator laboratory at white sands in june .  . 
bitnet you bring your view graphs , 
internet and i 'll bring my rocketship .  . 
span 43011 higgins col. pete worden on the dc x 

from  ( bob combs ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization sed , stanford telecom , reston , va 22090 
lines 28 

picture our universe floating like a log 
in a river. as the log floats down the 
river , it occasionally strikes rocks , the 
bank , the bottom , other logs .  . when this 
occurs , kinetic energy is translated into heat , the 
log degrades , gets up , and other energy 
occur .  . the distribution of damage to 
the log depends on the shape of the log .  . 

however , to a very small virus in a mite on the head of a 
in the center of the log , the shock waves from the 
would appear uniformly random in direction. 

this is my theory for grb .  . they are evidence of our universe 
interacting with other universes ! why not ! makes 
just as much sense as the grb coming from the oort cloud ! 

the log theory of universes ca n't be ruled out ! 

of course , i'm a layman in the physics world. you 
physicists out there , tell me about this ! ! ! ! 


bob combs 
astronautical engineer , 
stanford telecom 
. 


from  ( larry krumenaker ) 
subject ranking of space mailing list 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 13 

about three weeks ago on the space list , someone was quoting a source on the 
relative traffic and rankings of this listserv .  . a figure of 88th in 
 ( traffic ) was given. unfortunately i did not clip the message and i would 
like to know the source of the rankings list. if anybody still has that 
discussion on their disk or knows the source  ( or is the poster himself ! ) 
i 'd appreciate getting that reference. being on the road i have temporarily 
unsubscribed to the list to cut down mail box stuffing g so please reply 
via e mail to or or i wo n't get your 
answer ! 

larry 
odyssey magazine 


from 
subject re long term space and effect newsgroup 
reply to 
organization lmsc , sunnyvale , california 
lines 71 

in article ,  ( ken hayashida ) writes 

the first item of business is to establish the importance space life 
sciences in the whole of scheme of humankind .  . i mean compared 
to football and baseball , the average joe schmoe does n't seem interested 
or even curious about spaceflight .  . 

i disagree. it think the average joe is interested curious about spaceflight 
but sees it as an elitist activity. not one which he is ever going to 
participate in. 

all of us , in our own way , can contribute to a comprehensive document 
which can be released to the general public around the world. the 
document would scientifically analyze the technical aspects of long 
term human habitation in space. 

why is the general public going to be interested in the technical details 
of long term space habitation i like the idea of the study , but it should 
be released to other scientists and engineers who will be able to use it. 
if you want a general public document , you 'll need a more general publication .  . 

i believe that if any long term space exploration program is to 
succeed we need to basically learn how to engineer our own 
(i . e .  . the  . only through the careful analyses of engineering , 
chemical , biological , and medical factors will a good be created 
to facilitate human life on a long duration flight. 

as one working on controlled ecological life support systems , engineering 
the is n't the problem. the problem is understanding the basic 
chemical , biological and medical factors to be able to engineer them 
efficiently .  . for example , the only way we know how to produce food is from 
plants and animals. food synthesis is not very far advanced .  . so we have 
to orbit a farm .  . well that 's obviously not very efficient , so we use 
technology to reduce the mass and grow plants instead of 
using dirt .  . this is where the engineering comes in. but new technologies 
bring new basic questions that we do n't have the answers to. like , in 
dirt we can grow tomatoes and lettuce right beside each other , but in 
it turns out that you ca n't do that. the lettuce growth is 
stunted when it 's grown in the same solution as tomatoes .  . so 
now you have to consider what other plants are going to have similar 
interactions .  . this means some basic applied scientific research. and that 's 
what needs to be done with all technologies that have been developed so far. 
we also need to find out how they interact together. that 's where we are now. 

so , i would like to see posts of opinions regarding the most objective 
methods to analyze the accepted scientific literature for technologies 
which can be applied to long duration spaceflight .  . 

first you need to do the literature search. there is a lot of information 
out there. maybe we should just pick a specific area of long term habitation .  . 
this could be useful , especially if we make it available on the net. then 
we can look at methods of analyzing the technologies .  . 

such a detailed 
literature search would be of interest to ourselves as space advocates 
and clearly important to existing space programs. 
in essence , we would be dividing the space life science issues into 
various technical problems which could be solved with various technologies .  . 
this database of acceptable solutions to various problems could form the 
basis of detailed discussions involving people from the , , 
and any other source ! 

unless there is an unbelievable outpouring of interest on this on the net , 
i think we should develop a detailed data base of the literature search 
first. then if we accomplish that we can go on to real analysis. the data 
base itself could be useful for future engineers .  . 

that 's my response ken , what do you think 

tim 


from  ( mad vlad ) 
subject satellite capabilities patriot games 
organization nat'l inst of health 
lines 20 

hello netters , 

i'm new to this board and i thought this might be the best place 
for my post. i have a question regarding satellite technology seen 
in the movie patriot games. in the movies , the cia utilizes its 
orbitting sats to pinpoint a specific terrorist camp in n africa .  . 
the photos taken by the sats are stunning ! i know that sats are 
capable of photographing the license plates of vehicles .  . my 
question is this the camp in question was taken out by the 
british sas .  . and while the sas was in action , the cia team was 
watching in the back in langley , va. the action of the sas 
was clear and appeared to be relayed via a sat. the action was at 
night and the photography appeared to be an x ray type. that is , 
one could see the action within the tents structures of the camp. 
does such exist and what is it 's nature i.e. , uv , ir , 
x ray , etc. 

ps who wrote the book patriot games 

mad vlad 

from (erik max francis ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
organization the dark side of the moon 1 408 245 spam 
lines 18 

 ( henry spencer ) writes 

does anyone have a reference  ( something i can look up , not just your own 
recollections i have a few of those myself) on the temperature of the 
 ( night ) sky as seen from space 

the temperature of intergalactic space  ( or or 
space) would be very , very close to the microwave 
background temperature , 2 . 73 .  . i recall that in interstellar 
space in our neighborhood of the galaxy it 's something like 4 k. 

is that what you were looking for 


erik max francis , ... ! apple ! ! max 
1070 dr. 1 san jose , ca 95117 icbm 37 20 n 121 53 w 
if you like strategic games of interstellar conquest , ask about universe ! 
 (  ) omnia quia sunt , sunt .  . all things that are , are lights.  (  ) 

from (ron baalke ) 
subject galileo update 04 29 93 
keywords galileo , jpl 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 134 
nntp posting host kelvin . jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

forwarded from neal , galileo mission director 

galileo 
mission director status report 
post launch 
april 23 29 , 1993 

spacecraft 

1. on april 22 and 23 , delta one way range  ( dor ) passes were 
performed over dss 14 63  ( goldstone madrid 70 meter antennas ) and dss 14 43 
 ( goldstone canberra 70 meter antennas ) , respectively .  . initial results 
indicate the delta pass on april 22 was unsuccessful due to ground 
station hardware problems but the one on april 23 was successfully performed .  . 

2. on april 23 , a cruise science memory readout  ( mro ) was performed for the 
magnetometer  ( mag ) instrument .  . analysis indicates the data was received 
properly. 

3. on april 23 , the spare power relay contacts were commanded closed via the 
spacecraft stored sequence .  . these relays were commanded closed by the cds 
 ( command data subsystem ) prior to launch and were again commanded closed to 
preclude the possibility at jupiter of the pps relays wiring being a 
source of internal electrostatic charge  . 

4. on april 26 , cruise science memory readouts  ( mro ) were performed for the 
extreme ultraviolet spectrometer  ( euv ) , dust detector  ( dds ) , and magnetometer 
 ( mag ) instruments .  . preliminary analysis indicates the data was received 
properly. 

5. during the period from april 26 to april 27 , a navigation cycle was 
performed .  . this navigation cycle provided near continuous acquisition of 
two way doppler and ranging data during three consecutive passes of the 
spacecraft over dss 63 , dss 14 , and dss 43 .  . 

6. on april 26 , real time commands were sent to test slew the radio relay 
antenna  ( rra ) in preparation for the mini sequence slew test on april 28. 
the rra was from approximately 3.5 degrees from stow to approximately 
20 . 3 . degrees. preliminary analysis indicated the antenna to about 18 
degrees which was well within the predicted range. the rra was commanded back 
to approximately 15.2 degrees from stow .  . preliminary analysis indicated the 
antenna reached about 15.8 degrees also well within the predicted range. the 
rra motor temperature was at 1 degree c at the start of the activity and had 
increased to 1.6 degrees c at its completion .  . 

after verifying proper rra , the rra slew test mini sequence was 
uplinked to the spacecraft for execution on april 28. upon successful uplink , 
a delayed action command  ( dac ) was sent which will reposition the on 
may 4 to its initial pre test position. also , a dac was sent to turn the 
two way  ( twnc ) on april 28 prior to the start of the rra slew test 
mini sequence .  . 

7. on april 27 , a no op command was sent to reset the command loss timer to 
264 hours , its planned value during this mission phase .  . 

8. on april 28 , the rra slew test executed nominally .  . the spacecraft under 
stored sequence control performed six rra starting at about 16 degrees 
from stow and going to 53 degrees , back to 25 degrees , then to 51 degrees , 
back to 22 degrees , then to 48 degrees and then back to 21 degrees. all of 
the were well within the predicted range. the rra motor temperature was 
at 2.3 degrees c at the start of the activity and had increased to 4.4 
degrees c at its completion .  . after completion of the rra , real time 
commands were sent to reconfigure back to the pre test configuration .  . 

9. the ac dc bus imbalance measurements have not exhibited significant change 
 ( greater than 25 dn ) throughout this period. the ac measurement reads 17 dn 
(3 . 9 . volts) .  . the dc measurement reads 134 dn (15 . 7 . volts) .  . these 
measurements are consistent with the model developed by the ac dc special 
anomaly team. 

10. the spacecraft status as of april 29 , 1993 , is as follows 

a) system power margin 75 watts 
b) spin configuration dual spin 
c) spin rate sensor 3 . 15rpm . star scanner 
d ) spacecraft attitude is approximately 23 degrees 
off sun  ( lagging ) and 4 degrees off earth  ( leading ) 
e) downlink telemetry rate antenna  ( 40bps(coded ) lga 1 
f ) general thermal control all temperatures within 
acceptable range 
g) rpm tank pressures all within acceptable range 
h ) orbiter science instruments powered on are the pws , 
euv , uvs , epd , mag , hic , and dds 
i) probe powered off , temperatures within 
acceptable range 
j ) cmd loss timer setting 264 hours 
time to initiation 203 hours 


gds  ( ground data systems) 

1. the first galileo gds test of the v18 . 0 . command system  ( cmd ) took 
place april 27 , 1993 with dss 61  ( madrid 34 meter antenna) .  . the test went 
well and demonstrated that the new command system interfaced with the new dsn 
 ( deep space network) group 5 command processor assembly  . the test was 
successful and the next test for v18 . 0 . cmd is scheduled for may 1 , 1993 with 
dss 15  ( goldstone 34 meter antenna) .  . 

2. the april system engineers monthly  ( report(semr ) ground system development 
office  ( gsdo ) was conducted thursday , april 29. a review of current 
project and institutional  ( dsn and moso ) system status was conducted .  . on going 
cruise development plus the phase 1 and 2 delivery schedules , past months 
accomplishments and potential problem areas were discussed .  . no significant 
schedule changes or significant problems were reported .  . 


trajectory 

as of noon thursday , april 29 , 1993 , the galileo spacecraft trajectory 
status was as follows 

distance from earth 187 , 745 , 300 km (1 . 26 . au) 
distance from sun 296 , 335 , 800 km (1 . 98 . au) 
heliocentric speed 89 , 100 km per hour 
distance from jupiter 522 , 015 , 800 km 
round trip light time 20 minutes , 58 seconds 

special topic 

1. as of april 29 , 1993 , a total of real time commands have been 
transmitted to galileo since launch .  . of these , were initiated in the 
sequence design process and 5109 initiated in the real time command process. 
in the past week , 74 real time commands were transmitted 73 were initiated 
in the sequence design process and one initiated in the real time command 
process. major command activities included commands to perform the initial 
rra slew test , uplink the rra slew test mini sequence , to reposition the 
and turn the on , reset the command loss timer , and execute the 
rra slew test. 

ron baalke 
jet propulsion lab 
) m s 525 3684 telos the from new zealand 
pasadena , ca 91109 is part caterpillar and 
part vegetable .  . 

from (t .  . joseph lazio ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization department of astronomy , cornell university 
lines 29 
bedfellow . mit . edu . 
reply to 
nntp posting host seti . tn . cornell . edu . 
summary galaxy is transparent .  . 
keywords galaxy gamma rays 
in reply to 's message of 26 apr 1993 15 37 32 gmt 

on 26 apr 1993 15 37 32 gmt , (john f carr ) said 

if gamma ray bursters are extragalactic , would absorption from the 
galaxy be expected how transparent is the galactic core to gamma 
rays 

and later .  .  .  . 
jim ( ) said 

jb so , if the 1 r 2 law is incorrect  ( assume 
jb some unknown material dark matter inhibits gamma ray propagation ) , 
jb could it be possible that we are actually seeing much less energetic 
jb events happening much closer to us the even distribution could 
jb be caused by the characteristic propagation distance of gamma rays 
jb being shorter then 1 2 the thickness of the disk of the galaxy .  . 


0. 

well , maybe not zero , but very little. at the typical energies for 
gamma rays , the galaxy is effectively transparent .  . 

hans had a review article in ann .  . rev.  . astrophys .  . a few 
years back in which he discusses this in more depth .  . 

e mail 
t. joseph phone  ( 607 ) 255 
icbm 42 deg. 20  08 n 76 deg. 28  48 w 
cornell knows i exist ! stop rape 

subject re what planets are 
from 
distribution sci 
organization eds , gds solutions , cambridge , uk 
nntp posting host 
nntp posting user 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( doug loss ) writes 
in article  ( jonathan p. gibbons ) writes 

i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet for humans. 
i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere evolve given a range 
of physical aspects of the planet. the question is what physical aspects 
simply earth like conditions. 
deleted 


dandridge cole and isaac asimov collaborated on a book titled , 
planets for man (i think) in 1964 .  . it should be available 
in most good libraries , or through inter library loan .  . 


this is the high school science version the original rand study by 
stephen h dole planets for man gives the harder numbers graphs 
such  ( but predates michael hart 's ( later) work on continuously 
zones ) 

from (r .  . lee hawkins ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
nntp posting host annie . wellesley . edu . 
organization wellesley college 
lines 48 

because of his credibility as an astronomer .  . modern , 
ground based , visible light astronomy  ( what these proposed 
orbiting billboards would upset ) is already a dying field the 

ahh , perhaps that 's why we 've  ( astronomers ) have just built 2 10 meter 
ground based scopes and are studying designs for larger ones. 
seriously , though , you 're never going to get a 10 meter scope into orbit 
as cheaply as you can build one on the ground , and with adaptive optics 
and a good site , the difference in quality is narrowed quite a bit 
anyway. also , scopes in low orbit  ( like hubble ) can only observe things 
continuously for 45 minutes at a time , which can be a serious 
limitation .  . 

and distortions caused by the atmosphere itself have 
driven most of the field to use radio , far infrared or space based 
telescopes .  . in any case , a bright point of light passing through 
the field does n't ruin observations .  . if that were the case , the 

i sure as hell does if the  point of light  is half a degree in extent 
and as bright as the moon. have you ever noticed how much brighter the 
night sky is on a night 


thousands of existing satellites would have already done so  ( satelliets 
might not seem so bright to the eyes , but as far as astronomy is concerned , 
they are extremely bright . ) . 

existing satellites are points of light , but an advertising sign that 
appeared as a point would be useless , so i rather think these will 
appear larger than a  typical  satellite .  . also , satellite tracks are 
ruining lots of plates in the current palomar sky survey .  . 

frank crary 
cu boulder 

what are you in anyway , philosophy you obviously are not 
qualified to speak about astronomy .  .  .  . 

lee 

r. lee hawkins 
department of astronomy 
observatory 
wellesley college ph. 617 283 
wellesley , ma fax 617 283 




from  ( ata etemadi ) 
subject re 
organization imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , london , england 
lines 33 
nntp posting host prawn . sp . ph . 

in article , wingo writes 
in article heidelberg . de . , heidelberg . de .  ( georg tuparev ) writes .  .  .  . 


announcement the project for nextstep 

i know this is kinda off the subject of sci . space . , but not really , i want to 
answer this for their , as well as everyone else 's information. what these 
people are proposing , by and large already exists and can be purchased today. 

it is called labview by national instruments .  . it is a wonderful object 
it is a wonderful object oriented graphical programming language. 
some lines deleted 

i am afraid you are mis directed .  . nextstep is an operating system as opposed to 
a package. i have read a little about it but since steve jobs does not seem to 
have the marketing capabilities of bill gates my info. is limited .  . probably why 
the far inferior windows nt is going to be more widely distributed  ( but that 
is another flame ridden story) .  . some of the innovative features of nextstep are 
binary compatibility across platforms (eg you can just copy your program from 
a sparc to a pc and it would run , as opposed to buying the version of the package 
ported to a pc) , graphical object oriented design  ( its all postscript ) , 
supports parallel processing , and best of all it is based around 
the mach micro kernel so you can make it look like unix with x , or dos , or nt or 
even vms if you feel the need. no package out there comes even close. i hope 
people will subscribe to the project and nextstep finally 
takes off in my lifetime ) 

mail dr ata etemadi , laboratory , 
space and atmospheric physics group , 
imperial college of science , technology , and medicine 
internet arpanet earn bitnet or 
span or 

from 
subject re hst servicing mission 
lines 10 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 

after all the space walking , they are going to re boost the hst 's 
orbit .  . i think right now it 's sitting at 180 miles up , 
they would like 220 .  . 

where did that idea come from it 's news to me. 

ben 


from  ( don m. gibson ) 
subject re long term human missions 
nntp posting host lexus 
reply to 
organization motorola semiconductor products sector 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( grungy ) writes 
 ( ward paul) wrote 
1. calculators 
2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 
3.  ( kept my grandfather alive from 1976 until 1988) 

i think we should tell them about the things that they are using now that 
are spinoffs of the space program. that is the only way you can prove 
its worth to them and they vote and pay taxes too. the continued 
existence of the space program relies upon that money. 

just my .02 

btw do n't forget velcro .  .  .  . 

at least be honest. velcro (tm) dates from the 40 's .  . i have doubts 
about everything listed above. just because it was developed in the 
space age , does n't mean it was a space spin off. 

btw do n't forget tang .  .  .  . ) 
dong 

from (david ward ) 
subject re command loss timer  ( re galileo update 04 22 93) 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
keywords galileo , jpl 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( jim cobban ) writes .  .  .  . 
having read in the past about the fail safe mechanisms on spacecraft , i had 
assumed that the command loss timer had that sort of function. however i 
always find disturbing the oxymoron of a no op command that does something. 
if the command changes the behavior or status of the spacecraft it is not 
a no op command. 

i know its semantics , but the no op does n't do anything. the 
command loss timer is simply looking for a command , any command. a 
no op is simply a spacecraft command that drops bits into the big 
bit bucket in the sky. no op also get used as to provide 
millisecond delays between command sequences  ( used on the thruster 
on gro , er , compton ) and to verify command links at the beginning of 
events. all in all , a rather useful command. and , an intelligent 
fdc test on galileo (the command loss  . 

david w. @ gsfc 
 ( still looking for gro data , even though i'm the wrong david ) 

from (patrick c. mock ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they 
organization mit center for space research 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 
originator 


in article ,  ( kevin w. plaxco ) writes 
in article (david ward ) writes 

but i believe that there is a fundamental difference here. the other x 
three instruments are focusing instruments , that , more or less , form 
an image , so positional errors are limited by craft attitude and the 
resolving power of the optics .  . batse is an altogether different 
beast , effectively just 8 coincidence counters , one on each corner of 
the craft .  . positional information is triangulated from the 
differential signal arrival times at each of the detectors .  . 

this is not quite right. the differential arrival time 
requires interplanetary to get good positions .  . the 
differential arrival at the eight detectors differ by 10 's of nanoseconds .  . 
this is smaller than batse 's microsecond timing capabilities .  . 
batse , ulysses , and mars are used for this technique. 

each batse detector does not have a full sky field of view. 
the sensitivity of each detector decreases with increasing 
angle of incidence .  . the burst position on the sky is determined by 
comparing the count rates in different detectors .  . 

pat 

from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 20 

in (brian day) writes 

 ( rob douglas ) writes 

... but try to land a shuttle with that big huge telescope in the 
back and you could have problems. the shuttle just is n't designed to land 
with that much weight in the payload .  . 

is hst really that much heavier than a 

i ca n't speak to sheer mass , but part of the problem is that hst 
was n't built to ever be brought back down. it 's not built for those 
kinds of  jolt  forces and there is no support cradle for it (which is 
additional weight that would be required. 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( walker andrew john ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization university of wollongong , nsw , australia .  . 
lines 47 
nntp posting host wampyr . cc . uow . edu . au . 

 ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

in article (keith harwood ) writes 



in article , (david m. palmer ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray bursters are very far away 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

. . . david gives good explaination of the deductions from the isotropic , 
 edged  distribution , to whit , they are either part of the universe or 
part of the oort cloud .  . 

why could n't they be earth centred , with the edge occuring at the edge 
of the i know there is n't any mechanism for them , but there 
is n't a mechanism for the others either. 

what on earth is the 
anyway , before it 's decay the pioneer venus orbiter 
had a gamma ray detector , as does ulysses , they 
detect the brightest bursts that the earth orbit detectors 
do , so the bursts are at least at oort cloud distances .  . 
in principle four detectors spaced out by a few au would 
see parallax if the bursts are of solar system origin .  . 

the problem with oort cloud sources is that absolutely 
no plausible mechanism has been proposed .  . it would have 
to involve new physics as far as i can tell. closest to 
conventional oort sources is a model of b field pinching 
by comets , it 's got too many holes in it to count , but at 
least it was a good try .  .  .  . 

steinn sigurdsson lick observatory 
standard disclaimer 
the laws of gravity are very , very strict 
and you 're just bending them for your own benefit b.b. 1988 

also , if they did come from the oort cloud we would expect to 
see the same from other stars oort clouds .  . 
andrew walker 

from  ( grungy ) 
subject re long term human missions 
organization systems support center , bcm 
lines 36 
nntp posting host j . bcm . tmc . edu . 

in article , 
 ( ward paul) wrote 
1. calculators 
2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 
3.  ( kept my grandfather alive from 1976 until 1988) 

i do n't think contributions is a good idea. world war ii produced 
many many beneficial spinoffs .  . eg. radar , jet , rocket technology. 
i do n't think anyone would argue that world war ii was , in and of itself , 
a good thing. 

if you want people to back the space program it must be a good thing in 
and of itself. 

i disagree with what to tout , although i agree that the space program is 
inherently a good thing. most people today only care about what will it 
cost me and what 's in it for me and could care less about whether 
something is simply worthwhile in and of itself. our society has become 
increasingly geared toward the short term (which you could read as now ! ) .  . 
they could n't care less about next week , much less next century. they want 
something to show for the expenditure and they want it now . 

i think we should tell them about the things that they are using now that 
are spinoffs of the space program. that is the only way you can prove 
its worth to them and they vote and pay taxes too. the continued 
existence of the space program relies upon that money. 

just my .02 

btw do n't forget velcro .  .  .  . 

john gladu 
systems support center baylor college of medicine 
internet voice  ( 713)798 ) 
us mail one baylor plaza , houston , texas 77030 
 . opinions . expressed are just that . obviously .  . 

from 
subject internet resources 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 14 

i am taking a course entitled exploring science using internet . 
for our final project , we are to find a compendium of internet resources 
dealing with a science related topic. i chose astronomy .  . anyway , i was 
wondering if anyone out there knew of any interesting resources on internet 
that provide information on astronomy , space , nasa , or anything like that. 

thanks ! 

keith 

p.o. box 
stockton state college 
pomona , new jersey 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re who is henry spencer anyway 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 16 

in article  ( hans kinwel ) writes 
my god ! you dare posting ! i posed these very questions to mr spencer 
some time ago by email. unfortunately i never received any response. 

apologies .  .  .  . your mail is probably in the pile that arrived just before 
i got sick about a month ago .  .  .  . a reply will appear eventually .  .  .  . 

now , what i really would like to see is an interview with mr spencer .  . a 
magazine  ( photograph ! ) , or even better a tv program. (no ! i want both ! ) 

so far , there have been none  ( unless you count an interview in the amateur 
about the history of netnews , which may be disqualified because 
tac 's budget does n't run to reproducing photos .  .  . ) .  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from (ron baalke ) 
subject mars observer update 04 30 93 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 44 
distribution world 
nntp posting host kelvin . jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords mars observer , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

forwarded from the mars observer project 

mars observer status report 
april 30 , 1993 
11 30 am pdt 

dss 65  ( madrid 34 meter antenna) did not acquire the expected mars observer 
spacecraft signal at the scheduled beginning of track yesterday morning (4 29) 
at approximately 6 00 am. indications were that the spacecraft had entered a 
fault protection mode sometime between that time and receipt of normal 
telemetry at the end of the previous station pass  ( dss 15 goldstone 34 
meter antenna) at approximately 8 00 pm the evening before. entry into 
contingency mode was verified when signal was reacquired and telemetry 
indicated that the spacecraft was sun  . after subsystem engineers 
reported all systems performing nominally , fault protection telemetry modes 
were reconfigured and memory readouts of command system audit queue and 
 ( attitude and control subsystem ) performed .  . these 
readouts verified that contingency mode entry occurred shortly after 1 30 am 
yesterday , 4 29 93 .  . preliminary indications are that a sun ephemeris check 
failure triggered fault protection. however , the flight team will be 
determining the precise cause over the next few days. 

as of last evening , the spacecraft had been commanded back to inertial 
reference and was stable in that mode. the flight team is planning to 
command the spacecraft back to array normal spin state today. 

magnetometer calibration activities had completed prior to contingency 
mode entry. mag calibration data has been recorded on digital tape 
recorders 2 and 3. playback of 2 and 3 , scheduled to be completed 
yesterday , was postponed when contingency mode entry halted flight 
sequence c9 execution .  . the flight team is developing a strategy to restart 
c9 to complete data playback .  . present planning is to perform 
between as soon as wednesday , or as late as friday of next week (5 5 
5 7) , dependent on contingency mode recovery activity. dtr playback will 
be performed via the high gain antenna at 42 , 667 bits per second. upon 
verification of successful dtr , downlink will be maintained at 
the 4k s e rate. 

ron baalke 
jet propulsion lab 
) m s 525 3684 telos the from new zealand 
pasadena , ca 91109 is part caterpillar and 
part vegetable .  . 


from  ( tom o'reilly ) 
subject re commercials on the moon 
organization mars observer tes project , asu , tempe az 
distribution sci . space . 
lines 13 

 ( hans erik martino hansen ) writes 

how about a coca cola logo at the moon , easy way to target billions of 
people. 

arthur c. clarke was way ahead of you on this one .  .  .  . he wrote a short story 
 ( title ) in the 1950s describing exactly your proposal ! 

tom o'reilly 
department of geology 
arizona state university 



from ( frank roussel ) 
subject ftp images astro server 
keywords ftp , astronomy , images , gif 
organization , universite  de i , fr 
lines 23 


i commend everybody to look at the ftp site 
ethernet address 129 . 20 . 128 . 2 . 
in the directory pub images astro 
there are lots of images  ( all of kinds in astronomy subject) 
especially in gif format and a new ! directory of some jpl animations 

for your comfort , readme files in all subdirectories give size and 
description of each image , and a 7 days  newer images  list is in 

note you can connect it as  anonymous  or  ftp  user , then the quota 
for each is 8 users connected in the same time. 
so , if the server responds you connection refused , be patient ! 

2nd note this site is reachable by gopher at 
ethernet address 129 . 20 . 128 . 27 . 
in  divers ftp le ftp du cri images astro' 

if you have any comments , suggestions , problems , 
then you can contact me at e mail  

hope you enjoy it ! 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re dc x publicity 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 11 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 



no. do this. 

have the dc x1 , make an landing at teh 50 yard 
line during the halftime show of this years superbowl .  . 

abc will have more reporters there for that , then at 
any news event. 

pat 

from  ( magnus redin ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization acs at university 
lines 69 

(david fox ) writes 
in the new york times on sunday may 9th in the week in review 
section there was a report of a group called space marketing 
in atlanta , georgia who is planning to put up a one mile wide 
reflective earth orbiting which will appear as large 
and as bright as the moon and carry some sort of advertising .  . 
there was an editorial about this in the times the following 
tuesday .  . 

i realy like this idea , it would be wonderfull to see such a 
big bright on the night sky. i will even promise to 
try to buy whatever product it advertises to help this project. 

please write to space marketing and encourage this project. 
i sadly have enough money to invest in it. 

 . space marketing can be reached at 

attn mike lawson 
public relations dept. 
space marketing 
1495 rd. , suite 600 
, ga 
(404) 442 



space advertisement in low earth orbit is very short term on the 
order of a few years before the orbit  .  ( higher orbits last 
longer . ) . advertisers will certainly be aware of the environmental 
aspects of their advertising .  . fred 's argument is roughly akin to 
saying that it 's bad to cut down trees , so we should n't advertise in 
newspapers. think that through , fred .  . 

picture this our space billboard is a large inflatable structure , 
filled with bio foam instead of gas. it up space 
debris as it orbits , thus cleaning the space environment and bringing 
you the pause that refreshes at the same time. because of the large 
drag coefficient , it will de orbit safely burning up within a 
year. 

embedded in the foam structure is a small re entry vehicle , which does 
not burn up during entry. it contains the electronics and propulsion 
system (which may be refurbished and re used) as well as space science 
experiments proposed and built by high school students in 
advertiser sponsored science  . 

advertisers buy time on the billboard , whose surface is made up of 
tiny mirrors controlled by the avionics package. the avionics can 
reconfigure the mirrors to reflect different messages at different 
parts of the globe. clever programming allows different languages 
to every country. 

during orbital night , the mirrors turn perpendicular to the surface , 
and small lights are revealed .  . the lights spell out messages for all 
to see. 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

here men from the planet earth 
first set foot upon the moon 
july 1969 , a.d. 
we came in peace for all mankind .  . 


magnus academic computer society 
mail magnus , gen , 582 51 link ping , sweden 
phone sweden  ( 0)13 )  ( answering machine) and  ( 0)120 ) 

from (m kel veikko ) 
subject astro ftp list notes 
organization university of helsinki 
lines 27 



hello , all ! 

i apologize , i have n't published my astro ftp list since march .  . 
now i have n't tested all the sites included into the list. i 
would notified all the people , you have stored some older issues 
of my , there are now lots of changes. many sites have gone away 
they either do not exist any more or all the astro stuff have 
removed. 

the job keep this list is very hard , so all the notes and 
ion of changes , new sites , new contents etc. is welcome. 

i would thank all the net people who give me information for the 
newest version. 



regards , 

veikko makela 

computing centre 
univ. of helsinki 
f i n l a n d 


from  ( greg howard ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters how energetic could they be 
organization university of wisconsin astronomy department 
lines 40 
nntp posting host uwast . astro . wisc . edu . 

in article writes 
in article bedfellow . mit . edu . , (john f carr ) writes 


how much energy does a burster put out i know energy depends on 
distance , which is unknown. an answer of the form x ergs per 
megaparsec 2 is ok. 

different spheres r  . cloud radius) , r 22 . the edge of the 
galaxy ) , r 183 . or the edge of the galactic corona , and lastly at a 
r  . 
for a radius of .25 pc , we found an l around 10 32 erg sec. pretty 
energetic for close by. for the coronal model , we found around 10 43 erg sec. 
and lastly , for the cosmological model an l 10 53 .  . that 's what you 'd call 
moderately energetic , i 'd say. any suggestions about what could put out that 
much energy in one second 
jeremy 



put out 10 53 or 10 54 (i forget which , but it 's only an 
order of magnitude .  .  . ) .  . not in gamma rays , though. you 'd get 
all of that into gammas if they were at 9 mpc , but if a decent fraction 
of the sn output was in gammas it could reasonably be extragalactic 
 ( but closer than 9  . i dunno sn theory so well , but i ca n't think 
of how to get many gammas out. maybe i should look it up. 

big radio galaxies can put out 10 46 erg s continually . that 's just 
in the radio .  .  .  . there are a lot of gammas around them , too , but bursts 
nah .  . 

neither of these should be taken as explanations .  .  .  . just trying to show 
that those energies are produced by things we know about. 


greg 





from  ( pat ) 
subject re report on redesign team 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 52 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article cohen  ( andy cohen ) writes 
the following is what they feed to us .  .  .  .  .  . most has been posted already , 
but there are a number of items not seen here yet .  .  .  .  .  . 


the design teams then presented the three options under study 

option a modular buildup pete priest presented the a option. priest 


i do n't think this will work. still the same in space 
integration problems , small modules , especially the bus 1 modules .  . 
the mol would be bigger. 

also , budget problems may end up  . 
a small station wont have the science community support. 

option b freedom derived mike griffin presented the status of option 


program may cut costs , but the basic problems 
with freedom remain .  . in space integration , too many flights 
too build. not enough science  . 

option c launch core station chet vaughn presented option c , 
the single launch core station concept. a shuttle external tank and solid 


essentialy 5 billion to build mir .  . 

i think had nasa locked onto this design , back in 1984 , with 
scarring to support a truss for real expandability , we 'd be looking 
at a flying space station. 

this looks the most realistic , to me , imho , but , i dont know if 
there is enough will power to toss the cdr 'd existing hardware 
and then take a 1 3rd power cut and do it this way. 

the core launch station has a lot of positive ideas. you could stick 
in more hatches for experimental concept modules .  . like the et 
derived workshops .  . or inflatable modules .  . 

pat 
 . 31 cancellation  .  .  .  .  . just . my opinion .  .  . 


sad but true. 

 . killed by mis management. 

pat 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re near miss asteroids (q) 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 4 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


the project in arizona .  . 

pat 

from  ( len evens ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
nntp posting host math . nwu . edu . 
organization dept of math , northwestern univ 
lines 61 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 

if anybody has a strong claim to control of the the night sky , it is 
astronomers .  . check out the common law. in the days when wild lands 
were n't scarce , pioneers laid claim to the land by putting it to 
use , eg clearing and growing a crop .  . even can lay claim to 
the right of passage if if they 've done it for long enough and the 
owners have not complained or taken steps to stop them. usage 
property rights. 

astronomers have been using the night sky for thousands of years 
they own it. 
(eg light polluters ) , they will lose their common law right of ownership .  . 

another consequence of their ownership is that they are free to sell 
it. now , astronomers need money for their work. if light 
polluting billboards and mirrors go up , they will need even 
more money to buy extra image processing equipment , filters , 
space telescopes etc. to get around the problem. 

so , as long as we can define who astronomers are (eg do 
they include amateur astronomers nature lovers ) 
we can set up a system of voluntary consensus to solve this 
dispute , instead invoking bans , regulations , etc. enforced 
by bribed politicians at the point of a gun  ( why do folks always 
think of that sordid solution , we ought to pass a law , to 
solve problems first instead of as a last resort when other 
methods have failed ) 

stuff deleted 
this proposal certainly needs work , but how about working on 
these kind of ideas first before writing there ought to be a law 
letters to our congresscritters let 's give consensus , via 
the free market , a chance to solve this problem. 

jim hart 


would mr. hart please explain how one could get every nation on 
earth and every corporation to agree that astronomers own the 
night sky without  . remember that not every nation 
follows the english common law. in most countries , for most of 
history , it was probably true that the rulers  everything 
not explicitly owned by individuals .  . even in north america , 
where by the principle enunciated , the inhabitants should 
have owned everything , when new arrivals wanted to use land 
and resources , they just took it over. in case mr. hart has n't noticed , 
there is currently a brutal war going on in bosnia about who owns what. 
of course , if some friendly super power were to give an international 
astronomy organization some anti missiles and also agree 
to defend it if attacked , such a proposal might work , but it 
would hardly be non coercive .  . 

some of us nutty environmentalists think it might make sense first 
to try to mobilize public opinion against advertising in space 
and also to use governmental actions  ( like taxing power , for example) 
to discourage them. this of course would be too coercive for 
mr. hart .  . 

leonard evens 708 491 
dept. of mathematics , northwestern univ. , evanston , il 

from 
subject combo propulsion system ! 
lines 9 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

how hard or easy would it be to have a combo mission such as a solar sail on 
the way out to the outer planets , but once in near to orbit to use more normal 
means .  .  . 
seems that everyone talks about using one system and one system only per 
mission , why not have more than one propulsion system or did i miss 
something .  .  . or did it die in committee 

michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 


from cfa . harvard . edu .  ( steve willner ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
organization smithsonian astrophysical observatory , cambridge , ma , usa 
lines 71 



in article , 
 ( stupendous man) writes 
if that 's the case , let me point out that interstellar dust and 
molecules provide many instances of things that are , well , not too far 
from being  . many different observations , including iras 
and cobe , have determined that interstellar dust grain temperatures 
can range from 40k to 150k .  . 

interstellar grains are not at all close to  . the large 
grains have sizes of order 0.1 micron and absorb visible light with 
fair efficiency .  . however , at temperatures below 100 k , 90 of the 
thermal emission will be beyond 22 microns , where radiating 
efficiency is poor. (a small antenna cannot easily radiate at long 
wavelengths . ) . thus the grains must heat up more in order to radiate 
the energy they have absorbed .  . 

moreover , the iras observations had a maximum wavelength of 100 
microns .  . grains colder than 30 k will radiate primarily at longer 
wavelengths , and iras would be relatively insensitive to them. in 
the extreme limit , grains as cold as 5 k will be almost undetectable 
by any conceivable observation .  . 

worse still , iras color temperatures are heavily contaminated by a 
population of small grains .  . these grains have only perhaps 50 
atoms , and when they are hit by a single photon they heat up to 
temperatures of several hundred or 1000 k. of course they cool 
quickly and then stay cold for a while , but when they are radiating 
the characteristic temperature is several hundred k. even a small 
population of these grains can dramatically raise the observed 
average temperature .  . 

a model for local infrared emission consistent with cobe data has 
three components .  . these represent scattered radiation from 
dust  ( color temperature 5500 k ) , thermal emission from dust 
 ( tc 280 k ) , and thermal emission from galactic dust  ( tc 25  . at 
the ecliptic poles , the or factors are 
respectively 1 . 9e . 13 , 4e 8 , and 2e 5. the first two are roughly 
doubled in the ecliptic plane. 

to find the thermal equilibrium temperature , we add up the 
factor times the fourth power of temperature for all components , then 
take the fourth root .  . in the table below , starlight comes from 
allen 's number that stellar emission from the whole sky is equivalent 
to 460 zero mag stars with b v color of 0 . 75 .  . no doubt careful work 
could do much better. (the person who suggested starlight had a 
factor of e 4 must have been remembering wrong. we would be 
cooked if that were the case. in any event , the energy density of 
starlight comes out about the same as that of the microwave 
background , and i believe that to be correct . ) . 

temp .  . dt 4 
microwave background 1 2.7 53 
galactic dust 2e 5 25 8 
dust  ( emission ) 6e 8 280 369 
dust  ( scattering ) 3e 13 5500 275 
starlight 1e 13 5500 92 

797 

the fourth root of 797 is 5.3 k. outside the solar system , the 
result would be 3.5 k. 

i find these results surprising , especially the importance of 
dust , but i do n't see any serious mistakes. 


steve willner phone 617 495 7123 bitnet 
cambridge , ma 02138 usa internet 
member , league for programming freedom contact 

from (george wm turner) 
subject moon image in weather sat image 
lines 14 
nntp posting host astro . indiana . edu . 
reply to (george wm turner) 
organization astronomy indiana university home of 



an image of the moon has been caught in a weather satellite images of the earth. 
it appears in both the 0430 ir and visual images of the earth. 
the gif images can be down loaded from vmd . cso . uiuc . edu . and are named 
gif . and gif . for the ir and visual images respectively .  . 

pretty cool pictures in the ir it 's saturated but in the visual image 
details on the moon are viewable .  . 

the moon is not in the images. 


george wm turner 

from  ( bob kierski ) 
subject philosophy quest .  . how boldly 
originator 
lines 21 
nntp posting host 
organization cray research , inc. 



there are a number of philosophical questions that i would like to ask 

1) if we encounter a life form during our space exploration , how do we 
determine if we should capture it , imprison it , and then it 

2) if we encounter a civilization that is suffering , will 
we expend resources from earth to help them 

3) with all of the deseases we currently have that are deadly and undetectable , 
what will be done to ensure that more new deadly deseases are n't brought 
back , or that our deseases do n't destroy life elsewhere 




have a day , 

@ @ 
( ) 

from 
subject internet resources 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 4 

exit 




from  ( kurt hillig ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
organization department of chemistry , university of michigan , ann arbor 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host u . chem . lsa . umich . edu . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
does anyone have a reference  ( something i can look up , not just your own 
recollections i have a few of those myself) on the temperature of the 
 ( night ) sky as seen from space 

note , i am not talking about the temperature of the microwave background 
radiation .  . there are more things in the sky than just the mbr what i'm 
after is total temperature what a thermal radiator would see , 
disregarding  ( or shielding against ) the sun and nearby large warm objects .  . 
my dim recollection is that the net effective temperature is substantially 
higher than that of the mbr , once you figure in things like stars and the 
light , but i 'd like numbers. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

it 's not quite what you were asking , but a few years ago i helped some ee 
remote sensing people run some experiments on the microwave of 
ice they used the sky for a background calibration source. they said that 
from earth 's surface the sky looks like a 60k  . 


dr. kurt 
dept. of chemistry i always tell the phone  ( 313)747 ) 2867 
university of michigan absolute truth x . 500 . 
ann arbor , mi 48109 1055 as i see it. 

from 
subject long term space and effect newsgroup 
lines 12 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

i know that alot of how people think and act in a long distance space project 
would be much like old explorers , , hunters and such who spent alot 
of time alone , isolated , and alone or in minimal surroundings and 
contacts .  .  . such as the old arctic and antarctic expeditions and such .  .  . 

i vote for a later on sci . space . medicine . or similar newsgroup fro the 
discussion of long term missions into space and there affects on humans and 
such .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 


from  ( greg titus ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
lines 20 
nntp posting host 
organization cray research , inc. 

in article  ( bruce scott ) writes 
if re boosting the hst by carrying it with a shuttle would not damage it , 
then why could n't hst be brought back to earth and the repair job done 
here 

i'm not sure if this is a big issue , but it seems to me like it 
might be up till now , all 1g forces applied to the mirror and 
its mounting  ( and nearly all 1g forces ) have been applied along the 
telescope 's optical axis , and against the mirror 's base. reentry 
would apply forces along roughly the same axis , but to pull 
the mirror away from the mount , and the landing would apply on edge 
forces to both the mirror and mount .  . it could be that one or both 
of these would not survive. 

greg 


greg titus compiler group 
cray research , inc. santa fe , nm 
opinions expressed herein  ( such as they are) are purely my own. 

from 
subject re u.s. government and science and investment 
organization oxford university vax 6620 
lines 16 

it should be noted that the us benefitted not only from german science and 
technology after ww2 but also from british science and technology. from the 
discovery and manufacture of penicillin to jet engines , swing wing aircraft , 
the etc etc. all were shipped lock stick and across the 
atlantic .  . we still are suffering from this sort of thing because of some of the 
more parochial aspects of us procurement policy. , a british 
parallel computer company , for example , has now moved most of its facilities to 
the us since that was the only way it could sell stuff over there. 



dave clements , oxford university astrophysics department 

clements @ uk . ac . ox . vax . eco is the real de 
dlc @ uk . ac . ox . astro . saint germain .  .  .  . 


from  ( jim cobban ) 
subject re command loss timer  ( re galileo update 04 22 93) 
keywords galileo , jpl 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 13 

having read in the past about the fail safe mechanisms on spacecraft , i had 
assumed that the command loss timer had that sort of function. however i 
always find disturbing the oxymoron of a no op command that does something. 
if the command changes the behavior or status of the spacecraft it is not 
a no op command. 

of course this terminology comes from a jet propulsion laboratory which has 
nothing to do with jet propulsion .  . 



jim phone (613) 763 
bnr ltd. bnr . ca . ! ! fax (613) 763 2626 

from (e .  . v. bell , ii nssdc gsfc nasa  ( 301)513 ) 1663 ) 
subject displaying compressed voyager images on a mac 
organization nasa goddard space flight center 
lines 38 
news software vax vms 1.41 


sorry , i 've lost track of who asked the question originally 
 ( our news server at gsfc keeps things around for tremendously 
short periods of time) , but wanted to be certain before i 
replied .  . someone asked about displaying the compressed images 
from the voyager imaging cd roms on a mac .  . as peter ford  ( mit ) 
pointed out , a decompression program is available via ftp .  . 
(sorry , i do n't remember the name of the node offhand , 
although it 's  . mit . edu . ) . in any case , though , one of the mac 
display programs  ( cd rom browser by dana swift ) does display 
the compressed images directly .  . the program is shareware and 
is distributed by nssdc for nominal reproduction costs ( 9 
shipping , if memory  . this does not cover the 
shareware price which should go to dana for his diligent work 
and upgrades , however. 

to request current pricing information , information about 
available display software , catalogs , or data from nssdc , 
contact our user support office at 

national space science data center 
coordinated request and user support office  ( cruso ) 
mail code 633 
nasa goddard space flight center 
greenbelt , md 20771 
phone (301) 286 6695 
fax (301) 286 


dr. edwin v. bell , ii e mail 
mail code 633 . 9 .  ( span ) bell 
national space science or nssdc bell 
data center or nssdca bell 
nasa or bell 
goddard space flight center  ( internet ) 
greenbelt , md 20771 
(301) 513 1663 


from 
subject re hst servicing mission 
lines 34 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article , 
(brian day) writes 
 ( rob douglas ) writes 

... but try to land a shuttle with that big huge telescope in the 
back and you could have problems. the shuttle just is n't designed to land 
with that much weight in the payload .  . 

is hst really that much heavier than a 


i hate to belabor the obvious once again , but if there had been an orbiter 
emergency in the early stages of the original hst deployment mission , they 
would have had to land with hst in the bay. 

indeed they were worried about that. one concern was the possibility that 
they would lose a motor or something on the way up , and make orbit but one 
that was too low to give hst a useful lifetime against atmospheric drag .  . 
i believe the decision was to deploy hst even if the projected lifetime was 
as short as six months. in fact we got an excellent orbit , on the upper 
envelope of what the shuttle can do. 

i have never heard of any serious consideration that hst might be brought 
down for refurbishment .  . you would have the horrendous cost of transporting , 
cleaning , re testing , and re certifying all the hardware on the ground , in 
addition to the lost observing time and the cost of a second deployment 
mission with the risks that we might not get such a good orbit the second 
time. and , you would probably still need a  ( third ) servicing mission in a 
few years as gyros and other components wear out. better to have two 
servicing missions in space (which could well happen) than to bring hst down 
and take it up again. 

ben 


from  ( dave tholen ) 
subject re new planet kuiper object found 
organization institute for astronomy , hawaii 
distribution sci 
lines 13 

james nicoll writes 

if the new kuiper belt object is called  karla  , the next 
one should be called 'smiley' .  . 

no , no , no ! the previous one was called smiley . 1992 smiley , 
and 1993 fw karla .  . 

note that neither name is official .  . it seems the discoverers have an 
aversion to the designation scheme .  . 

by the way , 1992 can never be known as smiley officially , because 
that moniker has already been assigned to asteroid number  . 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re electrical spacecraft via magnetic field of earth 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 39 

in article writes 
okay , the earth has a magnetic field ... 
 .  .  . if . you put a object in the earth magnetic field , it produces electricty .  .  . 

well , it 's not that simple you 're in earth 's magnetic field , and you 
do n't generate electricity but it can be done. 

now the question. can you use electricity to power a space low earth orbit 
vehicle and i can , can you use the magnetic field of the earth to power 
it 

the way you power things is with electricity , so the answer to the first 
question is definitely yes.  ( if you meant to say rather than 
power , the answer is sort of  . ) . yes , you can use interaction with the 
earth 's magnetic field to get electrical power , and there are potential 
applications for this. 

however , bear in mind that there is no free lunch. the energy is n't 
coming from nowhere .  . what such systems do is convert some of the energy 
of your orbital velocity into electrical energy. there are cases where 
this is a useful tradeoff .  . using power obtained in this way for propulsion 
is useful only in special situations , however. 

what you can do is get your power by some other means , e.g. solar arrays , 
and run the interaction with the magnetic field in reverse , pumping energy 
into the orbit rather than taking energy out of it. 

if you want more information , trying looking up propulsion , 
tether applications , and . 

can the idea of a satellite be used in part to create the 
electrical field 

no. a satellite does not magically have no drag it burns fuel 
constantly to fight drag , maintaining the exact orbit it would have if 
there was no drag .  . this is why there are quotes around . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re temperature of the dark sky 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 20 

in article  ( stupendous man) writes 
henry , if i read you correctly , you may be asking if i put a 
in interstellar space (  disregarding the sun and nearby large warm objects' ) , 
what will it reach in thermal equilibrium with the ambient 
radiation field 

basically the right question , although i was interested in cases closer 
to home where the sun is behind either a natural object or effective 
shielding .  . 

if that 's the case , let me point out that interstellar dust and 
molecules provide many instances of things that are , well , not too far 
from being  .  .  . 
inside the disk of the galaxy , the temperature varies quite a bit 
from place to place .  .  .  . 

good point  ( and thanks for the references) .  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re what planets are 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 18 

in article  ( ken hayashida ) writes 
as for human tolerances , the best example of human endurance in terms 
of altitude (i . e .  . low atmospheric pressure and lower oxygen partial pressure ) 
is in my opinion to the scaling of mt. everest without oxygen assistance .  .  .  . 
... this is quite a feat of physiological endurance .  .  .  . 

indeed so it 's at the extreme limit of what is humanly possible. it is 
possible only because mount everest is at a fairly low latitude there 
is a slight equatorial bulge in the atmosphere beyond what is induced 
by the earth 's rotation thanks to the overall circulation pattern of 
the atmosphere  ( air cools at poles and descends , flowing back to equator 
where it is warmed and rises ) , and this helps just enough to make everest 
without oxygen feasible .  . only just feasible , mind you the guys who did 
it reported hallucinations and other indications of oxygen starvation , 
and probably incurred some permanent brain damage. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( glen k moore ) 
subject fax email wanted for louis friedman planetary society 
organization university of wollongong , nsw , australia .  . 
lines 7 
nntp posting host wampyr . cc . uow . edu . au . 
summary want to obtain fax email address for planetary society 
keywords planetary friedman 

if available please send to 
glen moore 
director 
science centre 
wollongong , australia 
fax 61 42 email 


from (t .  . joseph lazio ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization department of astronomy , cornell university 
lines 60 


reply to 
nntp posting host seti . tn . cornell . edu . 
in reply to 's message of mon , 17 may 1993 05 48 59 gmt 

on mon , 17 may 1993 05 48 59 gmt ,  ( frank crary ) said 

fc in article (r .  . lee hawkins ) writes 
because of his credibility as an astronomer .  . modern , 
ground based , visible light astronomy  ( what these proposed 
orbiting billboards would upset ) is already a dying field the 

ahh , perhaps that 's why we 've  ( astronomers ) have just built 2 10 meter 
ground based scopes and are studying designs for larger ones. 

fc exactly what fraction of current research is done on the big , 
fc light telescopes from what i 've seen , 10 or less 
fc  ( down from 100 25 years ago . ) . that sounds like dying 
fc to me .  .  .  . 

that does n't seem like a fair comparison. infrared astronomy 
did n't really get started until something like 25 yrs .  . ago it 
did n't explode until iras in 1983 .  . gamma ray  ( and i think 
x ray ) observations did n't really get started until the '70s .  . 
i believe the same is true of ultraviolet observations in 
general , and i know that extreme uv  ( short of 1000 angstroms ) 
observations , until the  ( launched last year) had almost 
no history except a few observations on skylab in the '70s .  . 

twenty five years ago , the vast majority of astronomers only 
had access to optical or radio instruments .  . now , with far more 
instruments available , growth in some of these new fields has 
resulted in optical work representing a smaller fraction of 
total astronomical work. 


seriously , though , you 're never going to get a 10 meter scope into orbit 
as cheaply as you can build one on the ground , and with adaptive optics 
and a good site , the difference in quality is narrowed quite a bit 
anyway. 

fc that would be true , if adaptive optics worked well in the  . 
fc but take a look at the papers on the subject they refer to anything 
fc up to 100 microns as . i do n't know about you , but most 
fc people have trouble seeing beyond 7 microns or so .  .  .  . there are 
fc reasons to think adaptive optics will not work at shorter 
fc wavelengths without truely radical improvements in technology. 

hmm , some of the folks in this department planning on using 
adaptive optics at the 5 m at palomar for near infrared 
observations (1 and 2 microns ) might be surprised to hear this. 

and is n't the ntt already pushing toward 0.1 resolution , 
from a ground based site  ( remember 0.1 was one of the 
selling points of hst) .  . 






e mail 
t. joseph phone  ( 607 ) 255 
icbm 42 deg. 20  08 n 76 deg. 28  48 w 
cornell knows i exist ! stop rape 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re no. re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
nntp posting host ucsu . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 50 

in article  ( ajay shah ) writes 
if this idea goes through , it 's the thin end of the wedge .  . soon 
companies will be doing larger , and more , billboards in the 
sky. i would n't want a world a few decades from now when the sky 
looks like las vegas .  . that would really make me sad. 

think for a moment about the technology required to do that. by 
the time they could make the earth 's sky look like las vegas , 
the people could afford to go on the moon. round 
trip costs for 500 kg to the moon would be about the same as 
5000 kg in a low earth advertising orbit very roughly the 
same cost as a smallish billboard , therefore .  . if such ads were 
to become common place , that would have to be a very low price .  .  .  . 

the night sky on a lunar trip would still be very 
pristine .  .  .  . 

there 's always been a problem of having to get 
away from civilization before you can really find natural 
scenery .  . 100 years ago , this usually did n't take a trip 
of over 5 miles. today , most people would have to go 100 miles 
or more. if we ever get to the point where we have billboards 
on orbit , that essentially means that no place on earth is still 
wild .  . while that may or may not be a good thing , the orbital 
billboards are n't the problem they are just a symptom of 
growing , densely populated civilization .  . banning such ads will 
not save your view of the night sky , because by the time 
such ads could become widespread you will probably have trouble 
finding a place without street lights , where you can see 
the stars .  .  .  . 

coca cola company will want to paint the moon red and white.  ( well , 
if not this moon , then a moon of  .  .  . 

an ad on a moon of jupiter would be rather pointless , since you need 
a telescope to see them. however , i 'd love to see them get all 
the publicity they could from the coca cola io 
orbital mapping probe .  . 

 .  .  . will want to 
name a galaxy  . 

they already can , to some extent the iau allows names derived from 
sponsors or patrons of scientific research. if 
money to a university astronomy program , one of the galactic 
astronomers could easily get a newly discovered galaxy named after 
them. 

frank crary 
cu boulder 

from  ( thomas clarke ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization university of central florida 
lines 19 

come on , this is sci . space .  . an orbital billboard wo n't 
do any permanent damage in a few years it will reenter 
and probably hit los angles anyway ) 

the boost to space commerce orbital advertising might 
provide might speed the day it is possible for those with a 
yen for dark skies to get some really dark skies beyond 
the dust producing the light. 

now , if they wanted to paint the symbol on the 
moon in , that would give me pause .  . it would 
be very difficult to reverse such a widespread application 
of  . 


thomas clarke 
institute for simulation and training , university of central fl 
12424 research parkway , suite 300 , orlando , fl 32826 
 ( 407)658 ) 5030 , fax  ( 407)658 ) 5059 , 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re human planets 
nntp posting host ucsu . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 16 

in article writes 
planets are also dependent on what kind of plant life can be grown .  .  . 
and such .  .  . length of growing season  ( that is if you want something more than 
vat food , argh , id eat an for along period of time) .  . 

using greenhouses to extend the growing season should n't be a problem. 
i'm supprised they do n't do so in alaska  ( cheaper to import , perhaps ) 

and and other low pressure atmosphere and such are a limit in 
human  ( adaptability(someone that woman must come to lower 
elevations to have babies brought to term true ) 

no , the incas had no problems with this , but the spanish did. 

frank crary 
cu boulder 

from wingo 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization university of houston 
lines 23 
nntp posting host judy . uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes .  .  .  . 


is this a big enough problem , to create a new area of physics 
just a little speculative thinking folks. 

pat 


well pat for once i agree with you and i like your first idea that you had. 
it probably is the gamma ray signature of the warp transitions of interstellar 
spacecraft ! ) 

well it makes as much sense as some things. i was at the first gamma ray 
burst conference here at uah and had great fun watching the 
of many of the gamma ray scientists .  . much was given to the 
data reductions .  . i remember one person in particular who passionately declared 
that the data was completely wrong as there were no explanation for the 
phenomena of the smooth sky distribution .  .  ( heck it even shoots down the 
warp transition theory ( .  . the next conference is soon and i will endeavour 
to keep in touch with this fun subject. 

dennis 

from (stephen horan ) 
subject white sands dc x 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 20 

it is interesting to note in the past few days  correspondance that some 
believe that poor old new mexico is not capable of hosting a commercial 
space launch business. for many reasons , it can , and we here on the front 
lines see no reason why it should not. the  political publicity  
referred to the other day had its intended effect the state of new mexico 
did establish the start of the necessary government infrastructure to back a 
commercial space port. the commanding general at is in full support of 
dual use for the facilities. the location also has some strategic 
advantages in the form of necessary infrastructure and controlled air space 
to support the project. just because the folks involved have not done the 
traditional aerospace equivalent of vapor ware by inviting folks out to kick 
non existent tires but have been merely doing their job to prepare for 
launch , do n't think that nothing has happened. from my interactions with 
the folks , i get the impression that they want to set a firm , 
believable launch date based on vehicle readiness and not just some fiction 
to plug a space on a calendar. i believe that all will happen this summer 
and do n't worry , the locals here are planning to let everyone know when it 
does occur .  . 
stephen horan 


from  ( opirg ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization carleton university , ottawa , canada 
lines 19 

in article  ( tom r courtney ) writes 
i got incensed when i read that carl sagan called this idea an abomination .  . 
i do n't think that word means what he thinks it does. children starving in the 
richest country in the world is an abomination an ad agency is at worst just 
in poor taste. 

tom courtney 

i do n't think that idea means what you think it does. having everyone 
on earth subject to some ad agency 's poor taste is an abomination .  . 
 ( abomination n. loathing odious or degrading habit or act an 
object of disgust .  .  ( oxford concise dictionary ) maybe you do n't mind 
having every part of your life saturated with commercials , but many of 
us loathe it. i 'd rather not have the beauty of the night sky always marred 
by a giant billboard , and i 'll bet the idea is virtually sacrilegious 
to an astronomer like sagan .  . 

reid cooper 


from  ( greg stewart nicholls ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3.1 
x x from 

lines 14 

in george f. krumins writes 
i was suggesting that the minority of professional and amateur astronomers 
have the right to a dark , uncluttered night sky. 
sorry , you have a wish for an uncluttered night sky , but it 
is n't a right. when you get down to it , you actually have no rights 
that the majority have n't agreed to give you  ( and them in the process) .  . 
it 's a common misconception that being born somehow you with 
rights to this that and the other. sadly this is not true. 
now if you want to talk about the responsibility that should go with 
the power to clutter the night sky , then that 's a different matter. 

greg nicholls ... vidi 
or vici 
veni 

from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re satellite around pluto mission 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 24 

in writes 

being wierd again , so be warned 

is there a plan to put a satellite around each planet in the solar system to 
keep watch i help it better to ask questions before i spout an opinion. 

how about a mission  ( unmanned ) to pluto to stay in orbit and record things 
around and near and on pluto .  .  . i know it is a strange idea , but why not 
it could do some scanning of not only pluto , but also of the solar system , 
objects near and , as well as seti and looking at the galaxy 
without having much of the solar system to worry about .  .  . 

doing this in anything like reasonable time would require more 
propulsion capability than we can manage .  . you would have to boost to 
pluto and then slow back down. you could do something like a 
orbit , but i think that would take ridiculous amounts of time  ( my 
rubber bible is at home) .  . 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from 
subject space dock .  .  . 
lines 22 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

idea for repair of satellites 

warning i am getting creative again 

why not build a inflatable space dock .  . 

basically deploy one side of the space dock  ( using a scissor shaped structure , 
saw it on beyond 2000 ) , then the side to next to the satellite and then 
move the rest of the dock around the satellite and seal it .  .  . 
the inflate the dock with a gas  ( is does not have to be oxygen , just to 
be non , non damaging to the satellite and abel to maintain heat ) , 
the space dock  ( for the astronaut who will be working satellite 
to be able to not have to wear the normal bulky space suit , but a much striped 
down own) .  .  . 

i know this might take a slot of work or not or just to plain wierd , but 
ideas need to be thought of , for where is tomorrow , but in the imagination of 
the present .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 


from  ( del cotter ) 
subject re what planets are 
organization brunel university , west london , uk 
lines 37 

,  ( doug loss ) writes 

 ( jonathan p. gibbons ) writes 

i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet for humans. 
i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere evolve given a range 
of physical aspects of the planet. the question is what physical aspects 
simply earth like conditions. 

dandridge cole and isaac asimov collaborated on a book titled , 
planets for man (i think) in 1964 .  . it should be available 
in most good libraries , or through inter library loan .  . 

some more references 

s . h .  . dole 

planets for man 
publishing company , new york  ( 1964 ) 

i do n't know if this can be found any more. 

m.j. 

extra solar planetary systems a microcomputer simulation 
j. brit .  . interplanetary .  . soc .  . , 38 , 501 514 ,  ( 1985 ) 

an estimate of the prevalence of and planets 
j. brit .  . interplanetary .  . soc .  . , 45 , 3 12 , (1992) 

the first paper includes a detailed discussion of the physical conditions 
for habitability .  . 


' , ' ' ' , ' , ' ' , ' ' ' , ' , ' 
' , , ' , ' del cotter ' , , ' , ' 
' , ' ' , ' 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization lick observatory uco 
lines 42 

nntp posting host topaz . ucsc . edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 93 03 17 48 gmt 

in article (keith harwood ) writes 



in article , (david m. palmer ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray bursters are very far away 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

. . . david gives good explaination of the deductions from the isotropic , 
 edged  distribution , to whit , they are either part of the universe or 
part of the oort cloud .  . 

why could n't they be earth centred , with the edge occuring at the edge 
of the i know there is n't any mechanism for them , but there 
is n't a mechanism for the others either. 

what on earth is the 
anyway , before it 's decay the pioneer venus orbiter 
had a gamma ray detector , as does ulysses , they 
detect the brightest bursts that the earth orbit detectors 
do , so the bursts are at least at oort cloud distances .  . 
in principle four detectors spaced out by a few au would 
see parallax if the bursts are of solar system origin .  . 

the problem with oort cloud sources is that absolutely 
no plausible mechanism has been proposed .  . it would have 
to involve new physics as far as i can tell. closest to 
conventional oort sources is a model of b field pinching 
by comets , it 's got too many holes in it to count , but at 
least it was a good try .  .  .  . 

steinn sigurdsson lick observatory 
standard disclaimer 
the laws of gravity are very , very strict 
and you 're just bending them for your own benefit b.b. 1988 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re for flybys and cutting costs .  .  . 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 22 

in article writes 
... design a mother ship that has piggy backed probes for 
different missions , namely different planets .  .  .  . 

not useful unless you 've got some truly wonderful propulsion system for 
the mother ship that ca n't be applied to the probes .  . otherwise it 's 
better to simply launch the probes independently .  . the outer planets 
are scattered widely across a two dimensional solar system , and going 
to one is seldom helpful in going to the next one. uranus is not on 
the way to neptune .  . do n't judge interplanetary trajectories in general 
by what the voyagers did they exploited a lineup that occurs only 
every couple of centuries , and even so voyager 2 took a rather indirect 
route to neptune .  . 

also the mother ship would be powered  ( if not the mars mission ) by a normal 
propulsion , but also a solar sail ... 

solar sails are pretty useless in the outer solar system. they 're also 
very slow , unless you assume quite advanced versions. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( mark elowitz ) 
subject need help in finding address .  .  .  . 
keywords white sands tracking facility 
nntp posting host ursa . noao . edu . 
organization national optical astronomy observatories , tucson , az , usa 
lines 7 

could someone please help me. i am trying to find the 
address to the receiving station at white sands 
missile range. i am interested in possible employment 
and would like to write for information. 

thanks .  .  .  . 


from (ron baalke ) 
subject re satellite around pluto mission 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host kelvin . jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 

is there a plan to put a satellite around each planet in the solar system to 
keep watch i help it better to ask questions before i spout an opinion. 

we 've been progressing towards that goal for 30 years now. we precede 
any orbiting mission with flyby missions .  . of course , it gets harder to 
do as we work our way farther away from earth. we 're just starting to 
work out to the outer planets galileo will orbit jupiter , and cassini around 
saturn .  . 

how about a mission  ( unmanned ) to pluto to stay in orbit and record things 
around and near and on pluto .  .  . 

well first things first. we 'll do a flyby mission first since it is 
much easier and faster to do. if the fast pluto flyby mission is approved then 
we 'll launch a pluto mission before the end of the decade .  . a pluto orbiter 
however requires a larger spacecraft and a longer cruise period. orbit 
insertion requires more fuel has to be carried along and restricts the 
trajectory to a slower approach velocity to pluto .  . 
i 'd imagine though that we would be doing a neptune orbiting 
mission before a pluto orbiting mission , unless the pluto flyby turns 
up something really interesting. 

ron baalke 
jet propulsion lab 
) m s 525 3684 telos the from new zealand 
pasadena , ca 91109 is part caterpillar and 
part vegetable .  . 


from (peter j card) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization joint european torus 
lines 35 

in  ( pat ) writes 
planes ruin the night sky. ruin the night sky. radio towers 
ruin the night sky. 

like i said , get a vote , and create some more national parks .  . which 
include air space. 

you should have heard prof. mcnally , from my days as an astronomy 
undergraduate , denouncing photon pollution .  . it was easy to imagine him 
taking practical steps to modify the sodium lamps on the street 
outside mill hill observatory with a 12 gauge shotgun ) 

however , seriously , it is possible to limit the effects of 
, by adding a reflector , so that the light only 
the ground , which is after all where you need it. as a 
bonus , the power consumption required for a given illumination level 
is reduced .  . strangely enough , astronomers often seek to lobby elected 
local authorities to use such lighting systems , with considerable 
success in the desert areas around the major us observatories .  . at 
least , thats what mcnally told us , all those years ago. 
( british local authorities care less , as far as i can see ) 

i suppose that the right to dark skies is no more than an aspiration , 
but it is a worthwhile one. illuminated orbital billboards seem especially 
yukky , and are presumably in the area of international law , if any , although 
i do find the idea of a right to bear anti satellite weapons intriguing .  . 

. . . . . 
. . . . . peter card , joint european torus , abingdon 
. uk .  . tel 0235 fax 
email or compuserve , 366 
. . it me. it was the others. they made me do it. 
` ' 
disclaimer please note that the above is a personal view and should not 
be construed as an official comment from the jet project. 

from (michael rowley ) 
subject re command loss timer  ( re galileo update 04 22 93) 
keywords galileo , jpl 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 85 . 70 . 
organization design systems division , evans sutherland , slc , ut 
lines 27 

in article  ( jim cobban ) writes 
having read in the past about the fail safe mechanisms on spacecraft , i had 
assumed that the command loss timer had that sort of function. however i 
always find disturbing the oxymoron of a no op command that does something. 
if the command changes the behavior or status of the spacecraft it is not 
a no op command. 

of course this terminology comes from a jet propulsion laboratory which has 
nothing to do with jet propulsion .  . 


i do n't know where you got this idea from , jpl 's history dates back to 
to the 1930s when a caltech professor named von karman conducted 
experiments in rocket propulsion with a group of graduate students 
on the present site of the jet propulsion laboratory .  . the army started 
funding the laboratory and had jurisdiction untill the late 1950s when 
nasa took over. the early research conducted at the laboratory 
led to many applications the first being jet assisted takeoff rockets 
for aircraft .  . i think this should explain where jpl got it 's name , i 
should know , i worked there for five wonderful years. 
mike .  . 


jim phone (613) 763 
bnr ltd. bnr . ca . ! ! fax (613) 763 2626 



from  ( barbara trumpinski ) 
subject re who is henry spencer anyway 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 30 

in  ( hans kinwel ) writes 

in article  ( aaron thode ) writes 
having tracked sci . space . for quite a while , i have some questions 
about a mysterious figure called henry spencer .  . if there is anything 
going on in the space community , he seems to know it. 
the questions are somewhat tounge in cheek 
1) is sci . space . a hobby or a job for you 
1) do you ever eat or sleep 
3) does u of toronto zoology department conduct space research 
or do you just use an account there 
just curious. 

my god ! you dare posting ! i posed these very questions to mr spencer 
some time ago by email. unfortunately i never received any response. 

well , imho  ( and i am just a nobody net . henry spencer is to 
sci .  . as is to alt. and rec .  . .... 

 .  .  .  . but . i could be wrong .  .  . anybody mention the illuminati ) 

kitten 



conan the librarian a.k.a. kitten a.k.a. barbara ann 
. 
my life 's a soap opera , is n't yours 
 .  .  . and . the  is easy gg 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re u.s. government and investment 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 34 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article writes 
it 's interesting to note that some of our best tools for cost control 
available in industry today were derived from government projects. 
charts , cp m , and most of the modern scheduling software comes 
from dod projects and their contractors .  . the construction industry 


of course , 

how many government projects after using , gant , c . p . m . s . 
process flow diagrams , level 5 software projects .  .  .  .  . actually 
come in on schedule and under cost. i know the gao determined 
that 80 of all nasa projects miss their budgets due to failing 
to adequately measure engineering developement costs. 

me , i am favor of government r d. i thought bell labs was one of the best 
to do research. i do n't think the government should pour money 
into any one sector , but should engage in projects which naturally 
push the state of the art. 

things like high tech construction projects , apollo was worth it for the doing. running hte national labs .  . the ssc is grossly overweight , but 
is a reasonable project at a lower cost. 

unfortunately support for solo investigators is neglected .  . 

maybe what they should do , is throw out much of the process and just tell 
new ph  ds , you get a 1 time grant of 50 , 000.00 if you produce , you 
can qualify for other grants .  . if you do n't you never get in again. 

this way young people get a shot at , and older stale 
scientists do n't dominate the process. 

pat 


from  ( ts kelso ) 
subject two line orbital element set space shuttle 
keywords space shuttle , orbital elements , 
nntp posting host scgraph . afit . af . mil . 
organization air force institute of technology 
lines 18 

the most current orbital elements from the norad two line element sets are 
carried on the celestial bbs , (513) 427 0674 , and are updated daily  ( when 
possible) .  . documentation and tracking software are also available on this 
system. as a service to the satellite user community , the most current 
elements for the current shuttle mission are provided below. the celestial 
bbs may be accessed 24 hours day at 300 , 1200 , 2400 , 4800 , or 9600 bps using 
8 data bits , 1 stop bit , no parity .  . 

element sets  ( also updated daily ) , shuttle elements , and some documentation 
and software are also available via anonymous ftp from archive . afit . af . mil . 
(129 . 92 . 1 . 66) . in the directory pub space. 

sts 55 
1 93 27 a 93117 .  . 00000 0 3 0 63 
2 28 . 259 . 259 . 61 . 15 . 201 

dr ts kelso assistant professor of space operations 
air force institute of technology 

from  ( binglis ) 
subject test (please ignore ) 
organization university of florida .  . 
lines 3 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host health . ufl . edu . 





from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re space manuevering tug  ( was hst servicing mission ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 37 

 ( pat ) writes 

given that what i described for the hst seemed to be the smt , and given 
the mass on the discovery mission is tight enough that spacewalking 
has to be carefully constrained .  .  .  .  .  . no edo pallets , no spare suits , 
no extra mmu 's .  . 

has someone actually verified that mass is the predominant constraint on this 
mission you seem to be assuming it without giving supporting evidence. 

why not do this 

quick test of faster cheaper , better. 

build a real fast space tug , to handle the re boost of the hst using 
clean cryo fuels , and get it ready before the hst mission. 

pat , this would be slower , more expensive and worse. 

slower the shuttle mission is scheduled to go up in december .  . that 's less 
than eight months away. there is no way you could build new hardware , retrain 
and the eva 's in that time. 

more expensive your proposal still requires the shuttle to do everything it 
was going to do fire the oms .  . in addition , you 've added significant 
extra cost for a new piece of complex hardware. 


according to a gao report on the i have before me , there are 
only two currently planned missions that could use such a vehicle hst and 
axaf .  . since axaf has since been scaled back and hst can rely on the shuttle , 
there does n't seem to be any need for your vehicle. 


josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from  ( mark littlefield ) 
subject re what do space surveillance 
reply to 
organization lockheed esc nasa jsc 
lines 32 

in article , writes 
stuff deleted 


this leads to the more general question do yet other people than 
the us , russia , and japan do space surveillance , and if so , how and 
why 

allen thomson saic mclean , va , usa 

the french spot is an example that comes to mind. although the 
company  ( name escapes me at the moment ) sells images world wide , you 
can bet your last dollar  ( franc ) that the french gov't gets first 
 . 

i remember a few years ago  ( about the time spot was launched ) , i 
was speaking to my dad  ( an usaf officer) about this and that , and i 
happend to mention spot (i think we were talking about technology 
 . he just about went ballistic .  . he wanted to know how i 
knew about spot and just what i knew. i guess that space surveillance 
is such a sensitive topic in the air force that he could n't believe 
that i would read about such a system in the popular press (ie .  . av week) .  . 

mark , 


mark l. littlefield intelligent systems department 
internet 
lockheed engineering and sciences 
2400 nasa rd 1 mc c 19 
houston , tx 77058 


from (robert kaye ) 
subject re long term human missions 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization rush presbyterian st. luke 's medical center 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 37 

ken hayashida wrote 
mike adams suggested discussions on long term effects of spaceflight 
to the human being. i love this topic , as some of you regulars know. 

so , having seen henry 's encouraging statement about starting to talk 
about it i shall .  . 

i feel that we as a community of people have unique resources 
to deliver to the world a comprehensive book which can elaborate 
on the utility of spaceflight to fields which are as divergent 
as medical intensive care , agriculture , environmental protection , and 
probably more. i do not believe that the general public understands 
the impact of spaceflight on the whole of society. in the absence 
of such knowledge , we see support of the world 's space effort. 

just a few contributions from the space program to regular society 

1. calculators 
2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 
3.  ( kept my grandfather alive from 1976 until 1988) 


p.s. to all the regular contributors to sci . space . news . and 
sci . space . shuttle . , thanks for all your hard work keeping us informed 
as to the doings down in nasa and other space type agencies .  . i do n't 
have much time to read usenet , but i always read these two groups .  .  .  .  . 


robert e. kaye asst. sys admin surgical information systems 
rush presbyterian st. luke 's medical center chicago , il usa 
internet voice (312) 942 
fax (312) 942 

support your local community theater groups .  .  .  . ! 
o o o o 
st. 's church in schaumburg il. presents 
meet me in st. louis opening april 30th .  . 

from (richard j shank ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson 
lines 6 


i can see it now across the evening sky 

this space for rent 



from  ( dennis newkirk ) 
subject re enterprise 
organization motorola 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 146 . 43 . 
lines 27 

in article ( f . baube . tm ) writes 
from 

enterprise is described as a ex military 
establishment , focusing on aerodynamics and thermal protection 
of spacecraft and which has participated in the development of 
the shuttle system , they are located near the npo energia 
facility in kaliningrad , outside of moscow .  . 

if this facility is in kaliningrad , this is not near moscow , 

correction , and some more info the kaliningrad that mr. larrison 
writes about is indeed near moscow .  . i 've read that it may also be known by 
the name , and is a short distance from  ( star 
city ) and the cosmonaut training center there. i read that the 
 ( central scientific research institute of machine building , est. 1961) 
enterprise was also responsible for creating the  ( ground command and 
measurement complex ) including the kaliningrad flight control center 
which has controlled all soviet russian manned since its 
completion in 1973 .  . however , it appears to have been a part of the 
ministry of general machine building which was not part of the military 
 ( ministry of defense) but would have been a part of the military industrial 
complex .  . 

dennis newkirk 
motorola , land mobile products sector 
schaumburg , il 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 14 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 

no , the thing is designed to be retrievable , in a pinch .  . indeed , this 
dictated a rather odd design for the solar arrays , since they had to be 
as well as extendable , and may thus have indirectly contributed 
to the array problems. 


why not design the solar arrays to be detachable .  . if the shuttle is going 
to the hst , what bother are some arrays .  . just fit them with a quick release. 

one space walk , or use the second to remove the arrays .  . 

pat 

from  ( dan herrin ) 
subject re space marketing boycott 
organization uc davis 
lines 9 


space ad proposed 

this is undoubtedly the thing to come down the marketing pipe 
in years , and the best reason for resurrecting the star wars killer 
satellite system. 

dan 


from greer 
subject vandalizing the sky 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 32 

in space digest 487 , 
writes 

 .  .  . about . the protests over proposals to put a giant billboard into orbit , 

i 'd like to add that some of the protests do not come from a strictly 
practical consideration of what pollution levels are acceptable for research 
activities by professional astronomers .  . some of what i would complain about 
is rooted in aesthetics .  . 

regards , 
wm. hathaway 
baltimore md 

mr. hathaway 's post is right on the money , if a little lengthy .  . in short , 
an orbiting billboard would be trash , in the same way that a billboard on 
the earth is trash .  . billboards make a place look trashy .  . that is why there 
are laws in many places prohibiting their use. the light pollution 
complaints are mainly an attempt to find some tangible reason to be against 
orbiting billboards because people do n't feel morally justified to complain 
on the grounds that these things would the beauty of the sky. 

regular orbiting spacecraft are not the same in this respect , since they are 
more like abstract entities , but a billboard in space would be like a beer 
can somebody had thrown on the side of the road just trash .  . 


dale m. greer , whose opinions are not to be confused with those of 
the center for space sciences , university of texas at dallas 
greer or 
let machines multiply , doing the work of many , 
but let the people have no use for them. lao tzu 

from 
subject drag free satellites 
organization science applications int l corp. san diego 
lines 33 

on sat , 1 may 1993 23 13 39 gmt ,  ( henry spencer ) said 

no. a satellite does not magically have no drag it burns fuel 
constantly to fight drag , maintaining the exact orbit it would have if 
there was no drag .  . 

well , almost. it turns out that clever orbital mechanics can 
engineer things so that resonant interactions with the higher order 
harmonics of the earth 's gravitational field can pump energy into a 
satellite , and keep it from experiencing drag effects for periods of 
months to years. 

my favorite example of this is the soviet russian heavy 
satellites of the cosmos 1603 class , which are in 14 1 resonance .  . in 
particular , has undergone two periods of prolonged gain in 
altitude , the current one having started in june 1991 the mean altitude 
of the satellite is now as high as it has ever been since launch on 18 
march 1987 .  .  ( looking at the elements for also shows the 
limitations of norad 's software but that 's another story . ) . 

this probably has little relevance to space stations , since the 71 
degree orbits of the satellites are at 850 km , which is 
unacceptably far into the inner van allen belt for manned platforms .  . but 
it 's kind of interesting from the point of view of the physics of the 
situation. 

 ( orbital elements for these satellites are available on request . ) . 


allen thomson saic mclean , va 

is there an opinion here if so , it 's mine , not saic 's 


from  ( luciana c. messina ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization loral software productivity laboratory 
lines 5 


another factor against bringing the hst back to earth is risk of contamination .  . 

c. messina 


from  ( jeff foust ) 
subject re for flybys and cutting costs .  .  . 
organization caltech pasadena , california , usa 
lines 32 
nntp posting host sandman . caltech . edu . 

in a recent article writes 
okay we have figure out that a mission specifically to pluto is to large 
and to expensive .  .  . 

i 'd hardly call the current pluto fast flyby proposal too large  ( if the 
new technology insertion currently taking place succeeds , the s c mass will 
drop to 110 120 kg ) or too expensive ( 400 million for two s c) , 
especially when compared to other nasa planetary missions .  . 

basically what i mean is design a mother ship that has piggy backed probes for 
different missions , namely different planets .  . each probe would be tied in with 
the mother ship  ( or earth as the case may be) .  .  . this is good when and if we go 
for mars (the mars mission can act as either mother ship or relay point for 
the probes .  . 

this proposal would work only if your various targets are nearby and 
the require minimal delta v from the mother ship. a mission to the main belt 
might be one possibility for such a mission i recall a paper being presented 
at an aiaa conference in irvine in february where such a proposed 
spacecraft was designed by some grad students at ut austin (i think) .  . four 
mini spacecraft would from the main s c , each visiting a seperate 
asteroid and then returning to the main s c. after analysis , the main s c 
would then be targeted for the most interesting object for further study. 

now , if i could only find that paper .  .  .  . ) 



jeff foust 40 days ! historical analogy is the last refuge 
senior , planetary science , caltech of people who ca n't grasp the current 
situation. from red mars by 
kim stanley robinson 

from uni de .  ( jan vorbrueggen ) 
subject re new planet kuiper object found 
organization inst. f. , , frg 
lines 11 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host vesta . uni de . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 1993 07 38 37 gmt 

in article 
 ( josh hopkins ) writes 

could someone explain where these names come from i'm sure there 's a 
perfectly good reason to name a smiley , but i'm equally sure 
that i do n't know what that reason is. 

read john le 's tinker , tailor , soldier , spy , the honorable 
or smiley 's people . 

jan 

from (paul dietz ) 
subject re what planets are 
organization university of rochester computer science dept 
lines 35 

i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet for 
humans. i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere 
evolve given a range of physical aspects of the planet. the question 
is what physical aspects simply earth like conditions. 

this is a good question. there are major blind spots in our understanding 
of what makes the earth  . for example , why does the earth 's 
atmosphere have the concentration of oxygen it does the naive 
answer is photosynthesis , but this is clearly incomplete .  . photosynthesis 
by itself ca n't make the atmosphere , as the oxygen produced 
is consumed when the plants decay or are eaten .  . what is needed 
is photosynthesis plus some mechanism to sequester some fraction of 
the resulting reduced material. 

on earth , this mechanism is burial in of organic 
matter , mostly from oceanic sources. however , this burial requires 
continental  ( in the deep ocean , the burial rate is so slow 
that most material is consumed before it can be  . 

this suggests that a planet without large oceans , or a planet without 
continents undergoing , will have a hard time accumulating 
an oxygen atmosphere. in particular , an all ocean planet may have a 
hard time supporting an oxygen atmosphere. 

there is also the problem of why the oxygen in the earth 's atmosphere 
has been relatively stable over geological time , for a period at least 
2 orders of magnitude longer than the decay time of atmospheric o2 to 
in the absence of  . no convincing feedback 
mechanism has been identified .  . perhaps the reason is the weak 
principle if during the last 500 or so , the oxygen 
level had dropped too low , we would n't be here to be wondering about 
it. 

paul f. dietz 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject re moon image in weather sat image 

lines 10 

in article ,  ( william e. 
o'shaughnessy ) says 

if you brighten up the dark part of gif . with your viewer you 
will see two other objects near the upper left part of the moon. 
one is actually between the weather satellite and the moon. 

bill o 

what are those other objects ufos 

from  ( tom ) 
subject 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 29 

jeffrey l. cook sez 
this object would not interfere with anyone 's enjoyment of the night sky 
(it would be invisible at night) , nor would it have any significant 
impact on astronomical observations .  . i suspect there must be some kind 
of underlying agenda coming to the surface when , in spite of this , people 
are so quick to denounce and condemn something that would so 
vividly demonstrate the strength of western capitalism .  . 

lazlo sez 
buying lichtenstein and paving it over with ground glass would also 
demonstrate the strength of western capitalism , but that does n't make it 
a particularly attractive idea. is that what this country has been reduced 
to the planetary equivalent of a guy who gets his penis out at parties 

actually , paving ground glass over lichtenstein would n't demonstrate the 
strength of western capitalism , since it 's strength depends on use of 
the mind and materials in the fulfillment of needs and desires .  . mind you , 
i'm not saying no one would benefit from glassed over land , but i do n't 
think anyone would actually pay for it , unlike the  ( potential )  . 

i do n't quite follow you on the part about someone exposing their genitals 
at parties , but i got a chuckle from it anyway. and i thought i had some 
strange friends ) 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk they communicated with the communists , 
336 9591 hm and pacified the  . 


from 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
lines 33 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( steve derry ) writes 
pat wrote 
the limit on space walking is a function of suit supplies  ( mass ) 
and orbiter duration .  . 

 .  .  . 

i have n't seen any specifics on the hst repair mission , but i ca n't see why 
the mass margins are tight. what are they carrying up replacement components 
 ( wfpc ii , costar , gyros , solar panels , and probably a few others) , all sorts of 
tools , eva equipment , and as much oms fuel and consumables as they can. this 
should be lighter than the original hst deployment mission , which achieved the 
highest altitude for a shuttle mission to date. and hst is now in a lower 
orbit .  . 

seems like the limiting factors would be crew fatigue and mission complexity .  . 


steve 



one thing to recall .  . putting a satellite as high as possible is one thing. 
coming back to not only that altitude , but matching the position of it in 
its orbit on a subsequent mission is another thing. any of the 
plane of the orbit during launch or being ahead or behind the target will 
require more fuel to adjust .  . this was considered in the original deployment .  . 

i agree though that the demands on the crew and complexity are  . 
one has to admire how much they are trying to do. 

wm. hathaway 
baltimore md 

from  ( pat ) 
subject space manuevering tug  ( was hst servicing mission ) 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 29 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


given that what i described for the hst seemed to be the smt , and given 
the mass on the discovery mission is tight enough that spacewalking 
has to be carefully constrained .  .  .  .  .  . no edo pallets , no spare suits , 
no extra mmu 's .  . 

why not do this 

quick test of faster cheaper , better. 

build a real fast space tug , to handle the re boost of the hst using 
clean cryo fuels , and get it ready before the hst mission. 

if nasa could build mercury in 13 months , they should be able to make 
an smt in 9. 

how much would it need 

guidance package. use a voyager spare .  . 

thruster gear , use , or lox lh .  . 

bus use a  . 

grapple fixture .  . use a stripped down  . 

comms package. spare x band omni gear. 

pat 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re excess shuttle criticism was re shuttle 0 defects bizarre dc 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( dave stephenson ) writes 
had . ' . and went on to mention that in aviation if you are found 
with an adjustable spanner in your tool box you can be fired .  . an 
adjustable spanner by trying to fit all nuts , fits none of them 
properly , and so damages all of them. in the demanding environment of 
the air the adjustable wrench is rightly considered a lethal instrument .  . 


dave , 

what i recall from air craft  . and safety 
wires or were more important , then if some bolt 
face were nicked up. if it was in bad shape you replaced it 
with another 30 , aircraft grade bolt .  . i can see adjustable 
eating up profit , but lives 

pat 

from  ( tom ) 
subject solid state vs. tube analog 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 21 

davis nicoll sez 
hmmm .  . i seem to recall that the attraction of solid state record 
players and radios in the 1960s was n't better performance but lower 
per unit cost than vacuum tube systems. 

i 'd buy that for two reasons. the tubes for tv 's and radios  ( if you can 
still find them) are usually 3x or more expensive than comparable transistors .  . 

also , ask any electric guitar enthusiast which type of amp they prefer , and 
they 'll tell you tube type , since tubes have lower distortion and noise 
than transistors .  .  course , most of your electric guitar types just say 
tubes sound better , dude .  . ) 

also , transistors have the advantage in both waste heat and energy use , 
mainly because of the heaters on the cathodes of the tubes .  . 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk as the radius of vision increases , 
336 9591 hm the circumference of mystery grows .  . 


from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re what planets are 
distribution sci 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 24 

in writes 

in article ,  ( doug loss ) writes 


dandridge cole and isaac asimov collaborated on a book titled , 
planets for man (i think) in 1964 .  . it should be available 
in most good libraries , or through inter library loan .  . 


this is the high school science version the original rand study by 
stephen h dole planets for man gives the harder numbers graphs 
such  ( but predates michael hart 's ( later) work on continuously 
zones ) 

is this still in print or available  ( other than on loan ) i remember 
reading this many years ago and it 's still the best thing i remember 
in this vein .  . 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 13 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( tom ) writes 
on the other hand , i lived in oakbrook il for a while , where zoning 
laws prohibit billboards , as you mention above. i think it was a 
fine law , despite it 's contradictory basis. 

and i lived out there too. it was a nice sleepy farm valley until 
the butler family decided to stick up all sorts of really tacky 
high rise office buildings and ruin my view of the sky. 

i guess i should have sued somebody 

pat 


from (paul dietz ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . positional stuff. 
organization university of rochester 
lines 25 

in article writes 

getting at here. this puppy is far enough away , that if a bright 
burst happens nearby , the huge annulus created by it will hopefully 
intersect the line or general circle given by batse , and we can get a 
moderately accurate position. say oh , 2 or 3 degrees. that is the 
closest anyone has ever gotten with it. 


you can do a whole hell of a lot better than 2 or 3 degrees with 
the differential timing measurements from the interplanetary network. 
ignore the directional information from batse just look at the time 
of arrival .  . with three detectors properly arranged , one can often 
get positions down to arc minutes. 

btw , about oort cloud sources should n't this be testable in the 
fairly near future some of the grbs have very short rise times ( 1 
 . we could detect the curvature of the burst wavefront out to a 
distance of on the order of b 2 (t c) where b is the detector spacing 
and t the time resolution. for t 1 ms and b 2 au , this is on the 
order of 16 light years. i understand statistics will reduce this 
number considerably , as would geometry if the burst is coming from the 
wrong direction. 

paul 

from  ( dave michelson ) 
subject re space station redesign , jsc alternative 4 
organization university of bc , electrical engineering 
lines 36 

in article (michael f. santangelo ) writes 
(david b. mckissock ) writes 

 .  .  . text . of options a and b deleted .  .  .  . 

option c single core launch station. 
this is the jsc lead option. basically , you take a 23 ft diameter 
cylinder that 's 92 ft long , slap 3 space shuttle main engines on 
the backside , put a nose cone on the top , attached it to a 
regular shuttle external tank and a regular set of solid rocket 
motors , and launch the can. some key features are 
complete end to end ground integration and checkout 
4 tangentially mounted fixed solar panels 
body mounted radiators (which adds protection against 
orbital debris ) 
2 centerline docking ports  ( one on each end) 
7 berthing ports 
a single pressurized volume , approximately 26 , 000 cubic feet 
 ( twice the volume of skylab) .  . 
7 floors , center passageway between floors 
10 kw of housekeeping power 

somehow i have a strange attraction for this idea  ( living in 
a modular home maybe has altered my mind) .  . the only thing 
that scares me is the part about simply strapping 3 's and 
a nosecone on it and just launching it. i have this vision 
of something going terribly wrong with the launch resulting in the 
complete loss of the new modular space station (not just a peice of 
it as would be the case with staged in orbit construction) .  . 

i certainly like this option c ... it 's much more like the original 
phase b studies from the early 1970 's .  . good stuff ! 


dave michelson university of british columbia 


from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re space station redesign , jsc alternative 4 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 29 

in (david b. mckissock ) writes 

option a low cost modular approach 
human tended capability  ( as opposed to the old ssf sexist term 
of man tended capability ) 

option b space station freedom derived 
man tended capability  ( griffin has not yet adopted non sexist 
language) 

option c single core launch station. 

i 'll vote for anything where they do n't feel constrained to use stupid 
and ugly pc phrases to replace words like  . if they think 
they need to do that , they 're more than likely engaging in  politics 
and public relations as usual  rather than seriously wanting to 
actually get into space. so that eliminates option a from the 
running. what do they call a manned station in option c 

i'm actually about half serious about that. people should be more 
concerned with grammatical correctness and actually getting a working 
station than they are with  political correctness  of terminology .  . 



insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( gozdz , s) 
subject re space marketing boycott 
organization bellcore , livingston , nj 
distribution usa 
lines 16 

in article  ( dan herrin ) writes 

space ad proposed 

this is undoubtedly the thing to come down the marketing pipe 
in years , and the best reason for resurrecting the star wars killer 
satellite system. 

dan 


why do n't you activist guys cut misc . invest . out of this thread 
they did n't offer any shares for sale yet .  .  .  . 

tony 


from 
subject big thanks 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 21 

i 'd like to thank everyone and anyone who sent me information 
to help me with my project. 












i 'll send my report to all who requested a copy ! 


keith 
stockton state college 
pomona , nj 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re combo propulsion system ! 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 10 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


how difficult would it be to do a solar sail mission to say mercury 

not much has been there and there is a 23 km s delta v to eat off. 

could a solar sail , handle say bus , and drop it into 
mercury orbit , good enough for rockets to put it into some 
form of polar orbit 

pat 

from  ( ralph buttigieg ) 
subject why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization fidonet .  . gate admin is 
lines 24 

original to 
g  day 

20 apr 93 18 17 , wrote to all 

wac  ( bruce watson ) , via 3 713 602 

wac the apollo program cost something like 25 billion at a time when 
wac the value of a dollar was worth more than it is now. no one would 
wac take the offer. 

if we assume 6 inflation since 1969 , that would be worth about 
gd reckon a moon mission today could cost only 10b .  . thats a factor of ten 
reduction in cost. it might be possible to reduce that number futher by 
using a few shortcuts ( russian rockets ) .  . it gets built , i think 
the delta clipper could very well achive the goal. 

ta 

ralph 

golded 2.41 
origin vulcan s world sydney australia (02) 635 1204 3 713 6 
(3 713 635 ) 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 16 

 ( pat ) writes 


4) we know it 's not real close , like slightly extra solar , because 
we have no parallax measurements on the bursts .  . 

correct , we have no parallax measurements on the bursts .  . 

therefore , we ca n't tell whether they 're slightly extra solar 
or not ! 

(which means that parallax ca n't tell us whether or not it 's real close . ) . 


phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient mayans had televison .  . repo man 

from (michael wendt ) 
subject historic shuttle flights 
organization university of prince edward island 
lines 7 

would someone please send me a list of the historic space flights i 
am not looking for a list of all flights , just the ones in which something 
monumental happened. or better yet , is there an ftp site with the list of all 
shuttle flights 

thanks  ( if you helped) , 


from (george f. krumins ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 52 

 ( frank crary ) writes 

in article  ( opirg ) writes 
i do n't think that idea means what you think it does. having everyone 
on earth subject to some ad agency 's poor taste is an abomination .  . 
 ( abomination n. loathing odious or degrading habit or act an 
object of disgust .  .  ( oxford concise dictionary ) maybe you do n't mind 
having every part of your life saturated with commercials , but many of 
us loathe it. 

while i'm sure sagan considers it sacrilegious , that would n't be 
because of his credibility as an astronomer .  . modern , 
ground based , visible light astronomy  ( what these proposed 
orbiting billboards would upset ) is already a dying field the 
and distortions caused by the atmosphere itself have 
driven most of the field to use radio , far infrared or space based 
telescopes .  . in any case , a bright point of light passing through 
the field does n't ruin observations .  . if that were the case , the 
thousands of existing satellites would have already done so  ( satelliets 
might not seem so bright to the eyes , but as far as astronomy is concerned , 
they are extremely bright . ) . 

frank crary 
cu boulder 

tell that to the people who run the 10 meter keck telescope , or the 
astronomers and engineers working on the gemini twin 8 meter telescope 
project. it took 7 years to build keck i and now they are building 
keck ii. according to the december 1992 sky telescope , this 
second 10 meter eye will convert the facility into a binocular telescope 
with double the light gathering power and the ability to resolve 
the headlights of a car some 25 , 000 kilometers away. japan 's 8.3 meter 
subaru telescope will soon join keck on kea .  . all these telescopes 
will work in the infrared , yes , but they are visible light telescopes ! 

and have n't you heard anything about adaptive optics a lot of research 
was done with star wars funding , and some is now being shared with 
astronomers .  . this shows great promise. soon , probably within a few 
years , even the largest telescopes will be able to resolve to their 
theoretical limit despite the distortions of the atmosphere. 

to say that visible light astronomy is already a dying field is 
pure hokum .  . to use the logic that things are already bad , so it does n't 
matter if it gets worse is absurd .  . maybe common sense and logic 
are the dying fields .  . 

george krumins 

pufferfish observatory the universe had its origin 
in two colliding 

home of the memorial telescope 

from (david m. palmer ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 30 
nntp posting host alumni . caltech . edu . 

 ( pat ) writes 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 

no , the thing is designed to be retrievable , in a pinch .  . indeed , this 
dictated a rather odd design for the solar arrays , since they had to be 
as well as extendable , and may thus have indirectly contributed 
to the array problems. 


why not design the solar arrays to be detachable .  . if the shuttle is going 
to the hst , what bother are some arrays .  . just fit them with a quick 
release. one space walk , or use the second to remove the arrays .  . 

you may want to put hubble back in the payload bay for a reboost , 
and you do n't want to clip off the panels each time. 

for the gamma ray observatory , one of the design requirements was that 
there be no stored energy  ( springs , explosive , gas shocks , 
etc . ) . used for deployment .  . this was partially so that everything could 
be back in to put it back in the payload bay , and partially for 
safety considerations .  . (i 've heard that the wings on a cruise missile 
would cut you in half if you were standing in their when they opened . ) . 

back when the shuttle would be going up every other day with a cost to 
orbit of 3.95 per pound ) , everybody designed things for easy servicing .  . 


david m. palmer 


from 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
lines 32 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( doug loss ) writes 
i did n't want to quote all the stuff that 's been said recently , i 
just wanted to add a point. 

 .  .  . 
then enforces those rights for them. here in the u.s. , the constitution 
provides a bill of rights from which most if not all legal rights are 
considered to derive .  . i'm sure that most other countries have 

these seem hardly like the groups to discuss this in , but huh 
all legitimate power to enforce these rights derives from the consent 
of the governed , not from no  piece of paper. civilized gov 
is not an autonomous computer program , it 's interactive .  . the constitution 
was made by the people and can be trashed by us it ai n't no sacred 
scripture from which rights flow. our  rights  come from our souls .  . 
and i sure did n't see any request to vote on trashing the sky. 
again my opinion only we keep our rights by using them , not going to 
some court. 

comparable documents .  . if you can persuade a court that you have a right 
to a dark sky derived in some manner from the bill of rights  ( in the 
u . s . ) . , you can prevent  ( maybe ) these billboards from being launched .  . to 
keep anyone in the world from launching then gets into international law 
and the international court of justice  ( correct name ) in the hague , 
something i know little about. 

doug loss 



most gracious regards , 


from  ( ken hayashida ) 
subject re long term space and effect newsgroup 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 40 
nntp posting host hsc . usc . edu . 

writes in response to my original post 

first you need to do the literature search. there is a lot of information 
out there. maybe we should just pick a specific area of long term habitation .  . 
this could be useful , especially if we make it available on the net. then 
we can look at methods of analyzing the technologies .  . 

such a detailed literature search would be of interest to 
ourselves as space advocates 
and clearly important to existing space programs. 
in essence , we would be dividing the space life science issues into 
various technical problems which could be solved with various technologies .  . 
this database of acceptable solutions to various problems could form the 
basis of detailed discussions involving people from the , , 
and any other source ! 

unless there is an unbelievable outpouring of interest on this on the net , 
i think we should develop a detailed data base of the literature search 
first. then if we accomplish that we can go on to real analysis. the data 
base itself could be useful for future engineers .  . 

that 's my response ken , what do you think 

tim 

well , i agree. i hope others chime in with suggestions on specific 
technologies which could be applied towards the maintenance of an 
earth like atmosphere on a long duration spacecraft .  . 

tim et al 
i think we should try looking at atmosphere first. 
this seems to be the single most fundamental issue in keeping anyone alive. 
we 're all taught that when supporting a patient 
you look for maintaining  . so , in keeping with my trauma training 
 ( and keeping my emergency medicine professor happy ) , i suggest that 
we look at the issues surrounding a atmospheric circuit .  . 

that tim 

ken 

from  ( vladimir ) 
subject new inexpensive method for determining ore oil locations 
reply to 
organization ltd 
keywords space satellites statistical prognosis 
summary interesting idea from russia ! 
lines 18 


dear gentlemen ! 

the firm called , ltd offers quite inexpensive 
method to determine ore oil locations all over the world. 
in this method used data got from space satellites .  . being 
in your office and using theese data you can get a good 
prognosis of locations mentioned above. 

this prognosis could be done for any part of the world ! 
if you 're interested in details please send e mail 



vladimir , 
moscow , russia .  . 



from 
subject re death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion to .  .  .  . 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( gregory n. bond ) writes 
in article writes 

... so how about this give the winning group 
(i ca n't see one company or corp doing it) a 10 , 20 , or 50 year 
moratorium on taxes .  . 

you are talking about the bozos who ca n't even manage in november to 
keep promises about taxes made in october , and you expect them to make 
 ( and keep ! ) a 50 year promise like that 

we want to give lawyers something to do in the 21st cen .  . , do n't we 

your faith in the political 
system is much higher than mine. i would n't even begin to expect that 
in australia , and we do n't have corruption like you 
do. 

oh i bet you do. they are probably just better at it than our crooks .  . ) 


gregory bond burdett young ltd melbourne australia 
knox 's 386 is slick .  . fox in sox , on knox 's box 
knox 's box is very quick. plays lots of lsl .  . he 's sick ! 
 ( apologies to john iron bar mackin . ) . 

tom we came. 
we saw. 
we went home. 
some early 20th cen .  . baseball player 
anybody know who or why  ( definitly e mail stuff . ) . 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 12 

in article  ( bruce scott ) writes 
if re boosting the hst by carrying it with a shuttle would not damage it , 
then why could n't hst be brought back to earth and the repair job done 
here 

the forces and accelerations involved in doing a little bit of orbital 
maneuvering with hst aboard are much smaller than those involved in 
reentry , landing , and re launch .  . the oms engines are n't very powerful 
they do n't have to be. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re combo propulsion system ! 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 20 

in article writes 
how hard or easy would it be to have a combo mission such as a solar sail on 
the way out to the outer planets , but once in near to orbit to use more normal 
means .  .  . 

if you 've got a good propulsion system that 's not useful for deceleration , 
sure you can use chemical rockets for that part .  .  .  . but even just doing the 
deceleration chemically is a major headache. we 're talking seriously high 
cruising velocities taking the velocity down nearly to zero for a pluto 
orbit is n't easy with chemical fuels .  . 

incidentally , solar sails are not going to be suitable as the acceleration 
system for something like this. they do n't go anywhere quickly. (i speak 
as head of mission planning for the canadian solar sail project , although 
that is more or less an honorary title right now because is ) . 
they ca n't fly a mission like this unless you start talking about very 
advanced systems that drop in very close to the sun first. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

subject re galileo update 04 29 93 
from (the arch deviant ) 
organization university of otago , dunedin , new zealand 
nntp posting host thorin . otago . ac . nz . 
lines 11 

in article , (ron baalke ) writes 
2. on april 23 , a cruise science memory readout  ( mro ) was performed for the 
magnetometer  ( mag ) instrument .  . analysis indicates the data was received 
properly. 

am i correct in assuming that the science instruments buffer their acquired 
data in onboard ram , which is then downloaded upon receipt of the command 

simon brady you do n't need a lot of fancy hardware for 
university of otago virtual reality just a walkman and an 
dunedin , new zealand attitude 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re new planet kuiper object found 
distribution sci 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 20 

 ( dave tholen ) writes 

james nicoll writes 

if the new kuiper belt object is called  karla  , the next 
one should be called 'smiley' .  . 

no , no , no ! the previous one was called smiley . 1992 smiley , 
and 1993 fw karla .  . 

by the way , 1992 can never be known as smiley officially , because 
that moniker has already been assigned to asteroid number  . 

could someone explain where these names come from i'm sure there 's a 
perfectly good reason to name a smiley , but i'm equally sure that 
i do n't know what that reason is. 

josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 

from  ( jerry liebelson ) 
subject astronauts what does weightlessness feel like 
keywords weightlessness 
organization morgan stanley is 
lines 17 
nntp posting host 


i understand the when one is in orbit , the inward force of gravity at 
one 's center of mass is exactly balanced by the outward centrifugal 
force from the orbiting motion , resulting in weightlessness .  . 

i want to know what weightlessness actually feels like. for example , is 
there a constant sensation of falling and what is the motion sickness 
that some astronauts occasionally experience 

please reply only if you are either a former or current astronaut , or 
someone who has had this discussion first hand with an astronaut .  . 
thanks ! 


jerry 



from (david m. palmer ) 
subject re political banner in space 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 15 
nntp posting host alumni . caltech . edu . 

 ( jeff sio ) writes 

i propose that pepsico , mcdonalds and other companies could put 
into orbit banners that have timely political messages , such as , 

stop the slaughter in bosnia ! 

or how about 
end light pollution now ! ! 

your banner would have no effect on its subject , but my banner would. 


david m. palmer 


from 
subject human planets 
lines 24 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 

planets are also dependent on what kind of plant life can be grown .  .  . 
and such .  .  . length of growing season  ( that is if you want something more than 
vat food , argh , id eat an for along period of time) .  . 

i know in fairbanks  ( furbanks to some) the winter can get to 60 or so f , but 
in the summer can get to 90 and such .  .  . i know of worse places .  .  . 

and and other low pressure atmosphere and such are a limit in 
human  ( adaptability(someone that woman must come to lower 
elevations to have babies brought to term true ) i remember a book by 
i think that delt with a planet was lower density air .  .  . 

i wonder what the limit on the other end of atmospheres 

i am limiting to human needs and stresses and not alien  .  . 
thou aliens might be more adapted to a totally alien to human environment , such 
as the upper atmosphere of jupiter or 

almost makes bio engineered life easy .  .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 



from (ron baalke ) 
subject space calendar 04 27 93 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 152 
distribution world 
nntp posting host kelvin . jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

the space calendar is updated monthly and the latest copy is available 
at ames . arc . nasa . gov . in the pub space faq .  . please send any updates or 
corrections to ron baalke note that launch 
dates are subject to change. 

the following person made contributions to this month 's calendar 

o dennis newkirk soyuz tm 18 launch date (dec 1993) .  . 



space calendar 
april 27 , 1993 


indicates change from last month 's calendar 

april 1993 
apr 29 astra 1c ariane launch 

may 1993 
may advanced photovoltaic electronics experiment  ( apex ) pegasus launch 
may scout launch 
may gps delta ii launch 
may commercial experiment transporter  ( comet ) conestoga launch 
may 01 astronomy day 
may 01 2 iapetus saturn eclipse 
may 04 galileo enters asteroid belt again 
may 04 meteor shower  ( maximum 21 00 ut , solar lon 44 . 5 . deg ) 
may 13 air force titan 4 launch 
may 18 sts 57 , endeavour , european retrievable carrier  ( eureca 1r ) 
may 20 15th anniversary , pioneer venus orbiter launch 
may 21 partial solar eclipse , visible from north america northern europe 
may 25 magellan , aerobraking begins 

june 1993 
jun meteor 2 launch 
jun uhf 2 atlas launch 
jun noaa i atlas launch 
jun first test flight of the delta clipper  ( dc x) , unmanned 
jun 1b 2b ariane launch 
jun 04 lunar eclipse , visible from north america 
jun 14 , 2nd earth flyby (japan) 
jun 22 15th anniversary of charon discovery  ( pluto 's moon) by christy 
jun 30 sts 51 , discovery , advanced communications technology satellite 

july 1993 
jul ii scout launch 
jul galaxy 4 ariane launch 
jul 01 soyuz launch  ( soviet ) 
jul 08 soyuz launch  ( soviet ) 
jul 14 soyuz tm 16 landing  ( soviet ) 
jul 20 21 iapetus saturn eclipse 
jul 21 soyuz tm 17 landing  ( soviet ) 
jul 28 s. delta meteor shower  ( maximum 19 00 ut , 
solar longitude 125 . 8 . degrees ) 
jul 29 nasa 's 35th birthday 

august 1993 
aug ets vi  ( engineering test satellite ) h2 launch (japan) 
aug geos j launch 
aug landsat 6 launch 
aug pegasus launch 
aug 08 15th anniversary , pioneer venus 2 launch  ( atmospheric probes ) 
aug 09 mars observer , 4th trajectory correction maneuver  ( tcm 4) 
aug 12 n. delta meteor shower  ( maximum 07 00 ut , 
solar longitude 139 . 7 . degrees ) 
aug 12 meteor shower  ( maximum 15 00 ut , 
solar longitude 140 . 1 . degrees ) 
aug 24 mars observer , mars orbit insertion  ( moi ) 
aug 25 sts 58 , columbia , life sciences  ( sls 2) 
aug 28 galileo , asteroid ida flyby 

september 1993 
sep spot 3 ariane launch 
sep launch 
sep pegasus launch 

october 1993 
oct 7 f1 ariane launch 
oct slv 1 pegasus launch 
oct 4 atlas launch 
oct 01 launch 
oct 22 meteor shower  ( maximum 00 00 ut , solar longitude 
208 . 7 . degrees ) 

november 1993 
nov mop 3 ariane launch 
nov 03 20th anniversary , mariner 10 launch  ( mercury venus flyby mission ) 
nov 03 s. meteor shower 
nov 04 galileo exits asteroid belt 
nov 06 mercury across the sun , visible from asia , australia , and 
the south pacific 
nov 08 mars observer , mapping orbit established 
nov 10 sts 60 , discovery , 2 
nov 13 partial solar eclipse , visible from southern hemisphere 
nov 15 wilhelm 's birthday 
nov 17 meteor shower  ( maximum 13 00 ut , solar longitude 
235 . 3 . degrees ) 
nov 22 mars observer , mapping begins 
nov 28 29 total lunar eclipse , visible from north america south america 

december 1993 
dec goes i atlas launch 
dec nato 4b delta launch 
dec toms pegasus launch 
dec 1 1 ariane launch 
dec wind delta 2 launch 
dec step 2 pegasus launch 
dec soyuz tm 18 launch  ( soviet ) 
dec 02 sts 61 , endeavour , hubble space telescope repair 
dec 04 r launch  ( soviet ) 
dec 05 20th anniversary , pioneer 10 jupiter flyby 
dec 08 mars observer , mars equinox 
dec 14 meteor shower  ( maximum 00 00 ut , 
solar longitude 262 . 1 . degrees ) 
dec 20 mars observer , solar conjunction begins 
dec 23 meteor shower  ( maximum 01 00 ut , 
solar longitude 271 . 3 . degrees ) 

january 1994 
jan 03 mars observer , end of solar conjunction 
jan 24 clementine titan iig launch  ( lunar orbiter , asteroid flyby mission ) 

february 1994 
feb sfu launch 
feb gms 5 launch 
feb 05 20th anniversary , mariner 10 venus flyby 
feb 08 sts 62 , columbia , u.s. microgravity payload  ( usmp 2) 
feb 15 galileo 's birthday 
feb 21 clementine , lunar orbit insertion 
feb 25 25th anniversary , mariner 6 launch  ( mars flyby mission ) 

march 1994 
mar tc 2c launch 
mar 05 15th anniversary , voyager 1 jupiter flyby 
mar 14 albert einstein 's birthday 
mar 27 25th anniversary , mariner 7 launch  ( mars flyby mission ) 
mar 29 20th anniversary , mariner 10 , 1st mercury flyby 
mar 31 galaxy 1r delta 2 launch 

april 1994 
apr equator s scout launch 
apr 04 mars observer , perihelion 
apr 14 sts 59 , atlantis , srl 1 

ron baalke 
jet propulsion lab 
) m s 525 3684 telos the from new zealand 
pasadena , ca 91109 is part caterpillar and 
part vegetable .  . 


from  ( ata etemadi ) 
subject re internet resources 
nntp posting host prawn . sp . ph . 
organization imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , london , england 
distribution sci 
lines 31 

in article , writes 
i am taking a course entitled exploring science using internet . 
for our final project , we are to find a compendium of internet resources 
dealing with a science related topic. i chose astronomy .  . anyway , i was 
wondering if anyone out there knew of any interesting resources on internet 
that provide information on astronomy , space , nasa , or anything like that. 

thanks ! 

keith 

p.o. box 
stockton state college 
pomona , new jersey 

try doing a keyword search under gopher using veronica or accessing a 
world wide web server. also finger for a list 
of internet resources which includes 2 3 sites with space specific 
information. i am sure ron baalke will have told you about what is 
available at jpl etc .  .  . 

best regards 
ata ( ) . 

mail dr ata etemadi , laboratory , 
space and atmospheric physics group , 
imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , 
prince road , london sw7 , england 
internet arpanet earn bitnet or 
span or 
uucp usenet relay . ac . uk . 

from  ( walter wohlmuth ) 
subject large accelerations revisited 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 12 


why ca n't an aircraft be designed so that the pilot can always be 
maintained in a upright position , perpendicular to the plane of 
acceleration with the visual helmets now being used that display 
some of the flight parameters and with a keyboard and 
equipment moving with the pilot , a pilot may be able to function at 
accelerations in excess of  . is anyone currently pursuing this 
area or is there a reason why this is impossible at the present time 


walter a. 
u. of illinois @ urbana champaign 

from 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
lines 25 
organization space telescope science institute 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article (george f. krumins ) writes 
i say 
what i'm objecting to here is a floating billboard that , presumably , 
would move around in the sky. i , for one , am against legislating 
at all. i just wish that people had a bit of common courtesy , and 
would consider how their greed for money impacts the more ethereal and 
aesthetic values that make us human. this includes the need for wild 
and unspoiled things , including the night sky. 


sorry that 's an aesthetics argument. maybe this string shoudl to 
sci . space . aesthetics .  . 

planes ruin the night sky. ruin the night sky. radio towers 
ruin the night sky. 

like i said , get a vote , and create some more national parks .  . which 
include air space. 



i am hereby voting my backyard to be a sanctuary one acre 
where i can object to anything i do not like for aesthetic reasons. 
) what a relief to know we both can be happy. 

from (peter j card) 
subject re over zealous shuttle critics 
organization joint european torus 
lines 40 

had the the great western , the dunno and the great northern 
postulated as masterpiece .  . keep the compass chaps , 
get round to it eventually. 

the great western was a highly successful transatlantic mail ship , 
with hybrid sail and steam propulsion .  . the great eastern , which broke 
the  little giant  financially and otherwise , was a revolutionary leap 
forward in ship design. a thirty thousand ton all steel vessel , with 
primary steam propulsion , it was at the time easily the biggest ocean 
going vessel ever built .  . brunel took advantage of the fact that cargo 
and or fuel capacity rose with the cube of scale , while drag rose 
with the square , so a really big ship could steam thousands of miles 
without  . 

unfortunately , there was no real market for such a beast at the time , 
and it was eventually sold off at scrap values .  . as another poster 
said , it then went on to a successful career as a telegraph cable 
laying ship. it was in fact the only ship of its day capable of laying 
a transatlantic cable in one go , with the endurance and capacity to 
carry the huge reel all the way , and the to dredge for 
defective sections .  . see arthur c book how the world was one 
i think right 

if how the shuttle goes down in history , as a technical triumph 
and a financial disaster for the builder , it would not be entirely 
, but i doubt if history will be so charitable .  . its true the 
shuttle can do things no other launch system can do , but are they 
worth doing with low cost access to space , you could have an 
affordable space station for doing shuttle like extended manned 
missions .  . as it is , the shuttle is not so much a space truck as a 
space rv , ( only not so cheap to run ( ) 

. . . . . 
. . . . . peter card , joint european torus , abingdon 
. uk .  . tel 0235 fax 
email or compuserve , 366 
. . it me. it was the others. they made me do it. 
` ' 
disclaimer please note that the above is a personal view and should not 
be construed as an official comment from the jet project. 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 18 

in article (michael corvin ) writes 
i expect that retrieving hst would involve  damaging  it considerably in 
order to return it to its cradle in the cargo bay. most of the deployed 
items  ( antennas and , especially , the solar arays ) probably are not 
into their fully position , even by hand .  .  .  . 

no , the thing is designed to be retrievable , in a pinch .  . indeed , this 
dictated a rather odd design for the solar arrays , since they had to be 
as well as extendable , and may thus have indirectly contributed 
to the array problems. 

the retrieval problems are exactly as stated it would be costly , would 
involve extensive  ( and the worry of someone finding a reason not 
to re launch it) , and would unnecessarily expose the telescope to a lot 
of mechanical stresses and possibilities for contamination .  . 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from (david m. palmer ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 27 
nntp posting host alumni . caltech . edu . 

 ( pat ) writes 
... 
4) we know it 's not real close , like slightly extra solar , because 
we have no parallax measurements on the bursts .  . 

we can only say that they are beyond about 25 au , due to the low 
accuracy of position determination by single detectors .  . 

what i am wondering , is this in people 's opinion , a new physics problem. 
einstein got well known for photoelectric effect. 
copernicus , started looking at irregularities in planetary motion. 
is this a big enough problem , to create a new area of physics 
just a little speculative thinking folks. 

it may be a new physics problem (i . e .  . a problem involving new 
 . however , the data is not good enough to rule out the 100 
models which use old physics .  . new physics is a big step , and is only 
tolerated when there is no alternative .  . for example , the dark matter 
problem  ( there 's more to the universe than meets the eye ) is a question 
of comparable mystery to grbs , but we have much better data regarding 
it. theoreticians postulate new particles all the time to explain it , 
but no one will actually believe that these particles are real until an 
 ( or several ) detects them in the lab. 


david m. palmer 


from  ( jennifer witt ) 
subject space camp 
organization computer arts , portland oregon , usa 
lines 18 



i'm replying to someone who asked for information on space camp. 
i have a brochure that has all different schedules .  . what age , what 
level and what program do you want to know the schedule of most of the 
missions are 5 to 8 days long. the address for huntsville is 

alabama space science 
exhibit commission 
u.s. space and rocket center 
one tranquility base , huntsville , al 

jennifer 


why are we here , what does it mean 



from  ( ethan bradford ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
article i.d. 


organization u. of washington 
lines 59 
nntp posting host kepler . astro . washington . edu . 
to  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
in reply to 's message of 27 apr 93 12 14 43 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

the problem with oort cloud sources is that absolutely 
no plausible mechanism has been proposed .  . it would have 
to involve new physics as far as i can tell. closest to 
conventional oort sources is a model of b field pinching 
by comets , it 's got too many holes in it to count , but at 
least it was a good try .  .  .  . 

so you have a plausible model for grb 's at astronomical distances 
recent observations have just about ruled out the merging neutron star 
hypothesis , which had a lot of problems , anyhow. we have to look for 
implausible models and what is fundamentally allowed independent of 
models. 

a paper on the possibility of grb 's in the oort cloud just came 
through the astrophysics abstract service. to get a copy of this 
paper , send a message to astro with the subject 
line 
get 


here is the abstract of that paper. 

the currently favored explanation for the origin of grbs puts them 
at cosmological distances 
but as long as there is no distance 
indicator to these events all possible sources which are 
distributed should remain under consideration .  . this is 
why the oort cloud of comets is kept on the list , 
although there is no known mechanism for generating grbs 
from cometary nuclei .  . unlikely as it may seem , the possibility that grbs 
originate in the solar cometary cloud 
cannot be excluded until it is disproved .  . 

we use the available data on the distribution of grbs (the batse 
catalogue up to march , 1992) , and 
the catalogue of cometary orbits by marsden and williams (1992) to 
investigate whether there is any observational indication for correlations 
between the angular distributions of grbs and comets  , 
assuming that the distribution of direction reflect , 
at least to some extent , true variations 
in the column density of the oort cloud .  . we also apply the 
test to both distributions .  . 

we have performed a variety of statistical tests (a 
test for the distributions in galactic latitude , a 
chi 2 test for the spherical multiple moments , and a 2 d 
cross correlation analysis) , including testing sub samples for 
isolating the effect of possible observational biases .  . 
these tests imply that it is unlikely that the two distributions agree , but 
the statistical significance is not sufficient for ruling out any 
connection with complete confidence. we performed monte carlo simulations 
which show that only when the number of bursts exceeds sim 800 
it is possible to rule out a correlation between the angular distributions .  . 
currently , 
it is only the combination of these tests with the large disagreement 
found for the parameter which makes the oort 
cloud of comets unlikely to be related to grbs .  . 

from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re command loss timer  ( re galileo update 04 22 93) 
organization hst wide field planetary camera 
lines 23 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sol1 . gps . caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( jim cobban ) writes 
having read in the past about the fail safe mechanisms on spacecraft , i had 
assumed that the command loss timer had that sort of function. however i 
always find disturbing the oxymoron of a no op command that does something. 
if the command changes the behavior or status of the spacecraft it is not 
a no op command. 

using your argument , the operation in a computer is n't a , since it 
causes the pc to be incremented .  . 

of course this terminology comes from a jet propulsion laboratory which has 
nothing to do with jet propulsion .  . 

of course , the complaint comes from someone who has n't a clue as to what he 's 
talking about. 

carl j lydick internet nsi sol1 carl 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

wisdom . weizmann . ac . il . 
ward 
subject re long term human missions 
from  ( ward paul) 
organization weizmann institute of science , computation center 
lines 17 

in article (robert kaye ) writes 

just a few contributions from the space program to regular society 

1. calculators 
2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 
3.  ( kept my grandfather alive from 1976 until 1988) 

i do n't think contributions is a good idea. world war ii produced 
many many beneficial spinoffs .  . eg. radar , jet , rocket technology. 
i do n't think anyone would argue that world war ii was , in and of itself , 
a good thing. 

if you want people to back the space program it must be a good thing in 
and of itself. 

paul 

from (kenneth ng ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization private computer , totowa , nj 
lines 18 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article writes 
... also , as implied by other posters , why 
do you need to boost the orbit on this mission anyway ... 
you do n't need to , but it 's desirable .  . hst , like all satellites in 
low earth orbit , is gradually losing altitude due to air drag .  . it was 
deployed in the highest orbit the shuttle could reach , for that reason. 
it needs occasional or it will eventually reenter .  . (it has 
no propulsion system of its own . ) . 

has any thought been given as to how they are going to boost the hst yet 
give it a push i can see the push start cartoons now ) .  . 


kenneth ng 
please reply to for now. 
all this might be an elaborate simulation running in a little device sitting 
on someone 's table j.l. picard st tng 

from 
subject re space dock .  .  . 
organization nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
x posted from jsc . nasa . gov . 
nntp posting host sol . ctr . columbia . edu . 
lines 42 

in article writes 
why not build a inflatable space dock .  . 

henry spencer wrote 
if you 're doing large scale satellite servicing , being able to do it in 
a pressurized hangar makes considerable sense. the question is whether 
anyone is going to be doing large scale satellite servicing in the near 
future , to the point of justifying development of such a thing. 

that 's a mighty fine idea. but since you asked why not , i 'll 
respond. 

putting aside the application of such a space dock , there are other 
factors to consider than just pressurized volume. temperature control 
is difficult in space , and your inflatable hangar will have to 
incorporate thermal insulation  ( maybe a double walled  . 
protection and radiation protection are also required. 
do n't think this will be a clear plastic bubble it 's more likely 
to look like a big white ball made out of the same kind of multi layer 
fabric that soft torso space suits are made out of today. 

because almost all manned space vessels  ( skylab , mir , salyut ) used 
their for increased structural rigidity , even though 
they had  ( have ) metal skins , they still kind of qualify as inflatable .  . 

the inflation process would have to be carefully controlled .  . the 
space environment reduces in exposed materials  ( due to 
temperature extremes , oxygen , and radiation 
effects on materials ) , so your fabric may not retain any flexibility 
for long.  ( this may not matter . ) . even after inflation , pressure 
changes in the hangar may cause in the fabric , which could 
lead to holes and tears as decreases .  . 

these are some of the technical difficulties which the llnl proposal 
for an inflatable space station dealt with to varying degrees of 
success. 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

good ideas are common what 's uncommon are people who 'll 
work hard enough to bring them about. brilliant 

from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re long term human missions 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 28 

in  ( grungy ) writes 

in article , 
 ( ward paul) wrote 
if you want people to back the space program it must be a good thing in 
and of itself. 

i think we should tell them about the things that they are using now that 
are spinoffs of the space program. that is the only way you can prove 
its worth to them and they vote and pay taxes too. the continued 
existence of the space program relies upon that money. 

i have to agree with ward .  . the problem with your approach is they add 
up what you can reasonably claim as  spin offs  , add up what 's been 
spent on space , and then come back with something like , you spent x 
billion for that would n't it be better just to spend the money on 
direct research and forget all this space stuff we could have got 
all that stuff a lot cheaper that way. space is wasteful and 
inefficient .  . 

then they cancel your funding and spend it studying mating rituals of 
new or something. 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from ! (robert b. love ) 
subject re astronauts what does weightlessness feel 
organization rocky mountain next users  group 
lines 10 

in article  ( pat ) 
writes 
adaptation trainer  . dr. harm here at msc (oops , i mean jsc ) 


now is that an aptly named person or what 
when i went thru all the spinning chair tests at jsc the phd in charge 
was milt but the technician who strapped me in and , on occasion , 
inserted the probe  ( needle ) was named bev  . 


from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re soyuz and shuttle comparisons 
organization evil geniuses for a better tomorrow 
lines 27 

in article  ( gary coffman ) writes 

as a rough guess i would say that in 10 years shuttle has delivered 
to leo about as much as saturn v did in 4 years. 

we have to be careful to define what is payload and what is propulsion 
and spacecraft structure. 

often shuttle lifts satellites with upper stages .  . yet we still consider it 
payload .  . ten saturn flights over about 4 years delivered to leo roughly the 
same as 50 shuttle flights over 10 years. 

of course saturn lifted more than shuttle , 
but it 's cost to orbit in same year dollars was higher. 

they where pretty much the same in terms of cost pound .  . a 
saturn would cost only 2 , 000 per pound  ( if development costs are ignored ) 
which is five times cheaper than shuttle .  . 

allen 




lady astor sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. churchill madam , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
33 days to first flight of dcx 

from (james thomas green ) 
subject teflon development. 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 24 

 ( alejo hausner ) pontificated 

sorry to split hairs , but i just read in the making of the atomic 
bomb ( ) that teflon was developed during world war 2. a sealant was 
needed for the tubing in which uranium passed as it was 
gradually enriched by  . is very corrosive , and some very 
inert yet flexible material was needed for the seals .  . 

to split a split hair , i believe that teflon ( monomer ) was 
discovered by accident when someone i do n't remember 
found what he thought was a liquid  ( or gas ) had turned to a 
solid .  .  .  . 

it just happend to fit the bill for the above use .  .  .  . 

i'm crossposting to sci . materials . so perhaps someone in the know 
might elaborate .  .  .  . 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i know you believe you understand what it is that you 
think i said. but i am not sure that you realize that 
what i said is not what i meant. 


from (m kel veikko ) 
subject astro ftp list april issue 
organization university of helsinki 
lines 239 


a s t r o f t p l i s t 
updated 28 . 04 . 1993 . 

this is a short description of anonymous ftp file servers containing 
astronomy and space research related material. i have included only those 
servers where there are special subdirectories for astro stuff or much 
material included into a general directories. this list is not a complete 
data set of possible places , so i would be very happy of all kind of notices 
and information depending on this listing .  . 

the newest version of this file is available via anonymous ftp as 

nic . funet . fi . pub astro general txt . 

there are also many mirror  ( copy ) archives for simtel 20 . army . mil .  ( pc ) and 
sumex aim . stanford . edu . (mac) which are not included into this list. only some 
of mirroring sites are listed. 


veikko makela 

computing centre of univ. helsinki 
ursa astronomical association 


server , ip contents 
directories 

ames . arc . nasa . gov . data and news , images , nasa data , 
128 . 102 . 18 . 3 . spacelink texts , vicar software , faq 
pub space 

arp . anu . edu . au . images 
130 . 56 . 4 . 90 . 
pub images nasa 

atari . archive . umich . edu . atari 
141 . 211 . 164 . 8 . 
atari applications astronomy 

archive . afit . af . mil . satellite software , documents , elements 
129 . 92 . 1 . 66 . 
pub space 

baboon . cv . nrao . edu . aips document and patches , 
192 . 33 . 115 . 103 . image processing , fits test images 
pub aips 

c . scs . uiuc . edu . rosat ,  ( starchart(pc ) 
128 . 174 . 90 . 3 . 
pub 

ccu1 . ac . nz . pc 
130 . 216 . 1 . 5 . 
msdos astronomy ( ) overseas connections refused 

chara . gsu . edu . journal of asa , journal of 
131 . 96 . 5 . 10 . asa , sac news 


explorer . arc . nasa . gov . magellan , viking and voyager cdroms 
128 . 102 . 32 . 18 . 
cdrom 

export . lcs . mit . edu . distribution 
18 . 24 . 0 . 12 . 
contrib 

physics . ie . some software , predictions , images , 
140 . 203 . 1 . 3 . fits info , miscellaneous 
pub astro 
pub space 
pub fits 

fits . cv . nrao . edu . fits documents , os support , sample data , 
192 . 33 . 115 . 8 . test files , sci . astro . fits . archive 
fits 

ftp . fr . images 
129 . 20 . 128 . 27 . 
pub images astro 

ftp . cco . caltech . edu . astronomy magazine index 1991 
131 . 215 . 48 . 200 . 
pub misc 

ftp . cs . tu . berlin.de pc , amiga , mac , unix , images , general 
130 . 149 . 17 . 7 . 
pub astro 

ftp . funet . fi . pc , mac , cp m , atari , amiga , databases , unix , 
128 . 214 . 6 . 100 . , os 2 , texts , news , solar reports , images , 
pub astro satellite elements , faq 

ftp . uni . kl . de . , vista image reduction , asteroids 
131 . 246 . 9 . 95 . 
pub astro 

garbo . uwasa . fi . pc 
128 . 214 . 87 . 1 . 
pc astronomy 

ac . at . images 
128 . 130 . 39 . 16 . 
pub 

hanauma . stanford . edu . unix , satellite program , images 
36 . 51 . 0 . 16 . 
pub astro 
pub 

ca . distribution 
140 . 184 . 1 . 1 . 


idlastro . gsfc . nasa . gov . idl routines 
128 . 183 . 57 . 82 . 


iraf . noao . edu . iraf software 
140 . 252 . 1 . 1 . 
iraf 

julius . cs . qub . ac . uk . space digest 
143 . 117 . 5 . 6 . 
pub 

vuw . ac . nz . astrophysical software 
130 . 195 . 2 . 11 . 
pub astrophys 

kilroy . jpl . nasa . gov . satellite elements , spacecraft info 
128 . 149 . 1 . 165 . 
pub space 

hq . eso . org . test images , standards 
134 . 171 . 11 . 4 . 
pub 
pub standards 

nssdca . gsfc . nasa . gov . hst , iue , astro 1 , nssdca info , , 
128 . 183 . 36 . 23 . fits standard 


plaza . aarnet . edu . au . images , docs , magellan 
139 . 130 . 4 . 6 . 
graphics graphics astro 
magellan 

pomona . claremont . edu . yale bright star catalog 
134 . 173 . 4 . 160 . 
yale bsc 

pubinfo . jpl . nasa . gov . jpl news , status reports , images 
128 . 149 . 6 . 2 . 


ra . nrl . navy . mil . mac 
128 . 60 . 0 . 21 . 
astro 

rascal . ics . utexas . edu . mac 
128 . 83 . 138 . 20 . 
mac 

rigel . acs . oakland . edu . pc 
141 . 210 . 10 . 117 . 
pub msdos astronomy 

rus . uni . stuttgart . de . atari 
129 . 69 . 1 . 12 . 
soft atari applications astronomy 

simtel20 . army . mil . pc , cp m 
192 . 88 . 110 . 20 . 
msdos educ 
cpm 

sol . deakin . oz . au . garbo . uwasa . fi . c. 
128 . 184 . 1 . 1 . 
pub pc astronomy 

com . some pc programs 
141 . 138 . 2 . 2 . 
pub rp as is astro 

arc . nasa . gov . martian map 
128 . 102 . 21 . 44 . 
pub 

stsci . edu .  ( hstmap(mac ) , hst info 
130 . 167 . 1 . 2 . 
software 

sumex . stanford . edu . mac 
36 . 44 . 0 . 6 . 
info mac app 

uni . heidelberg . de . pc , misc 
129 . 206 . 100 . 126 . 
pub msdos astronomy 

techreports . larc . nasa . gov . nasa langley technical reports 
128 . 155 . 3 . 58 . 
pub techreports larc 

gsfc . nasa . gov . subroutines 
128 . 183 . 8 . 77 . 
pub 

csd . unb . ca . space geodesy , solar activity info 
131 . 202 . 1 . 2 . 
pub . 

vmd . cso . uiuc . edu . weather satellite images 
128 . 174 . 5 . 98 . 
wx 

world . std . com . pc source codes 
192 . 74 . 137 . 5 . 
pub astronomy 

xi . uleth . ca . solar reports , auroral activity forecast 
142 . 66 . 3 . 29 . maps , solar images , x ray plot , coronal 
pub solar emission plots 

some abbreviations 

c copy  ( mirror ) of other archive 





my other e communication projects 
e mail contact addresses of interest groups in amateur astronomy 
european astronomy and space related bulletin boards 
e mail catalogue of finnish amateur astronomers 

from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
distribution na 
lines 33 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( doug loss ) writes 
i did n't want to quote all the stuff that 's been said recently , i 
just wanted to add a point. 

 .  .  . 
then enforces those rights for them. here in the u.s. , the constitution 
provides a bill of rights from which most if not all legal rights are 
considered to derive .  . i'm sure that most other countries have 

these seem hardly like the groups to discuss this in , but huh 
all legitimate power to enforce these rights derives from the consent 
of the governed , not from no  piece of paper. 

we do n't disagree on this. all i said was that a right is whatever 
you or somebody acting for you can enforce .  . the bill of rights did n't 
come into effect until it was ratified by the states  ( and indirectly , 
the people) from that point it defined legal rights. common law 
rights are vague and situational that 's why the people insisted on a 
bill of rights in the constitution , spelling out exactly what they 
demanded from the government. legitimate or illegitimate , power is 
power. that 's why the federal government can force states to grant 
their citizens rights they do n't wish to in a slugging match , the feds 
win. period. 

and you 're right , this does n't belong in sci . space .  . i 've said my 
peace. no more me on rights (at least not here) .  . 

most gracious regards , 


doug loss 


from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re philosophy quest .  . how boldly 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
lines 42 

in article  ( bob kierski ) writes 


there are a number of philosophical questions that i would like to ask 

1) if we encounter a life form during our space exploration , how do we 
determine if we should capture it , imprison it , and then it 

analog sf magazine did an article on a similar subject quite a few 
years ago. the question was , if an alien spacecraft landed in 
washington , d.c. , what was the proper organization to deal with it the 
state department  ( alien ambassadors ) , the defense department  ( alien 
invaders ) , the immigration and service  ( illegal aliens ) , 
the department of the interior  ( new non human species ) , etc. it was 
very much a question of our perception of the aliens , not of anything 
intrinsic in their nature. the bibliography for the article cited a 
philosophical paper (the name and author of which i sadly forget i 
believe the author was italian ) on what constitutes a legal and or moral 
person , i.e. , a being entitled to the rights normally accorded to a 
person. the paper was quite interesting , as i recall .  . 

2) if we encounter a civilization that is suffering , will 
we expend resources from earth to help them 

i think you 'd have to be very careful here if the answer is yes. the 
human track record on helping those poor cultures  ( does 
mean not having enough priveleges ) is terrible. the 
usual result is the destruction or radical reorganization of the 
culture. this may not always be wrong , but that 's the way to bet. 

3) with all of the deseases we currently have that are deadly and undetectable , 
what will be done to ensure that more new deadly deseases are n't brought 
back , or that our deseases do n't destroy life elsewhere 


have a day , 

@ @ 
( ) 

doug loss 


from (j . a .  . beukel ) 
subject re drag free satellites 
organization lockheed missiles spaces co. 
lines 4 

regarding drag free satellites , joe cain gives a good description of the concept. it is however more than a concept. the navy 's triad satellite succesfully used drag free control. drag free control is an integral part of the stanford gravity probe b spacecraft , due to fly in 1999. it is also part of the european step satellite .  . 

jeff v. 


from  ( gary morris @ignite ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization group , san diego , ca , usa 
lines 24 

in (brian day) writes 
 ( rob douglas ) writes 
... but try to land a shuttle with that big huge telescope in the 
back and you could have problems. the shuttle just is n't designed to land 
with that much weight in the payload .  . 

is hst really that much heavier than a 

hst is about 25 , 500 lbs (11 , 600  . that does n't include the cradle that 
would have been in the cargo bay when it was deployed .  . j on sts 47 
was 21 , 861 lbs  ( according to the press  . 

as someone else pointed out if they had been unable to deploy it for some 
reason that would have had to land with it still in the cargo bay and this 
was a planned for contingency .  . this is not a problem for the shuttle , 
though it would eliminate ksc as a landing site , they still have to go to 
edwards when landing with something like in the cargo bay. 



gary morris internet 
teleuse development uucp uunet ! com . ! 
group  ( telesoft ) phone 1 619 457 2700 
san diego , ca , usa fax 1 619 452 1334 

from (david m. palmer ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . positional stuff. 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 38 
nntp posting host alumni . caltech . edu . 

 ( henry spencer ) writes 

in article writes 
actually , my advisor , another classmate of mine , and me were talking 
the other day about putting just one detector on one of the pluto satellites .  . 
then we realized that the satellite alone is only carrying something like 200 
pounds of eq. well , a batse detector needs lead shielding to protect it , 
and 1 alone weighs about 200 pounds itself. 

actually , the situation is even worse than that. the total mass of the 
pluto fast flyby spacecraft is only pounds , and most of that is 
support equipment like power and communications .  . the mass available for 
instruments is maybe 10 of that. i do n't think a batse will fit .  .  .  . 

from the pluto fast flyby instrument definition research , 
the instrument payload constraints are 
mass allocation 7 kilograms (15 . 4 . lbs ) 
power allocation 6 watts 
required instruments 
visible imaging system  ( 1024x1024 ccd , 750 mm fl , f 10 optics) 
ir mapping spectrometer  ( 256x256 array , 0.3 energy resolution ) 
uv spectrometer  ( 55 200 nm , 0.5 nm resolution ) 
radio science  ( ultrastable oscilator incorporated in telecom system) 
means 10 14. 

this does n't leave much room for payloads which are totally unrelated 
to the mission of the spacecraft .  . in addition , the power will come 
from a radioisotope thermal generator , and the whole space craft will 
be about 2 feet in diameter , with no booms , which means there will be 
strong gamma lines from pu 239 and associated in the 
background , which tends to reduce sensitivity somewhat .  . 

it would still be nice , and our group here at goddard is looking 
in to it. 


david m. palmer 


from (stephen amadei ) 
subject project help 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 17 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


hello , 

i am new to this news group , but i need some info. i am 
currently doing a project for a class on the internet. i am 
looking for good sources of information on space and astronomy , 
more notably , our own solar system. if anyone knows any good 
sites where i can get information about this kinda stuff , please 
e mail me at thanx .  . 

steve 

 ( my newsreader does n't have a  . sig . yet , sorry . ) . 

please address to 
or 


from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization texas instruments inc 
lines 65 

in (george f. krumins ) writes 

i was suggesting that the minority of professional and amateur astronomers 
have the right to a dark , uncluttered night sky. 

and from whence does this right stem , that it overrides the  rights  
of the rest of us 

let me give you an example. when you watch tv , they have commercials to pay 
for the programming .  . you accept that as part of watching. if you do n't like 
it , you can turn it off. if you want to view the night sky , and there is a 
floating billboard out there , you ca n't turn it off. it 's the same 
reasoning that limits billboards in scenic areas. 

and if you want to view that television station , you have to watch the 
commercials .  . you ca n't turn them off and still be viewing the 
television station. in other words , if you do n't like what you see , 
do n't look. there is no 'right' i can think of that you have to force 
other people to conform to your idea of aesthetic behaviour .  . what 's 
next , laws regulating how people must dress and look so as to appeal 
to your fashion sense , since you have this 'right' of an aesthetic 
view 

pat writes 
george .  . 

it 's called a democracy .  . the majority rules. sorry. 
if ytou do n't like it , i suggest you modify the constitution to include 
a constitutional right to dark skies .  . the theory of government 
here is that the majority rules , except in the nature of fundamental 
civil rights. 

i say 
any reasonably in depth perusal of american history will show 
you that many wasps have continued the practices of prejudice , 
discrimination , and violence against others of different 
races , religions , and beliefs , despite the law. 

which has what to do with the topic of discussion 

pat says 
if you really are annoyed , get some legislation 
to create a dark sky zone , where in all light emissions are protected 
in the zone. kind of like the national radio quiet zone. did you 
know about that near teh radio telescope observatory in west virginia , 
they have a 90 mile zone. theoretically they can prevent 
you from running light ac motors , like air conditioners and vacuums .  . 
in practice , they use it mostly to control large radio users. 

i say 
what i'm objecting to here is a floating billboard that , presumably , 
would move around in the sky. i , for one , am against legislating 
at all. i just wish that people had a bit of common courtesy , and 
would consider how their greed for money impacts the more ethereal and 
aesthetic values that make us human. this includes the need for wild 
and unspoiled things , including the night sky. 

oh , i see. you do n't want any legislation that might impinge on you 
you just want everyone else on the planet to do what you want. 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( tom ) 
subject vandalizing the sky 
x added forwarded by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 47 

wm hathaway comments 
i 'd like to add that some of the protests do not come from a strictly 
practical consideration of what pollution levels are acceptable for 
research activities by professional astronomers .  . some of what i 
would complain about is rooted in aesthetics .  . many readers may 
never have known a time where the heavens were pristine sacred 
unsullied by the actions of humans. the space between the stars 
as profoundly black as an abyss can be. with full horizons and 
a pure sky one could look out upon half of all creation at a time 
none of which had any connection with the petty matters of man. 
any lights were supplied solely by nature by men. 
whole religions were based on mortal man somehow getting up there 
and becoming immortal as the stars , whether by apotheosis or a belief 
in an afterlife .  . 

the space age changed all that. more on man 's effect on the environment 

but there is still this desire to see a place that man has n't 
fouled in some way. 
.... i think my point about a desire for beauty is valid , 
even if it ca n't ever be perfectly achieved .  . 

i agree that the desire for beauty is valid , but i think your desire to 
impose your vision of beauty is not. you mention the age old desire to 
somehow get up there , but ignore the beauty of the actual 
of that vision .  . you mention the beauty of a very dark sky , not 
by the effects of humans , but ignore the beauty of the as dark as can be 
sky that is only visible from space , a vision that we , or at least , 
our descendents , may one day be able to see , in part , because of efforts 
that others call ugly. one day , i hope , humans will be able to look out , 
not upon half the heavens , with only nature lights , but upon all 
of the heavens , with no lights. if advertising in space can help us reach 
that goal , it is no less beautiful for the way we reach it , than the 
 pristine  sky of  ( or yester century) , which is totally 
unreachable .  . one of the original conceptions of beauty in 
sculpture was a human form , in the effort of striving to reach a goal. 
i do n't think there 's any reason to believe that has changed that , 
just because it has changed the way we strive .  . 

btw , there are places that people have n't fouled .  . sometimes they make 
it better. 

tommy mac 

tom mcwilliams 517 355 2178 wk as the radius of vision increases , 
336 9591 hm the circumference of mystery grows .  . 


from  ( ralph a . m . j .  . wijers ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
originator 
nntp posting host astro . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 51 


i feel compelled to complain the statement that recent observations 
rule out merging neutron stars as sources of gamma ray bursts is 
utterly false , even though it is popular enough to make it to 
batse press releases .  . 
the idea behind the statement is as follows 
if you smack two neutron 
stars together , or have a neutron star be gobbled up by a black hole , 
a lot of energy is released , enough for a gamma ray burst at a 
cosmological distance. but , so the reasoning continues , this energy 
is released below a lot of matter , so the radiation becomes 
and you expect to see roughly a spectrum .  . 
the observed spectra are strongly non thermal , so this model must 
be wrong. 
as so often , the fault lies with the imagination of the person who 
was trying to prove the model wrong rather than with the model. it 
may be that the initial energy release is not seen as a gamma ray 
burst , but the   of energy and matter that is created 
may spew out a relativistic flow. when this slams into the surrounding 
medium , a strong flux of non thermal gamma rays results , which may 
carry off a substantial fraction of the initial total energy. all 
this is not my idea it is in a series of papers by martin , 
peter (sorry for the missing ) and co workers .  . 
it is certainly not a complete model , but it may well be the best one 
around  ( summing over all proposed distance  . an alternative 
proposal for what creates the initial , by the way , is the 
so called  failed  scenario by stan , in which 
a very massive star at the end of its life collapses to a black 
hole. if the stellar core was rotating , part of the matter 
will be temporarily halted because it is supported by centrifugal 
force , and form a very dense neutron torus that onto the 
black hole. this beast may spew out a jet along the rotation axis , 
which again constitutes relativistic flow. the rate of such 
events may be much higher than that of neutron star , 
but the flux may be more strongly beamed , so that the net rate 
of bursts observed on earth stays the same between the two 
scenarios , but the energy released per event can be a lot less 
in the failed supernova scenario .  . 

on another note i do believe that the distance scale must 
ultimately be resolved via some classical astronomical method 
such as finding counterparts to the bursts at other wavelengths , 
or finding a definitive signature of some known class of 
objects in the distribution of positions and  . theorists 
have historically not been too successfull in finding the 
distance of any object by proving that there is only one 
possible way in which the object can work , and therefore 
it must be so and so. 

ralph 


from 
subject kaliningrad  ( was enterprise ) 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 26 

f . baube . tm writes 
enterprise is described as a ex military 
establishment , ... they are located near the npo energia 
facility in kaliningrad , outside of moscow .  . 

if this facility is in kaliningrad , this is not near moscow , it is 
in fact the ex east prussian , now a russian enclave on 
the baltic coast. it is served by ships and rail , and the intrepid 
traveller in europe would find it accessible and might even want to 
try to arrange a tour ( ) .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . there must be two towns with the same name. kaliningrad , 
located just north of moscow is correct. it is the home of several 
russian space enterprises , including npo energia , , , 
and  . the main russian manned spacecraft control facility 
is also located here. 
kaliningrad is easily reachable by auto from moscow , and tours 
can be arranged .  . call ahead though , there are still armed military 
guards at many of these facilities who do n't speak english , 
are n't well paid , and are rather bored. 
it 's a very popular destination with western space industry 
types at the moment. 

wales larrison space technology investor 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
organization lick observatory uco 
lines 52 



nntp posting host topaz . ucsc . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 28 apr 93 21 51 46 gmt 

in article  ( ethan bradford ) writes 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

the problem with oort cloud sources is that absolutely 
no plausible mechanism has been proposed .  . it would have 
to involve new physics as far as i can tell. closest to 
conventional oort sources is a model of b field pinching 
by comets , it 's got too many holes in it to count , but at 
least it was a good try .  .  .  . 

so you have a plausible model for grb 's at astronomical distances 

i do n't have any plausible models for grbs at any distances ) 

recent observations have just about ruled out the merging neutron star 
hypothesis , which had a lot of problems , anyhow. we have to look for 
implausible models and what is fundamentally allowed independent of 
models. 

hmm , the superbowl burst has been claimed in press releases 
to cast doubt on the merging ns hypothesis , from what i 've read 
 ( and i have n't seen the papers , only the press) i 'd say it is 
consistent with some of the merging ns models 

a paper on the possibility of grb 's in the oort cloud just came 
through the astrophysics abstract service. to get a copy of this 

here is the abstract of that paper. 

... 
indicator to these events all possible sources which are 
distributed should remain under consideration .  . this is 
why the oort cloud of comets is kept on the list , 
although there is no known mechanism for generating grbs 
from cometary nuclei .  . unlikely as it may seem , the possibility that grbs 
originate in the solar cometary cloud 
cannot be excluded until it is disproved .  . 

this does not propose a mechanism for grbs in the oort  ( and , no , 
anti matter annihilation does not fit the spectra at least as far 
as i understand annihilation spectra .  .  . ) .  . big difference. 
that 's ignoring the question of how you fit a distribution 
to the oort distribution when the oort distribution is not well 
known in particular comet (which are not well known) 
are not a good measure of the oort cloud distribution .  .  .  . 


steinn sigurdsson lick observatory 
standard disclaimer 
the laws of gravity are very , very strict 
and you 're just bending them for your own benefit b.b. 1988 

from (richard a. schumacher ) 
subject re boeing  ( was words from chairman of boeing ) 
nntp posting host starman . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 7 

description of boeing study of two staged using 
supersonic ramjets deleted. 

in other words , boeing is not seriously thinking about 
reliable , less expensive access to orbit .  . they just like 
to fool around with exotic airplanes .  . 


from 
subject re space station redesign , jsc alternative 4 
organization nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 54 

first , (hey , that 's me ! ) wrote 
i have 19 (2 mb worth ! ) uuencode 'd gif images contain charts outlining 
one of the many alternative space station designs being considered in 
crystal city. ... 

second ,  ( me again) wrote 
i just posted the gif files out for anonymous ftp on server ics . uci . edu .  . 
you can retrieve them from 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode01 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode02 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode03 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode04 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode05 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode06 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode07 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode08 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode09 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode10 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode11 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode12 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode13 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode14 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode15 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode16 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geode17 . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geodea . gif . 
ics . uci . edu . incoming geodeb . gif . 

the last two are scanned color photos the others are scanned briefing 
charts .  . 

these will be deleted by the ics . uci . edu . system manager in a few days , 
so now 's the time to grab them if you 're interested. sorry it took 
me so long to get these out , but i was trying for the ames server , 
but it 's out of space. 

but now i need to clarify the situation. the incoming directory on 
ics . uci . edu . does not allow you to do an ls command. the files are 
there (i just checked on 04 28 93 at 9 35 cdt ) , and you can get them 
 ( do n't forget the binary mode ! ) , but you ca n't ls in the 
incoming directory. 

a further update mark 's design made the cover of space news this week 
as one of the design alternatives which was rejected .  . but he 's still 
in there plugging .  . i wish him luck using et 's as the basis of a 
space station has been a good idea for a long time. 

may the best design win. 

ken jenks , nasa jsc gm2 , space shuttle program office 
(713) 483 4368 

good ideas are not adopted automatically .  . they must be driven into 
practice with courageous  . admiral g. 

from  ( mary shafer ) 
subject re who is henry spencer anyway 
in reply to 's message of sat , 15 may 1993 01 45 54 gmt 
organization nasa dryden , edwards , cal. 
lines 17 

on sat , 15 may 1993 01 45 54 gmt ,  ( hans kinwel ) said 

hans as somebody replied on whether the space shuttle is connected to 
hans usenet no. of course the main flow of information would be up , 
hans unless henry spencer would be aboard , in which case the main 
hans flow of information would be down. 

gene miya says that henry will never go in the shuttle the 
payload bay is n't big enough for his chocolate chip cookies. 

when henry was here at dryden , he was looking pretty at the 
sr 71s and the f , even though they do n't have much cookie space. 
i guess he figured that he could manage for a short flight .  .  .  .  . 

mary shafer dod 0362 nasa dryden flight research facility , edwards , ca 
of course i do n't speak for nasa 
a mig at your six is better than no mig at all. unknown us fighter pilot 

from  ( fred j mccall 575 3539 ) 
subject re abyss breathing fluids 
organization texas instruments inc 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

in  ( ata etemadi ) writes 

the forever war , one of my favorite scifi books , had a passage devoted to 
breathing fluids .  . the idea was to protect people from the high accelerations 
required for interstellar travel by the passengers in dry cleaning 
fluid saturated with oxygen .  . plenty of very imaginative ideas is this book. 
i would certainly recommend it  ( won the hugo and the nebula  . 

and most definitely read it in conjunction with heinlein 's starship 
trooper . the two books are radically different viewpoints of the 
same basic premises .  . i 've even heard tell of english classes built 
around this. 


insisting on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the balls to live 
in the real world. mary shafer , nasa ames dryden 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( greg stewart nicholls ) 
subject re death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion to .  .  .  . 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3.1 
x x from 

lines 11 

in gregory n. bond writes 
i would n't even begin to expect that 
in australia , and we do n't have corruption like you 
do. 
wanna bet you must be too young to remember bob ) 
read the commision report if you want to know about corruption 
in oz. 

greg nicholls ... vidi 
or vici 
veni 

from dan 
subject re space marketing boycott 
x id 
x sun , 16 may 93 04 17 16 gmt 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization college 
lines 12 

for some reasons we humans think that it is our place to control 
everything. i doubt that space advertising is any worse than any other 
kind advertising , but it will be a lot harder to escape , and is probably 
the most blatant example yet of our disregard for the fact that we are 
not in fact of the universe. annoying little species , are n't we 



dan 
itty bitty programmer guy 
the geometry forum 
college 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re over zealous shuttle critics 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 139 

 ( ken hayashida ) writes 

rockwell international in downey , california , in conjunction with the 
other shuttle contractors delivered the world 's most important and 
most revolutionary space vehicle. 

ha ! 

one cannot argue with the fact that 
it flies , lands , and is reusable .  . 

watch me. it flies .  . it lands .  . it gets rebuilt .  . 


in my opinion , these were the only 
appropriate specifications for this program. 

that 's not what they told us back in the '70 's .  . 

it has been a test program from the start , a logical follow to the 
x 15 program and the later x series lifting bodies .  . 

1. it is n't a logical follow on. a logical follow on would have 
been either a russian type  ( for the lifting bodies ) 
or something like mmi 's space van  ( or boeing 's , or the 
the military is allegedly using now that probably cost less 
to develop than the shuttle does to fly for a year) .  . 

the engineering specs that the guys in the trenches had were to 
develop a system which was man , could land reliably , and could 
be  . these goals were quite visionary for the 1970 's , and i 
would argue that they are challenging even today , including for the 
dc x program. 

keep that attitude , and it 'll be a couple centuries before we get real 
access to space , unless another country without all that baggage comes 
along and kicks our ass in the space race. 

i do not recall a 1 flight week specification in the final nasa specs for the 
space shuttle program. if you have such documents , i would find them most 
revealing and interesting. as far as i can tell , the only people a 
1 flight per week flight rate were people on capitol hill or selling books 
to the general public. 

or nasa hq .  . that does n't give the rest of the program plausible deniability 
if we that it was n't worth the money we 've spent , which is by now 
probably a lot more than apollo .  . 

imho , political statements in the halls of the us congress are not 
as engineering specs because specs should be determined by 
nasa dod and contractors , not by congressmen , senators , or presidents .  . 
missions are defined by political leaders , but not the engineering 
specs. 

yes , but it gets sold on the basis of the political statements .  . 
you 're saying basically that it met the engineering specs (which is 
questionable , imho) so it 's a success , never mind that you could n't 
get the funding the shuttle eats with those engineering specs in 
a thousand years. 

the shuttle is the only reusable space vehicle. this automatically 
qualifies it as an unparalleled engineering success. you could argue 
about its political success. but engineering wise , it is clearly the 
most advanced machine ever flown .  . i argue that engineering and 
technical data for flight is valuable in and of itself. 
shuttle should be justified or criticized on the basis of economics .  . 

you can get flight data with an x 15 or a follow on x 15 
type vehicle for much less. 

and economics and engineering are engineering in the 
absense of economics is basically just physics , and in terms of physics , 
the shuttle looks like a failure next to the x 15. 


then henry wrote 

hs sorry , support that i can arrange for launchers all goes to launchers 
hs that i have some hope of riding some day. at the moment , that 's 
hs dc x 's hoped for successors .  . 

i was disappointed by this and other similar statements from those vocal in 
support of the dc x program . your support of dc x is based on hopes .  . 
my support for the shuttle program is based on record. 

the shuttle program has a bad record. i once had hopes for the 
shuttle program. by now i know those hopes were false .  . 

all i have for dc x and similar and dissimilar experimental vehicles 
are hopes .  . but at least i know they are n't false hopes yet. 

i did support the shuttle , way back when. it did n't do nearly what 
it was supposed to. it 's time to move on to something that might do 
the job of orbital delivery better. or at all. 


i think that it is 
also important to note that i do not object to dc x. it is visionary .  . 
i originally posted 

i like the dc x idea .  .  .  . and i am really hopeful that it 'll be a stunning success 

unfortunately , dc x ers are not willing to return that support the 
proven shuttle program. explain why you folks criticize shuttle when 
shuttle is exactly what you guys need in order to learn how to operate 
dc x on orbit .  . 

we do n't want to learn how to operate on orbit .  . it launches , it 
out the payload , it lands .  . it does n't waste payload hauling 
up and down edo pallets and the like. 

the only thing to be learned from shuttle is how not to build a 
launcher .  . 

finally that bit about the proven shuttle .  . are you hoping you can 
tell a lie enough times and get someone to believe it 

i enjoyed your later postings regarding the comparisons between the shuttle 
and the soyuz project. although , i may disagree with your method 
of analysis. you probably will disagree with mine. 8 ) i think that 
the total impact of the shuttle program must be judged on the scientific and 
technical merit , not on and schedules  ( do you agree ) 

how much science and technology could have been done is the money spent 
on shuttle had been spent differently 

... 
as for now , we need to stop thinking of dc x and shuttle as mutually exclusive .  . 

learn about economics and the current budget realities in the united states , 
please. 

thanks for your time. 


phil fraering number one good faith ! you convert , 
you not tortured by demons ! anon. missionary 



subject re gamma ray bursters .  . where are they .  . 
from  ( ross smith) 
distribution world 
organization muppet labs 
lines 31 

in article (keith harwood ) writes 

in article , (david m. palmer ) writes 
 ( pat ) writes 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray bursters are very far away 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

. . . david gives good explaination of the deductions from the isotropic , 
 edged  distribution , to whit , they are either part of the universe or 
part of the oort cloud .  . 

i do n't know what you mean by  edged  , but surely there are two other 
possibilities for an isotropic distribution near interstellar  ( up to 
100 pc , i.e. within the disc ) , or the galaxy 's corona 

why could n't they be earth centred , with the edge occuring at the edge 
of the i know there is n't any mechanism for them , but there 
is n't a mechanism for the others either. 


... ross smith  ( wanganui , nz )  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ... 
among the gods , there is a dispute as to which one of them originally 
thought of christianity or , as they call it , the great leg pull .  . apollo 
has the best claim , but a sizeable minority support pluto , ex god of the 
dead , on the grounds that he has a really sick sense of humour .  .  ( tom holt ) 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 18 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article (george f. krumins ) writes 
i say 
what i'm objecting to here is a floating billboard that , presumably , 
would move around in the sky. i , for one , am against legislating 
at all. i just wish that people had a bit of common courtesy , and 
would consider how their greed for money impacts the more ethereal and 
aesthetic values that make us human. this includes the need for wild 
and unspoiled things , including the night sky. 


sorry that 's an aesthetics argument. maybe this string shoudl to 
sci . space . aesthetics .  . 

planes ruin the night sky. ruin the night sky. radio towers 
ruin the night sky. 

like i said , get a vote , and create some more national parks .  . which 
include air space. 

from bio . bu . edu .  ( chris colby ) 
subject re life on earth  ( or elsewhere ) 
distribution sci 
organization animal 
lines 55 

in article (james davis nicoll ) writes 
in article  ( tom ) writes 

what evidence is there that there is a trend towards greater 
species diversity over time what i see going on right now is a major 
extinction event , and it is n't clear to me that the diversity 10k years 
ago was necessarily greater than 600 million years ago. 

well , there are several bursts in species diversity i can think of. 
the and explosions resulted in a vast increase 
in animal diversity .  . likewise , after the one two punch of the 
and extinctions , the number of marine animals 
rose steadily ( ) to an all time high ( ) just prior to the spread 
of humans. 

( ) biggest exception being the k t  ( bye bye dinos ) extinction 

( ) about 800 families 

also , plants arose from green algae and colonized the land in 
sweeps .  . colonized very wet environments first , 
 ( who had evolved vascular tissues ) took over more territory 
when they evolved (1) .  . these were eventually  ( mostly ) replaced by 
 ( pines and the like) (2) and then  ( mostly ) displaced by  ( flowering 
plants now the dominant plant group on the  . fungi 
also radiated greatly with the invasion of the land. 

(1) around the  ( up to about 200 families ) 
(2) around the  ( up to maybe 250 families ) 
(3) starting in the cretaceous  ( rising to about 600 families currently ) 

it 's unclear  ( to me at least) what the max equilibrium number 
of species the earth can hold ( ) and if it has ever hit this 
in the past. it could be (warning speculation alert ) that 
diversity has never reached a peak because mass extinctions 
happen often enough to keep the total number down. 

( ) this would depend a great deal on how fragmented 
specific ecosystems were. 

see cowen 's book history of life for a not too technical 
run down on , well , like the title sez , the history of life. 
or see , wilson 's diversity of life for a view centered more 
on current ecology this is (imho) the best popular biology 
book of  ( what the hell , i 'll say it) all time. 

james nicoll 

follow ups to t.o. 

chris colby email bio . bu . edu . 
 my boy , ' he said ,  you are descended from a long line of determined , 
resourceful , microscopic champions every one . ' . 
kurt vonnegut from galapagos 


from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re u.s. government and science and investment 
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana 
lines 24 

writes 

but as to the question of what philosopher will be most highly regarded in 
500 years , it may very well be ayn rand  ( who in every important respect 
was american , but was born in russia) .  . but i guess that remains to be seen. 

1. please take this out of sci . space .  . 

2. ayn rand was not only born in russia , but educated there. a lot 
of her philosophy reflects not only a european education but a 
reaction against certian events in russia while she lived there. 
i 've heard that to the extent there is a division of modern philosophy 
between the continental and british american schools , rand belongs in 
the former in terms of methodology et al , even though she was trying to 
say things that would belong in the latter school. 

i.e. she was trapped in the language of kant and , even though 
she was trying to say (at times) much different things. 


phil fraering number one good faith ! you convert , 
you not tortured by demons ! anon. missionary 



from (the master ) 
subject re mcelwaine faq 
keywords faq about r e mcelwaine 
organization australian defence industries 
lines 24 

 ( simon e. booth ) writes 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
i'm not sure which amazes me more the fact that someone would go to all this 
trouble to write about mcelwaine or the fact that someone would post something 
which repeatedly says it should n't be posted. 

it 's all moot anyway. he had is net access privileges revoked last week. 

josh hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to hannibal 


mcelwaine got his access revoked finally ! ! ! ! 

and they say it could n't be done. if we can rid the net of mcelwaine , 
then anything is possible 
simon 


oh , do n't worry , i'm sure he 'll be back ! 



from  ( alejo hausner ) 
subject re long term human missions 
organization m . sc . , c . s . , queen 's , kingston , canada .  . 
lines 18 

in article (robert kaye ) writes 

just a few contributions from the space program to regular society 

1. calculators 
2. teflon (so your eggs do n't stick in the pan ) 

sorry to split hairs , but i just read in the making of the atomic 
bomb ( ) that teflon was developed during world war 2. a sealant was 
needed for the tubing in which uranium passed as it was 
gradually enriched by  . is very corrosive , and some very 
inert yet flexible material was needed for the seals .  . 

3.  ( kept my grandfather alive from 1976 until 1988) 



( ) richard rhodes , the making of the atomic bomb , simon and 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re i want that billion 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 35 

in article writes 
you 'd need to launch to send up large amounts of stuff. do you know 
of a private titan pad 
nobody who is interested in launching things cheaply will buy titans .  . it 
does n't take many titan pricetags to pay for a laser launcher or a large 
gas gun or a development program for a big dumb booster , all of which 
would have far better cost effectiveness .  . 

henry , i made the assumption that he who gets there firstest with the mostest 
wins. 

only if he does n't spend more than a billion dollars doing it , since the 
prize is not going to be scaled up to match the level of effort. you can 
spend a billion pretty quickly buying titan launches .  . 

what 's more , if you buy titans , the prize money is your entire return on 
investment .  . if you develop a new launch system , it has other uses , and 
the prize is just the icing on the cake .  . 

i doubt very much that a billion dollar prize is going to show enough 
return to justify the investment if you are constrained to use current 
us launchers .  .  ( there would surely be a buy american clause in the rules 
for such a prize , since it would pretty well have to be government funded . ) . 
you 're going to have to invest your front money in building a new launch 
system rather than pissing it away on existing ones. being there first is 
of no importance if you go bankrupt doing it. 

... could i get a couple of tuned for the lunar environment i 
wanna do some teleoperated prospecting while i'm up there .  .  .  . 

i'm sure would offer to develop such a lunar tuned system and deliver 
a couple of them to you for only a couple of hundred million dollars. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 
keywords hst 

in article  ( greg moore ) writes 

as pointed out , you have to develop the thruster .  . 
also , while much lighter , you still have to lift the mass of 
the thruster to orbit , and then the thruster lifts its own 
weight into a higher orbit .  . and you take up room in the payload 
bay. 


a yes , but the improvement in boost orbit to the hst is significant , 
and that means you can then carry edo packs and enough consumables 
so the shuttle mission can go on long enough to also fix the 
array tilt motors , and god knows what else is going to wear out 
on the hst in the next 9 months. 

pat 


from  ( greg stewart nicholls ) 
subject re vandalizing the sky. 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3.1 
x x from 

lines 11 

in george f. krumins writes 
according to this reasoning there are no rights , at least none that i can think 
of .  .  .  .  . 

you 've got it. what you regard as a right , someone else will regard 
as a privilege .  . followups to some generic ethics and morality 
newsgroup .... 

greg nicholls ... vidi 
or vici 
veni 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 95 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article writes 
 .  .  . 

after all the space walking , they are going to re boost the hst 's 
orbit .  . i think right now it 's sitting at 180 miles up , 
they would like 220 .  . i do n't know the exact orbit numbers. 


as ben says this re boost idea is all news to us here. do you know 
something we do n't please supply a source it would be nice for 
the schedulers of observations to know where the thing is going to 
be. these altitude numbers are also way off. 

my best source has 
minimum st altitude in the is 573 kilometers 
maximum st altitude in the is 603 kilometers 
delta st altitude in the is 3 kilometers 

 ( pmdb is proposal management data base used to schedule observations . ) . 
 .  .  . 


i am sure your numbers are far better then mine. as i said above , 
i do n't have exact numbers. 

in order to perform the re boost of the hst , the oms engines 
will be fired for a long period. now the shuttle is a heavy 
thing. the hst is n't light either. the amount of oms fuel 
needed to fly both up is substantial .  . a small booster 
carried up and used to boost hst on it 's own will weigh significantly 
less then the oms fuel required to boost both hst and shuttle , 
for a given orbital change. 


could you supply some calculations you might check some recent 
postings that explained that  a small booster  as suggested does 
not now exist , so comparing the mass of something that does n't 
exist to the mass of the oms fuel seems impossible. the contamination 
threat also remains .  . 


how different would the contamination threat of a small manuevering tug 
be from that of the shuttle and it 's oms engines 

i know that no small manuevering tug exists , but maybe one could 
soup up a bus 1. does anyone out there have the de 
specs on hte bus 1 would it be able to provide enough control 
force to balance the hst , and still have the rocket thrust 
to hurl her into a decent high orbit 

 .  .  . 

or the hst could even get placed into some sort of medium orbit .  . 
the reason they want a high orbit , is less antenna pointing , 
and longer drag life. 

longer drag life i can understand , but could you explain the 
antenna pointing 

sorry , that should be pointing .  . 


whatever it is , the problem in the tilt array is a big constraint 
on hst ops .  . 

tell me about it. although the arrays can be  ( and are) moved perfectly 
well utilizing the second electronics box. getting them both working 
is much desireable so as to reclaim redundancy .  . 

plus , if the second box gets , you could be in ville 
real fast. 


i do n't mean to jump on you helpful suggestions are always welcome 
and we all know the more ideas the better , but i do want the true 
situation to be described clearly and correctly , lest some get 
confused. 

regards , 
wm. hathaway 

the problem is no one seems to have the exact numbers. when the mission 
was planned originally at 3 spacewalks , and 3 astronauts , there was 
enormous concern over the mass margins for the flight. they 
have now planned for 5 eva 's , an 11 day mission and have 2 reserve 
eva 's and an emergency eva .  . obviously that is coming from somewhere. 
my guess is the oms burn fuel , or re boost margin .  . 

i just figured , if goldin wants to really , prove out faster , cheaper 
better , have some of the whiz kids slap together an expendable 
space manuevering tug out of a , and use that for the re boost .  . 
it has to be better then using the discovery as a tow truck. 

pat 


from (david ward ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
organization goddard space flight center robotics lab 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( bruce scott ) writes .  .  .  . 
if re boosting the hst by carrying it with a shuttle would not damage it , 
then why could n't hst be brought back to earth and the repair job done 
here 

is it because two shuttle flights would be required , adding to the 
horrendous expense 


i do n't think a reboost exercise is analogous to a shuttle landing launch 
in terms of stresses etc. i would think of the reboost as 
a gentile push , where a landing , then launch as two which would 
put more mechanical stress on the instruments .  . additionally , there might 
be a concern about landing loads to the shuttle in the event of a laden 
landing .  . finally , probably some thought went into possible contamination 
problems if the instruments came back to earth. 

of course , the cost of two shuttle launches is a good reason to avoid 
something that might be done in one shuttle launch .  . here 's hoping 
's gang gets the job done right the first time. 

david w. @ gsfc 
(i used to work for frank cepollina ) 

from  ( roger collins ) 
subject re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
reply to 
organization encore computer corporation 
nntp posting host sysgem1 . encore . com . 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( geoff miller) writes 
in article  ( dan herrin ) 
writes 

is it not also an abomination that somebody would spend money on space 
advertising when those children are starving perhaps some redistribution 
of wealth would help them ... 


this is specious emotionalism .  . commercial enterprises typically do n't 
spend money on starving children  ( or other world problems) anyway , at 
least not in excess of whatever minimum amount is required for lip 
service and pr purposes. precisely where would you place the threshold 
beyond which advertising spending is deemed abominable , and why 

yes ! just take money from the profitable commercial enterprises 
and give it to the government to redistribute .  . government is so much 
more efficient , trustworthy , and noble than self serving businesses .  . ) 

let 's nip this ignorance in the bud. if it were not 
for commercial enterprises , the whole world would be starving .  . 

roger collins 

from 
subject re surviving large accelerations 
article i.d. aurora . 1993apr26 . 1 . 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 
lines 40 
nntp posting host acad3 . alaska . edu . 

in article ,  ( raymond fairfield ) writes 
 ( lan pham ) writes 
 ( in answer to laxman 
are you sure 45g is the right number as far as i know , pilots are 
blackout in dives that exceed 8g 9g .  . 45g seems to be out of human 
tolerance .  . would anybody clarify this please. 

lan 

apart from the fact that you get g in the pull out , not the dive , that 
figure is about right for sustained g , no protection. 
the duration of g , it 's rate of onset , body position and support aids are 
all critical parts of the equation .  . i remember one note about 
players recording peaks about  . , the aviation doctor , 
either by accident or design , took a short period in a rocket 
, eye balls out against a standard  ( 1950 's) harness .  . it had 
to be short , calculate the stopping time , even from 500 at that 
g. a bang seat can get up to about 60 g , and you 'd better be sitting 
straight. find the book by martin human pig to hear how bad 
it can get if the rate of onset is too high. a position and a 
good g suit can keep a pilot functioning at around  . 

a tank should be a good bet , since you can treat the body as a 
fluid , and high pressure situations are not new. anyone have any figures 

ray fairfield 




yes a tank , combined with breathing  ( water(ref the abyss 
breathing solution i think) .  .  . also the right position of the astronaut and 
strapping you can probably get much more than in an  .  . 
more like near  ( or somewhat less) .  .  . 

saw i book called the time master (i that was the title) that had some 
ideas on how fast and all you could go .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just jacked 

from  ( ajay shah ) 
subject no. re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 33 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

 ( opirg ) writes 

i do n't think that idea means what you think it does. having everyone 
on earth subject to some ad agency 's poor taste is an abomination .  . 

well , we already suffer from street  . if you do n't 
watch tv , you are free of commercials there , but if you want 
to go from a to b you cannot escape beer ads. 

us loathe it. i 'd rather not have the beauty of the night sky always marred 
by a giant billboard , and i 'll bet the idea is virtually sacrilegious 
to an astronomer like sagan .  . 

i think the right time to stop this proposal is now. 

if this idea goes through , it 's the thin end of the wedge .  . soon 
companies will be doing larger , and more , billboards in the 
sky. i would n't want a world a few decades from now when the sky 
looks like las vegas .  . that would really make me sad. 

coca cola company will want to paint the moon red and white.  ( well , 
if not this moon , then a moon of  . will want to 
name a galaxy  . where do we draw the line 
historically mankind is not very good at drawing fine lines. 

i'm normally extremely enthusiastic about all forms of resource 
allocation for space research i think it 's the most important 
investment possible for mankind in the long run. but this is not 
the way to get the money. 

ans .  . 

ajay shah ,  ( 213)749 ) , 

from  ( eugene n. miya ) 
subject re level 5 
organization nas , nasa ames research center , moffett field , california 
lines 19 

in article 
 ( bill higgins beam jockey ) writes 
will someone tell an ignorant physicist where the term level 5 comes 
from 

but who is it that invents this standard , and how come 
everyone but me seems to be familiar with it 

the sei .  . software engineering institute , a dod funded part of carnegie mellon 
university .  . you can read about part of it in ed 's the decline and 
fall of the american programmer  ( yourdon press) .  . 

just passing thru .  .  .  .  .  . 

eugene miya , nasa ames research center , 
resident cynic , rock of ages home for retired hackers 
uunet , , other gateways ! ames ! eugene 
second favorite email message returned mail cannot send message for 3 days 
a ref mathematics and plausible reasoning , vol. 1 , g. 

from  ( daniel m. newman ) 
subject re lindbergh and the moon  ( was why not give 1g ) 
reply to  ( daniel m. newman ) 
organization aeronautical engineering , university of sydney 
lines 35 
nntp posting host ae . su . oz . au . 

in article  ( phil g. fraering ) writes 
 ( gregory n. bond ) writes 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 

re voyages of discovery .  .  .  . 
could you give examples of privately funded ones 

much of cook 's later exploration was privately funded , by joseph banks 
among others (eg in resolution the earlier  . 's voyage 
to the galapagos was substantially privately funded by the owners of 
british whaling vessels .  . chancellor and were privately funded 
by london merchant companies in their voyages to  . the list is 
almost endless .  . those doing the funding were about eighty percent 
motivated by potential profit , ten percent by potential glory and ten 
percent by the desire to advance the sum of human knowledge. 


dan newman 
aeronautical engineering 
university of sydney 
sydney nsw 2050 
australia 
from  ( daniel m. newman ) 
path ae . su . oz . au . ! dan 
newsgroups sci . space . 
subject 
expires 
references 
sender 
reply to  ( daniel m. newman ) 
distribution world 
organization aeronautical engineering , sydney university 
keywords 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re hst servicing mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization u of toronto zoology 
lines 13 

in article writes 
... also , as implied by other posters , why 
do you need to boost the orbit on this mission anyway ... 

you do n't need to , but it 's desirable .  . hst , like all satellites in 
low earth orbit , is gradually losing altitude due to air drag .  . it was 
deployed in the highest orbit the shuttle could reach , for that reason. 
it needs occasional or it will eventually reenter .  . (it has 
no propulsion system of its own . ) . this is an excellent opportunity , 
given that there may not be another visit for several years. 

svr4 resembles a high speed collision henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology 
between svr3 and sunos .  . dick dunn ! henry 

from (david fox ) 
subject re no. re space marketing would be wonderfull .  . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 16 may 1993 14 51 59 gmt 
nntp posting host graphics . cs . nyu . edu . 
organization courant institute of mathematical sciences 

lines 43 

in article  ( frank crary ) writes 

in article  ( ajay shah ) writes 
if this idea goes through , it 's the thin end of the wedge .  . soon 
companies will be doing larger , and more , billboards in the 
sky. i would n't want a world a few decades from now when the sky 
looks like las vegas .  . that would really make me sad. 

think for a moment about the technology required to do that. by 
the time they could make the earth 's sky look like las vegas , 
the people could afford to go on the moon. round 
trip costs for 500 kg to the moon would be about the same as 
5000 kg in a low earth advertising orbit very roughly the 
same cost as a smallish billboard , therefore .  . if such ads were 
to become common place , that would have to be a very low price .  .  .  . 

this is nonsense. its like saying that by the time commercials 
on television become commonplace every citizen will have their own 
hour long nationally broadcast tv program. 

there 's always been a problem of having to get 
away from civilization before you can really find natural 
scenery .  . 100 years ago , this usually did n't take a trip 
of over 5 miles. today , most people would have to go 100 miles 
or more. if we ever get to the point where we have billboards 
on orbit , that essentially means that no place on earth is still 
wild .  . while that may or may not be a good thing , the orbital 
billboards are n't the problem they are just a symptom of 
growing , densely populated civilization .  . banning such ads will 
not save your view of the night sky , because by the time 
such ads could become widespread you will probably have trouble 
finding a place without street lights , where you can see 
the stars .  .  .  . 

the rest of your post is strange mishmash of its already really bad 
and it does n't really matter if it gets worse. you should try to 
figure out what you are really arguing for.  ( kneejerk anti environ 
mentalism ) 

david 

p.s. a passing does not have the same effect on visible 
light astronomy as an object as bright as the full moon. 

from  ( bill higgins beam jockey ) 
subject the dream machines book on vaporware spacecraft 
organization fermi national accelerator laboratory 
lines 133 
nntp posting host fnalf . fnal . gov . 
summary ron miller book on history of from krieger publishing 
keywords spacecraft astronautics history sf miller 

ron miller is a space artist with a long and distinguished career. 
i 've admired both his paintings  ( remember the usps solar system 
exploration stamps last year ) and his writings on the history of 
spaceflight .  . for several years he 's been working on a big project 
which is almost ready to hit the streets. a brochure from his 
publisher has landed in my mailbox , and i thought it was cool enough 
to type in part of it (it 's rather long) .  . especially given the net 's 
strong interest in vaporware spacecraft .  .  .  . 



the dream machines 
an illustrated history of the spaceship in art , science , and literature 

by ron miller 
with foreword by arthur c. clarke 

krieger publishing company 
melbourne , florida , usa 
orig. ed. 1993 
pre publication 84 . 50 . 
isbn 0 9 


this text is a history of the spaceship as both a cultural and a 
technological phenomenon .  . the idea of a vehicle for the 
space betwen worlds did not spring full blown into existence in the 
half of theis century. the need preceded the ability ot make 
such a device by several hundred years. as soon as it was realized 
that there were other worlds than this one , human beings wanted to 
reach them. 

tracing the history of the many imaginative , and often prescient , 
attempts to solve this problem also reflects the history of 
technology , science , astronomy , and engineering .  . once space travel 
became feasible , there were many more spacecraft concepts developed 
than ever got off the drawing board or off the ground , for that 
matter. these also are described in theis book , for the same reason 
as the pre space age and pre flight ideas are they are all accurate 
reflections of their particular era 's dreams , abilities , and 
knowledge. virtually every spaceship concept invented since 1500 , as 
well as selected events important in developing the idea of 
extraterrestrial travel , is listed  . the chronological 
entries allow comparisons between actual astronautical events and 
speculative ventures .  . they also allow comparisons between 
simultaneous events taking place in different countries. they reveal 
connections , influences , and evolutions hitherto unsuspected .  . every 
entry is accompanied by at least one illustration .  . nearly every 
spacecraft concept is illustrated with a schematic drawing. this 
allows accurate comparisons to be made between , to visualize 
differences , similarities , and influences .  . 

this text will be of interest to students of astronautical history , 
and also to model builders who would be interested in the schematic 
diagrams .  . science fiction fans as well as aviation history buffs and 
historians of science will also find this book to be fascinating .  . the 
unique collection of illustrations makes it a visually attractive and 
very interesting history of the spaceship .  . 

special features 

includes scale drawings of several hundred spacecraft , both real and 
fictional 

contains scores of illustrations artwork , drawings , and photos 
contemporary with the subject. this includes extremely rare 
illustrations from scarce books and novels , exclusive photos and 
drawings spacecraft rare stills from both famous and 
obscure science fiction films , and unpublished photographs from nasa 
archives 

an index , bibliography , and appendices are included. 

contents 

part i the archaeology of the spaceship  ( 360 b.c. to 1783 a . d . ) . 
part ii the invention of the spaceship  ( 1784 1899 ) 
part iii the experimenters  ( 1900 1938) 
part iv the world war  ( 1939 1945 ) 
part v the golden age of the spaceship  ( 1946 1960 ) 
part vi the dawn of the space age  ( 1961 to the present) 

about ron miller 

the brochure has a page of stuff here i 'll try to hit the high 
spots. 

former art director for albert einstein planetarium at smithsonian 's 
national air and space museum 

member of international association for astronomical arts , member of 
international astronautical association , fellow of the british 
interplanetary society , consulting editor for air space 
smithsonian magazine 

author , co author , editor , or sole illustrator on many books since 
1979 , including space art , cycles of fire , the grand tour , and 
many others , as well as many articles and papers 

book jackets and interior art for over a dozen publishers 

contributor to ibm traveling exhibition and book for space 

production illustrator for movies dune and total recall 

designer of ten stamp set of commemorative space postage stamps for 
u.s. postal service in 1991  ( solar system exploration ) 

ordering information 

pre publication price 84 . 50 . before 1 may 1993 
afterwards , price will be 112.50 

krieger publishing company 
po box 
melbourne , fl 
usa 
direct order line  ( 407)727 ) 
fax  ( 407)951 ) 3671 

add 5.00 for shipping by ups within usa for first book , 1.50 for each 
additional book. 

for foreign orders , add 6.00 for first book , 2.00 for each 
additional .  . additional charges for airmail shipments .  . 

o ) ' ' , , ' , 
) ( ) ( ) zap ! 
( ) ( ) 
bill higgins fermi national accelerator laboratory 
bitnet 
internet 
span 43011 higgins 

