from jon c. r. bennett 
subject re ideas on clipper 
organization robotics institute , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 71 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

jim gillogly writes 
in article you write 
suppose i knew how the algorithm worked and knew the n for my chip , but 
did not know f , then by cryptanalysis i might be able to determine f from 
if law enforcement field 
e e k u n f 
not knowing n would might make this much harder. 

they 're betting that you ca n't do this , even if you know n. even if you 
know e , in fact , which they 're trying to keep secret. if you can find e 
by grinding down the chip , presumably you can find f as well. but we ca n't 
do this right now with des , even knowing the encryption method without 
doing almost the whole 56 bit search. 

that is not true , with chosen plaintext attacks des keys can be determined 
without the full search. 


now suppose that i know f ,  ( either legitimately or not) , 
if i know k  ( either because i am involved in the conversation , or i know u 
for a party in the conversation ) , i may now be able to determine u for the 
other party. 

again , they 're betting that you ca n't find u given k i.e. they claim the 
encryption is strong.  ( trust us .  .  . ) . 

i am not willing to take that bet. 

if i know f i can also defeat the law enforcement field , since i could 
make my own , with a different k then the one i am using. knowing f also 
allows traffic analysis to be performed .  . so i might not know what you are 
saying but i could know who you are saying it too. 

i'm not sure there 'll be a way to shove arbitrary key and data through your 
chip , but if so , this part 's ok.  ( we 're assuming e is unknown . ) . 

you can obviously shove arbitrary data through your chip .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
as for the key , it is stated that the key exchange is external to 
the chip , so i can pick my keys too. 

now i admit that someone trying to compute u will not have lots of 
messages to work from , but since we have no way of knowing that the key 
generation method does not  ( deliberately ) generate weak keys , or for that 
matter that the published method is in fact used , perhaps the u 's will be 
chosen from know weak keys for the system. 

they assume that you wo n't be able to find u no matter how many messages 
you have. if they could break u , they would n't need the key escrow .  . 

bing bing bing bing bing , that exactly my point , since we cant know that 
they do not have this capability , the only safe assumption is that they 
do .  .  .  . i admit that most of my cryptographic complaints are probably 
unfounded , but since we cant know one way or the other , im not to 
take their word for it .  .  .  .  . 

obviously the compromise of f would be a disaster , both to law enforcement 
for whom this whole thing is designed , and for the people who believe that 
it is giving them security. f is but one number , and i sure that alot of 
people  ( more then 1) know what it is  ( and if some panel of experts is 
going to check it over for flaws then many more will know f , forget 
grinding chips , bribery and blackmail work just fine. 

it 's not clear that the experts will be told f. in fact , i 'd be surprised. 
i 'd expect something more of the form of the fips pub describing des , so that 
they could look at the algorithm in general , rather than with the specific 
set of keys chosen .  . 

oh come on , thats like saying you could evaluate des without the s box 
constants .  .  .  .  .  . 

jon 

reply to  ( jeff hupp ) 
from  ( jeff hupp ) 
subject re clipper not good enough for government 
lines 19 



this is stupid. wo n't it cost more to those companies hoping to 
serve the gov't and private markets if they don't use the same 
technology 

i would guess that they wo n't use clipper at all. what they will 
do is use their stu iiis amoung themselves and the governmental agencies 
they need to talk to , and ignore clipper .  . after all , if it 's not secure 
enough for the agency department they are communicating with why should 
the trust it 



jeff internet 
, apt. 1807 ad contract programming , novell 
houston , texas network design and support. 
voice (713) 780 the best govenment does n't me. 


from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re the clipper chip a technical summary 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 119 

in article writes 
the following document summarizes the clipper chip , how it is used , 
how programming of the chip is coupled to key generation and the 
escrow process , and how law enforcement decrypts communications .  . 

interesting. tell us , what happens if i were to say ok , i want to have 
something else. if the law enforcement wants my traffic , they can record 
it , then get a search warrant , and get the keys from me , just like they 
would the keys to a stout private safe , etc.  ( lets say i suspect that 
there is a way to trivially crack this at the fed level , with no warrant , 
say for nsa scanning for keywords , etc. , and the government has abused 
great power in the past .  .  . ) .  . 

so i say mr vendor , i want something different , independent .  . i am 
a paranoid sort , ya understand .  .  .  . . 

will the result be sorry , without government permission , we cannot sell 
you anything secure , or would it be sorry , we know which side our 
bread is buttered on , we cannot sell except to government people , law 
enforcement , and  special  people .  .  .  . . 

what , in your opinion , would be the chances of sure , we will sell you 
this secure system ... be happy to .  .  .  . 

also , please be so kind as to tell us what the plans are for private 
encryption of , say files transferred by modem , or ftp , or data stored 
on disk surely you have a feel for what the administration is planning 
for us people on that .  .  .  .  . with your rather intimate relationship with 
the fbi , nsa , etc. you must certainly have an idea. you are surely 
not going to say the people are not to know , until it is too late .  .  .  . 
this is supposed to be government of the people by the people , is n't 
it that is , the people are the government 's bosses the bosses 
want to know what the  ( @( )  ( @ is going on here .  .  .  . 

you see , i am kind of nervous , because in the last month or so , i have 
seen a non stop stream of ideas coming out of wash dc that at least 
appear very strongly to have a common trait to limit privacy  ( freedom 
from govt eavesdropping ) , and the ability to defend ourselves against 
violent attack (no , 911 is not good enough for  common folk  , they 
arrive only in time to clean up the mess i would be dead if i had to 
depend on 911 .  .  . ) .  . you see , with all that talk about national smart 
id cards , limiting of encryption to  government approved  , denial of 
means to effective personal defense  ( eight bills in congress right now) , 
it looks an awfully lot like the whole thing is to be able to trace 
every activity of an individual from cradle to grave .  . all it would take 
is requiring that national id card to be used in all transactions .  .  .  . 
and with no effective data protection , and with the people suitably 
disarmed , there would not be a helluva lot they could do about it , now 
would there all in the name of the war on the ... er ... 
drugs , and of course that catch word  . what is wrong with 
good old fashioned police work to build a case they do n't want to 
have to be burdened to leave the office , it seems .  .  .  . 

please read the bill of rights  ( first ten amendments to the us 
constitution ) and tell us how you can reconcile this big brother ish 
policy of the administration  ( always for a  crisis  of some kind , is n't 
it ) with that bill of rights in the context of the people who wrote 
it 

reassure us please .  .  .  .  ( or is that no longer regarded as necessary , 
seeing as apparantly the people have no input on this agenda , the 
administration preferring to make all the decisions in secret , then 
it on us .  .  . ) .  . does n't sound much like ... by the people 
to me. i cannot help notice that the congress people involved were 
not mentioned on the press release. i find that more than a little 
bit curious , do n't you i sure would like to know who to not vote 
for come election time .  .  .  . 

yes , i am upset. i feel you are a part of this , because i recall it 
was you that was posting heavily in favor of a very similar idea  ( could 
have been the same thing , it was so close) a few months ago .  .  .  . i 
also recall it was not well received. apparantly powers that be 
really did n't care  ( or were not told , or both) .  . 

from what i see , clipper will only be useful for conversations i do n't 
want the neighborhood kid listening in on. any serious security i do n't 
think i would want to trust it a bit. might as well use cleartext .  . 
certainly corporations would be rather dumb to depend on this for serious 
trade secret data , especially if millions depended on that security. 
given enough money , one could buy any keys they wanted. buy a crooked 
judge , and a crooked cop .  . given a few hundred thou , they would n't be 
hard to find. so , we end up with only criminals , terrorists , and the 
government with real security , and the ability to eavesdrop .  . you know 
the first two , if they are serious , ai n't going to use this thing for 
their communications .  . i bet the government wo n't , either (except perhaps 
to order a  . 

tell us , will that be prima face evidence of criminal activity , 
someone not using the  government approved  methods that just a desire 
to have privacy is no longer regarded as a legitimate right of an 
unconnected citizen will that be grounds for a fly through the door 
raid , and confiscation of all one 's equipment , as  terrorist tools' , 
using civil forfeiture , so there will be no inconvenient need to 
prove any wrongdoing on the part of the citizen 

i have yet another question , are we going to see articles in all the 
public magazines , consisting of soothing text telling us how great 
this is , how nice the government is by letting us have this illusion 
of privacy that the government is going to be so kind as to let 
us  sort of  exercise a right what you want to bet that i am 
correct here 

please answer these questions. as citizens of the united states , we 
hava a right to know what our government plans to  let  us have 
out of the goodness of their hearts .  .  .  . 

funny thing , though with all these proposals , i do n't feel one bit 
safer from drug dealers , terrorists , or a common street thug .  . i am 
beginning to wonder if the greater danger lies in the above entities , 
or our own government gone out of control 

re assure us , please. so far , i have n't seen much to reassure me .  .  .  . 
and a lot to greatly disturb me. 


without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

from (edward anthony hutchins ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host 
organization washington university , school of engineering , st. louis mo 
lines 18 

hmmm .  .  .  .  . celp takes up about 12.6 mips for full duplex , and has been 
implemented on about a million dsp chips .  .  .  . the 56001 card in my pc only cost 
about 700 , and i'm sure once demand goes up the prices would drop. the analog 
devices board that we 're looking at now cost about 500  ( academic price) .  . 
i do n't think hardware is something to worry about .  .  .  . if you get it working , 
people will snap up internet phone cards like there was no tomorrow. 
what we need here is a good implementation of celp (the government code is 
absolute crap , i got a 30 speedup after looking at it for a couple of hours) , 
and modifications to pgp to allow it to compress decompress 144 bit frames 
every  .  .  . i think the should have enough juice for this  . 
as part of the project i'm working on now , we 're trying to get celp up and 
running in realtime full duplex mode .  .  .  . i gotta find the source to pgp and 
see how tough it would be to integrate the en decryption parts into the code. 
i 'll play with it. anyone else out there got an setup 
ed 

)  ( '' ) ( ( , , ) )  ( '' ) ( ( , , ) ) see instructions on 
edward hutchins , other side of card 

from graham toal 
subject re key registering bodies 
originator 
nntp posting host pizzabox . demon . co . uk . 
reply to graham toal 
organization anonymous 
lines 11 

in article (john nagle ) writes 
since the law requires that wiretaps be requested by the executive 
branch and approved by the judicial branch , it seems clear that one 
of the key registering bodies should be under the control of the 
judicial branch .  . i suggest the supreme court , or , , the 
courts of appeal. more specifically , the offices of their clerks .  . 

i 've got a better idea. we give one set to the kgb c o washington embassy , 
and the other set to the red chinese .  . 

g 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re can des code be shipped to canada 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization dsi 
lines 16 

in article writes 
someone in canada asked me to send him some public domain des file 
encryption code i have. is it legal for me to send it 

i believe it is illegal to send any cryptographic code out of the country 
without an export license.  ( others will correct me if this is inaccurate . ) . 

dunno if you 'd get one for the particular code you have the only way to 
find out is to apply for a license. 

note that you need to distinguish between what is legal to send to canada if 
you have such a license , and what is legal to send if you do n't .  . 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 

from  ( sean dean ) 
subject re does rush read his e mail 
article i.d. henson . 1993apr23 . 
distribution inet 
organization western washington university 
lines 23 

 ( rick miller) writes 

(robert silvers ) writes 
send something to rush about clinton taking away our right 
to privacy and how if the govt. standard takes off , only people with lots 
of money  ( drug dealers ) will be able to justify des stuff. he will slam 
clinton for this on the air. 
rob .  . 

i seem to recall rush saying that he has a compuserve account. if anyone 
wants to e mail him , all we need is his account number (i . e .  . 12345 , 6789 ) 
and then we could e mail him via gateway by using a dot instead of a comma 
like so .  ( this is not his address . ) . 

so , does anyone know his e mail address he says he uses it all the time. 
(i wonder if he reads alt . fan . rush . limbaugh .  .  .  . his ego is big enough ! ) 

rick miller 
send a postcard , get one back ! kaj vi ! 


i 've heard he does n't read alt . fan . rush .  .  .  .  .  . 
but i have no idea of a compuserve e mail address .  .  .  . 

from 
subject re clipper chip 
lines 6 

is it realistic for the government to try to keep the details 
of the encrytion algorithm secret if it intends to use evidence from 
wiretaps in court wo n't defense attorneys attempt to obtain the 
details of the method if the prosecution attempts to present evidence 
from wiretaps in court is it certain that such attempts will fail 
james b. 

from 
distribution usa 
subject re encryption chip availibility 
lines 16 

in article , stephen j. 
says 

hi everybody ! 

does anyone know of companies that are currently manufacturing 
encryption chips for sale to the general public get them while you 
can ! some pointers would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks 

steve 

i believe  ( fisher(sp ) international , makers of the  ( watchdog(tm ) pc 
security package offers a hardware implementation of des as an add on 
to that package. 

from  ( jim hart ) 
subject dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
organization open communications forum 
lines 4 

the security of the system should depend only on the secrecy of 
the keys and not on the secrecy of the algorithms dorothy denning 



from (ron asbestos dippold ) 
subject re wiretapping reality today 
originator 
nntp posting host qualcom . qualcomm . com . 
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 24 

(david sternlight ) writes 
some of the messages here seem to reflect the view that the government is 
listening in on everything and one will have to hide one 's clipper messages 
somehow if non escrowed crypto goes away. 
a little perspective might be in order. 

right. people here believe the government is listening in on 
everything. sure. if you ca n't provide an answer , change the 
assumptions to something you can deal with. 

it 's not a matter of the government listening on on everything , it 's a 
matter of the government listening on anyone they take an interest in. 
say , if you do something heinous like attend a computer meeting at a 
mall , the secret service decides to go for a warrantless search , and 
acquires your name. it 's a matter of any number of possible wiretap 
abuses that cryptology makes far less likely , and this chip can 
sabotage .  . 

par for the course , though. i predicted that you 'd be jumping in in 
favor of this. the reply was that you 'd justify anything up to and 
including death camps as long as the government backed them and had a 
written policy statement. perhaps a little extreme , but not much. 

seattle is an indian word meaning 52 degrees and raining .  . 

from josh n. 
subject re from to cryptography 
organization sponsored account , school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 46 
distribution world 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

but i think that mind set is a mistake. before there 
were cattle , governments tortured their prisoners with 
clubs and rubber  . before there were lasers for 
eavesdropping , governments used binoculars and lip readers. 
though government certainly uses technology to oppress , the 
evil lies not in the tools but in the wielder of the tools. 

evil and good walk hand in hand. it is also important to note that 
the good in the tools lies in the wielder of the tools. 

in fact , technology represents one of the most promis 
ing avenues available for re capturing our freedoms from 
those who have stolen them. 

i cannot accept this ridiculous leap in logic .  . technology is neutral 
to good or evil. when technology is used by evil men , it is called 
evil technology. when it is used by good men , it is called good 
technology. really , it is just technology that allows action to be 
realized more and on a larger scale. 

by its very nature , it favors 
the bright  ( who can put it to use) over the dull  ( who can 
not) .  . 

try not to confused the development of technology with its use. 
certainly , bright people will be better at creating technology , but 
even young children know how to program vcr machines. are vcr 
machines not extremely complex to create 

it favors the adaptable  ( who are quick to see the 
merit of the new  ( over the sluggish  ( who cling to time 
tested ways) .  . 

and flexibility is always better at enduring than the 
stiff and stubborn .  . a young child is soft and an old man is 
stiff and inflexible .  . a dripping of water can cut through stone. 
this has nothing to do with technology , rather technology just 
allows us to magnify action. 

and what two better words are there to de 
scribe government bureaucracy than dull and sluggish 

i have no objection to this ! ) 

o) silent 
(o thunder 

from (bryan olson cmsc  ( g ) 
subject advanced one time pad  ( was re more one time pad stuff) 
organization university of maryland , baltimore county campus 
lines 35 
distribution world 
nntp posting host umbc . edu . 


o.k. if you 've read this group for a while , you know all about the 
one time pad , but here 's a question i have n't seen. 

the one time pad ideal security , but has a well known flaw in 
authentication .  . suppose you use a random bit stream as the pad , and 
exclusive or as the encryption operation. if an adversary knows the 
plaintext of a message , he can change it into any other message. 
here 's how it works. 

alice is sending bob a plaintext p , under a key stream s 
alice computes the ciphertext c s xor p , and sends it to bob .  . 

eve knows the p , but wants the message to appear as  . 
eve intercepts c , and computes c' c xor p xor p  s xor  . 
eve sends c' to bob .  . 

bob decrypts c' by computing c xor s p  , thus receiving the 
false message which was substituted by eve .  . 


now the question is how can this attack be defeated with information 
theoretic security , not just computational security. 
can we define something like ideal authentication which is the 
analog of ideal security. can we obtain ideal authentication 

if not , how much can we limit eve 's control over the message 

if we can achieve ideal authentication , does the solution use more 
key bits or expand the message can we show the solution to be 
optimal in one or more parameters 

does anyone know if these questions have been before 



from  ( mark starzewski ) 
subject re clipper two additional possible problems 
reply to 
organization  ( dis(organised ) 
lines 16 
x mailer simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 19) . 

in article writes 

anyone interested in adopting british telecom 's quantum encryption scheme 
they 've demonstrated it over a 10 km link. it automatically detects 
wiretapping .  . 

if the bt phone system is anything to go by .  .  . me . thinks this should be 
approached with great caution .  . 

mark 


 .  . without . warranty , internet 
implied merchantability cis , 
or fitness for a particular purpose .  .  . yo . dude ! 
click , click .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( lulu of the lotus eaters ) 
subject information on mathematics of cryptography  ( followup ) 
organization university of massachusetts , amherst 
lines 27 
distribution world 
nntp posting host twain . ucs . umass . edu . 

i posted an informational request about any electronically available 
articles on cryptographic algorithms a couple of days ago. as i 
mentioned , i was interested , in particular , in des and public key 
but also would n't mind learning about others. as i said , i can read 
an intro graduate level text book , having had some mathematics , though 
not much number theory per se .  . i 'd like to see the technical details 
of the mathematics of cryptography , as to the 
of things like scientific am which just say , then you find a 
really big prime number .  .  .  .  . . 

following my request , several people were so kind as to suggest 
reading lists , which i hope to get around to. two other people were 
so very kind as to send large documents , which i presume were actual 
articles  ( about 1000 lines each) but i 've stupidly deleted them 
accidentally before having a chance even to skim them. if they can 
forgive me for my careless use of file commands , would the original 
senders be so kind as to resend or anyone else who has good 
crypto articles at a fairly technical mathematical level also , 
ftp able or gopher able docs would be nice to know about. 

yours ,  .  .  . 


this message was brought to you by enterprises 

the opinions expressed here must be those of my employer .  .  .  . 
surely you do n't think that i believe them ! 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
article i.d. lehman . 1993apr22 . 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 22 

 ( brad yearwood ) writes 
if clipper comes to cellular phones along with legal proscriptions against 
using other cipher systems on these phones , a new and potentially dangerous 
class of crime is created. 

criminals who very badly want inscrutable tactical communications  ( specifically 
the terrorists and drug dealers who proponents of key escrow cite as threats ) 
will be highly motivated to steal the cipher phone of a legitimate user , and 
to kill this person or hold them hostage so discovery of compromise of the 
device will be delayed .  . 

you obviously have n't read the information about the system. the chips 
put out serial number infomation into the cypher stream to allow 
themselves to be identified .  . the system does not rely on registering 
people as owning particular phone units. 

i am against the proposal , but lets be accurate in our objections .  . 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow 
organization dsi 
lines 23 

in article 
(mike schmelzer ) writes 


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your 
crypto keys i would n't .  . 

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon .  . sure. 
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon . 

mr. sternlight , your naivete and historical ignorance is appalling .  . 

history lesson detailing 1968 74 deleted. 

nonsense ! i was n't asked if larry o'brien should trust nixon with his keys , 
but whether i would. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (john eaton ) 
subject re suggestions for escrow agencies  ( was re more technical details) 
organization hewlett packard vcd 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 32 

paul robichaux wrote 

as a private citizen , i would feel much more secure in my person and 
papers knowing that an organization committed to individual civil 
liberties the aclu and the nra come to mind was safeguarding half of 
my key. both the aclu and the nra are resistent to government pressure 
by the simple expedient fact that they are not supported , funded , or 
overtly controlled by the government. 

thats one problem that has so far been overlooked .  . these two escrow 
agencies will have to create a secure database and service the 
input and output of keys. who pays for this if they refuse an 
illegal request from some congressman to deliver a key can their 
budget by cut to punish them will congress be forced to fund 
them forever 

the problem is that laws can change. congress may pass a law setting 
up an escrow agency with instructions that keys are private. some 
future congress may change that law. suppose pre nazi germany had 
a clipper system. do you think the escrow agencies would have 
told hitler that he could not have the keys without a valid 
court order 

in effect you must set up escrow agencies as a fourth branch of 
the goverment and isolate them from any outside interferance .  . 
they will be able to directly tap into federal funds with no 
accountability to anyone except through a court challenge. 

john eaton 
! hp vcd ! johne 



from 
subject jerry berman on pseudonymous privacy 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 108 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

hello all , 
i thought you all might like to see this. it 's a letter from jerry 
berman to david from november of 1985 , in response to 
information that mr. sent to mr. berman .  . 

while i have to congratulate eff for its prompt response to the 
clipper chip announcement from the white house , i think it 's important 
to recognize the philosophy of their executive director , as explained 
below. 

i agree that legal remedies are important , but when pressed , i 'd 
prefer to retain the ability to use purely technical solutions to 
preserve my privacy , because they 'll hold up under fire. 

mr. has consented to the publication of this letter on the net. 

i do n't work for , nor am i a member of eff , aclu , or any similar 
organizations , but i do agree with them on a great many things. 






american civil liberties union 


washington office 

122 maryland avenue , ne 
november 1 , 1985 washington , dc 

national headquarters 
mr. david 132 west 43rd street 
centre for mathematics and computer science new york .  . ny 10036 
p.o. box 4079 (212) 944 9800 
ab amsterdam norman 
president 
dear mr. ira 
executive director 
eleanor holmes norton 
chair 
national advisory 
council 






thank you for sending me a most interesting article. a 
society of individuals and organizations that would expend the 
time and resources to use a series of  digital pseudonyms  to 
avoid data linkage does not in my opinion make big brother 
obsolete but acts on the assumption that big brother is ever 
present. i view your system as a form of societal paranoia .  . 

as a matter of principle , we are working to enact formal 
legal protections for individual privacy rather than relying on 
technical solutions. we want to assume a society of law which 
respects legal limits rather than a society that will disobey the 
law , requiring citizens to depend on technical solutions. e.g. 
require a warrant for government interception of data 
communications rather than encrypt all messages on the assumption 
that regardless of the the government will abuse its power 
and invade privacy .  . 

as a matter of practicality , i do not think your system 
offers much hope for privacy .  . first , the trend toward universal 
identifiers is as much. a movement generated by government or 
industry 's desire to keep track of all citizens as it is by 
citizens seeking simplicity and convenience in all transactions .  . 
at best , your system would benefit the sophisticated and most 
would opt for simplicity .  . the poor and the undereducated would 
never use or benefit from it. 

finally where there 's a will , there 's a way. if government 
wants to link data bases , it will , by law , require the disclosure 
of various individual pseudonyms used by citizens or prohibit it 
for data bases which the government wants to link. since 
corporations make money by trading commercial lists with one 
another , they will never adopt the system or if it is adopted , 
will use fine contracts to permit selling various codes 
used by their customers to other firms .  . 

the solution remains law , policy , and consensus about limits 
on government or corporate intrusion into areas of individual 
autonomy .  . technique can be used to enforce that consensus or to 
override it. it cannot be used as a substitute for such 
consensus .  . 



sincerely yours , 

sig 

jerry j. berman 
chief legislative counsel 
aclu 
privacy technology project 


cc john shattuck 





from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re is it illegal to transmit encrypted data 
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 16 03 43 gmt 
nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 30 

in article (george livsey ) writes 
i am aware of the restrictions imposed by the munitions act 
on the export of cryptographic technology , however , is it illegal to 
transmit encrypted data from the u.s. to another country if so , 
then which laws apply to this situation 

from the us law perspective , unless you 're engaging in illegal speech , 
it 's not illegal to use encryption .  . yet. the nsa is allowed to try 
to listen , but you 're not obligated to make it easy for them. yet. 
the other country may have more repressive laws about that 
i gather france 's bureaucracy wants to know what you 're saying , 
and in the old soviet union , they did n't need laws to make things illegal ( 

 ( paranoia follows , for those of you who want to play it safe ) 
the fact that the nsa is listening may affect your willingness to use 
wimpy crypto technologies , but it may also affect your willingness to 
use technologies that violate rsa 's patents , e.g. if you use pgp , the 
nsa may tell rsa that you 're doing so , and if the secret service catches on , 
they may decide that the mere fact that rsa has n't filed a lawsuit 
against you does n't mean that you do n't deserve to have your computer 
confiscated for possible patent violation , munitions law violation , 
espionage , money , drug importation , and  a disturbance , 
and then not give it back because you did violate the patent even 
though they had to drop all the other charges , unlike that nasty steve 
jackson who had the gall not to be guilty of anything . 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from peter . white . 
subject why are we being censored in a free america this node 
organization milwaukee internet bbs milwaukee , wi 
distribution usa 
lines 27 

i have been scanning and trying to read the articles in the sci.crypt area , 
but what do i get surprisingly , the blurb comes upon the screen file xxx 
has either been cancelled or expired .  . now i ask you , if it expired , 
would n't it be out of the available file cache 
i am 32 and not a paranoid , but the older i get , the greater my cynicism of 
both federal and state governments becomes .  . 
the censorship of this internet  ( and it is no less than censorship stupid me , it 's the govt. ) 
is ridiculous. the japanese have far our , and 
our government is now , before your very observant eyes , trying to force the 
crypto standard onto a where the standard is now an ancient 
relic in terms of modern japanese security techniques. 


now , i pose the question why censor folks on the net and send the warning 
shown above ( cancelled or expired ) when it would be wiser to not let people 
see the post at all 


which article of the constitution gives me the right of revolution if things 
seem to be going 


hmmm .  .  .  . 

peter g. white , president , synthesis 93 inc. 
milwaukee , wisconsin , u.s.a. 


from  ( jerry han ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
nntp posting host debra . dgbt . doc . ca . 
organization communications research centre , ottawa 
distribution na 
lines 59 

in article  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 

the point remains .  . more and more i see the government slowly washing 
away privacy .  . even unwittingly .  . do you think i will ever live in a 
that issues smart cards to citizens at birth do you think i 
will live in a that insists i register my crypto keys so they 
can keep track of what i'm saying even if there is no evidence of my 
guilt do you think i will ever live in a that seeks to meddle 
in the affairs of its  citizenry without recourse of any kind i'm tired 
of it. there is (imho) no compromise with an administration that seeks 
to implement these proposals under the guise of enhancing privacy .  . 

more than the proposals themselves , i read the language of the press 
releases , the obvious deception involved in presenting these pieces to 
the public , and i am sickened .  . i am revolted .  . i am repulsed .  . 

90 , perhaps even 95 of this country could care less about the 
clipper chip , the wiretap bill , the smart card , because they are so 
in the rhetoric of the clinton administration. 

this and frightens me. 

i am a believe it or not. a law and order  . 
but the move to a centralized regime really scares me , 
mostly because i know you cant go far wrong the 
intelligence of the american people. tell them it 's going to keep 
them safe from drug dealers and terrorists , and they will let you 
put cameras in their home. 

even in the wake of waco , you find those who support the increasingly 
moves .  . 

to be quite honest , the way things are going , i 'd call it self defense .  . 

and i dont want mine up in the eyes of a security camera 
24 hours a day. 

i never advocated not saying what you believe in. i'm advocating second 
thought , and calm .  . 

a smart warrior defeats the enemy in ambush on the battlefield 
a smarter warrior defeats the enemy in open warfare on the battlefield 
the warrior defeats the enemy without using the battlefield 

think about it. 



public keys by finger and or request 
public key archives pgp public 
sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past. fight clinton 's wiretap chip ! 
crypto is not a crime ! ask me how ! 



jerry han crc doc div. of behavioural research 
these are my opinions , and my opinions only. 
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors band 
memories of those i 've left behind , still ringing in my ears. genesis 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 20 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article hamburg . de . writes 
no , because the feds will still be able to decrypt the conversations. 
true , they 'll blame the wrong guys , but nevertheless one cannot say 
something like the drugs arrive tommorrow on the ship   
when the feds are listening , even if they cannot identify who the 
speaker is. 


it 's not a question just of who is holding the phone. it 's a question of 
what circuit to wiretap in the first place. if two drug dealers are both 
using stolen cellular phones , the fbi does n't know which lines to tap 
unless of course they 're tapping all phones  ( maybe all cellular 
 . if they have n't tapped the connection (ie .  . , at least one end of 
the connection) then they do n't know what key to request. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from (paul crowley ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
reply to (paul crowley ) 
organization edinburgh university 
lines 10 

quoting  ( amanda walker ) in article 
(george mitchell ) writes 
guns are offensive .  . cryptography is defensive .  . see the difference 

nope .  . information , properly delivered , can be just as deadly as lead. 

the same is true of lemon pie. 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus ! 

from (james lu x3702 ) 
subject how to make this illuminating thing 
nntp posting host gallium . nsc . com . 
organization national semiconductor , santa clara 
distribution usa 
lines 14 


in some hobby shop , they sell a flexible tube (1 4 inch diameter , 
18 inch ling ) that will illuminate if you bend or shake it (it 
is also sold in amusement parks in the  . the brightness 
can last 2 to 4 hours. if it is left in  ( in coldness ) , 
you can prolong its life of illumination .  . 

is this something we can make ourself easily or , do you know any 
reading can provide details about this stuff working with kids , 
it would be nice if it can be a do it yourself project with 
minimum budget. 




from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization thibault friends 
lines 56 

in article 
 ( jerry han ) writes 
guess what people you live in one of the few countries in the world 
where a person can complain without getting shot at. 

only guessing , but from his address i 'd say that jerry , like 
me , lives in canada .  . unlike me , he thinks that our friends in 
the us enjoy the same freedom that we do , and he has not seen 
the slow but steady erosion to the south of us. 

we have the benefit of relatively slow politicians and 
ineffective law enforcement .  . our rednecks tend to be the 
objects of derision rather than elected officials .  . it 's 
everything le can do to keep up with the real criminals .  . any 
time they actually go after somebody just because they do n't 
like his or her attitude , it 's national news (it also often 
blows up in their faces eg. the well but flawed 
case , which resulted in a scolding from the supreme 
court , not only to le for prosecuting the case but to 
parliament for passing the law it was prosecuted  . 

our friends south of the border do n't have as easy a time of 
it. among other things they have as many le agencies as we 
have agencies , and some of them have teeth. they also have the 
war on drugs which gives law enforcement agencies exceptional 
powers to ignore individuals  rights (the dea has more 
arbitrary power than that given to canadian agencies under the 
war measures  . we have the and who ca n't stop 
fighting each other long enough to do any really effective 
suppression of private citizens  rights. not only that , our 
police commissions have teeth , as i learned when i had to fend 
off a bent cop .  . 

it may be ironic that the nation founded on life , liberty and 
the pursuit of happiness is getting government imposed order , 
while the nation founded on peace , order and good government 
is getting in your face liberty .  . 

that 's not to say our time wo n't come. it looks like 
is going to run on a law and order platform. be afraid. 

cheers , 
marc 


marc thibault 
automation architect cis , 2226 
r . r . 1 . , oxford mills , ontario , canada nc freenet 

begin pgp public key block 




end pgp public key block 


from  ( jamie lawrence ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization sybase , inc. 
lines 34 

in article , (andrew richard conway ) writes 
i must protest your  .  .  . in . a communist country . how do you know 
there have n't been any , and are unlikely to ever be any. in some socialist 
dictatorships , you ca n't , whilst in some socialist democracies 
 ( such as france or australia ) 
you can. of course , some people may disagree about france australia being 
socialist .  .  .  . 

it ,  ( or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us. 

yet. 

guess what people you live in one of the few countries in the world 
where a person can complain without getting shot at. 

in some circumstances .  . i was at a public meeting last night  ( in the usa) , where 
a protester , who was very nice and calm , and just said before the 
speaker started to beware of his opinions , was forced out of the meeting by 
two armed policemen .  . 

there are a lot of things that one cannot do in the usa .  . you may not 
notice them , but as an australian visitor , i notice them. 


of course do n't over react but do n't under react .  . 

thank you andrew .  . not only for the firm rebuttal , but for understanding the 
difference between communism and socialism  ( even though this is off  . 
why do people just not understand that just because all those pretty songs about 
the land of the free and so on sound nice , that they may not be true 
take off those rose colored glasses and get a clue  ( to use two of the better 
cliches around) 
thanks you again 
jamie 

from  ( bruce schneier ) 
subject re what would happen if export restrictions violated 
organization public access unix 
lines 15 

in article  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

ok , i heard a lot of talk about the nsa 's infamous control over encryption 
export through the itar .  . here 's a question. say i develop this great new 
encryption system , and i want to sell my software worldwide .  . the thought 
police then come in and say this algorithm is a threat to national security. 
you will not be permitted to export it. at this point , what kind of trouble 
could i get into if i ignored the itar and sold my program to international 
customers anyway 

doug holland 

you would be arrested as an international arms  . 

bruce 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 8 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 
keywords nea 

well , actually , this one 's easy. it 's their job. the nsa is 
supposed to develop cryptosystems .  . if the government chooses to go 
ahead and sell those cryptosystems to the masses , so be it. 

ah , but developing cryptosystems which are specificially designed to 
protect the government 's domestic spying capabilities takes them beyond 
that mandate , into the forbidden field of domestic wiretapping .  . 


from  ( jim gillogly ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
organization banzai institute 
lines 42 
nntp posting host mycroft . rand . org . 

in article  ( bruce schneier ) writes 
in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 
ah , but developing cryptosystems which are specificially designed to 
protect the government 's domestic spying capabilities takes them beyond 
that mandate , into the forbidden field of domestic wiretapping .  . 


unlike the cia , the nsa has no prohibition against domestic spying .  . read 
bamford 's the puzzle palace .  . 

i did. you 're mistaken .  . nsa 's communications intelligence mission is 
strictly against foreign governments .  . here 's an excerpt from the enabling 
charter (24 oct 52 , truman ) that should clarify this. the charter was 
declassified in about feb 1990 when an foia request made it public. mind 
you , i do n't know that they never collect anything they 're not supposed 
to .  .  .  . but spying on us citizens is n't in their charter .  . 

b. the comint mission of the national security agency 
 ( nsa ) shall be to provide an effective , unified organization 
and control of the communications intelligence activities of 
the united states conducted against foreign governments , to 
provide for integrated operational policies and procedures 
pertaining  . as used in this directive , the terms 
communications intelligence or comint shall be construed 
to mean all procedures and methods used in the interception 
of communications other than foreign press and propaganda 
broadcasts and the obtaining of information from such 
communications by other than intended recipients , but shall 
exclude censorship and the production and dissemination of 
finished intelligence .  . 

they 're also with protecting the us 's communications , but i have n't 
seen the specific enabling memo on that. i assume that 's the role under 
which skipjack was developed .  . 

nsa is not in the standard setting business , though that 's why this 
clipper stuff came from nist , which i believe is with coming up 
with standards based on their best inputs from other government agencies , 
which would include nsa .  . 

jim gillogly 
, 4 s.r. 1993 , 21 59 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 37 

 ( brad yearwood ) writes 
in article ,  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
you obviously have n't read the information about the system. the chips 
put out serial number infomation into the cypher stream to allow 
themselves to be identified .  . the system does not rely on registering 
people as owning particular phone units. 

i am against the proposal , but lets be accurate in our objections .  . 


do not presume to tell me what i have and have not read. the system may 
not rely upon registering people as owning particular phone units , but 
it is necessary to know which phone units are likely to be used for some 
suspected criminal communication before you can obtain their unit keys 
from escrow .  . 

big deal. if you are a legitimate law enforcement agent and have a 
legitimate wiretap order , you just listen in on the line for 10 
minutes , get the serial number , and then take the order and go to the 
escrow agencies .  . if you notice the criminal is now using a different 
phone instrument , take your still valid wiretap order to the escrow 
agency with the new serial number.  ( this provides opportunities for 
abuse by law enforcement , but thats not what we are discussing right 
now . ) . i oppose clipper , but the mechanics here are simple and easy to 
understand. the whole rest of your article is based on a large series 
of false premises , all predicated on the notion that this simple act 
is somehow impossible. 

i feel free to presume to tell you that you do not seem to understand 
the mechanics of the proposal .  . arguing that terrorists will be killing 
people for their clipper phones is silly because its pointless .  . lets 
be alarmist about what really would show up as a problem , shall we 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( carl m kadie ) 
subject re political point of attack clipper infrastructure 
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 14 

(david sternlight ) writes 

... 
the attorney general publishes the number of court ordered taps each year. 
... 

i believe you are mistaken .  . i do n't believe the ag publishes the 
number of state wiretaps .  . 

carl 


carl kadie i do not represent any organization this is just me. 


from (ed hamrick ) 
subject re pd code for  ( crypt(1 ) like encryption 
nntp posting host convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
distribution usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 19 

in article  ( jerry natowitz ) writes 
i am looking for some public domain  ( and exportable ) code for 
encryption .  . nothing elaborate , just something that will satisfy 
a marketing need ) 
oh yes , unix platform. 

you can find what you 're looking for on hundreds of sites worldwide .  . try 

anonymous ftp to nic . funet . fi .  ( finland ) 

pub unix 4 . 3bsd . lib libc gen crypt . c . z . 

this includes source code for fully functional des encryption and decryption .  . 

there are some who believe that public domain code is exportable , some 
who do n't .  . make your own judgements , but it seems obvious to me. 

regards , 
ed 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 13 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

i believe there is no technical means of ensuring key escrow without the 
government maintaining a secret of some kind. 

not necessarily .  . for instance , in the system outlined in the may 1993 
issue of byte , the process of getting one 's public key listed for general 
use involves giving pieces of your private key to escrow agencies , which 
do calculations on those pieces and forward the result to the publishers of 
the public key directory , which combines these results into your listed 
public key. if you try to give the escrow agencies pieces which do n't 
yield your private key when they are all put together , the result is that 
the public key listed for you is wrong and you ca n't read messages encrypted 
to you. 


from  ( charles mattair ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization technology , inc. , houston , tx 
distribution inet 
lines 37 

in article  ( free radical ) writes 

no no no no no no no. 

it will go like this 

feds we need the key to phone  . 

escrow you have a warrant to tap the line phone is on 

feds yes. 

escrow fine , here is our key. 

 ( rogue agent sod ! ) 

it also goes like this 

we need to listen into mafia head terrorist bbs sysop 's 
conversations but do n't have probable cause for a tap .  . 

who do we have a tap on 

some other enemy of the state . 

so get the keys we can always claim that phone 's being used on the 
tapped line. 

there 's got to be some way to associate an instrument with an individual or 
the state effectively has a tap , possibly not admissible  ( given the war on 
drugs exceptions to the 4 5 , who knows) but none the less 
tap on any phone. 

charles  ( work ) 
standard . disclaimer .  ( home ) 
in a mature society , civil servant is equivalent to 
civil master. robert heinlein , the notebooks of lazarus long 

from  ( tom weinstein ) 
subject re revised technical summary of clipper chip 
organization silicon graphics inc. 
lines 49 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host asd . sgi . com . 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 93 19 26 15 0400 

in article , writes 

each chip includes the following components 

the skipjack encryption algorithm 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips 
n , a 30 bit serial number  ( this length is subject to change) 
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip 
... 

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t 
telephone security device  ( as it will be) .  . suppose i call someone and 
we both have such a device. after pushing a button to start a secure 
conversation , my security device will negotiate an 80 bit session key k 
with the device at the other end. this key negotiation takes place 
without the clipper chip .  . in general , any method of key exchange can 
be used such as the diffie hellman public key distribution method. 

once the session key k is established , the clipper chip is used to 
encrypt the conversation or message stream m  ( digitized voice) .  . the 
telephone security device feeds k and m into the chip to produce two 
values 

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field , 
... 

which are transmitted over the telephone line. the law enforcement 
field thus contains the session key k encrypted under the unit key u 
concatenated with the serial number n , all encrypted under the family 
key f. the law enforcement field is decrypted by law enforcement after 
an authorized wiretap has been installed. 

one very interesting thing i notice about this is that the only use of 
the chip key is to encode the session key for the law enforcement field. 
it is not used at all by the encryption algorithm .  . 

it seems like it would be possible to create a device that would be 
otherwise compatible , but would send out a bogus law enforcement field. 
this might render the device unusable with normal devices if there 's 
some sort of validation involving the law enforcement field , but it 
could certainly be used with other such modified devices. 

of course , this is irrelevant if the nsa has a backdoor in the 
algorithm , but it does make it possible to defeat the key escrow system. 


wilt thou seal up avenues of ill pay every tom weinstein 
debt , as though god wrote the bill. 

from stephen j. 
subject encryption chip availibility 
organization junior , mechanical engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

hi everybody ! 

does anyone know of companies that are currently manufacturing 
encryption chips for sale to the general public get them while you 
can ! some pointers would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks 

steve 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 27 

in article  ( derek atkins ) writes 
in article (david sternlight ) writes 

some countries have laws about importing crypto gear i believe the u.s. 
does. without a license the above scheme wo n't work (at least not legally ) 
in such countries , including at least france and the u.s. 

david 

bzzt ! 

wrong. the us does not have crypto import laws .  . 

i 'd not be so sure about that 

are there any munitions import laws , and could those be used against 
importation of crypto hardware software as well as firearms 

importing so called  assault weapons  for use by commoners come to mind .  .  .  .  . 

note talk.politics.guns added to newsgroups for possible feedback .  .  .  . 


without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

from  ( stanton mccandlish ) 
subject re pgp where to get it 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 33 
nntp posting host hydra . unm . edu . 

at the moment pgp is available in executable format for ms dos and mac , 
and source code for most other platforms including unix .  . many ftp sites 
keep a copy  ( although the mac version is getting hard to find) .  . try the 
following site 

soda . berkeley . edu . pub cypherpunks pgp 

for those with out ftp access , try bbs  ( see  . sig) .  . i have the following 
 ( all from nic . funet . fi . , garbo . uwasa . fi . , sony . com . , and ftp . uni . erlangen . de) . 

platform execs source bbs file area fido 

dos x x x login , 
mac x x , 
amiga x 
archimedes x 
os 2 x win 
next x 
unix x x 

have n't looked in the archive to see if it has source or not  ( usually 
because i ca n't handle the format) .  . for fidonet freq magic names , the 
names are source code , others are either execs or execs src 
extras , or in the case of next , just a patch  ( you still need one of 
the full source code packages) .  . 

bbs is free. this is not an ad , it is a public service announcement .  . 


! est ! 
stanton , sysop noise in the void data center bbs 
369 1 1 fidonet 1 301 2 internet 
data phone 1 505 246 8515  ( 24hr , 1200 14400 v32bis , n 8 1) 

from (john c. king ) 
subject wanted pub. no. 16 
organization the hp corporate notes server 
lines 10 

i'm looking for a copy of friedman 's publication no. 16 methods 
for the solution of running key ciphers .  . park press tells me that their 
publication c 23 the publications , volume 1 is out of print. can 
anyone snail mail me a photocopy of no. 16 if someone could it would be much 
appreciated. 

regards , 

john king 


from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re estimating wiretap costs benefits 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 32 

robin hanson wrote 
would wiretap chip be cost effective 

summary compared to an average monthly phone bill of sixty dollars , 
wiretaps are only worth two cents a month to police .  . so the 
proposed wiretap chip must raise phone costs by less than one part 
in three thousand to be cost effective. 

robin 's calculation is interesting and important , even if it 's off by 
an order of magnitude  ( for example) .  . 

even if hardware costs for the clipper chip phones were zero , the 
protocol overhead in transmitting the escrow field would be much 
higher than the 1 part in 3 thousand .  .  . it . depends on the exact details 
of the phone call length , protocol , etc.  ( shorter calls get a 
proportionately greater hit) .  . 

however , i suspect most americans will not find this line of reasoning 
as persuasive as the analogies about escrowing keys to one 's house 
are. 

tim may 



 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money , 
anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero 
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from lyle 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip) 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 14 



nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

jon writes 
a person i know , belonging to a research lab of a 
company , claimed to me during a conversation that , given the 
equipment in his lab , he could crack a kerberos ticket in 15 minutes to 
an hour. he had access to rather powerful des hardware , but not of an 
kind , i believe. the attack was possible because of the 
amount of known plaintext in the ticket , which itself constitutes a small 
message. this was two years ago. 

that would be a v4 ticket , presumably , not a v5 ticket. the v4 ticket 
format can even be complicated several more orders of magnitude .  .  .  . 

lyle 707 grant street 
412 338 4474 the gulf tower pittsburgh 15219 

from  ( nathaniel sammons ) 
subject could someone mail me the text from the white house clipper announcement 
nntp posting host casco . lance . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state u. engineering college 
lines 9 

thanks a bunch , 

nate 

o o 
i hate quotations .  . this message brought you by 
tell me what you know. nate sammons , and the number 42 .  . 
ralph waldo emerson 
o o 

from (dr .  . mike ) 
subject official secrets act (usa) 
news software vax vms 1.3 4 
reply to 
organization argonne national laboratory 
distribution world 
lines 39 

sorry , my news reader does n't seem to know how to copy a subject header .  . 
this tracks the thread why people do n't need strong crypto .  .  .  .  .  . 

the atomic energy act of 1954 expressly forbids thinking about building 
nuclear devices. while i was in grad school , a friend of mine got a 
security clearance to work on the defense for the progressive magazine. 
he found lots of articles which were public domain removed from the 
local engineering library  ( madison  . so the lawyers sent him 
all over the states to other libraries to show that the information in 
the article was already public. what pissed everyone off was a local 
underground paper went and published the article anyway (it had been 
by the feds , that 's what this was all about) so the judge 
declared the case moot .  . 

the atomic energy act of 1954 has never been tested in court. from my 
discussions with several people familiar with the case , only 2 other 
times has this preemptive clause been used. in every case the people 
simply did what they felt like and courts tossed the cases out. 

for all intents and purposes , the government does have for 
declaring things classified after it has been published .  . while i was 
working on star wars this happened to me my clearance was in the works 
and i developed a method for tracking particle beams .  . it was good enough 
to classify , so i was no longer allowed to work on it. a friend from 
canada was in the same boat he developed a method to compute stripping 
cross sections , but because the subject was classified he was not allowed 
to present his own paper at a conference ! . he later published it in an 
open journal without problems. 

when the going gets wierd , the wierd turn pro. the feds can do whatever 
they want whenever they feel like it , and they will make up rules to let 
themselves get away with it. since the mass media ca n't tell the difference 
between a joke and the real thing  ( like ranch for the waco 
massacre ) do n't count on them to help spread the word about their loss 
of freedom .  . the government can make strong crypto illegal .  . so what 
since the government does not obey any of its own rules , why should we 

patience , persistence , truth , reality imi . hep . anl . gov . 
dr. mike home 

from (david conrad ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
organization cat talk conferencing system 
lines 17 

in article 
(edward anthony hutchins ) writes 
modify pgp to allow it to compress decompress 144 bit frames 
every  .  .  . 
as part of the project i'm working on now , we 're trying to get celp up and 
running in realtime full duplex mode .  .  .  . i gotta find the source to pgp and 
see how tough it would be to integrate the en decryption parts into the code. 

i presume you are just going to use idea for the session encryption and 
transmit the session key with rsa 

david r. conrad no his mind is not for rent to any god or government 

cat talk conferencing network , computer conferencing and file archive 
1 313 882 , 300bps , v . 32 . v . 32bis . new users use  new  
as a login id. available via pc pursuit ! ! !  ( city code ) 
e mail address 

from  ( jonathan k saville ) 
subject re pgp where to get it 
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 22 

jeff wrote 

i am facinated by the things i have heard about the pgp 
encryption program. does anybody out there know where i might get a 
version of this program that runs under windows 3.1 , ms dos , unix 
w source as of this writting i have no unix access and am running on a 
nifty windows of uucico .  . 

at the moment pgp is available in executable format for ms dos and mac , 
and source code for most other platforms including unix .  . many ftp sites 
keep a copy  ( although the mac version is getting hard to find) .  . try the 
following site 

soda . berkeley . edu . pub cypherpunks pgp 

jon 

jon saville who alive can say ,  thou art no 
poet , may  st not tell thy dreams ' 
keats , 1819 
pgp 2.2 public key available upon request or by finger 


from (ron asbestos dippold ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
originator 
nntp posting host qualcom . qualcomm . com . 
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 20 


(paul crowley ) writes 
quoting  ( perry e. metzger ) in article 
whats the difference between a v . 32bis . modem and a v . 32bis . modem 

how fast do the fastest modems go 
how far can voice be compressed 
i 've seen various assertions about this , but anyone with the 
straightforward bits per second figures will be my friend forever .  .  .  . 

how about half a friend the motorola codex preliminary v . fast . modem 
(which you can by right now) does 24 . 4 . kbps  ( raw ) over standard phone 
lines. 28.8 kbps is what is usually claimed for the final v . fast . , 
but you ca n't go out and buy that right now , the standard is n't done yet. 

again , voice can be compressed quite well down to 4000 or 8000 bps 
depending on how good you want it to be , but that requires a dsp or a 
special asic to do in real time. 

i think i am ! i think i am ! the little engine that 

reply to  ( jeff hupp ) 
from  ( jeff hupp ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
lines 27 


in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 
well , actually , this one 's easy. it 's their job. the nsa is 
supposed to develop cryptosystems .  . if the government chooses to go 
ahead and sell those cryptosystems to the masses , so be it. 

ah , but developing cryptosystems which are specificially designed to 
protect the government 's domestic spying capabilities takes them beyond 
that mandate , into the forbidden field of domestic wiretapping .  . 


unlike the cia , the nsa has no prohibition against domestic spying .  . read 
bamford 's the puzzle palace .  . 

bruce 

i have that book , and the way i read it is , one side of the 
conversation must be from outside the united states. 
of coures , that ass u that the nsa plays by the rules .  .  .  . 



jeff internet 
, apt. 1807 ad contract programming , novell 
houston , texas network design and support. 
voice (713) 780 the best govenment does n't me. 


from (john kelsey ) 
subject pgp ideas for ibm systems 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 11 

i 've been thinking about how difficult it would be to make pgp available 
in some form on ebcdic machines. the message authentication would be ugly , 
but i think at least the idea encryption could work , if pgp had a switch 
to tell it to use idea in ofb mode or ecb mode. in ofb mode , errors in 
translating ebcdic ascii ebcdic would only affect their byte , not the 
16 bytes that would be affected under cbc .  . 
is pgp set up to use different idea modes i do n't recall it 
in the executable , but i have n't gone through it as carefully as i probably 
should .  .  .  .  . 

john kelsey 

from  ( daniel f boyd) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip) 
organization ub 
lines 40 
nntp posting host autarch . acsu . buffalo . edu . 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
in article  ( ag russell ) 
writes 
at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was 
des encryped and the person that had sent it , went on vaction .  . 
rather than wait two weeks i set up a straight frontal attack with 
one key at a time. it only took  ( two(2 ) days to crack the file. 

taking this at face value  ( though it seems quite dissonant with much else 
that has been published here about brute force des cracking , unless russell 
was lucky with respect to the key) , i 'd be very interested in whether the 
program russell used is available in whether he used a cleartext 
recognition algorithm in the program or whether he had to examine each 
decryption by hand in whether he used a known plaintext attack 


this has to be a dictionary attack. no other attack makes sense. 


this means that whoever encrypted the file just typed some password 
which was a single dictionary word , and then russell tried all the 
words in the dictionary .  . this is n't too implausible , especially if he 
was smart and clipped the first plaintext block off the ciphertext  ( if 
the first block does n't decrypt then obviously the others wo n't 
either) .  . 

assuming one attempt a second , it takes seven hours to try all the 
words in usr dict words. not real tough. 

if you want des to be secure , you have to use random keys. you ca n't 
just type your wife 's name and think aha they 'll never guess that 
one ! 




daniel f. boyd 

welcome to the first church of  . the white zone is for 
loading and unloading only. 

from (david koontz ) 
subject re triple des 
keywords des 
organization loral computer systems 
lines 5 


please post to news , too. 




from (john kelsey ) 
subject re implementing a diffie hellman key exchange .  . 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 18 

you should probably use numbers much larger than 64 bits. also , you 
may want to include some randomly generated in your protocol .  . 
this way , if someone should find the shared key you and another person 
use on one day , they wo n't be able to guess it for the next day .  .  .  .  . 

ie a sends g a mod p and random string 
b sends g b mod p and random string r1 

both find (g a mod p) b mod p shared key , then both calculate 

session key  ( hash(r0 , shared key , r1 ) 

also , you will want to make sure that you 're getting the right public 
key value g a mod p. someone with the power to intercept and change messages 
can spoof you by sending both of you his public key , and then 
acquiring a session key with each of you .  .  .  .  . 

john 

from  ( lance   kimes ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 25 
distribution na 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


in article ,  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 

i am a believe it or not. a law and order  . 
but the move to a centralized regime really scares me , 
mostly because i know you cant go far wrong the 
intelligence of the american people. tell them it 's going to keep 
them safe from drug dealers and terrorists , and they will let you 
put cameras in their home. 


there is one point i 'd like to make , that most people seem to have forgotten. 
that is that one of the underlining principles in the constitution is a distrust 
of governmental authority and control. all those checks balances is because 
they realize that you should distrust those in power. what everyone seems to have 
forgotten as well is the original reason that the bill of rights guaranteed the 
right to bear arms. it 's inclusion was not to allow you to protect yourself 
against other citizens , but to prevent the government from taking away your only 
means of protecting yourself from an armed and aggressive government. its hard to 
oppress your citizenry when its armed against you. 

i am not a fanatic , i'm a retired naval officer .  . because i have spent so much 
time defending it , perhaps i understand its purpose as well as its plan . 

lance 

from (john kelsey ) 
subject one time pad authentication 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 51 

i can think of a couple of ways of guaranteeing authenticity in a one time 
pad scheme , though i'm not sure how to prove that what kind of 
they provide .  . 

an obvious first attempt might be to a truly random  ( unpredictable 
for eve ) block to the message , and then calculate a crc which included the 
random starting block and all of the message. this could be encrypted after 
the message. the problem is , i'm not sure it 's impossible to come up with 
a message that will hash to the same crc regardless of the random starting 
block. (it intuitively seems like it ought to be hard , but i'm not that 
sure .  .  .  . ) . clearly , a crypto strength hash like md5 or the sha would be 
stronger , but again , i'm not sure i'm comfortable claiming that it 's 
unbreakable .  . 

a scheme to use up some of the pad bits to decide how many bits of 0 's 
to include in the plaintext stream before going on would n't be too bad , 
either. at the cost of increasing the speed with which you use up your 
pad , this could be used to give you arbitrarily low probability that your 
opponent could spoof a valid looking message , since any deciphered plaintext 
in a spot that should be carrying 0 's will show that something funny 's going 
on. 

if , for each message bit m i , we used up one random bit , r i , to decide 
whether to insert a 0 into the plaintext stream , we 'd get a total pad use 
of 2.5 times the message length.  ( we 'd expand the message size by about 
half . ) . each 0 that should appear in the plaintext stream that does n't is a 
guess for our would be spoofer .  . at each bit , she has to guess. i'm trying 
to see how to quantify her chances of making it all the way through the 
spoofed message , but it gets a little complicated , because she can get un 
, and still happen to have a 0 in that place in the spoofed message. 

now , i can see a simple way of doing this that 's got to be as secure 
as a one time pad , at a cost of using 4 times the message length in pad bits. 

for each message bit , m i , use one random bit , r i , and xor them together 
to get x i. now , encrypt the three bits with the one time pad. the enemy 
has no way of guessing what r i is , so he she ca n't guess what x i is , either. 
any change she makes in the ciphertext stream will have to involve a guess 
of what r i was. is there any way to do this without using so many pad bits 

spoofing the message is equivalent to correctly guessing as many random 
bits as there are bits in the message. clearly , this makes spoofing messages 
just as hard if you know the whole message text as if you know none of it. 
in fact , it looks to me like this makes it just as hard to generate a spoofed 
message with the ciphertext as without it , but i'm not entirely sure about 
that. 

is there an easier way of doing this that 's provably as secure as the 
one time pad 

john kelsey 

from (andrew kriger ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher 
organization hampshire college , amherst , ma 
lines 13 
nntp posting host neural . hampshire . edu . 


could someone repost or send to me via email the original posting of the 
clipper chip press release. 

thanks 

andrew 
hampshire college 


andrew three may keep a secret 
hampshire college if two of them are dead 
benjamin franklin 

from  ( jeff hupp ) 
subject stu iii general question 
reply to  ( jeff hupp ) 
lines 10 

why are people willing to trust the stu iii 
because the government does 



jeff internet 
, apt. 1807 ad contract programming , novell 
houston , texas network design and support. 
voice (713) 780 the best govenment does n't me. 


from  ( axel dunkel ) 
subject how sensible is des towards bit errors 
organization c . a . t .  . system 
lines 14 

hello , 

how sensible is des encrypted data towards bit errors how much data per 
bit will be lost in average (i assume you still have the correct key) 

thanx for hints , 
axel 


experience is what you get if you do n't get what you want .  .  .  . 

axel dunkel , strasse 41 , d , germany 
e mail , voice 49 , fax 49 


from  ( douglas mckee ) 
subject re sorry folks  ( read this) 
distribution na 
organization state university of new york at buffalo cedar research group 
lines 50 
originator 
nntp posting host cs . buffalo . edu . 


in article ,  ( marc anderson ) writes 
in article  ( marc anderson ) writes 
... 

(the date i have for this is 1 26 93) 

note clinton 's statements about encryption in the 3rd paragraph .  .  . i guess 
this statement doese n't contradict what you said , though. 

cut here 

washington  ( upi ) the war on drugs is about to get a fresh 
start , president clinton told delegates to the national federation 
of police commisioners convention in washington .  . 
in the first speech on the drug issue since his innaugural , 
clinton said that his planned escalation of the drug war make 
everything so far seem so half hearted that for all practical 
... 

i just found out from my source that this article was a joke. heh heh .  .  . 
it seemed pretty damn convincing to me from the start i just did n't 
notice the smiley at the end of the article , and there were a few other 
hints which i should of caught. 

well , is n't this just a ! ) all i read on this group is a bunch 
of ppl fearing the of information by the big bad evil govt. 
this just happens to be a case of an ordinary joe netter , who decided 
that he would create and or distribute some misinformation .  . ppl buy 
into bs posts like this (i know , because i forwarded a copy of the 
post to my office mate , who turned around and was  ( although he wo n't 
admit it .  .  . sorry . joe ! ) ready to get in a fight about f o r f e i t u r e ! ! ! ) 
please , if we 're going to hold our govt (which admittedly has had and 
still has its problems) to high standards , then must n't we follow these 
too electronic freedoms only go so far. 


anyway i guess this  joke  did turn out to resemble clinton 's true 
feelings at least to some extent .  . 

sorry about that .  .  .  . 

marc 


hey , i'm willing to forgive .  .  . after . of course my office mate takes his 
extra anti paranoia pills ! ) 

doug 


from (dr .  . mike ) 
subject clipper freedom comments 
news software vax vms 1.3 4 
reply to 
organization argonne national laboratory 
distribution world 
lines 94 


begin pgp signed message 

gasp ! 

i 've just spent 3 hours catching up on sci.crypt here  ( slow reader i 
guess) and i really have to put out a few comments too. first , let me 
flame the famous dave s. he 's obviously only 10 years old. cut him 
some slack .  . 

the joke about clinton crypto drugs slammed me thru the roof. nice job 
guys ! i 've been working on marijuana legalization for over 5 years 
now , clinton 's actions so far have really helped. but because of 
government action taken against various other groups , i have developed 
a 64 bit des based on public literature to protect my mailing list. 
the s boxes are the critical component , and since i chose 32 out of 57 
based on the key , cracking this des is going to tough. (the reason it 
slows you down a touch is that for each key you try you need to use a 
different set of s boxes , i know it 's only a vector , but it sure makes 
random search a  . several marijuana legalization groups have had 
their mailing lists confiscated when people were charged with drug 
use sales. it 's not a crime to be a member of a legalization org , 
but you will be watched .  . 

it really is important to write a letter to every official you 
personally vote for to explain why your privacy is being destroyed by 
the cripple chip . amazingly enough they do listen when they get 
enough mail. the jokes about nra postcards are real , and 
the imi  ( illinois marijuana initiative ) has grown to the point where we 
are seeing some changes. 

it 's pretty clear that all the is really about the 
implimentation decision being made behind our backs .  . as vesselin 
points out , this was common practice in communist regimes  ( and may be 
again depending on how the vote goes) .  . but just as criminals have guns 
and law abiding citizens do n't , and criminals like me have marijuana 
and law abiding subjects do n't , criminals like me will have secure 
crypto while law abiding robots do n't .  . pgp is nice , but as time goes 
on we all can do better. and to save our hides we will. 

someone posted an excerpt from machiavelli .  . he 's my favorite dude .  . 
500 years ago he saw clearly how people are , and tried to explain 
that to princes who wanted people to obey . one section not quoted 
(i 've got the prince at home , so i 'll just paraphrase ) ) had to do 
with a free city. the only way is to completly destroy 
it. failing that , you must appoint locals to high positions and accept 
the people 's customs .  . even after 100 years of oppression , a people 
will remember their and rise up to overthrow the 
government. and he gave an example. and that was 300 years before 
thomas jefferson .  . 

there were questions about watching traffic. only interesting traffic 
is watched stuff that goes overseas and comes back stuff with keywords 
like , cryptography , nsa certain individuals who are known 
, etc. it is easy enough to store all that traffic. so if 
you know how to be subversive i.e. how to be unseen , it 's pretty easy 
to go unnoticed for a long time. the stronger your crypto system and the 
less you 're noticed , the better your chances of developing an organization 
which can truth to the masses .  . 

which gets me to the thread about a public encrypted conference . 
that 's just silly. the first thing the feds do is send in an 
 ( like dave s . ) . and they know what you 're doing. it will be 
fun for teenagers and college students , but for the real world it 's 
pretty pointless .  . crypto is useful for more things than hiding where 
you get your marijuana .  . 

guns , drugs and crypto do have some commonality there are people in 
government who want you to obey their rules. as says in 
alt . drugs . live free or do n't . machiavelli pointed out that 's just 
how most people actually live , inspite of appearences to the contrary .  . 
it 's true that the decision to shove the clipper (not the same thing as 
intergraph 's ! ! ! ) down our throats violates the principles of what the 
u.s. was founded on , but the government is full of idiotic robots 
called bureaucrats and there 's less to worry about than one might 
think. only really innocent  ( read naive ) subjects of the u.s. will be 
hurt by this , the rest of us criminals will live in secure freedom .  . 
de pointed out 150 years ago that the tyranny of the 
majority will be mitigated by the mediocrity of the government. 

and given what i see government officials doing where i work  ( argonne 
national lab . ) . the level of stupidity makes dave s. look smart. 

patience , persistence , truth , work imi . hep . anl . gov . 
dr. mike home 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 




end pgp signature 


from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip) 
organization the best minds of a generation , destroyed by madness 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 22 34 15 gmt 
keywords penn and teller could sneak out of the key generation vault with your keys the nsa probably can too. 


nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 26 

in article  ( eli brandt ) writes 
in article (steven bellovin ) writes 
remember that they 've promised to let a committee of outside experts see 
the cryptosystem design. 

i hope there are some silicon jocks on the committee who can follow 
the algorithm through to hardware. while i doubt the nsa would pull 
any monkey business on this point they have to expect that the 
chip will be reverse engineered sooner or later it 's an obvious 
opportunity to introduce additional holes. 

the chip is n't the place to pull the monkey business you do it in 
the key generation , either by having a mathematical backdoor , 
or by having the program on the laptop that supposedly generates the 
keys also save a copy of s1 and s2 and leak it out somehow , 
or by having the program that supposedly puts the official keys 
on the chip actually put a different key there  ( very hard to detect , 
since the escrow agents have to either trust the nsa laptop or 
give each other the s keys , and they still do n't know the algorithm . ) . 
or have the chip burner at the factory make copies of the keys. 
or whatever. 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( derek atkins ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 18 

nntp posting host podge . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 93 00 07 53 gmt 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 

some countries have laws about importing crypto gear i believe the u.s. 
does. without a license the above scheme wo n't work (at least not legally ) 
in such countries , including at least france and the u.s. 

david 

bzzt ! 

wrong. the us does not have crypto import laws .  . 

derek 

derek atkins , mit '93 , electrical engineering and computer science 
secretary , mit student information processing board  ( sipb ) 
mit media laboratory , speech research group 
pp 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
keywords nea 
organization dsi 
lines 32 


arthur melnick posts an interesting first hand message about his nea 
algorithm .  . though i have no reason to disbelieve anything he says , i want to 
clarify one point 

he says he has no connection with the nsa .  . if he was part of an nsa plot , 
of course he 'd say that. 

now i do n't think he is. but the level of some discussion here is of that 
sort , and very quickly we reach the point where it 's impossible to continue 
rationally discussing some issues. 

i am not a crook 

well , if you were , of course you 'd say that 


or the ever popular favorite 

please prove the following negative. 

i do n't know what to do with such messages , so i have taken to ignoring 
them. 

comments 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (michael jacques ) 
subject re does rush read his e mail 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
distribution inet 
lines 19 

in article writes 
in  ( sean dean ) writes 

but i have no idea of a compuserve e mail address .  .  .  . 



however , he said on his radio show today that he wo n't read anything 
from the two alt groups. he simply them without reading them. he 
says that some of the people in the two groups are vicious .  . 




ken 
smiths industries 
grand rapids , michigan 



from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re transparent cyphertext 
organization capriccioso 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 

wrote 
in light of recent events , it may soon become a very good idea 
to include the ability to produce transparent , or at least non obvious , 
cyphertext in upcoming revisions .  . 

this wo n't help if the nsa axis requires all messages to 
undergo textual analysis and reduction to canonical form to 
eliminate concealed messages. 

after reading several national computer security center 
documents , i'm convinced that they are already using this 
filter .  .  . 


2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f 


from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject a trojan horse on the clipper 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization thibault friends 
lines 39 

, 

it seems to me that the step 1 of taking a warrant to the 
telco to get a wiretap is so much stinky red herring  ( do n't 
you love animal  . 

with each phone broadcasting the serial number of its chip 
(  ( e(n f ) is not different than n ) , all they 
have to do is aim a reciever in the general direction of 
today 's target and use the serial number to identify the 
session they want , and get the chip number of the other end of 
the conversation. even without the key , this is great for 
traffic analysis. i can think of several ways to learn the 
right serial number. 

it looks like one intended effect of the clipper is to 
eliminate the awkward business of getting the telco to 
cooperate  ( or risking getting caught in the act with your 
alligator clips  . this is particularly handy if you have 
s1 and s2 .  . 

btw , did anyone explain why they are scrambling the serial 
number 

cheers , 
marc 


marc thibault 
automation architect cis , 2226 
r . r . 1 . , oxford mills , ontario , canada nc freenet 

begin pgp public key block 




end pgp public key block 


from (david sternlight ) 
subject re suggestions for escrow agencies  ( was re more technical details) 
organization dsi 
lines 33 

in article (john eaton ) writes 

thats one problem that has so far been overlooked .  . these two escrow 
agencies will have to create a secure database and service the 
input and output of keys. who pays for this if they refuse an 
illegal request from some congressman to deliver a key can their 
budget by cut to punish them will congress be forced to fund 
them forever 


the easiest way is a user fee for each clipper chip manufactured .  . this makes 
the funding separate from government. 

it also has the neat side property that if the chip does n't catch on , the 
scheme breaks down , and the government is back to the drawing boards , 
assuming that they have n't prohibited alternatives in the meantime .  . 

in fact , maybe this should be part of the official system. before the 
government is allowed to move this past the experimental stage , they 
should have to demonstrate economic viability by mass adoption .  . the 
government is very fond of demonstration projects proving feasibility in the 
use of government funds for social programs they should have to make a 
similar feasibility demonstration  ( on economic viability cum acceptance 
terms ) for this baby as well. let 's put it to the only vote that counts a 
marketplace vote among those who have to pay for it. 

david 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( jerry han ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
nntp posting host debra . dgbt . doc . ca . 
organization communications research centre , ottawa 
distribution na 
lines 20 

in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 
somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot 
in a new civil war 

not me which is precisely why the government must be cut off at the 
knees when it pulls stunts like this , lest the situation worsen to the point 
where extreme measures are required. 


fine then. cut them off with pen and paper , and not the sword .  . 




jerry han crc doc div. of behavioural research 
these are my opinions , and my opinions only. 
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors band 
memories of those i 've left behind , still ringing in my ears. genesis 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re freely distributable public key cryptography c code where 
organization capriccioso 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 20 

victor wrote 


numerical recipes in c  .  . fortran .  . pascal . has a nice section on 
encryption and decryption based on the des algorithm .  . there is 
also source code provided (i think some versions of this book are 
distributed with the source code on disk the source code can 
also be ordered from the publisher) .  . 

victor 


yes i benchmarked the des implementation in the recipes in c 
book .  .  . it is about 1 1 2 orders of magnitude slower than the 
karn gillogly et al implementation .  . 

it may be instructional , but it is n't very fast. 

2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f 


from  ( brad yearwood ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 155 

in article ,  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
you obviously have n't read the information about the system. the chips 
put out serial number infomation into the cypher stream to allow 
themselves to be identified .  . the system does not rely on registering 
people as owning particular phone units. 

i am against the proposal , but lets be accurate in our objections .  . 


do not presume to tell me what i have and have not read. the system may 
not rely upon registering people as owning particular phone units , but 
it is necessary to know which phone units are likely to be used for some 
suspected criminal communication before you can obtain their unit keys 
from escrow .  . this necessity raises the stakes in favor of a criminal 's 
coercing or colluding use of some other person 's clipper phone. 

i will restate my assumptions more explicitly and amplify my argument. 
the original title perhaps should have been distinction between legal 
and illegal cipher systems considered harmful , but clipper considered 
harmful is not inaccurate , and is more eye catching in the current context. 

assumptions 

1. clipper is made available. 

2. laws are passed to make use of cipher systems other than clipper illegal 
 ( either on radio systems , or on any common carrier system) .  . these laws 
also include enforcement authority to listen across the relevant radio 
spectrum  ( or other medium ) , characterize signals , validate clipper 
wrappers , detect probable use of non clipper ciphers , and make such 
detection a cause for further action. 

3. for escrowed keys to be useful , some specific clipper chip must be 
associated with a suspected criminal .  . this means that at a minimum 
some association between the common carrier 's unique phone id  ( esn ) and 
the clipper chip serial number n will be stored in a government database. 
an observed of n and esn other than the one recorded raises a 
red flag. 

4. to reduce ordinary fraud , the cellphone system which offers clipper 
will also be constructed with an esn mechanism much more tamper proof 
and much less than today 's  . 

5. criminals want inscrutable communications .  . some criminals are not 
entirely stupid or ignorant , and will figure out both that clipper 
offer excellent security in normal circumstances , and that 
they offer no security against law enforcement once a  ( presumably 
legitimate ) wiretap order exists. they will also figure out that the 
wiretap order must necessarily be against a specific cellphone , because 
each one has a unique unit key. 

6. criminals do not want to call attention to themselves. because they 
are not stupid or ignorant  ( or because they read netnews ) , and because 
they know that their open use of a non clipper cipher is likely to be 
detected , they will generally avoid using non clipper ciphers directly 
on some tappable channel. they know that do so would raise 
a red flag , putting a given cellphone  ( if not a given person) under 
immediate suspicion .  . 

7. it is impractical to reverse engineer skipjack , discover family key f , 
and construct a functional clone of a clipper chip .  . 

by 2 , 3 , 4 , and 7 it will be very difficult to spoof a given clipper 
phone without immediate detection .  . because it is difficult to obscure one 's 
association to a specific phone by reprogramming or changing chips 
around , the criminal will be motivated to find an intact phone which is 
associated with someone else. 

a non stupid criminal will conclude that they can have clipper secure 
communications , at least for some limited time t , if they buy , beg , borrow , 
or steal use of someone 's phone in a way that prevents that person from 
reporting compromise of the phone for at least time t. the encrypted 
communications might have been recorded , and thus be retrievable later , 
but the criminal can delay , and quite likely evade , discovery by destroying 
or abandoning the phone before t elapses .  . 

it would be unusual for an innocent person to volunteer use of their clipper 
phone to someone else. the honest subscriber does n't want to pay someone 
else 's bill , and he does n't want to fall under suspicion .  . 

this leaves two sources of clipper phones for criminal use coercion 
and collusion .  . 

coercion first. theft bears a relatively low risk , but also sometimes 
a low time until detection (a few minutes if a phone is stolen from 
a car parked in front of a store , a couple of weeks if a phone is stolen 
from someone who is away on  . criminal commerce is likely to 
arise in stolen clipper phones , with phones coming from risk poor 
criminals , and cash coming from risk wealthy criminals .  . someone 
who is extraordinarily motivated to gain a day or two of undetected 
communication  ( like a terrorist ) could kill a person or hold them hostage .  . 
the limited time  ( before detection ) that a coerced phone is useful means 
that continuing criminal enterprises require a continuing supply of 
freshly coerced phones. 

there would also be created a commerce between relatively 
wealthy criminals , and ignorant or do n't care who need money , 
and who will submit to being paid in return for subscribing to clipper 
phone service for someone else 's use. 

criminals will learn that it is more to their advantage to coerce use of a 
clipper cellphone than it is to apply a non clipper cipher to a normal 
cellphone .  . they will call much less attention to themselves  ( or at least to 
their stolen phone) this way. the fact of a phone 's use being coerced must 
first be reported before it can be identified as an interesting phone , and 
have its keys obtained from escrow .  . 

clipper also allows an extraordinary opportunity for the criminal to 
conceal use of super encryption .  . an automated full system surveillance 
mechanism  ( quite feasible across radio bandwidth) which knows family key f , 
can validate clipper wrappers and n esn associations , but it cannot reveal 
in realtime the use of super encryption , unless it knows all unit keys , 
which we are being assured are only to be made available in two separate 
pieces , upon specific wiretap like order. 

whereas a criminal 's use of any cipher within a normally cleartext medium 
would stand out , a criminal 's use of a non clipper cipher within a clipper 
medium would be very difficult to detect , even ex post facto in bulk 
recordings , as long as the association between criminal and specific clipper 
chip is  . 

if you make use of this other cipher illegal per se , then you can charge 
the criminal with this  ( if you can identify the true criminal he 'll be 
using someone else 's phone) , but you 'll have no evidence to help you against 
whatever traditional crime he might have been planning. you will not even be 
able to detect that unusual  ( encrypted ) communications are occurring until you 
identify specific phones and obtain their keys from escrow .  . 

the and terrorist are thus arguably more , not less , secure than 
they were before clipper came along. 

i therefore consider clipper harmful because 

1. it does not provide absolute privacy to the honest public against 
aggressive or dishonest government. 

2. if other ciphers are proscribed , it engenders new types of direct 
criminal threat to the honest public. 

3. it provides an extraordinarily effective mechanism for criminals to 
hide their use of some other cipher , making it more difficult than 
ever even to gain notice that unusual communications are occurring 
and that plans for some criminal act might be in progress. 

4. if other ciphers are proscribed , lazy investigators and prosecutors 
are more likely to pursue the easily quantifiable cipher use crime 
than they are the traditional and directly harmful crimes which key 
escrow is claimed to help against .  . 

5. if other ciphers are proscribed , the stage is set for witch hunting 
of illegal cipher use. because any computer can be used as a cipher 
machine .  .  .  . 

brad yearwood uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! brad 
petaluma , ca 

from  ( rob stampfli ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization little to none 
distribution inet 
lines 13 

in article  ( carl ellison ) writes 
in article writes 

perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it 
was posted encrypted 

to paraphrase , i may not agree with what you 're encrypting , but i defend 
your right to encrypt it. 

i suppose after waco , it 's only prudent to leave the to the death part out. 

rob stampfli the neat thing about standards 
614 864 9377 ham radio there are so many to choose from. 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 18 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article writes 

perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it 
was posted encrypted 

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain .  . 


to paraphrase , i may not agree with what you 're encrypting , but i defend 
your right to encrypt it. 




disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from  ( dan muntz ) 
subject re new encryption 
organization university of michigan dept. , ann arbor 
lines 13 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
, whose name is either an unfortunate 
coincidence or casts serious doubt on his bona fides , posts a message in 
which he seems willing to take the word of a private firm about which he 
knows little that their new encryption algorithm is secure and contains no 
trapdoors , while seemingly that of the government about clipper .  . 

will someone please post the david sternlight faq to alt . privacy . clipper . before 
someone unfamiliar with him takes him seriously and starts yet another 
flame fest 

dan 


from  ( owen lewis ) 
subject re tempest 
distribution world 
organization project management 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 19 

in article writes 

in article 


 .  .  . the . basic idea behind any communications security system is not 
to absolutely deny access , but to make access more expensive  ( in time , 
money , manpower ) than it is worth. 

true of all security , i think , and it is the fundamental measure to 
be used in establishing a requisite security level. 



owen lewis 
@ 
tele fax 44  ( 0)794 ) project management 

pgp 2 . x . public key on request 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew 
distribution na 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 19 48 01 gmt 
a 

nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 30 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
i would n't think so. asking people to trust a secret algorithm seems 
unsound to me. 

maybe so , but it 's quite common. there are millions of macintosh users who 
have no idea what 's in apple 's patented roms .  . many have modems connected .  . 
how do you know all your business secrets are n't being stolen answer 
1. because you trust apple 
2. because if any such attempt , however , came out , it would 
destroy apple 's credibility forever. 

then there 's also 
3) because it 's not secret. if i want to , i can go look at apple 's 
copyrighted roms in a mac , so they 're not keeping any secrets .  . 
you do n't even have to pry the top off the chip and use an electron microscope , 
you just have to read the data in memory and see if you can figure out what it means. 
 ( motorola object code is n't all that obscure ! ) 
yes , it 's copyrighted , so i ca n't go selling copies , or using the copy myself , 
but i can see it , and disassemble it. 

4) they 're not asking me to trust their honesty .  . they 're asking me to 
trust the quality of their assembly language programming ) , 
but i can see for myself what the performance , price , and crashes day are. 
nsa , an organization not known for its honesty or openness , 
is asking me to trust them with my privacy , but they wo n't trust me. feh ! 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( stan ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more 
organization the temple of stan tbs world hq concord , mass , usa 
lines 17 

 ( jerry han ) writes 
can people work within the system before trying to break it examine your 
history books , and find out how many armed revolutions led to democratic 
 ( or democratic style) governments .  . i think you 'll only find one in over 
five thousand years of written history. 

that 's not very good odds .  . 

i may be misreading you here. are you saying the american revolution 
was n't a good idea because it was bad odds 

i kind of doubt that any revolution , armed or otherwise , was ever started 
without vast amounts of failed working within a system . a good sign of 
a system being not worth preserving would probably be that very inability 
to work within it  . 

hopefully i 've misunderstood .  .  ( btw , i'm not a big fan of arms myself. 

from  ( shaen bernhardt ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 58 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
in article a 
a  ( arthur rubin ) writes 

i would n't think so. asking people to trust a secret algorithm seems 
unsound to me. 

maybe so , but it 's quite common. 

not when your talking about cryptography .  . 

there are millions of macintosh users who 
have no idea what 's in apple 's patented roms .  . many have modems connected .  . 
how do you know all your business secrets are n't being stolen answer 
1. because you trust apple 

think again. you wo n't see me using apple 's new signature from the 
finder feature. 

2. because if any such attempt , however , came out , it would 
destroy apple 's credibility forever. 

this analogy fails in its assumption that the government gives two 
about credibility .  . 


in addition , apple 's proclaimed purpose in releasing the macintosh was n't 
 . 

quite the opposite 
on january 24 , apple will introduce .  .  .  .  . macintosh , and you 'll see why 
1984 wo n't be , like  1984  

so do n't give me any bullshit analogies about how we trust coke not to 
put mind control drugs in every can to get us to buy more. 


in the clipper case , a representative body of experts is going to be allowed 
to audit it , and we 'll have assurances  ( maybe even from the president ) that 
other than the escrowed keys there are no back doors. while some may not 
have confidence in that (i am not among them) , it 's a lot more assurance 
than we get for many things we routinely trust in everyday life. 

one of the reasons we should be all the more suspicious .  . when was the 
last time the president wasted his time to comfort americans 
just another reason to look closely at what 's going on. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



public keys by finger and or request 
public key archives pgp public 
sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past. fight clinton 's wiretap chip ! 
crypto is not a crime ! ask me how ! 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject celp vocoders 
article i.d. lehman . 1993apr22 . 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 28 

 ( graham toal ) writes 
absolutely .  . i just meant that no secure dedicated crypto device has 
ever been given approval .  . guerrilla underground devices should be well 
possible with today 's high speed modems (not that i can think of many v32bis 
modems that are approved either mind you just the overpriced couriers ) 

can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . 4k . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate 
be usable if not , how fancy does the compression need to be 

it is said that celp vocoders can run on the highest speed 486s with 
some room to spare they turn (8 bit samples , 8k samples sec ) 
into 4800 baud .  . however , dsp is hairy , and i have yet to see actual 
proof of this in the form of an implementation .  . i have heard fairly 
reliable rumors to the effect that a famous internetworking guru has a 
celp implementation that runs on sparcstation 1 's with some room to 
spare , but i have not succeeded thus far in getting my hands on a copy 
the guru in question has a reputation for not releasing code 
without having beaten on it for a very very long time first. 

dsp experts are heavily encouraged to try their own hand at this 
problem. 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 28 

(john f carr ) writes 
 ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
well , i'm not a lawyer , but from what i can tell this is completely 
and utterly untrue .  . 

the u.s. does not have an official secrets act. we do have laws that 
will punish you for revealing what classified information you learned 
in your capacity as a government official , contractor , etc , and we 
have laws that prohibit stealing such information. however , if they 
sell you the chip , i ca n't see that they can make reverse engineering 
it and revealing the details illegal .  . 

in most cases information you come by properly is yours to use as you wish , 
but there are certainly exceptions .  . if you write a paper which includes 
sufficiently detailed information on how to build a nuclear weapon , it is 
classified .  . as i understand the law , nuclear weapons design is 
automatically classified even if you do the work yourself. i believe you 
are then not allowed to read your own paper. 

oh what about the precedent in which nuclear weapons information was 
published in the progressive i was under the impression that the 
court held that prior restraint could not be used. any lawyers out 
there 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( steve gardner ) 
subject re what would happen if export restrictions violated 
nntp posting host imagine . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 13 

in article  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

at this point , what kind of trouble 
could i get into if i ignored the itar and sold my program to international 
customers anyway 
i'm not sure it has been established that the government can 
prevent you from sending an algorithm abroad .  . the nsa seems 
to have won by intimidation so far. why do n't you try it ) 
of course you could just distribute your algorithm widely for 
free and screw them up big time.  ( that would be my approach )) 


smg 

from  ( matthew t. russotto ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3.1 

lines 9 

in david sternlight writes 
in the clipper case , a representative body of experts is going to be allowed 
to audit it , and we 'll have assurances  ( maybe even from the president ) that 
other than the escrowed keys there are no back doors. while some may not 
have confidence in that (i am not among them) 

wow , assurances from the president. why , those are almost as good as 
campaign promises ! i do n't see why anyone would n't have confidence in 
those. 

from ( paul l. allen ) 
subject re clipper two additional possible problems 
reply to 
organization chaos 
lines 53 
x newsreader archimedes 

begin pgp signed message 

in article  ( pope clifton ) writes 

... 
if i want to talk to someone , i do n't need to have previously exchanged 
keys with him , i just call him up , and the phones establish a session key 
for us using a zero knowledge algorithm or something of the kind.  ( if i 've 
misunderstood this part , it probably invalidates the rest of this notion . ) . 

this lends itself to spoofing .  . 
... 
i go buy a pair of clipper phones to go on a pair of phone lines in a back 
room somewhere , and have the digital switch programmed to redirect his 
calls to one of my two lines instead of to his , whenever he receives a 
call. the two phones are wired back to back in the clear. 


anyone see any problem with this scheme , other than to assume that all 
public officials and phone company employees are totally incorruptible 

as far as i can see , no matter how the session keys are generated (be it 
diffie hellman or whatever) , any cripple conversation which travels in 
whole or in part over a land line is vulnerable to this scheme .  . law 
enforcement agencies can do it legally at the telco , or illegally by finding 
some part of the phone line that they can cut into. the degree of risk 
depends very much on location not good in the middle of a busy street , 
but not bad on a line in open country  ( leading to a drug lord 's  . the 
only way to defeat it would be if your phone had the equivalent of a public 
key indexed against phone number for every phone you might want to call  ( all 
of them) totally impractical , even if some part of the cripple algorithm 
could be used as a kind of public key (i do n't understand enough about these 
things to know) .  . 

this sort of encryption scheme is only really workable over a radio link , 
and even then you could probably without causing problems for 
other phones nearby if you were physically close to the target phone. 

gosh , yet another way to get round cripple encryption .  . how many is that 
we 've found so far and that 's without even knowing the details of the 
algorithm .  . 

paul 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 


b 



end pgp signature 


subject re freely distributable public key cryptography c code where 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 22 

in marc vanheyningen writes 

pgp is not available on the archive site rsa . com .  . if it were , it 
would be highly amusing , since rsa . com .  ( actually public key partners , 
but it 's the same entity ) is the organization holding the patents 
which they claim are violated if you actually make , use or sell pgp .  . 
i believe those patents also apply in canada , but i'm not a patent 
lawyer or anything. 

(sorry about double posting , but i forgot something . ) . 

make , use or sell in this context have non standard meanings 

make means making an encrypted message. use may mean using pgp , or 
using an encrypted message. sell would probably mean selling an 
encrypted message. it is the message created by a patented process 
incorporated in pgp , which infringes .  . 


arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 20 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
for example , a conversation between a suspect and a lawyer will no longer 
be private from big brother eavesdropping .  . 

now , almost 100 years later , we have the right words for the problem here. 

phone calls are virtual visits . those experienced in virtual reality 
would know from that title that phone calls need to have all the properties 
of a walk in the park with your friend security from casual 
and easy verification to see if anyone is listening  . as designed , 
they fail at that. 

 .  . trouble . is , telephones were invented a long time ago and people did n't 
realize the danger or the concept of virtual reality back then. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from (steven bellovin ) 
subject re clipper and conference calls 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 6 

in article ,  . michael feeley ) writes 
just curious , how would the clipper chip system handle 
conference calls 

it 's not clipper , it 's any encryption system. i 've seen a number of 
designs they generally involve a multi line cleartext bridge. 

from  ( tony wingo ) 
subject re new encryption 
organization apple computer 
lines 27 

in article , (david 
croley ) wrote 


it would seem that the one fact that the government has overlooked in this 
whole fiasco is the economic standpoint .  . as others have mentioned , the most 
difficulty the clipper chip faces is an economic one. let 's face it , the 
average consumer does n't care or know that the clipper is a bad idea. if 
there is a perceived need for cellular encryption , then the companies will 
provide one. most likely , a standard will emerge .  . but if the clipper is 
too expensive  ( and 25 a chip is way too much) then they will develope their 
own or buy a cheaper one. 

this is an interesting point. as a very coarse rule of thumb , you can 
figure that the final price of a product is 3 to 5 times the cost of goods .  . 
(the exact multiplier depends largely on economies of scale products that 
sell tens of millions of units year will be at the low end , those that sell 
thousands of units year will be at the high end. i suspect cellular phones 
are in the  . this implies that adding a 25 chip would increase the 
cost of the phone by approx 100 , or about 25 30 . 

i do n't think you 'll get a lot of consumer support for this. 


tony 

usual disclaimer 

from (scott a moir ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
distribution inet 
lines 21 

in article  ( shaun p. hughes ) writes 
in article writes 

perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it 
was posted encrypted 

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain .  . 

now why would anyone post anything encrypted encryption is only of 
use between persons who know how to decrypt the data. 

you mean something like uuencode it is n't super crypto , but it is encrypted .  . 

scott 



scott moir on irc there 's really only one requirement 
for a prophet , and you 've got it. 
b4 f t w g k ( ! ) s m r p what 's that 
also major . spdcc . com . a mouth.  god  to j . r . dobbs 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization dsi 
distribution na 
lines 17 

in article  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 



so do n't give me any bullshit analogies about how we trust coke not to 
put mind control drugs in every can to get us to buy more. 

coke have n't found out about acid yet. 

) 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re suggestions for escrow agencies  ( was re more technical details) 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 66 

in article (john eaton ) writes 
paul robichaux wrote 

as a private citizen , i would feel much more secure in my person and 
papers knowing that an organization committed to individual civil 
liberties the aclu and the nra come to mind was safeguarding half of 
my key. both the aclu and the nra are resistent to government pressure 
by the simple expedient fact that they are not supported , funded , or 
overtly controlled by the government. 

thats one problem that has so far been overlooked .  . these two escrow 
agencies will have to create a secure database and service the 
input and output of keys. who pays for this if they refuse an 
illegal request from some congressman to deliver a key can their 
budget by cut to punish them will congress be forced to fund 
them forever 

congress is n't forced to do anything. not even follow their own rules , 
if it is n't expedient .  . if caught with their collective pants down , 
they make some funny noises , perhaps crucify a or two , then 
continue business as usual. i notice those senators involved with 
the s l scandal were n't hurt too much , if at all. 's personal 
stake in suppliers to those big has n't affected his credibility 
at all , inside congress , at least. he is still pushing his police state 
agenda .  .  .  . 

the problem is that laws can change. congress may pass a law setting 
up an escrow agency with instructions that keys are private. some 
future congress may change that law. suppose pre nazi germany had 
a clipper system. do you think the escrow agencies would have 
told hitler that he could not have the keys without a valid 
court order 

it will be like the old saw in new jersey and new york , chicago , etc 
when the politicians promised that this spiffy new gun registration law 
will not be used for future confiscation purposes. sure enough , a few 
years later , when they were used just for that purpose , and folks 
complained , the response was well , i did n't make that promise .  .  .  . 
some politicians may not even wait a few years .  .  .  . escrowed keys would 
have the same assurances of security. besides , if someone wants to 
snoop , how are you to know you do n't think they will send you a letter 
saying we are now snooping on your private conversations .  .  .  . , do you 
what are the assurances the escrow people will not be forbidden to 
report any access attempts for one 's keys 

so much for government assurances of privacy .  . 

in effect you must set up escrow agencies as a fourth branch of 
the goverment and isolate them from any outside interferance .  . 
they will be able to directly tap into federal funds with no 
accountability to anyone except through a court challenge. 

how the feds will just change the law , or just ignore it. nothing 
new here .  .  .  . they got the muscle , the resources , the guns .  .  .  . 

as an aside , since export of crypto is verboten because of itar , 
should n't the second amendment also come into play here 

john eaton 
! hp vcd ! johne 


without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

from  ( ag russell ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip) 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 54 


in article , (david sternlight ) writes 
in article  ( ag russell ) 
writes 


at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was des encryped 
and the person that had sent it , went on vaction .  . rather than wait two weeks 
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only took  ( two(2 ) 
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des .  . 


taking this at face value  ( though it seems quite dissonant with much else 
that has been published here about brute force des cracking , unless russell 
was lucky with respect to the key) , i 'd be very interested in whether the 
program russell used is available in whether he used a cleartext 
recognition algorithm in the program or whether he had to examine each 
decryption by hand in whether he used a known plaintext attack 

given that certain archival methods have certain  ( key(cleartext ) in a file i 
used a dictionary attack. i used the des library provided with the 
system that i was using. what is to keep anyone from being lucky with a key 

he probably should also tell us , given his address , what machine he used a 
desktop , workstation , or super computer. 

my previous employment has nothing to do with my current address , other than 
the fact that the fastest machine in the office was an ibm risc system 6000 
model 530 , with 16 meg of memory . (not . a super computer) 

depending on his answer , this could be an appalling development calling into 
question both des and rsa des .  . dunno about rsa idea. 

i really think this more of a statement of the limitations placed on the key 
by the  ( interface(ascii char no padding) , and most programs do n't bother to 
clear off the archival front and id 's .  . 

if any bright programmer with a little idle machine time can crack a single 
des message in a couple of days  ( assuming no tricks that are 
message specific ) , then here 's my clipper key , nsa give me the chip at 
once. ) 

yes any bright programmer with a little idle machine time , can 
crack most of todays real world encryption .  . i sure that you or i could 
select a key , and prepare the data that the decryption will become a 
worst case. but that is not the real world , and i'm sure that is how any 
agency would start an attack on a message , as you pointed out , there are some 
very good recognition algorithms availible , i'm just not familiar with them. 

a.g. 

a.g. russell dept oltp section of pals group vm id at 
email phone 512 838 7953 678 7953 
these are my views , on anyone else they would look silly. free the berkeley 4.4 

from 
subject re wiretapping reality today 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization j. stefan institute , lj , slovenia 
lines 26 

in article , 
 ( mel beckman ) writes 

unfortunately , hoover thought himself above the constitution , whatever he 
considered the limits others should obey .  . he ruthlessly invaded the privacy 
of many private and public citizens .  . 

mel 

in 1967 , when i was a grad student at uw in seattle i had a chance to 
read hoover 's book masters of deceit , and i quote a sentence (from 
memory) 

and beware my fellow americans , a communist may look just as an 
ordinary person .  .  .  . 

i went to the mirror and it was true. 


b. , d . sc .  . x . 400 . c si a mail p ac o ijs s 
j. stefan institute internet 
university of ljubljana , phone 386 1 159 199 
si 61111 ljubljana , slovenia pgp public key available on request 

kalis 


from (robert i. eachus ) 
subject re keeping your mouth shut  ( was hard drive security ) 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 02 33 19 gmt 
nntp posting host spectre . mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corp. , bedford , ma .  . 
state . edu . 


lines 29 

in article  ( steve kramarsky ) writes 

ok , i should have read the thread before posting my own 0 . 02 .  . i would 
just add to phil 's very infomative discussion the following caveat the 
fifth amendment applies only in cases. (  .  .  . nor . shall any person . 
. . be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself .  .  .  . ) .  . 

maybe you are using the wrong amendment .  . if someone were to seize 
a safe containing your  ( paper ) records , and demand that you produce 
the combination , the applicable defense would be on grounds of 
unreasonable search and seizure .  . the police would be entitled to 
subpoena documents relating to a specific matter , but any broad search 
such as implied by all your records would be unconstitutional .  . 
in the case of the safe , they would probably get a locksmith and 
assert that they only examined documents covered by the warrent .  . 
 ( sure ! ) in the cryptographic case , their only resort would be 
rubber hose cryptography .  . 

 ( this would also make a good mental experiment to use in 
choosing escrow agents .  . would you trust this proposed agent with a 
key to your hard disk or half the key for that matter . ) . 



robert i. eachus 

with standard disclaimer 
use standard disclaimer 
function message  ( text in clever ideas ) return better ideas is .  .  .  . 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re fear , uncertainty , doubt 
organization dsi 
lines 27 

in article steve  ( steve 
brinich ) writes 

i suspect that the decisive element in the political battle will be the 
fud  ( fear , uncertainty , doubt ) factor. 
if the people who would be end users of the cripple chip hear of the whole 
debate only vaguely the government says it 's solid other people in the 
field say it 's swiss cheese the balance of doubt could shift against the 
feds .  . any attempt to limit other forms of encryption could then be presented 
as the government covering its own butt by protecting its poor product from 
superior competition. 
comments 

since you asked , the above is a bit inaccurate .  . more accurate is that the 
government says its solid , other people in the field who might be able to 
find out have n't yet done their review of the chip design , and there 's been 
a lot of wild speculation and from those with little information 
that it might be swiss cheese .  . 

david 



david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (steven bellovin ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 127 

in article , (john kelsey ) writes 

the clipper chip 's user key is formed by 

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1 
r2 e d e n2 s1 s2 s1 
r3 e d e n3 s1 s2 s1 

why is the triple encrytion used is it just to gain an effective 
increase in keyspace to defeat a potential keysearch  ( if so , why use 
80 bit keys ) not knowing anything about the skipjack algorithm , it 's 
not really possible to guess whether this makes it harder or easier to 
guess s1 , s2 .  . 

why are n1 , n2 , and n3 formed as they are it would be facinating to 
see the skipjack algorithm , to look for ways of attacking it that require 
three ciphertext blocks formed in that odd way. 

where do the 34 bit constant values that are concatenated with the 
serial number to form n1 , n2 , n3 come from are they changed from chip to 
chip , or session to session  ( even if they 're published in the ny times , 
if skipjack is resistant to known plaintext attacks , when using triple 
encryption , then there 's no break in security. but why allow that kind 
of weird format if those three 34 bit values are truly random bits , then 
maybe it 's used to ensure that a known plaintext attack on skipjack , if 
it exists , ca n't be easily used to derive s1 and s2 for a whole production 
run of these chips .  .  .  . ) . 

i ca n't answer all our questions in detail , but i can take a stab at 
them. 

the form the operations that compute r1 , r2 , and r3 is , of course , the 
famous encryption   suggested for use with des .  . it 's much 
stronger than a single encryption , and has an effective key length of 
160 bits. for reasons that were discussed when des was first 
standardized , a simple double encryption would not have the same 
strength. triple encryption has been used by ibm since more or less 
the beginning to encrypt other keys. it 's recommended for anything of 
very high value. and i think we can agree that the r i and s i fit 
that description. 

why n 1 , n 2 , and n 3 well , you need different plaintext values .  . i 
have no idea if they 'll be disclosed or not. at a guess , they 're 
constructed so that they differ in as many bit positions as possible. 
a goo cryptosystem will scramble things a lot with even a 1 bit change 
but the values of n in a series will have fairly similar bit 
patterns , and there might , conceivably , be a weakness .  . so the n i 
values are and i'm guessing chosen to increase the 
distance. 

in any event , i'm quite convinced that one cannot go back to the s i 
from the u i , let alone u.  ( observe if the nsa has u , they do n't 
need to find s i. but even if they do , they ca n't get u 1 and u 2. in 
theory , they should never even see those values , even with a warrant . ) . 

the real question , i think , is why use this scheme at all , as opposed 
to a hardware random number generator .  . my answer is that this is 
much more verifiable .  . look suppose that nsa , nist , the aclu , the 
eff , and the nra combined to build a really good random number 
generator , and that it passed every test you could think of. when you 
come back next week to program some more chips , does it still work that 
well have any components changed in value have the components been 
changed out from under you does it still work well the in the 
presence of a focused microwave beam that tends to bias it towards 
selecting 1 bits yes , you can run detailed statistical tests on it 
again , but that 's hard. 

consider , on the other hand , a software solution. you bring your own 
floppies with you , you can run cryptographic checksums , etc. it 's a 
lot easier to verify that the software is unchanged , in other words. 
(yes , i can think of ways to cheat software , too. i think that they 're 
a lot harder . ) . 

there are three issues with clipper .  . the first is whether or not the 
architecture of the whole scheme is capable of working. my answer , 
with one significant exception , is yes. i really do think that nsa and 
nist have designed this scheme about as well as can be , assuming that 
their real objectives are as stated to permit wiretapping , under 
certain carefully controlled circumstances , with a minimum risk of 
abuse .  . (the exception is that u exists outside of the chip , on a 
programming diskette .  . that 's seriously wrong. u 1 and u 2 should be 
loaded onto the chip separately . ) . to those who disagree  ( and i do n't 
claim my answer is obvious , though i found my own reasoning 
sufficiently persuasive that i was forced to rewrite the conclusions 
section of my technical analysis paper i had originally blasted the 
scheme) , i issue this invitation assume that you were charged with 
implementing such a system , with complete regard for civil rights and 
due process. what would you do differently in answering this 
question , please accept nsa 's fundamental assumptions that both 
strong cryptography against outsiders , and the ability to wiretap 
some domestic users , is necessary.  ( if you feel it necessary to 
challenge those assumptions , do it in the context of the last issue i 
present below. right here , i'm discussing just the technical 
aspects. and no , i do n't by any means claim that just because 
something can be done , it should be . ) . 

the second issue is whether or not this whole architecture is actually 
going to be used. just because clipper chips are made this way does n't 
mean that that 's the only way they 'll be made. maybe the nsa will 
substitute its own chips between the programming facility and the 
shipping dock .  . and they 'll generate bogus warrant requests , so that 
the escrow agents do n't wonder why they 've never called.  ( ``sorry , 
guys all them terrorists and drug dealers and pedophiles seem to have 
bought triple des phones instead. who 'd 'a' thunk it '') i have no 
answer to this question , and at the moment , i do n't see a way of 
answering it. those concerns are part of my reasoning in my answer 
to the final question , below. 

the third , and most serious issue , is whether or not clipper is a good 
idea even if carried out strictly according to the letter of the law. 
i think that the answer is no , but it 's not a no  . i'm a civil 
libertarian , not a libertarian , for reasons that i explained at great 
length on the net in the elder days , and that i do n't have the energy 
to repeat now. but that means that i'm willing to accept that some 
laws are necessary , so long as they respect the essential rights of 
individuals .  . the government already has the ability and in our 
system the right to issue search warrants , and while that power has 
certainly been abused , it 's also been used quite properly and fairly in 
other cases. is key escrow sufficiently different i think so but 
again , it 's not an easy question for me. (it is easy for libertarians 
to answer , of course , since clipper is completely alien to much of the 
rest of their  ( oft admirable ) philosophy .  . and it 's also easy for those 
who give their unreserved trust to government , a group i'm much more 
distant from . ) . 


steve bellovin 

from state . edu . (james r ebright ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
nntp posting host bottom . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution inet 
lines 57 

in article (david hayes ) writes 
in article (andrew molitor ) writes 
if you can get it for a buck , 2nd hand , it must be true , eh i'm pretty 
sure the nsa is supposed to , among many other things , provide high quality 
cryptosystems to a variety of places. i do n't recall reading anywhere 
reliable that they 're supposed to 

1) monitor my phonecalls .  . 
2) monitor usenet .  . 
3) provide only cryptosystems they can easily crack .  . 
4) etc etc. 

this is not to say that they do n't , they might .  . but you do n't 
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost 
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of  you  , 
your claims about the nsa border on paranoia .  . 

andrew 


ok , andrew , i 'll provide some evidence. a friend of mine worked for an 
electronics manufacturer on with a west coast office. they routinely sold 
story deleted 

let me give you another story that actually happened to me. we sell 
communications boards that use a 68000 .  . they used to be high tech. our 
agent in the uk sold a system to a company in ch which packaged it in a 
product for cz  ( london bern  . i the brits and told them 
the swiss need to pass export paperwork through the us as , at the time , 
you needed an export for these systems. 

now i knew the nsa was watching this traffic  ( just like they are watching 
this traffic . ) . 

and what do you know .  .  .  . two weeks later an agent of the us government shows 
up in my office to remind me if we or our agents sold systems into the evil 
empire , we had better make sure the export were handled properly. 

he was part of a five man office in columbus ohio ! ! who did this stuff 
based on sources he could not reveal .  . (i assume most of the time these 
guys sat around the office with their thumbs up their ass as there is n't 
that much stuff coming out of columbus ) 

wow , the electric utility in sure is a big worry for these folks ) 

the point is , we have created a giant bureaucracy  ( nsa ) with a budget 
bigger than the cia 's who , like all bureaucracies , fill their time looking 
for things to do. the evil empire is gone. the nsa is not. they will do 
something to fill their time and justify their budgets .  . (i just wish they 
too would sit around with their thumbs up their ass .  .  .  . but that is too 
much to hope for .  .  .  . they will spy on us and do things like skipjack and 
subvert people like dorothy denning . ) . sigh .  .  .  . 

information farming at .  .  .  . for addr phone finger a a 
the ohio state university state . edu .  ( 0 0 ) 
jim ebright e mail jre 
support privacy support encryption ( ) 

from  ( germano caronni ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
organization swiss federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , zurich , ch 
lines 24 

in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 
it is unclear whether obtaining the key at time 0 also unlocks 
messages recorded (by whomever ) at earlier times. the announcement was 
silent on this. the betting seems to be that once your key has been 
obtained (by the authorities , by divorce lawyers , by the mafia , by the 
fbi , by lost or stolen backup tapes , by the nsa , etc . ) .  . all previous 
conversations are unsecure .  .  ( session keys are negotiated , but knowing 
the private key is believed by many commentators here to break the 
security. no doubt more details will emerge . ) . 

it is completely clear. you have to assume that each byte that was encrypted 
by this 'clipper chip  has been compromised .  . 
some people wondered , why denning , hellman and others did not respond , 
when asked what would be done about such compromised phones , or if 
compromise could not be restricted in time. (i did too) let us just assume 
that a) they do not know and b) those who know do n't tell and c) 
they do not care. it seem 's to be an  other person 's problem' ... 

gec 

instruments register only through things they 're designed to register .  . 
space still contains infinite unknowns .  . 
pgp key id 
germano caronni 

from lyle 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 39 
distribution na 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

 ( jerry han ) writes 
somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this. 

that was probably me. 
i meant only that nobody has overreacted yet. it seemed to me that 
jerry was suggesting that people are currently overreacting , and i 
vehemently disagree. i see a lot of talk , but not much action. 
i see now that i misunderstood jerry 's position. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot 
in a new civil war 

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried 
that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens 
and paper. 

not this bunch. they 'll just bitch on the net for a while , and 
then go back to lurking .  . 

can people work within the system before trying to break it examine your 
history books , and find out how many armed revolutions led to democratic 
 ( or democratic style) governments .  . i think you 'll only find one in over 
five thousand years of written history. 

actually , it 's not quite that bad , but it 's close. 

look , we  ( collectively ) have the power to throw the bums out , but we 
do n't use it. we clearly do n't need to go burning things down , but we 
clearly do need to throw at least some of the bums out. 
unfortunately , the bums have learned to target only small groups of 
people at a single time , so the masses wo n't react and throw them out. 
eventually , the masses will react , unless the bums cease their 
relentless encroachment on liberty and of the economy. 
the sooner it happens , the less the damages will be. i do n't want to 
live in a war zone , either i want to see the bums thrown out before 
they do some real damage. 

lyle 707 grant street 
412 338 4474 the gulf tower pittsburgh 15219 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re tempest 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
distribution na 
lines 11 

 ( william w. hughes ) writes 
hell , just set up a spark jammer , or some other very electrically noisy 
device. 

as i 've noted , you can likely get around that with a directional 
sensor .  . phased array systems could completely defeat this scheme .  . 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( doug bank) 
subject re clipper not good enough for government 
reply to 
organization motorola land mobile products sector 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 146 . 35 . 
lines 26 

in article , (ron asbestos dippold ) writes 
there 's been some discussion very recently as to whether the 
government once again might exempt themselves from something they use 
to screw us over .  .  .  . well , from comp . dcom . telecom . 

from 
subject odds 'n ends in the news 

the clipper chip device introduced yesterday by at t may not be 
suitable for government use , says house telecom subcommittee chairman 
markey .  . in a letter to commerce secretary brown , markey asked whether 
the use of the technology could lead to inadvertently increased costs 
to those u.s. companies hoping to serve both the government and 
private markets .  . markey has ordered brown to answer several questions 
about security and cost concerns by april 28.  ( communications daily , 
4 20 93) 

this is stupid. wo n't it cost more to those companies hoping to 
serve the gov't and private markets if they don't use the same 
technology 


doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications sector 
schaumburg , illinois 
708 576 8207 

from  ( ken beal ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization harris csd , ft. lauderdale , fl 
lines 18 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host amber . ssd . csd . harris . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 

lawrence c. foard wrote 
in article (peter gutmann ) writes 
article deleted 

just doing a quick reality check here is this for real or did someone 
invent it to provoke a reaction from people it sounds more like the 
sort of thing you 'd have heard , suitably rephrased , from the leader of a 
certain german political party in the 1930 's .  .  .  .  . 
it sounds like a joke  ( but then the war on drugs has always been a joke .  .  . ) .  . 

i remember seeing it several months ago , and it was marked as a joke. 
funny how things circulate ! 

kenneth l. beal , jr. use os 2 2.1 ! ) often. 
does ring a bell nlp tapes learn. keep moving. 
street person my responsibility .  . indigo girls better yourself. fnord .  . 
one man gathers what another man spills .  . dead opinions are mine. 
is your religion batf approved pro ! con progress ! 

from duesseldorf . de .  ( detlef lannert ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization , heinrich heine , duesseldorf 
lines 47 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host lannert . rz . uni . duesseldorf . de . 
summary you ca n't fool it. 

in article  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) writes 

the serial number will be in a 64 bit block , with a 34 bit filler .  . does n't 
take a lot to check to see if that is correct. 

depends on whether the filler is a constant  ( makes checking easy , 
but susceptible to replay ) , or variable (e . g .  . timer , counter , random ) , 
which makes replay harder and can also make it easier for the 
inquisitors to know if they 've missed messages , or gotten them out of 
sequence , or other interesting things that sort of person might care about. 

i 'd use a secret  ( nope , obscure ) cryptographic encoding to expand the 
30 bit serial number to a 64 bit block. the redundancy hereby introduced 
can be used to detect tampered clipper signals where some public enemy 
replaced the l.e. block by random data. 

and of course the l.e. block would be used to the encryption 
of the user data so that at the receiving end the correct l.e. block must 
be processed in order to have any chance of getting the plaintext back. 

for those of you who might want to the l.e. block (e . g .  . by xor ing 
a constant pattern ) on the transmission line and restore it before feeding 
it into the receiving chip i would add further encrypted copies 
of this block  ( perhaps created by repeated application of the encryption 
algorithm or so) at regular intervals during the transmission .  . if the 
receiving chip detects a mismatch it must assume that the line is bad and 
it will cease to work in your own interest you are protected from getting 
faulty plaintext , you know it 's just like a checksum for your own 
safety ( .  . 

the agencies  wo n't have the famous black box which is needed 
for actual decryption and will be kept by the fbi but nothing prevents 
them from using special boxes which will do the redundancy check for the 
serial number block and consistency checks on the embedded l.e. blocks 
within the transmission .  . these boxes will turn a red light on as soon as 
they detect a bitstream that violates the correct protocol .  . 

so do n't anyone think that you can use the chip and fool l.e. about the 
tapping key i bet the have provided much better checks 
than those suggested above. of course it 's absolutely crucial that the 
algorithms  ( and protocols ) remain secret. personally i doubt they will. 


detlef lannert e mail duesseldorf . de . 
pgp 2.2 key via server or finger duesseldorf . de . 
i am psmith .  . oh , you 're smith , are you with a preliminary 
p. which , however , is not sounded .  . p . g . wodehouse . 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization electronic society 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 14 59 37 gmt 

nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 29 

in article (david koontz ) writes 
clipper also allows an extraordinary opportunity for the criminal to 
conceal use of super encryption .  . an automated full system surveillance 
mechanism  ( quite feasible across radio bandwidth) which knows family key f , 
can validate clipper wrappers and n esn associations , but it cannot reveal 
in realtime the use of super encryption , unless it knows all unit keys , 
which we are being assured are only to be made available in two separate 
pieces , upon specific wiretap like order. 

the serial number will be in a 64 bit block , with a 34 bit filler .  . does n't 
take a lot to check to see if that is correct. 

depends on whether the filler is a constant  ( makes checking easy , 
but susceptible to replay ) , or variable (e . g .  . timer , counter , random ) , 
which makes replay harder and can also make it easier for the 
inquisitors to know if they 've missed messages , or gotten them out of 
sequence , or other interesting things that sort of person might care about. 

it is still easy to conceal super encryption , at least until the 
inquisitors get ahold of the k key , which can take a while , 
presumably not in near real time.  ( worst case , in which the escrow agencies 
provide the u key to the local cops , still only gets one side of the 
conversation per warrant , unless the same key is used for both directions , 
which i suppose the capstone version of the chip will probably insist on . ) . 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( bob bickford ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
keywords nea 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization whole earth  link 
lines 33 

in article , 
 ( arthur melnick ) writes 

in order to get export approval for nea , it was 
necessary to go through nsa and to reveal to them the details of 
the program and algorithm .  . this was done only after we had a 
finished product to submit .  . 

. . . . . 

with the encryption algorithm approved for export , we set 

please do n't be insulted , but based on this i would say that your 
encryption algorithm is very likely not worth the paper it 's printed 
on. if the nsa gave export approval , that means they felt confident 
that they could crack it that 's their job , mandated by law , and 
i'm sure they believe in what they do. if they gave export approval 
to an encryption algorithm which they were n't confident of being able 
to crack , they would be derelict in their sworn duty to monitor foreign 
communications for us national security related material. 

just because many  ( most ) of us think that the government and the spooks 
are is no reason to lose sight of the fact that 
they do their jobs to the best of their ability , and further that said 
ability is rather high. i hope that one day we can make them all 
obsolete .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . but until then , we have to cope with their existence .  . 
export approvals are one thing they do that we can learn a lot from , 
for example. 


robert bickford 
do n't blame me i voted libertarian 


from () 
subject re why the clipper algorithm is secret 
organization chemical abstracts service , columbus , ohio 
lines 24 

in article  ( bear giles ) writes 
in article  ( danny o'bedlam ) writes 
the algorithm is classified because a military contract  ( or similar 
government equivalent to military) has been let for this proprietary 
design that the feds say that nsa developed .  . is there a patent is that 
patent publicly available my betting is that that too is classified .  . 

unless there has been a major change in the law , there 's no such beast 
as a classified patent .  . patents exist to encourage communications and 
develop the state of the art. 

yes there is , the patent can be classified as secret. i recently 
saw a patent from 1947  ( dealing with nuclear weapons technology) 
that was only declassified in the last couple of years. there 
is of course the problem of enforcing the patent .  . 

the same thing applies in civilian development you ca n't patent something 
and declare it a trade secret. however , you can  ( and should ) mark all 
software  ( including proprietary code) unpublished copyright so that it 
ever does get exposed you still have some legal protection. 

this is absolutely right. 

alec chambers 

from  ( tor helleseth ) 
subject program 93 , may 23 27 , , norway 
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca 
lines 223 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solar . usc . edu . 


program 93 , may 23 27 , , norway 

general chair 
email 

program chair tor 
department of informatics 
university of bergen 
n bergen 
norway 
email 



monday , may 24 


session 1 authentication 

chair j. 

9.00 9 . 30 . welcome and opening remarks 
9 . 30 . 10.00 on the relation between a codes and codes correcting independent 
errors , t. johansson , b.  ( lund university , sweden ) , 
and g.  ( institute for problems of information 
transmission , russia) 
10.00 10 . 20 . optimal authentication systems , r. and l. 
 ( university of wollongong , australia ) 

10 . 20 . 10.50 coffee or tea 


session 2 public key 

chair a. 

10.50 11 . 10 . factoring integers using simd , b. dixon  ( princeton 
university , usa) and a.k. lenstra  ( bellcore , usa) 
11 . 10 . 11 . 30 . a new elliptic curve based analogue of rsa , 
n.  ( telecom research laboratories , australia ) 
11 . 30 . 11 . 50 . weaknesses of a public key cryptosystem based on factorization 
of finite groups , j. stern  ( ens , france ) 

11 . 50 . 14.00 lunch 


session 3 block ciphers 

chair a. de 

14.00 14 . 20 . uniform mappings for cryptography , 
k. nyberg  ( technical university of vienna , austria) 
14 . 20 . 14 . 40 . on permutations against differential cryptanalysis , 
t. beth and c. ding  ( eiss , university of karlsruhe , germany) 
14 . 40 . 15 . 10 . two new classes of bent functions , 
c.  ( inria , france ) 
15 . 10 . 15 . 30 . boolean functions satisfying a higher order strict 
condition , t . w .  .  ( suny , buffalo , usa) 

15 . 30 . 16.00 coffee or tea 


session 4 secret sharing 

chair y. 

16.00 16 . 30 . size of shares and probability of cheating in threshold schemes , 
m. , a. de and u.  ( university of 
, italy) 
16 . 30 . 17.00 secret sharing schemes and , k. , 
k. , k. , w. and s.  ( tokyo institute of 
technology , japan ) 


tuesday , may 25 


session 5 i 

chair t. 

9.00 10.00 from the of a norwegian , e.  ( university 
of bergen , norway )  ( invited talk ) 
10.00 10 . 20 . on the linear complexity of products of shift register sequences , 
r. and h.  ( austrian academy of sciences , 
vienna , austria) 

10 . 20 . 10.50 coffee or tea 


session 6 ii 

chair d. 

10.50 11.20 weaknesses in synchronous stream ciphers , 
j. , r. and j.  ( esat , ku leuven , 
belgium ) 
11.20 11 . 40 . blind synchronization of m sequences with even span , 
r. games and j . j .  .  ( mitre , usa) 
11 . 40 . 12 . 10 . on constructions and nonlinearity of correlation immune functions , 
j. , x. zhang and y.  ( university of wollongong , 
australia ) 

12 . 10 . 14.00 lunch 


session 7 digital signatures 

chair c. 

14.00 14 . 30 . practical and provable secure release of a secret and exchange of 
signatures , i . b .  .  ( aarhus university , denmark ) 
14 . 30 . 14 . 50 . subliminal communication is easy using the , 
g . j .  . simmons 
14 . 50 . 15 . 10 . can oss be repaired , d.  ( gemplus , france ) 

15 . 10 . 15.40 coffee or tea 


session 8 protocols i 

chair k. 

15.40 16.00 limitations of logical analysis of cryptographic protocols , 
c. boyd and w.  ( university of manchester , united kingdom ) 
16.00 16 . 30 . practical anonymous and secure voting scheme , k. itoh , c. park 
and k.  ( tokyo institute of technology , japan ) 
16 . 30 . 16.50 rights in a client independent server environment , 
j. domingo  ( university of barcelona , spain ) 
16.50 17 . 20 . interactive hashing simplifies zero knowledge protocol design , 
r.  ( uc berkeley , usa) , r.  ( bellcore , usa) and 
m. yung  ( ibm t. watson , usa) 

rump session 

chair i. 

20.00 24.00 accepted paper 
security in digital mobile communication systems , 
c. park , k. , t. okamoto and s.  ( tokyo 
institute of technology , japan ) 


wednesday , may 26 


session 9 hash functions 

chair b. 

9.00 9 . 20 . one way a alternative to digital 
signatures , j. and m. de  ( clarkson university , usa) 
9 . 20 . 9 . 40 . some attacks on the hash function , i . b .  . and 
l . r .  .  ( aarhus university , denmark ) 
9 . 40 . 10 . 10 . collisions for the compression function of md5 , b. den and 
a.  ( esat , ku leuven , belgium ) 
10 . 10 . 10 . 30 . how to find and avoid collisions for the hash function , 
j.  ( bull , france ) 

10 . 30 . 11.00 coffee or tea 


session 10 payment systems 

chair i . b .  . 

11.00 11.20 single term off line coins , n.t. ferguson  ( cwi amsterdam , 
the netherlands) 
11.20 11 . 40 . improved privacy in wallets with observers , 
r . j . f .  . cramer  ( cwi amsterdam , the netherlands) and 
t.p. pedersen  ( aarhus university , denmark ) 
11 . 40 . 12 . 10 . how to prevent the mafia fraud using distance bounding protocols , 
s. brands and d.  ( cwi amsterdam , the netherlands) 

12 . 10 . 14.00 lunch 


session 11 cryptanalysis 

chair g . j .  . simmons 

14.00 14 . 20 . on the distribution of characteristics in mappings , 
l. o'connor  ( university of waterloo , canada) 
14 . 20 . 14 . 40 . on the security of the idea block cipher , 
w. meier  ( htl , switzerland) 
14 . 40 . 15 . 10 . linear cryptanalysis method for des cipher , 
m.  ( mitsubishi , japan ) 
15 . 10 . 15.40 new types of cryptanalytic attacks using related keys , 
e.  ( technion , israel) 

15.40 16 . 10 . coffee or tea 


session 12 protocols ii 

chair p. 

16 . 10 . 16 . 40 . reconciliation on a secret key through public discussion , 
g. brassard and l.  ( university of montreal , canada) 
16 . 40 . 17 . 10 . global , unpredictable bit generation without broadcast , 
d. beaver and n. so  ( penn state university , usa) 
17 . 10 . 17 . 40 . iacr business meeting 


















keywords 


from (mike mcnally ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
organization university of michigan dept. , ann arbor , mi 
distribution usa 
lines 51 

in article  ( wes morgan ) writes 

you should realize that form letters are the worst way to influence 
your congresscritters exact copies are routinely placed on the lowest 
of the opinion ladder .  . 

if you want to write  ( and i think you should ! ) , take the time to really 
write a letter. things to emphasize 

excellent and helpful list deleted 

be concise do n't ramble .  . rants are definitely out of place. 
cite references , if necessary , but only use accepted references 
like academic journals .  . my neighbor jim is not a real refer 
 . 8) 

wes 's list is of do s and do n't s for writing your congressional 
representatives is a fine one but i 'd like to encourage people to pay 
extra attention to the point above. as cliched as the saying may be 
it 's nevertheless true that you can catch more flies with honey than 
with vinegar .  . 

while the writing styles prevalent on the net possess a certain charm 
please remember that the person reading your letter is likely to be 
uninfluenced or negatively influenced if you express your concerns in 
a way that makes you sound like a flake or a paranoid crackpot .  . wild 
and unsupported accusations about the menace from the nsa will not 
carry much weight , nor are overblown conclusions about the inevitable 
consequences of the proposal likely to convince  ( especially not ones 
that attempt strained analogies to the rise of the nazi party. please 
save the niemoller quote for another letter .  . ) . 

if you want your opinions to be taken seriously it is very important 
that you state those opinions in a manner that is understandable and 
seems reasonable to a layman .  . do n't overburden your reader with technical 
details or expect them to know the history of various encryption 
technologies .  . before you mail it , hand your letter to a non technical 
friend and ask them to sanity check it. 

above all , realize that legislators are often motivated as much by 
self interest as by anything else. try to point out risks in terms that 
will be meaningful and motivating to them such as the loss of individual 
privacy rights or the damage restrictive export regulations do to american 
businesses  ability to compete in the global marketplace .  . pull the 
strings that you think will work with your legislator if your 
legislator is unlikely to be swayed by civil rights concerns then point out 
how a government granted monopoly for mycotronx damages the competitiveness 
of businesses in your district that manufacture or market phone or crypto 
technology. 

mcnally .  . 

from (mike godwin ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
originator 
nntp posting host eff.org 
organization electronic frontier foundation 
lines 40 

in article  ( allen barrett ethridge ) writes 
in (mike godwin ) writes 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 
the security of the system should depend only on the secrecy of 
the keys and not on the secrecy of the algorithms dorothy denning 

cite source , please. 

cryptography and data security , page 8 , perhaps. 

thanks. got that from two other sources as well. the full quote is as 
follows 

from dorothy denning , cryptography and data security , addison wesley 
1982 , 1983 , page 8 

cryptosystems must satisfy three general requirements 

1. the and transformations must be efficient for 
all keys. 

2. the system must be easy to use. 

3. the security of the system should depend only on the secrecy of the 
keys and not on the secrecy of algorithms e or d 
. 



mike 





mike godwin , ariel rose godwin 
born 4 15 93 at 4 34 pm in cambridge 
(617) 576 4510 7 pounds , 1.5 ounces , 19.75 inches long 
eff , cambridge a new citizen of the electronic frontier 

from (paul repacholi ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
lines 20 
organization curtin university of technology 

in article , (robert silvers ) writes 
... 
send something to rush about clinton taking away our right 
to privacy and how if the govt. standard takes off , only people with lots 
of money  ( drug dealers ) will be able to justify des stuff. he will slam 
clinton for this on the air. 

well , lets for a hypothetical put our selves in the place of the us end 
of the drug rings .  . what do we do about the cripple chip first off , we 
would express to our congress critters , and remind them of the 
large sums of money our legitimate co . s . provide to their coffers .  . we 
would also let them know via the  other  channels that a) their income is about 
to take a hit , and b) their health may not be too good either. 

but just in case , the next obvious step to take is to buy and vlsi ! 
yeah , free enterprise at work. ) now they have the cripple in their pockets , 
literaly as well as  . tough about the masses though. 

paul 


from  ( bruce schneier ) 
subject re crypto papers on the net. 
organization public access unix 
lines 34 

in article (john kelsey ) writes 
i 've recently been reading a paper of merkle 's  ( publixhed only on the 
net , i think) discussing three potential replacements for des .  . was 
ever done with these are khufu , , and or snefru still 
being discussed anywhere (i know snefru is referenced in the rsa 
faq , and i think it may also be in the sci.crypt faq . ) . 
on a related topic , can anyone point me toward good sites to find 
papers articles discussions of cryptology i think i 've about exhausted 
the math sci library here , which does n't seem to have anything more recent 
than about '84 .  . 

thanks. 

john kelsey 

khufu and are both patented (  . and shamir showed 
that differential cryptanalysis can break 16 round with a chosen 
plaintext attack using 1500 different encryptions .  . with 24 rounds 
can be broken with the same attack using 2 53 different encryptions .  . 
 ( there are probably more efficient differential cryptanalytic attacks , if 
someone wants to take the time to look . ) . 

khufu has key dependent s boxes , and is immune to differential cryptanalysis .  . 
source code for this algorithm  ( and khafre ) are in the patent .  . 

snefru is a public domain one way hash function. the version of snefru 
that produces a 128 bit hash is vulnerable to differential cryptanalysis 
 ( vulnerable means that the attack is more efficient that brute force ) for 
four passes or less. given that , sha and md5 are much more efficient .  . 

oh yes , anyone interested in licensing the patent should contact dave , 
director of patent licencing for xerox , (203) 986  . 

bruce 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 84 

in article  ( rahul dhesi ) writes 
in  ( pat myrto ) writes 

how come the media is not telling about the provisions of the clipper 
decision ... 

how can the bulk of the people be informed , when the media refuses to 
do it 

the answer to your second question lies in the way you phrased the 
first one 'the media is .  .  . ' .  . 

the is n't  . the media  .  media  means  more than one 
medium . ' . there are thousands of publications .  . some say this , some say 
that. 

how can the bulk of the people be informed , when they wo n't read 
informative publications 

because much of the public are n't even aware of the names of informative 
publications .  . look at the  wealth  of material on the typical  . 
unless the person is working in some kind of technical environment , with 
the usual trade journals , all they ever see is the media  ( note media 
in this context is the popular media tv , radio , daily newspapers , and 
such publications as time , newsweek , and all that) .  . and they all say 
pretty much the same thing. i see most of them being in the range of 
center left to far left , and generally supportive of pie in sky 
we will take care of you think for you cradle to grave .  . there seems 
to be an air of arrogance that the individual is not capable of 
understanding major issues so the media does n't bother to inform them 
 ( as with clipper , for example) or tells the people how to interpret 
events in others. what is lost sight of is that the people are not good 
at understanding things because they are not told accurate information 
about them. it is a lot to expect of the people for them to be 
 . for example , i would have been unaware of clipper had 
i not picked it up on usenet .  . how much of the population has usenet , 
let alone internet access 

for access to better publications , the person has to spend time digging .  . 
many folks , especially who work long hours , have families , etc. , do not 
have time to go digging , and many are not (yet) aware things are wrong , 
so are not motivated to dig .  . not saying its right , just saying that is 
the way things are. people are n't upset about things when they are n't 
told. and the less than objective media is a major to the 
problem. 

and then compound that with an attitude of arrogance in the civil service 
 ( bureaucrats , politicians ) that act as if the person without political 
connections , or deep pockets  ( potential contributer ) should have few if 
any rights , being a resource to be used by those in control for their 
or financial gain .  . some law enforcement agencies act as if 
they regard the common person with a rather intense degree of contempt , 
peons that are supposed to do what they are told , and get very nasty 
when someone questions them. the media pundits editors , etc tend to 
fall into those with privilege , and tend to not be upset by the current 
state of affairs .  . the fellow in dc , who shot the swimmer in his jacuzzi 
for daring to swim in it , with an illegally owned gun  ( violating the law 
he pushed to be foisted on everyone else) , ends up walking where a less 
well connected person would have been crucified .  . a typical example of 
one standard for  us  , a much more restrictive standard for  other  . 

perhaps i am not real eloquent in expressing this , but the solution 
sure as hell is not to make it harder for people to find out what is 
going on , or dismiss their concerns because one happens to be in a position 
where one feels they are exempt or insulated .  . such as that hypocrite of 
a journalist in dc described above. one notices that these less than 
complimentary points about that double standard was not covered in the 
media. i feel the reason was it with their political views 
on the subject , and it involved a  brother  journalist .  . 

is n't it time for our  objective  media , the main source of info for the 
average person , to start being what they claim to be , instead of spin 
doctors for the statist elements 


rahul 
also 



without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

from (steven bellovin ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( lynn r grant ) writes 
about 50 people so far have asked , once the fbi gets your clipper keys , 
wo n't they be able to read all your future and past traffic 

there has been no response from nist , nsa , ms. denning , mr. hellman , or 
anyone else who might be able to give us an authoritative answer. 
this is troubling .  . 

did n't nsa think about this or is it a feature , and they thought we 
would n't notice 

i would have thought that by now they would have responded with something 
of the form , well , that wo n't be a problem because .... 

don alvarez posted a good partial solution to this problem to 
comp . risks .  . i 'll present my variant on it instead , since i feel it 's a 
bit stronger against some likely attempts to cheat .  . depends on the 
protocol that 's followed for reading traffic. briefly , the cops get a 
wiretap warrant , and record the call. they then notice the encryption 
and the disclosure header .  . it , along with a copy of their warrant , is 
sent to the fbi , or whoever it is who holds the family key. the 
f holder decrypts the header , and sends the serial number n and the 
encrypted session key u k to the escrow agents .  . they , in turn , use u1 
and u2 to recover k , and send that to the local police .  . 

note how this solves the problem of wiretapping forever. neither the 
cops nor the fbi ever see u , so they ca n't read other traffic. every 
request must be validated by both the fbi and the escrow agents .  . the 
cops and the fbi together ca n't cheat , since they do n't have u. (i 
regard that as a likely of folks who might try to beat the 
system. it 's to prevent this that i modified alvarez 's scheme . ) . the 
escrow agents ca n't read the conversation , since they do n't have it 
all they have is n and u k . and the police do n't even see n. 

it 's harder to see how to block decryption of old , warrantless , 
wiretaps .  . there is one protection you have to persuade the escrow 
agents that the call is current .  . but that 's not nearly as strong. 
there are approaches i can see that might work , involving sequences of 
data on an medium , complete with cryptographic protection 
against insertion onto a new medium .  . but i do n't have anything yet 
that is n't too complex for comfort , or too hard to install in the real 
world. the nsa might have an answer they may or may not be smarter 
than me , but i 've been working on this for a week , and they 've had years. 

from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re the escrow database. 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 34 

david sternlight wrote 
in article 
 ( steve gardner ) writes 

 .  .  . elided to preserve our sanity .  .  .  .  . 

that was n't my point. my point is that your implied position about the waco 
massacre is an assertion cum political position. according to a cnn poll , 
.... 
what you call the big brother chip is right now a proposal under 
discussion , and it is not yet clear that strong crypto is going to be 
banned. 

just to set the record straight , steve gardner was not the author of 
the bit you quoted i was. steve just took issue with david 's 
characterization of my words as pernicious nonsense. 

i wo n't further comment on my own views .  .  . folks . either support 'em or 
they do n't , and the lines in question were neither central to the 
points i was making in my original post nor to the important debate 
here in sci.crypt and elsewhere. 


tim may , who continues to hold the same views but does n't feel like 
debating politics 


 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money , 
anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero 
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 21 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article writes 
1) second amendment gives us the right to keep and bear arms. 

2) strong cryptography is arms , according to the u.s. government  ( that 's 
why it 's so hard to export) .  . 

therefore , we have a right to strong cryptography ! 


better , i think , is our right peacably to assemble .  . i have a right to meet 
you in a park and talk privately .  . i have a right to see if anyone is 
nearby , listening. 

in cyberspace , cryptography gives us a right to assemble with control over 
who us. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from (michael golan ) 
subject re clipper scope was overreacting 
originator 
nntp posting host elan . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
distribution na 
lines 51 

 ( pat myrto ) writes 


the problem is , the people are not having the scope , or 
pointed out to them. hell , most have n't even heard of clipper , and 
when they do , it will be in soothing language telling everyone how 
nice the government is at  letting them have  privacy .  . 

much more deleted 

the people at large need to be informed .  . but how i am but one person. 
i try to talk to everyone that will listen , but i can hardly make any 
kind of dent .  . 

here is how ! lets write a document which includes all the reasons 
we oppose clipper , in clear , concise , non manner. i urge 
everyone of you to take the  ( very simple) start below and repost it 
with changes. let the text evolve until we reach something most of us 
like. then , all of you should send a copy  ( with a personnel letter ) 
to your congress critter , local reporter on sci tech , etc. 

please , to make this a success , try to post only an agreed version , 
not flames .  . to respond to a flame to this , please change the subject 
to , e . g . , clipper scope discussion . 

michael golan 


all of these are points which should be made into paragraphs 

what is wrong with the clipper chip by usenet users 


1) it is secret. 
2) how can we trust the escrow agencies 
3) it is not cost effective 
4) we want other encryption systems , the government seems to want to 
it in the future 
5) anyone can build a non key system 
6) we are worried about a back door 
7) once everyone uses a clipper chip , the mechanism for a big brother 
government is in place , a change of government can lead to it. 
especially since the escrow agencies operation is not governed by 
law (so the president can change the rules to allow free access to 
the keys at any time , e.g. , during war) 
8) few criminals are caught by wiretaps , the cost and risks are unjustified 
9) once the fbi get hold of a key , it can decrypt past and future conversations 

... 



from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 57 

(alt . security . clipper . added , to keep them informed of this issue) 


david sternlight wrote 
.... 
the proposal could be modified so that if they get a court order to tap you 
and do n't charge you with a crime within , say , 90 days , they have to buy you 
a new phone. 

if they do charge you , and you are found innocent , they have to buy you a 
new phone. 

) 

yes , but will they buy you a ticket on a time machine to allow you to 
go back and use the phone with the new key instead of the phone whose 
key they obtained 

it is unclear whether obtaining the key at time 0 also unlocks 
messages recorded (by whomever ) at earlier times. the announcement was 
silent on this. the betting seems to be that once your key has been 
obtained (by the authorities , by divorce lawyers , by the mafia , by the 
fbi , by lost or stolen backup tapes , by the nsa , etc . ) .  . all previous 
conversations are unsecure .  .  ( session keys are negotiated , but knowing 
the private key is believed by many commentators here to break the 
security. no doubt more details will emerge . ) . 

so , the loss of a key , whether one is guilty or innocent , may mean a lot 
more than merely replacing the phone. 

sort of like saying to someone , oh , i copied your diary .  . but i 'll buy 
you a new one. 


and the system , if made mandatory  ( as i expect) , will make such 
storing of conversations much easier , i fear. for one thing , the 
transmission of the escrow key field acts as a clear signal to anyone 
listening , a kind of caller id and id on a grand scale. 
also , the phone companies may not care as much about protecting the 
privacy of the calls , as they perceive them all to be useless 
encrypted junk .  .  ( this is a bit of a reach , i know , suggesting that the 
clipper will make security more lax .  .  . ) .  . 

anyway , still lots of issues unresolved .  . 


tim may 



 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money , 
anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero 
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( ralph wirthlin ) 
subject re is it illegal to transmit encrypted data 
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci .  . 
lines 20 

steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 


i'm afraid i have to disagree with you on that point. nsa will not 
tell rsa or any other non dod entity anything that its eavesdropping 
reveals .  . 

i do n't know about that they might if they find it the most expedient 
way to keep people from using something they ca n't crack .  . 

let 's put it this way , they have a charter and several executive orders 
to obey , among other things which explicitly prohibit sharing this 
information  ( unless things have changed the last little while) .  . 
i suppose they could ignore it , if they choose. but i doubt they would. 
for an authoritative look at the nsa , get bamford 's the puzzle palace . 
that 's all i can say. 


ralph 


from  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
distribution inet 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 12 

 ( bear giles ) writes 
i wish them luck in figuring out who i am based on that information. 

 ( they can probably figure out i'm liberal , with a technical degree 
but humanistic interests , from a common thread throughout my posts. 
but that describes a fair portion of the users of internet) .  . 

sounds like you are the brother of to me. hey that was n't 
nice oh shut up , i'm posting now both of you pipe down , or i 
will take control of the arms and sock you in the mouth 



from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 20 23 04 gmt 


nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 21 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
doug holland claims tom clancy has provided the recipe for nuclear bombs .  . 
clancy himself says he has omitted certain crucial steps. further , how do we 
know clancy knows , rather than repeating what he 's read or been told in the 
unclassified domain 

on the other hand , when john aristotle phillips was a junior at princeton 
trying to keep from physics by doing a terrific term paper , 
his atom bomb design was good enough that it got classified .  . 
a few of the steps were derived from social engineering 
(e . g .  . the name of the explosive ) , but it was fundamentally sound  ( and did get an a . ) . 
the pakistan embassy also called him up trying to get a copy 
at the time they were lobbying the us government to get some nuclear 
reactors for purely non military electrical power generation. 



pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from (david hayes ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
distribution inet 
organization not bloody likely ! 
lines 51 

in article 
(andrew molitor ) writes 
in article  ( 1016 2ef221 ) writes 
if you can get it for a buck , 2nd hand , it must be true , eh i'm pretty 
sure the nsa is supposed to , among many other things , provide high quality 
cryptosystems to a variety of places. i do n't recall reading anywhere 
reliable that they 're supposed to 

1) monitor my phonecalls .  . 
2) monitor usenet .  . 
3) provide only cryptosystems they can easily crack .  . 
4) etc etc. 

this is not to say that they do n't , they might .  . but you do n't 
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost 
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of  you  , 
your claims about the nsa border on paranoia .  . 

andrew 


ok , andrew , i 'll provide some evidence. a friend of mine worked for an 
electronics manufacturer on with a west coast office. they routinely sold 
equipment to the japanese .  . one day , the japanese started showing up with 
discount demands that were amazingly close to the cost to manufacture the 
products. 

this company routinely sent most of the manufacturing data to the field 
offices .  . the japanese had simply intercepted it. so my friend , the computer 
systems admin , came up with a solution. he started sending the data out 
double block encrypted with des .  . 

two days after this new distribution plan was implemented , the president of 
the company got a visit from a pair of government agents .  . they told him to 
knock it off . the president gave in , since his company did a considerable 
business with the federal government. 

now , if the government was n't monitoring the communications , how would they 
even know that the encryption system was installed further , since 
tion is n't illegal , and des certainly is n't , what is the basis of the 
government 's cease and desist demand 

the spooks do whatever they think is necessary , with or without the blessings 
of the law. i 'll say no thanks to clipper , or anything else the government 
produces .  . for the moment , double or triple des is probably adequate .  . and when 
the line is idle , send random garbage , just to keep 'em busy. 

david hayes 




from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 34 

 ( amanda walker ) writes 

we do need an alternative to nsa bugged telephones , but 
we 're talking inexpensive telephones here , including hand sized 
cellulars , that need strong crypto , real privacy .  . 

so start a company and build them. this is still mostly a capitalist 
economy .  .  .  . 

qualcomm had spare cycles in the dsps for their new cdma digital 
cellular phones. they wanted to put strong crypto into them since they 
had the capacity .  . the government decided to discourage them. 

really , none of this stuff is especially hard. all you need for a true 
private phone is an isdn codec , a vocoder  ( either a chip or 
software) , an encryptor (a chip is fine , but software is more than 
fast enough) , a v . 32 . or v . 32bis . modem module , and maybe a 
microcontroller to run the whole thing. its easy to do , its cheap. and 
any normal company trying to put one out will likely get a visit 
from the boys in the dark suits from washington , just like qualcomm 
did. i suspect that companies like are tolerated because their 
products are too expensive. 

however , no law yet stops one from building really private phones , in 
spite of the hints the administration has made when discussing the new 
crime bill and in connection with the clipper skipjack big brother 
chip .  . someone out there will build a unit to do all this. better yet , 
prehaps someone will produce a package that turns any 486 box with a 
sound card into a secure phone. 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( ken jongsma ) 
subject re does rush read his e mail 
reply to 
organization smiths industries 
distribution inet 
lines 11 

in  ( sean dean ) writes 

but i have no idea of a compuserve e mail address .  .  .  . 





ken 
smiths industries 
grand rapids , michigan 

from  ( tapani lindgren ) 
subject re des salts 
nntp posting host hut . fi . 
organization helsinki university of technology , finland 
lines 21 

in article  ( mikel lechner ) writes 

you could just as well use a 16 character password to perform the encryption 
of the 64 zero bits. one simple method would be to use the first 8 characters 
to encrypt the 64 zero bits and then use the remaining 8 characters to 
encrypt the result again. the output would still be 64 bits which 
into 11 ascii characters. 

would n't this method be vulnerable against a birthday attack 
currently a cracker needs to find the only ( 1) key that produces 
the given ciphertext .  . he has to try about 2 63 keys on the average .  . 
in the proposed method the cracker only needs any pair of key halves .  . 
if he can store about 2 32 guesses for one half , he is likely to find 
a pair in about 2 32 guesses .  .  ( here i have assumed that the 
des encryption is , if the key is guessed .  . is this so or do 
the modifications of the s boxes by the salt bits make it non ) 

1 probably there is only one key i think there is 1 chance in about 128 
that there are two or more keys  ( can anyone verify this ) , but this does n't 
help the cracker much. 


from  ( dwight tuinstra ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 16 
nntp posting host signal . ece . clarkson . edu . 

in article ,  ( carl ellison ) writes 

to paraphrase , i may not agree with what you 're encrypting , but i defend 
your right to encrypt it. 


great slogan ! i'm ready to sign up with a crypto lobbying effort  ( though 
i would n't want to do it through an nra  . shall we also push 
for the cra cryptographic rights amendment 


dwight tuinstra best 
tolerable 

homo sapiens planetary cancer ... news at six 


from  ( todd w. arnold ) 
subject re can des code be shipped to canada 
organization ibm cryptographic facility development 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3.1 

lines 22 

in article writes 
someone in canada asked me to send him some public domain des file 
encryption code i have. is it legal for me to send it 

i believe it 's legal to send des code or equipment from the us to canada 
with no export license. i think this is the only place you can do this all 
other countries require a license. 

as an aside , i 've always thought it should be legal to send des software 
anywhere , if you follow these rules 

1. encrypt your des software with des .  . 
2. send the encrypted software to the recipient .  . 
3. send the key to the recipient .  . 

the only way the person on the other end can use your des software is if 
he she already has des available otherwise , they ca n't decrypt your 
program , and it is useless. if you 've guaranteed they already have des , 
have you really violated any law by sending it to them in the form of 
your program i'm sure it 's still illegal , but it seems like a good idea .  .  .  . 

todd 

from  ( kennedy james scot ) 
subject re re re clipper chip 
organization oklahoma state university 
lines 44 

from article , by (robert johnston ) 
encryption technologies are currently as arms by the 
feds , hence the export ban .  . while the second is under enough 
attack for our rights to fire arms , perhaps we 
should reflect on this as well.  ( perhaps fire arms are not the 
only weapons covered under the second amendment ) 

hmmm .  .  .  . i would n't consider encryption to be a weapon .  . how would the 
government classify encryption seems to me that encryption ought to 
be covered by the first amendment .  . using this line of reasoning , the 
government should n't be able to restrict what data people encrypt and 
what encryption algorithms they use because this would be restricting 
one 's freedom of speech. in other words , encrypted data text , 
graphics , or other information is just another form of free speech. 
for this reason the government should n't be able to regulate the use 
of encryption algorithms and encrypted data. the only time the 
government should be able to  force  someone to reveal his or her 
encryption keys for some encrypted data is when the encrypted data 
in question may be something that is n't protected by the first 
amendment such as kiddy porn .  . even in a case like this the 
government should be required to get a search warrant before coercing 
someone into revealing the keys. 

btw , what encryption methods are considered to be state of the art 
nowdays .  . have the feds relaxed export restrictions on des yet 
also , is des still regarded as a good form of encryption 

robert johnston 



scott kennedy , brewer and patriot 

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets 
the bible through the barrel of a gun .  .  .  . atf spokesman 
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets 
the constitution through the barrel of a gun .  .  .  . me 


batf cigarette cops 
fbi 's bureau of 




from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization the best minds of a generation , destroyed by madness 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 20 41 57 gmt 

nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 25 

in article (paul crowley ) writes 
how fast do the fastest modems go 

v . fast . is targeted for about 14 . 4kbps . is 500 , and 19.2 may 
be here soon too.  ( remember to ignore compression figures which make 
your modem go faster on compressible data , because voice gets 
compressed better than that , and encryption makes further compression impossible . ) . 

how far can voice be compressed 

the stu iii phones on the market from at t , motorola , and (i forget who else) , 
give you a choice of 9600 , 4800 , and 2400 baud .  . the 9600 and 4800 are celp , 
and i think the 2400 is some earlier military vocoder stuff. 
9600 is decent , 2400 is pretty artificial , anything less is speak spell .  . 
16000 can produce quite adequate sound. there 's also some 8 kbps celp around. 
dsps have made it possible to do all this in real time for cheap. 

old hand government crypto have trouble adjusting to systems faster 
than 9600 baud , because if the voice on the other end sounds good , 
you assume the crypto has n't been turned on yet ) 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from rick miller 
subject does rush read his e mail 
organization just me. 
lines 18 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 2 . 33 . 
summary was i have seen the lobby , and it is us 

(robert silvers ) writes 
send something to rush about clinton taking away our right 
to privacy and how if the govt. standard takes off , only people with lots 
of money  ( drug dealers ) will be able to justify des stuff. he will slam 
clinton for this on the air. 
rob .  . 

i seem to recall rush saying that he has a compuserve account. if anyone 
wants to e mail him , all we need is his account number (i . e .  . 12345 , 6789 ) 
and then we could e mail him via gateway by using a dot instead of a comma 
like so .  ( this is not his address . ) . 

so , does anyone know his e mail address he says he uses it all the time. 
(i wonder if he reads alt . fan . rush . limbaugh .  .  .  . his ego is big enough ! ) 

rick miller 
send a postcard , get one back ! kaj vi ! 
rick miller 16203 woods muskego , wis. 53150 usa 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization dsi 
lines 30 


brad yearwood posts a long response to the issue of registering a 
phone clipper relationship. 

it does n't wash. 

recall that law enforcement gets a court order to tap a suspect 's phone 
calls. they do what they do now figure out which lines to tap .  . they then 
record the stuff. if it 's clipper , they read the law enforcement block , 
extract the serial number , and get the keys using the court order. 

no new difficulties  ( such as using someone else 's phone instrument or phone 
line) are introduced that would n't have existed absent clipper .  . if the 
crooks were going to use a pay phone  ( say ) , they could have done so without 
clipper .  . if the government figures out they 're so doing , they listen in , and 
if it 's a clipper conversation they get the serial number and then the keys. 

if the crooks use an innocent person 's clipper phone on the tapped line 
there 's no problem. the feds do n't care whose phone instrument is used , just 
that the conversation is by the suspect on the tapped line. they get the 
serial number , get the keys , and they are in business. 

no clipper chip to person association is ever needed. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (david koontz ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization loral computer systems 
lines 11 

clipper also allows an extraordinary opportunity for the criminal to 
conceal use of super encryption .  . an automated full system surveillance 
mechanism  ( quite feasible across radio bandwidth) which knows family key f , 
can validate clipper wrappers and n esn associations , but it cannot reveal 
in realtime the use of super encryption , unless it knows all unit keys , 
which we are being assured are only to be made available in two separate 
pieces , upon specific wiretap like order. 

the serial number will be in a 64 bit block , with a 34 bit filler .  . does n't 
take a lot to check to see if that is correct. 


from  ( raymond s. brand ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization 
lines 132 

in article , (steven bellovin ) writes 
... 
there are three issues with clipper .  . the first is whether or not the 
architecture of the whole scheme is capable of working. my answer , 
with one significant exception , is yes. i really do think that nsa and 
nist have designed this scheme about as well as can be , assuming that 
their real objectives are as stated to permit wiretapping , under 
certain carefully controlled circumstances , with a minimum risk of 
abuse .  . (the exception is that u exists outside of the chip , on a 
programming diskette .  . that 's seriously wrong. u 1 and u 2 should be 
loaded onto the chip separately . ) . to those who disagree  ( and i do n't 
claim my answer is obvious , though i found my own reasoning 
sufficiently persuasive that i was forced to rewrite the conclusions 
section of my technical analysis paper i had originally blasted the 
scheme) , i issue this invitation assume that you were charged with 
implementing such a system , with complete regard for civil rights and 
due process. what would you do differently in answering this 
question , please accept nsa 's fundamental assumptions that both 
strong cryptography against outsiders , and the ability to wiretap 
some domestic users , is necessary.  ( if you feel it necessary to 
challenge those assumptions , do it in the context of the last issue i 
present below. right here , i'm discussing just the technical 
aspects. and no , i do n't by any means claim that just because 
something can be done , it should be . ) . 

ok steve , here 's a sketch of an alternative that i believe addresses 
most of the objections to the clipper scheme .  . 

notation 
concatenation 
exclusive or 
e(m , k ) message m encrypted by key k 
d(m , k ) message m decrypted by key k 
h(m) hash  ( digest signature) of message m 

important values 
u0 x local chip unit key from escrow agency x 
u1 x remote chip unit key from escrow agency x 
n 0 serial number of the local chip 
n 1 serial number of the remote chip 
a number of escrow agencies 
k 0 , k 1 session keys agreed upon external to this protocol 
f family key , need not be secret 

protocol 
choose k0 1 ,  .  .  . k0 . a such that k 0 k0 1 ... k0 a 
remote chip does same for k 1 , k1 1 , ... , k1 a . 

compute the following 

l0 1  ( e(k0 1 , u0 1 ) 
... 
l0 a  ( e(k0 a , u0 a ) 

l 0 n 0  ( e(n 0 l0 1 ... l0 a , f ) 

remote chip does the same for l1 1 , ... , l1 a , l 1 

send l 0 to remote chip and receive l 1 from remote chip 

compute 

ke 0  ( h(k 0 n 0 l0 1 ... l0 a 
k 1  ( d(l 1 , f ) 

kd 0  ( h(k 1  ( d(l 1 , f ) 
k 0 n 0 l0 1 ... l0 a 

note that  ( d(l 1 , f ) n 1 l1 1 ... l1 a 

remote chip does the same for ke 1 and kd 1 

user data is encrypted  ( decrypted ) with keys ke 0 , ke 1 
 ( kd 0 , kd 1 ) 

assumptions 
no trap doors in  ( e( ) ,  ( d( ) and  .  ( h( ) is not invertible .  . 

algorithms for  ( e( ) ,  ( d( ) and  ( h( ) are secret. otherwise a software 
implementation  ( bogus chip) could communicate with a real chip .  . 

the chip only supports the following operation 

1) return n 0 
2) load k0 x 
3) return  ( e(k0 x , u0 x ) 
4) return  ( e(n 0 l0 1 ... l0 a , f ) 
5) given  ( e(n 1 l1 1 ... l1 a , f ) , 
return n 1 , l1 1 , ... , l1 a 
6) load k 1 
7) given  ( e(n 1 l1 1 ... l1 a , f ) , 
compute ke 0 , kd 0 
8) given m , return e(m , ke 0 ) 
9) given m , return d(m , kd 0 ) 

anything programmed into the chip can be determined by destroying 
the chip (u 1 , ... , u a , f , n 0 ) .  . 

u 1 , ... , u a can not be determined except by destroying the chip .  . 
(unfortunately this may not be true in reality. i suppose it 's 
possible to determine how a chip has been programmed with a 
sophisticated sp x ray machine to look for blown fuses . ) . 

the u 's are programmed independantly by the escrow agencies .  . 

notes 
for tapping escrow agency y is given n 0 ,  ( e(k0 y , u0 y ) , n 1 , 
 ( e(k1 y , u1 y ) and returns k0 y , k1 y . 

lea 's must contact all escrow agencies with the serial numbers from 
both chips and the encrypted partial keys. this allows the agencies 
to record that both chips were tapped .  . 

lea 's only get the session key , not the key to all conversations 
of a particular chip .  . this precludes real time decrypting of a 
conversation but that is n't one of the stated requirements. 

observation 
in order for any secure by tap able communication scheme to work , 
the active parts need to share a secret. and if this secret is 
revealed , communications by those that know the secret can be made 
un tap able . obvious candidates are the cryptographic algorithm 
and the master  ( family ) key. relative size and complexity suggests 
that the key can be obtained from a silicon implementation of the 
scheme a lot easier and faster than the algorithm .  . 





raymond s. brand 


from (john kelsey ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 32 


the clipper chip 's user key is formed by 

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1 
r2 e d e n2 s1 s2 s1 
r3 e d e n3 s1 s2 s1 

why is the triple encrytion used is it just to gain an effective 
increase in keyspace to defeat a potential keysearch  ( if so , why use 
80 bit keys ) not knowing anything about the skipjack algorithm , it 's 
not really possible to guess whether this makes it harder or easier to 
guess s1 , s2 .  . 

why are n1 , n2 , and n3 formed as they are it would be facinating to 
see the skipjack algorithm , to look for ways of attacking it that require 
three ciphertext blocks formed in that odd way. 

where do the 34 bit constant values that are concatenated with the 
serial number to form n1 , n2 , n3 come from are they changed from chip to 
chip , or session to session  ( even if they 're published in the ny times , 
if skipjack is resistant to known plaintext attacks , when using triple 
encryption , then there 's no break in security. but why allow that kind 
of weird format if those three 34 bit values are truly random bits , then 
maybe it 's used to ensure that a known plaintext attack on skipjack , if 
it exists , ca n't be easily used to derive s1 and s2 for a whole production 
run of these chips .  .  .  . ) . 

does dorothy denning read this group if not , is someone on the group 
forwarding questions like these to her , or martin hellman , or anyone else 
who 's seen more details about the chip 

john kelsey 

from  ( steve pope) 
subject re what is going on ... 
organization u . c .  . berkeley erl 
lines 10 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host zion . berkeley . edu . 

(scott doty ) writes 

but it does look like csrc . ncsl . nist . gov . has become an 
un machine. if someone would try ftp ing to it , or knows what 's up , 
i 'd really appreciate the info. 

csrc . ncsl . nist . gov . (129 . 6 . 54 . 11) . is ftp able from here .  .  .  . 


steve 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re suggestions for escrow agencies  ( was re more technical details) 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 5 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

on the contrary , the entire clipper proposal is an example of the 
government servicing the people  ( in the sense of the term found in the 
sentence , the farmer paid 100 to rent a bull to service his cows .  . ) 



from  ( allen barrett ethridge ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization the whole earth  link , sausalito , ca 
lines 9 

in (mike godwin ) writes 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 
the security of the system should depend only on the secrecy of 
the keys and not on the secrecy of the algorithms dorothy denning 

cite source , please. 

cryptography and data security , page 8 , perhaps. 

from pose (r h w poser chemies ) 
subject re how to make this illuminating thing 
distribution usa 
organization electrical and computer engineering , university of pretoria 
lines 30 
nntp posting host 137 . 215 . 124 . 105 . 

in article  ( cho ) writes 

my father having worked for american cyanamid for sometime did mention 
that the recipe is a secret .  .  .  . neither of us know of just how toxic 
the stuff is .  .  . but . you can synthesize a substance that is 
available to just about any organic lab .  .  . called .  . you can usually 
find this in an organic lab book or something similiar .  .  .  . 

these substances are normally not the secret , but how to get at them. the 
method of is normally patented , which means that no one else can 
make the chemical in the same way , without undergoing an agreement with 
american cyanamid .  .  ( but i guess you knew what a patent is ) ) 

if you know what substance is used , you 'll also know its toxicity .  . 

rumor has it that is some base form for the stuff used in the 
light sticks .  .  .  . 

the reaction has the disadvantage of not lasting as long as the 
commercial version. 

remember that cyano compounds are found in nature , and not all are poisonous .  . 

regards , 

( ) 
( r . h . w .  . poser chem . eng .  . iii university of pretoria ) 
 ( fidonet 5 7101 22 . 23 . or 
( fastest pose tel. 27 12 ) 
( ) 

subject re write to clinton 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 17 

in  ( carl ellison ) writes 


i 've been reading the sci.crypt , alt . privacy . clipper . and comp . org . eff . talk . 
discussions about the clipper chip and find  ( as usual ) that most of us 
think alike so there 's a lot of  . if each of these messages 
were sent to clinton as well as to the net  ( or instead of to the net) , we 
might actually have some effect. 

 ( white house) 

i 've already written a 5000 char commentary (from my mci mail account , so i 
ca n't be accused of being a hacker  . ) . 

arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( bruce schneier ) 
subject comments on clipper for publication 
organization public access unix 
lines 15 


i am writing an article on clipper for network world. i am looking for 
comments and opinions  ( that i can quote) on the scheme , its implications 
for security and privacy , its acceptance here and overseas , etc. 

i hope this to be a article , with opinions from various quarters .  . 
the only catch is that your name and company affiliation will appear in 
print. 

i am on very tight deadline (i need to finish this wednesday night) .  . please 
call or e mail responses. 

thanks , 
bruce 
(708) 524 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 18 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article a. charles gross writes 
the nra is successful because  ( among a number of things) , on the drop of 
a hat , they can get a congresspersons office flooded with postcards , 
faxes and phone calls. certainly , with our way cool internet powers of 
organization , we can act in the same way , if such action is appropriate. 

i do n't know about you , but i have nearly forgotten how to generate paper 
mail. 

if i had e mail to congress , i would have written many letters by now. 
i have n't written one yet , as it turns out. writing on paper is such 
a complicated job , for those of us hooked on our way cool internet. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from  ( mitch kapor ) 
subject re jerry berman on pseudonymous privacy 
originator 
nntp posting host eff.org 
organization the electronic frontier foundation 
lines 21 

correctly states jerry berman 's 1985 view on 
privacy , but he mistakenly assumes that this represents berman 's 1993 view as 
eff executive director .  . 

as one of the people who convinced jerry that legal protections for privacy 
are insufficient , and that technical measures , especially public key 
cryptography , are also vitally necessary , i can tell you that jerry and eff 
are fully committed to this position. 

the previous poster is apparently unaware of a long series of eff positions in 
support of this view. i suggest those interested read eff 's position on 
clipper or our other work in digital privacy .  . check ftp . eff . org . for more 
details. 

one of the great things about human beings is that they are capable of change 
and evolution in their thinking. the idea that crypto is critical to privacy 
is one which is no longer limited to certain net , but is 
spreading to parts of the public policy community in washington .  . 

mitch kapor 
co founder , eff 

from  ( burt kaliski ) 
subject in md5 
organization rsa data security , inc. 
lines 89 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host rsa . com . 

following is a short note commenting on den and  
recent work on the md5 message digest algorithm .  . feel free to email 
questions or further comments. 

burt 
rsa laboratories 

12pt article 
begin document 

title on   in the md5 message digest algorithm 
author burton s. jr. 
tt and 
matthew j.b. 
tt and 
rsa laboratories 
100 marine parkway 
redwood city , ca 94065 
date april 23 , 1993 



a message digest algorithm maps a message of arbitrary length to a 
  of fixed length , and has three properties computing the 
digest is easy , finding a message with a given 
digest   is hard , and finding two messages with the 
same digest   is also hard. message digest algorithms 
have many applications , including digital signatures and message 
authentication .  . 

rsa data security 's md5 message digest algorithm , developed by ron 
rivest cite rfc md5 , maps a message to a 128 bit message digest .  . 
computing the digest of a one megabyte message takes as little as a 
second. while no message digest algorithm can yet be em proved 
secure , md5 is believed to be at least as good as any other that maps 
to a 128 bit digest .  . inversion should take about 2 128 
operations , and collision should take about 2 64 operations .  . no 
one has found a faster approach to inversion or collision .  . 

recent work by den and cite den md5 presents 
a special kind of   in md5 's 
internal compression function , which maps 
a 512 bit message block x and a 
128 bit input state s to a 128 bit output 
state. they show how to find a message block x 
and two related input states s 1 and s 2 that yield the same 
output state f(x , s 1) f(x , s 2) . their well thought approach 
exploits structural properties of the collision function to find 
a in about 2 16 operations , much less than one 
would expect. 

practical implications of this work to the security of 
md5 are not evident .  . while a real collision in md5 implies a 
 ( or a inversion'' ) , a 
need not imply a real collision .  . indeed , a real 
collision , since it involves two different messages , would almost 
always involve em different message blocks x 1 and x 2 such that 
f(x 1 , s 1) f(x 2 , s 2) , but the have the same 
message blocks .  . moreover , the input states s 1 and s 2 would 
generally be unrelated , but the  input states are 
the same except for four bits. there does not seem to be any way to 
extend den and  approach to anything beyond the 
special , a limitation they readily admit .  . 

it is reasonable , therefore , to believe that md5 remains secure .  . while den 
and have found interesting structural properties in 
md5 , the properties seem only to lead to special 
and not anything approaching real collisions .  . further research , of 
course , will give a better understanding of the strengths of md5 and 
other message digest algorithms , with the eventual hope that 
such algorithms can , in some sense , be proved secure .  . 

plain 
begin 1 

den md5 
bert den and  . 
collisions for the compression function of md5 . 
in it advances in cryptology '93 , 1993. 
 . 

rfc md5 
r.l. rivest .  . 
it rfc 1321 the md5 message digest algorithm . 
internet activities board , april 1992. 

end 

end document 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization dsi 
distribution na 
lines 26 

in article a 
a  ( arthur rubin ) writes 


i would n't think so. asking people to trust a secret algorithm seems 
unsound to me. 

maybe so , but it 's quite common. there are millions of macintosh users who 
have no idea what 's in apple 's patented roms .  . many have modems connected .  . 
how do you know all your business secrets are n't being stolen answer 
1. because you trust apple 
2. because if any such attempt , however , came out , it would 
destroy apple 's credibility forever. 

in the clipper case , a representative body of experts is going to be allowed 
to audit it , and we 'll have assurances  ( maybe even from the president ) that 
other than the escrowed keys there are no back doors. while some may not 
have confidence in that (i am not among them) , it 's a lot more assurance 
than we get for many things we routinely trust in everyday life. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (david sternlight ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization dsi 
lines 21 

hin article 
 ( nathaniel sammons ) writes 

1) i think that most of us can afford a stamp and an envelope , and the 
cost of printing out a letter. 

2) if some kind soul out there would write a letter , and upload it to 
the net , everyone could capture it , print it out , and snail mail it 
out to their local congressional critter .  . 

btw i'm working on one. 

far more effective than mass mailing of a standard letter  ( this is taken 
usually to represent one pressure group ) is a set of individual letters. 

perhaps nathaniel sammons or someone else would like to prepare a set of 
talking points from which individuals could compose their own letters. 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 

from  ( shaen bernhardt ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
distribution na 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 42 

in article  ( jerry han ) writes 
in article  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 

text deleted 

to be quite honest , the way things are going , i 'd call it self defense .  . 

i never advocated not saying what you believe in. i'm advocating second 
thought , and calm .  . 

a smart warrior defeats the enemy in ambush on the battlefield 
a smarter warrior defeats the enemy in open warfare on the battlefield 
the warrior defeats the enemy without using the battlefield 

think about it. 

i have , my thesis was on sun tzu .  . 

more to the point 

those who are called the good of old , could make opponents 
lost contact between front and back lines , lose reliability between 
large and small groups , lose mutual concern for the welfare of the 
different social classes among them , lose mutual accomodation between 
the rulers and the ruled , lose among the soldiers , lose 
coherence within the armies .  . they went into action when it was 
advantageous , stopped when it was not. 

today it is. sitting on your hands will get you nowhere in this battle. 


jerry han crc doc div. of behavioural research 
these are my opinions , and my opinions only. 
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors band 
memories of those i 've left behind , still ringing in my ears. genesis 



public keys by finger and or request 
public key archives pgp public 
sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past. fight clinton 's wiretap chip ! 
crypto is not a crime ! ask me how ! 

from (andrew molitor ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
organization department of mathematical sciences 
lines 30 
nntp posting host moink . nmsu . edu . 
summary as the key insight .  . 
keywords nea 

in article 
 ( arthur melnick ) writes 
we are strongly opposed to the clipper capstone chips. in a 
press release today , our president , dr. stephen stated 

it seems as if the government has an unlimited source 
of funds to use to push its new bugged chips on the american 
public. but do we not understand how the national security 
agency , which is not supposed to be involved in domestic 
spying , can fund the development of a commercial chip 
intended to accommodate u.s. government domestic spying 
activities. 


well , actually , this one 's easy. it 's their job. the nsa is 
supposed to develop cryptosystems .  . if the government chooses to go 
ahead and sell those cryptosystems to the masses , so be it. 

this sounds a lot like slamming the competition , not a cry 
for justice. these guys are way out on a limb , if i read that right. 
they 've commited their new algorithm to silicon before it 's been 
made public. what are they gonna do if shamir writes a paper showing 
how to crack the entire class of algorithms in 5 minutes with a slide 
rule and a pencil 

if they were n't busy throwing muck to smear their competitors , 
i 'd feel kinda sorry for 'em .  . still do , a little. 

andrew 


from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization thibault friends 
lines 30 

in article 
(ron asbestos dippold ) writes 
... 
the only thing that worries me is that 2 1 compression the 
soundblaster can do it automatically in hardware , but other than that 
i do n't have a good feel for how processor intensive it is , so i ca n't 
estimate how fast a pc you 'd need. 

there 's a better way. does n't qualcom have a secure design 
that it decided not to market since they are n't going to 
use it , would n't the patriotic thing be to put the design in 
the public domain how about selling a cryptography 
educational kit with the critical parts something that could 
end up as a pc option board with two phone jacks 

cheers , 
marc 


marc thibault 
automation architect cis , 2226 
r . r . 1 . , oxford mills , ontario , canada nc freenet 

begin pgp public key block 




end pgp public key block 


from  ( lowell r. snyder ) 
subject re tempest 
distribution na 
lines 13 

leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu .  ( kirill shklovsky ) writes 

in article  ( ross anderson ) writes 
i heard somewhere (ca n't name the source) that tempest does not necessarily 
pick up just crts , but it can pick up emissions from almost any chip .  . if 
that is true , the kind monitor would not make any difference becuase everything 
on the screen can be picked up from the video controller .  . can anybody verify 
or refute this 

anything can be an emissions problem , right down to the video cable. given 
the right equipment , you can pick the screen paint from the cable. but , 
given any cable , you must know what is being sent through it to know the 
format of the signal , as well as how many wires , etc. 

from devvax . jpl . nasa . gov . (bryan l. allen ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
summary boundaries are in the eye of the beholder 
keywords nsa surveillance ( ) 
organization telos corp. , jet propulsion laboratory  ( nasa ) 
lines 25 

in article  ( jeff hupp ) writes 

in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 
some deleted 

unlike the cia , the nsa has no prohibition against domestic spying .  . read 
bamford 's the puzzle palace .  . 

bruce 

i have that book , and the way i read it is , one side of the 
conversation must be from outside the united states. 
of coures , that ass u that the nsa plays by the rules .  .  .  . 

one thing that seems ambiguous is whether a signal being echoed down from 
geosynchronous orbit is  .  .  . from . outside the united states. 

also , being able to assess whether nsa is playing by the rules requires 
knowing what the rules are. we only know a subset .  . for those even more 
suspicious , there could be other surveillance organizations blacker 
than the nsa .  . 


bryan l. allen 
telos corp. jpl (818) 306 6425 

from (michael golan ) 
subject re clipper serial numbers need 2nd court order 
originator 
nntp posting host hart . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 34 

(david sternlight ) writes 
two safeguards 

1. the fbi could be asked to produce the law enforcement block to the escrow 
agencies , and associate it with a particular court order 

exactly what would that show , ! the law enforcement block is easy to 
create , given the government key and any serial number. 

2. if the thing comes to trial the defense attorneys can probe this issue 
closely .  . it is not too different from proving that the speaker on a legal 
wiretap is the person the court order covered. 

if it comes to trail about the wiretap .  .  .  .  . ya , some that is. 
what if they just harass people as a result , or learn things they should n't 
have learned , etc 

putting it another way , this question is not very different from the 
pre clipper question what 's to prevent the fbi from getting a court order 
to tap al capone and then using it to tap jonathan livingstone seagull 
instead 

the whole point of the escrow system is to prevent the fbi from making 
illegal wiretaps .  . why not have the fbi holds the 
keys and that 's it why do we need the escrow system at all 

unless a 3rd party (a judge ) verifies that the requested serial number 
is right , and the fbi can get any key they like at anytime , the escrow 
system is useless. 

michael golan 




reply to  ( jeff hupp ) 
from  ( jeff hupp ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
lines 38 


in article , 
 ( bruce schneier ) writes 

unlike the cia , the nsa has no prohibition against domestic spying .  . read 
bamford 's the puzzle palace .  . 

we had a senior nsa scientist in cambridge at one of our workshops recently 
 ( in fact he was here when the clipper announcement was made , but we did n't 
learn of it till after he 'd  . he said on this point that he was forbidden 
by law to monitor conversations between us nationals  ( and he is a chap who is 
very precise about his choice of  . so i do n't expect he 'd have any qualms 
about monitoring a domestic us conversation if one of the parties was an alien .  . 

however it got me thinking of the navajo code  . just imagine 

, is that the iraqi mission in new york this is the iraqi foreign 
ministry in baghdad , i am hussein , us citizen , social security number 
so and so  

, indeed , this is the new york mission , mustafa speaking , also a 
us citizen , my social security number is such and such , here is our report 
on activities against the satan clinton  

ross 

this one is easy , they  tape  the conversation , call the fbi or 
secret service. you see activities against the satan clinton could be 
construed as a threat against the president of the united states. i am 
sure  ( they(nsa , fbi , ss , ... ,  .  .  . ) . have enough judges in their collective 
pockets to have a warrent before the call is over .  .  .  .  .  . 


jeff internet 
, apt. 1807 ad contract programming , novell 
houston , texas network design and support. 
voice (713) 780 the best govenment does n't me. 


from stephen j. 
subject encryption chips 
organization junior , mechanical engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 8 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 


does anyone know where i can get a hold of some secure encrypting chips 
or devices before they are banned completely ! 

steve 


if encryption is outlawed , only outlaws will have encryption 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow 
organization dsi 
lines 19 

in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 
nonsense ! i was n't asked if larry o'brien should trust nixon with his keys , 
but whether i would. 

well , that explains it. the government has no real need to spy on people 
who already love big brother it 's the people who are inclined to talk 
back who need to be watched .  . 

though i think this an overstatement , it does contain a grain of truth. it 's 
drug dealers , spies , terrorists , and organized crime figures  ( assuming 
enough probable cause to convince a judge ) who need to be watched , not 
law abiding citizens .  . 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



subject re the secret source of that announcement 
from (peter gutmann ) 
organization computer science dept. university of auckland 
lines 56 

in (david hayes ) writes 

ok , andrew , i 'll provide some evidence. a friend of mine worked for an 
electronics manufacturer on with a west coast office. they routinely sold 
equipment to the japanese .  . one day , the japanese started showing up with 
discount demands that were amazingly close to the cost to manufacture the 
products. 

this company routinely sent most of the manufacturing data to the field 
offices .  . the japanese had simply intercepted it. so my friend , the computer 
systems admin , came up with a solution. he started sending the data out 
double block encrypted with des .  . 

two days after this new distribution plan was implemented , the president of 
the company got a visit from a pair of government agents .  . they told him to 
knock it off . the president gave in , since his company did a considerable 
business with the federal government. 

now , if the government was n't monitoring the communications , how would they 
even know that the encryption system was installed further , since 
tion is n't illegal , and des certainly is n't , what is the basis of the 
government 's cease and desist demand 

something similar has happened to me ages ago when we were working on pgp 
we used to send short messages about development issues or simply to test 
new features around. now at this time pgp  ( and certainly the newer version) 
was unknown over here. suddenly the admin at the site i was using received 
a request that i stop sending encrypted email. now there is almost no way 
that some automatic scanner could have found this , since they would n't have 
known about pgp they must have checked for unknown data types in the 
message , tried to it , found they could n't get past the pem 
armour part , and then contacted the sysadmin and asked me to stop. luckily 
the current email carriers are less picky about what goes over their 
networks ) .  . 

in case people think email scanning does n't take place , i can assure you 
that it is done regularly by many sites usually not by government 
agencies  ( or at least not that i know of) , but by local administrators who , 
for reasons of their own , have decided to monitor all communications 
 ( i'm sure you can all think of a whole mess of reasons stop hackers 
terrorists child pornographers drug dealers evil commies whatever) .  . there 
have been several occasions when i 've got people into trouble simply by 
including the traditional nsa bait in a message (i do n't try it any more 
now ) .  . a friend of mine was once picked up for mentioning the name of 
the uk town of  ( hint look for words embedded in it) .  . i'm sure 
there are many more examples of this happening  ( in fact if anyone has any 
examples i 'd appreciate hearing from them i could use them as 
ammunition during talks on privacy  . 

peter .  . 

p gutmann 

 ( in order of preference one of 'em 's bound to work) 
do n't vote. you 'll only encourage them 


from  ( lefty ) 
subject re freely distributable public key cryptography c code where 
organization our lady of heavy artillery 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
wrote 

victor wrote 


numerical recipes in c  .  . fortran .  . pascal . has a nice section on 
encryption and decryption based on the des algorithm .  . there is 
also source code provided (i think some versions of this book are 
distributed with the source code on disk the source code can 
also be ordered from the publisher) .  . 

victor 


yes i benchmarked the des implementation in the recipes in c 
book .  .  . it is about 1 1 2 orders of magnitude slower than the 
karn gillogly et al implementation .  . 

it may be instructional , but it is n't very fast. 

it has also apparently been from the second edition. 


lefty 
c  . m .  . c . . , d  . o .  . d . . 

from  ( tony desimone ) 
subject re audio cds 
reply to  ( tony desimone ) 
organization at t bell laboratories 
in reply to steve 's message of 30 apr 1993 21 16 29 0400 
nntp posting host ho . att . com . 
lines 19 

on 30 apr 1993 21 16 29 0400 , steve  ( steve brinich ) said 

steve hmmm .  .  .  . given the error corrections in modern audio cds , is 
steve it sufficient to simply instruct your agent to decrypt using 
steve the bit stream from the second cut of the latest garth brooks 
steve cd , or are the usual number of bit errors found acceptable in 
steve commercial cds because of that error correction enough to 
steve garble the message if such a method is used 

one unreliable data point while looking over the shoulder of a 
recording engineer , i decided that he was seeing a raw error rate of 
about 1 in on a cd '' . both the to 
mass market cds and my state of mind while doing the arithmetic (i was 
waiting for him to finish so we could go get something to eat ) are 
questionable .  . 

tony room 
performance analysis department 101 corner road 
at t bell laboratories holmdel , nj 

from (ron asbestos dippold ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
originator 
nntp posting host qualcom . qualcomm . com . 
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 14 

(david sternlight ) writes 
the proposal could be modified so that if they get a court order to tap you 
and do n't charge you with a crime within , say , 90 days , they have to buy you 
a new phone. 
if they do charge you , and you are found innocent , they have to buy you a 
new phone. 
) 

yeah , right , and if the atf your place on a bad tip they have 
to pay to repair it , sure. and if your computer equipment is 
in a raid they have to charge you with a crime within , 
say , 90 days. you 're stretching the naivete bit on this one. 

love two minds without a single thought. philip barry 

from oldenburg . de . (peter bruells ) 
subject re clipper crap 
organization university of oldenburg , germany 
lines 22 
in reply to 's message of wed , 28 apr 1993 04 30 27 gmt 



on wed , 28 apr 1993 04 30 27 gmt ,  ( karl kluge ) said 

kk  ( shaun p. hughes ) writes 

kk newsgroups sci.crypt 
kk from  ( shaun p. hughes ) 
kk date sat , 17 apr 1993 07 18 59 gmt 


 .  .  . 

kk just a random passing thought , but can anyone cite a documented use 
kk of encryption technology by criminals and terrorists .  . 
kk  ( excluding the iran contra gang ) 

kk sure , the rum runners in prohibition .  . see kahn 's the codebreakers . 
kk the irony was , they were using better codes and key security than 
kk most governments were. 

and castro che guerra they used one time pads , i think. it was in an scientific american article about quantum cryptography .  . 

from kl . de .  ( stephan neuhaus  ( hiwi mattern ) 
subject re clipper crap 
nntp posting host vier . informatik . uni . kl . de . 
organization university of kaiserslautern , germany 
lines 19 

 ( karl kluge ) writes 

in article  ( shaun p. hughes ) writes 

just a random passing thought , but can anyone cite a documented use 
of encryption technology by criminals and terrorists .  . 
 ( excluding the iran contra gang ) 

just a couple of days ago , i heard on the radio news that a neo nazi 
organization had set up a bbs to keep its members informed .  . according 
to the radio man , the nazis were using encryption to reduce their risk 
if they were prosecuted .  . no , i do not have any more information. 

have fun. 


stephan kl . de . 
sig closed for inventory .  . please leave your pickaxe outside. 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. note the expiration date. 

nntp posting host ifi . uio . no . 
from jon 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate 
acceptance of the wiretap chip) 
in reply to (david sternlight ) 's message of thu , 22 apr 
1993 17 59 12 gmt 
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway 


lines 49 
originator 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 

in article  ( ag russell ) 
writes 


at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was des encryped 
and the person that had sent it , went on vaction .  . rather than wait two weeks 
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only took  ( two(2 ) 
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des .  . 


taking this at face value  ( though it seems quite dissonant with much else 
that has been published here about brute force des cracking , unless russell 
was lucky with respect to the key) , i 'd be very interested in whether the 
program russell used is available in whether he used a cleartext 
recognition algorithm in the program or whether he had to examine each 
decryption by hand in whether he used a known plaintext attack 

he probably should also tell us , given his address , what machine he used a 
desktop , workstation , or super computer. 

depending on his answer , this could be an appalling development calling into 
question both des and rsa des .  . dunno about rsa idea. 

if any bright programmer with a little idle machine time can crack a single 
des message in a couple of days  ( assuming no tricks that are 
message specific ) , then here 's my clipper key , nsa give me the chip at 
once. ) 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



a person i know , belonging to a research lab of a 
company , claimed to me during a conversation that , given the 
equipment in his lab , he could crack a kerberos ticket in 15 minutes to 
an hour. he had access to rather powerful des hardware , but not of an 
kind , i believe. the attack was possible because of the 
amount of known plaintext in the ticket , which itself constitutes a small 
message. this was two years ago. 
des is no longer usable for encryption of really sensitive data. for a 
lot of purposes , however , it is still very adequate .  . 

jon , norwegian computing centre , oslo , norway 
e mail or 

from  ( greg rose ) 
subject authentication and one time pads  ( was re advanced one time pad ) 
summary presents one time pad based mac 
organization australian computing and communications institute 
lines 93 

in article (bryan olson cmsc  ( g ) writes 
the one time pad ideal security , but has a well known flaw in 
authentication .  . suppose you use a random bit stream as the pad , and 
exclusive or as the encryption operation. if an adversary knows the 
plaintext of a message , he can change it into any other message. 
here 's how it works. 

alice is sending bob a plaintext p , under a key stream s 
alice computes the ciphertext c s xor p , and sends it to bob .  . 

eve knows the p , but wants the message to appear as  . 
eve intercepts c , and computes c' c xor p xor p  s xor  . 
eve sends c' to bob .  . 

bob decrypts c' by computing c xor s p  , thus receiving the 
false message which was substituted by eve .  . 

firstly , an aside 

i agree that the weakness exists , but i have a lot of trouble 
believing that it represents a difficulty in real life. given 

1. the purpose of the one time pad is to give unbreakable security , 
and the expense of key distribution etc. , imply that the clients 
really do want that level of security 

2. these same people want to keep p a secret 

i find it hard to believe that eve might happen to have a copy of p 
lying around. 

(i am aware that the same argument applies to eve knowing even a small 
part of the message , but eve must know exactly where (which bytes) in 
c her known starts , or the result will be garbled .  . i find 
this at least as surprising . ) . 

back to the question 

if i had the resources to use a one time pad for such transmissions , i 
would also append a message authentication code to the message , using up 
the next bits of the one time pad as the key perhaps. your original 
question basically asked whether there was any way to authenticate the 
message with the same degree of security as the pad itself provided , 
and i do n't know the answer. however , i would propose the following 
for discussion. 

alice and bob have an arbitrary number of secret , random bits to 
share , which eve does n't know. she finds them out (effectively) by 
knowing some p and the corresponding c. it is the fact that they 
correspond that causes the problem. if a message authentication code was to 
be created using some one time pad operation such that eve could not 
know which parts of the mac were affected by which parts of the input , 
she would be unable to forge a mac to correspond .  . 

what is required is a non linear of parts of the message. 
 ( non linear so that simply or subtracting or whatever does n't 
have exactly the same effect) .  . 

now , at the end of the encrypted message c , alice a n bit mac 
computed as follows  ( s2 means the next full chunk of the one time pad ) 
1. compute c2 p xor s2 , and pad to an n bit boundary with more of s 
2. break c2 into n bit chunks 
3. set mac to 0  ( initialisation vector ) 
4. for i in each chunk sequentially 
set mac mac c2 i 

at the end of this process mac is the message authentication code. 

 ( bob verifies the mac in the obvious manner he the 
plaintext p , then uses some more of his pad to reproduce the mac in 
the same manner . ) . 

is the non linear operator , and there is the rub .  . the simplest 
non linear operator i can think of is an s box that is , have a fixed 
 ( even published ) permutation of the n bit integers , an table 
called , and use 
x y x xor y . 

practically speaking , i think this solves your problem , as eve never 
sees the intermediate output c2 , and hence ca n't deduce s2 or perform any valid 
substitution on it. 

also practically speaking , you want the mac to be fairly large , say 32 
bits , but you might not want a 4 gigabyte  ( say ) s box , so you might 
work on 4 byte sized s boxes , but i think that is an irrelevant detail 
for the discussion at hand. 

who will be first to point out my errors , or give me a pointer to some 
literature 

greg rose australian computing and communications institute 
61 18 174 842 
of the standard phrase hijacked may be  caa 

from (the hermit ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
organization university of california , santa cruz 
lines 29 
distribution 
nntp posting host ws 2 . ucsc . edu . 


in  ( nathaniel sammons ) writes 

in article a. charles gross writes 
certainly , with our way cool internet powers of 
organization , we can act in the same way , if such action is appropriate. 

as long as we are kept informed of events , anyone on this bboard can make 
a call to action. hopefully , we 're a strong enough community to act on 
those calls. i realize this is a little optomistic , and i'm glad eff is 
working in the loop on these issues , but do n't underestimate the 
potential of the net for political action. 

adam 
i speak for myself 

i second the motion. 

all in favor 

sounds great. but how would something like this be done start up a 
news group for discussions of things like lobbying and how to 
get non computer geeks as pissed off as we are 


matthew cline read in the letters to the editor of time 
in response to an article on teen suicide people 
should be aware of the dangers of killing themselves 


from  ( rens troost ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
reply to  ( rens troost ) 
distribution na 
organization investment management services , inc. 
lines 65 
in reply to 's message of 22 apr 93 13 42 14 gmt 

in article  ( jerry han ) writes 

in this giant bally ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather 
disturbing trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've tossing back and 
forth. 

me too. a tendency on the part of some people to hide their head in 
the sand. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot 
in a new civil war 

how many people do you want jailed for their convictions , for their 
insistence on real privacy why sit by quietly while the preconditions 
for a real civil war are put in place by a short sighted government. 

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried 
that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens 
and paper. 

the terminal is mightier than the pen ) 

can people work within the system before trying to break it examine your 
history books , and find out how many armed revolutions led to democratic 
 ( or democratic style) governments .  . i think you 'll only find one in over 
five thousand years of written history. 

really i guess you mean the u.s. revolution .  . how about england , 
india , mexico , france , holland .  .  .  .  . 

that 's not very good odds .  . 

you are misinformed .  . but this whole issue is off the topic. 

somebody once said something like armed violence is meant only to be 
used in response to an armed attack. it is not meant to be used in 
agression .  . this is the difference between self defence and murder .  . 

when the cops kick in your door for using pgp , tell them that. all 
we 're doing here is exercising our (so called , rapidly narrowing ) 
right to free speech. 

i'm probably overreacting .  . but what i 've read scared me a lot. i do n't 
want my children growing up in a war zone. 

perhaps you should talk to the government about that. or are you a 
disciple of david the cops are our friends sternlight 

the implied threat of the of private crypto , the 
not so subtle subtext of the clipper announcement , is what worries me. 
i do n't want my children growing up in a police state. 



disclaimer all opinions herein are mine and mine alone , and do not 
necessarily represent those of any organization with 
which i may be affiliated .  . 

o o 
j. unix systems at work 
investment management svcs , inc. at play 
12 east 49th street , 35th floor phone (212) 339 
new york , new york fax (212) 444 1980 
o o 
ims is unlikely to share any of the above opinions 

from (robert silvers ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
organization nynex science and technology 
lines 16 

in article  ( nathaniel sammons ) writes 
1) i think that most of us can afford a stamp and an envelope , and the 
cost of printing out a letter. 

2) if some kind soul out there would write a letter , and upload it to 
the net , everyone could capture it , print it out , and snail mail it 
out to their local congressional critter .  . 

btw i'm working on one. 

send something to rush about clinton taking away our right 
to privacy and how if the govt. standard takes off , only people with lots 
of money  ( drug dealers ) will be able to justify des stuff. he will slam 
clinton for this on the air. 
rob .  . 


from (patrick j. lopresti ) 
subject re s1 , s2 
organization of technology 
lines 32 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 
in reply to steve 's message of 22 apr 1993 07 52 46 0400 


in article , 
steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 

second question why ! ! why is such a strange procedure used , and 
not a real rng this turns those s1 , s2 in a kind of bottleneck for 
system security. 

the only theory that makes any sense is that s1 and s2 are 
either the same for all chips , or vary among very few 
possibilities , so that anyone trying to break the encryption 
by brute force need only plow through the possible serial 
numbers (2 30 , about one billion ) , multiplied by the number 
of different s1 , s2 combinations .  . 


suppose instead that s1 and s2 can be reconstructed given 3 or 4 of the 
unit keys generated in a single batch  ( through some sort of known 
plaintext attack , say) .  . suppose further that 3 or 4 of the chips 
programmed in each session never find their way into commercial 
products , but instead end up elsewhere . 

suppose the folks at elsewhere can determine a unit key , given 
physical access to one of these chips. then those same folks can 
determine s1 and s2 for the whole batch .  .  .  . 

too many suppositions yeah , probably. 

pat 




from (edward reid ) 
subject re once tapped , please restrict your followups 
organization accuracy , ltd. 
reply to (edward reid ) 
distribution na 
x mailer macintosh release 1 . 
lines 6 

however valuable , this discussion does not belong on comp . org . acm . or on 
comp . org . ieee .  . please edit your followups to include only the appropriate 
newsgroups .  . 


edward reid greensboro fl or nosc ! ! ed 
 ( looking for programming contracts , especially unisys a series) 

from (james . a . 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization at t 
lines 14 

in article  ( amanda walker ) writes 
compuserve is in columbus , oh. so are the corporate headquarters of several 
major insurance companies , the largest private r d company in the world 
 ( batelle memorial institute) , (the defense construction supply 
center) , ohio state university  ( one of the three largest us universities) , 
(the online college library center) , and so on. you 'd be amazed , 
actually. 

do n't forget chemical abstracts service (which is pretty much the international 
clearinghouse for all chemical information) , whose former director (ronald 
wigington ) and head of r d  ( nick farmer ) were openly former nsa employees .  . 

james parker 


from  ( ross anderson ) 
subject re key registering bodies 
nntp posting host ely . cl . cam . ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk 
lines 25 

in article a , a 
 ( arthur rubin ) writes 

in (john nagle ) writes 

since the law requires that wiretaps be requested by the executive 
branch and approved by the judicial branch , it seems clear that one 
of the key registering bodies should be under the control of the 
judicial branch .  . i suggest the supreme court , or , , the 
courts of appeal. more specifically , the offices of their clerks .  . 

now that makes sense. but the other half must be in a non government 
escrow .  . 

good idea , but why put all the eggs in one basket 

given that the escrow keys are generated 200 at a time on floppy disks , why 
not keep them there rather than creating one huge database that will have to 
be guarded better than fort knox .  . 

give each floppy to a different bank for safekeeping .  . the usa has over 10 , 000 
banks and there are not likely to be more than 2 , 000 , 000 clipper 
phones sold. 

ross 

from (john f carr ) 
subject re clipper chip 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 22 
nntp posting host achates . mit . edu . 

in article 
 ( philippe hoogvorst ) writes 

forbidding communication is impractical how is it possible to spot 
a communication in the thousands of megabytes of data which circulate 
on the various existing networks .  . what about private networks 

i suspect the government feels it is enough to prevent companies from 
offering secure encryption services. big companies do n't take that 
kind of risk. they 're too visible and have too much to lose. 

the us government may not have to make encryption illegal to prevent its 
use. if they could credibly say to ibm or mit you will receive no us 
government money next year unless you follow these voluntary guidelines on 
use of encryption , i doubt either organization would delay making use of 
encryption a violation of local policies .  . the us government gets much of 
its power by making it impractical to operate without getting money from the 
government while putting restrictions on use of such money that would be 
illegal if they were enacted as laws .  . 


john carr 

from  ( neil calkin ) 
subject re political point of attack clipper infrastructure 
article i.d. 


organization home math  . organization . 
lines 22 
nntp posting host gatech . edu . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 21 39 44 gmt 

in article  ( carl m kadie ) writes 
(david sternlight ) writes 

... 
the attorney general publishes the number of court ordered taps each year. 
... 

i believe you are mistaken .  . i do n't believe the ag publishes the 
number of state wiretaps .  . 

carl 


carl kadie i do not represent any organization this is just me. 


hmmm .  .  .  .  . now if we could have 3 keys kept in escrow , with one of the 
groups keeping a key being the government , then the states would need 
federal permission to run a wiretap .  .  .  .  . interesting possibility ) 


neil 

from  ( martin j hannigan ) 
subject re new encryption 
organization twisted pair consulting , boston , ma .  . 
lines 25 

in article lyle writes 
 ( martin j hannigan ) writes 
hello. i am the david sternlight keeper of the faq .  . unfortuantely i cannot 
find it at the present time. 

cool it , will you let people form their own opinions. 
even mr. sternlight might be right sometime , and you guys 
are setting things up so that the only way he can regain 
any credibility is to renounce his previous statements and 
move towards the mainstream of net . opinion .  . this does not 
tolerance , imo. 

c ) david sternlight 
, net . police . 

indeed .  .  .  . 

lyle 707 grant street 
412 338 4474 the gulf tower pittsburgh 15219 


hopefully , he doesnt take it personal .  .  .  . 

martin twisted pair consulting 617 623 
mac ibm pc mainframe unix 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject is this overreaction 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
distribution na 
lines 29 

 ( jerry han ) writes 
as one of the happily sleeping people , i would just like to ask this 
are n't people just slightly overreacting to this or are we all of a 
sudden going to draw parallels to nazi germany and communist russia 

the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is 
not the end of the world. guess what we 're doing something now you 
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany .  . we 're complaining about 
it ,  ( or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us. 

we would like to keep it that way. thats the point. by reacting 
strongly and forcefully now , we will assure that we continue to remain 
free. you cannot overreact to a threat like this. the worst that 
happens if we overreact is that we waste time and effort. the worst that 
happens if we is tyranny .  . i prefer overreaction myself. 

guess what people you live in one of the few countries in the world 
where a person can complain without getting shot at. 

does n't that tell you how precious and hard to maintain freedom is 

only through centuries of overreaction have we managed to maintain 
ourselves in this state of even moderate freedom .  . i suggest that 
overreacting now and in the future is a good thing. 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( glenn s. tenney ) 
subject re help ! some nut is threatening to sue ! 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 44 

i do n't wish to rehash the pgp patent issue at all , but i do feel 
that some potential misconceptions in intellectual property 
laws need to be raised .  . 

in article a a  ( arthur rubin ) writes 

if pgp violates patents , then only executing pgp could be a violation .  . 
distributing pgp could be infringement , but the pgp 
documentation seemed sufficient to me to protect distributors  ( before i 
deleted it using pgp might be a patent violation in the us , so i have no 
need to keep it . ) . 

you are correct that executing pgp would be a violation  ( unless the patent 
were declared invalid by the courts ) , but .  .  .  . there is a question as 
to when , how , or if distributing pgp would be a violation .  . if the person 
or company distributing pgp receives money for doing so , then it is 
clearly a sale  ( for example , if it were on compuserve , they charge you 
for access so they would be selling  . when there is no charge for 
pgp things get less clear , but there would still be a reasonable view 
that it is inducing an infringement .  . 

... nb re jim bidzos 
you have no legal action you can take , unless you believe you can prove 
someone is using pgp in the us , for a purpose other than that specifically 
allowed by patent laws .  . (not entirely correct , anyone can sue for any 
reason , but , you cannot prevail unless you can prove that by a 
of evidence) .  . under patent laws , pgp does have legitimate uses , as a means 
to study your algorithm , in order to produce improvements (which would 
still require your approval to execute , until the patent runs out around 
 . 

this is a common misconception .  . the patent laws do not mention any valid 
purpose for infringing a patent .  . although it is clear that in order to 
create a new invention either based on a prior patent or to avoid infringing 
a prior patent , one must perform research on an existing patent .  . to 
just say that you infringed a patent  ( assume we 're not talking the rsa 
patent ) only for research purposes  ( wink wink , nudge ) and then never 
develop any related invention (ie .  . only use it) , would be a clear 
infringement .  . 


glenn 
voice (415) 574 fax (415) 574 
ham radio 

from  ( wes morgan ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
organization university of kentucky engineering computing center 
lines 61 

 ( nathaniel sammons ) wrote 
2) if some kind soul out there would write a letter , and upload it to 
the net , everyone could capture it , print it out , and snail mail it 
out to their local congressional critter .  . 

btw i'm working on one. 

you should realize that form letters are the worst way to influence 
your congresscritters exact copies are routinely placed on the lowest 
of the opinion ladder .  . 

if you want to write  ( and i think you should ! ) , take the time to really 
write a letter. things to emphasize 

it 's been said that usenet is available to the  technical 
elite  , i.e. the techies at corporate sites and 
ties .  . emphasize that you are part of the group that will 
be making developing using clinton 's  data superhighway . ' . 

explain how you are intimately familiar with both computing 
and data communications .  .  ( if this is the case do n't call your 
self an  expert  after wiring in a 1200 bps modem . ) . this 
will distinguish your letter from the random flamers .  . do n't 
turn it into braggadocio just tell them that you know the 
technical sides of the issue. 

do n't overdo jargon and  . remember , your letter 
will be first read  ( in all likelihood ) by a staffer who may 
even be a college student if they do n't understand it , your 
views wo n't even make the  running total  sheets. 

be concise do n't ramble .  . rants are definitely out of place. 
cite references , if necessary , but only use accepted references 
like academic journals .  . my neighbor jim is not a real refer 
 . 8) 

unfortunately , very few congresscritters really understand 
electronic communications .  . encourage them to pick up access 
to compuserve , america online , or one of the free nets .  . offer 
to send them samples .  . if you are in a position to do so , offer 
them  ( or their staffers back in the home state) access to your 
systems. offer to give a demonstration the next time they 're in 
town. your offer to get personally involved in helping them 
will give your opinions more credence .  . 

in addition to sending mail to your representatives , send mail 
to the members of the committee  ( or subcommittee ) that is dealing 
with the issue. if your is n't on the committee , 
they ca n't be of much help until the matter comes to the floor. 

wes 

ps i 'd suggest drawing analogies between digital communication and the 
more traditional media , but usenet does n't have a decent track record 
in the analogy department. 8) 


rachel elizabeth morgan 4 13 93 , 7 00 am oh yeah , i can be reached as 
9 pounds 4 ounces  ( despite coming 3 weeks early ) 

to netters who gave constant encouragement and prayer thanks for everything ! 

from  ( forrest d whitcher ) 
subject summary responses research on oracle password security 
summary oracle password encryption , security 
keywords oracle rdbms os 2 unix network password des 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 68 

my original post was 

i am building an oracle v6 database to serve as a repository for 
information which is considered proprietary or confidential .  . as such 
i want to verify the security of oracle passwords and apply some of 
the same security checking techniques we use on our nix systems. 
specifically i would like to use crack , or something like it to check 
the encrypted data for easily guessed passwords .  . 

the use of  crack  would depend on oracle using the unix password 
encryption scheme , does anyone know if this is the case , or what 
method is used 

any other methods for security checking audit in the oracle 
environment would be much appreciated. 

this article will just scratch the surface of a few security 
considerations , comments are requested .  .  ( email 
my thanks to the people who responded , both on usenet and from 
oracle corp. 

the most common response was to suggest use of oracle audit 
features or ops passwords to control access  ( opinion on ops 
included suggestions to use and not use) .  . i was also advised to 
use table views to the of access control. 

one important security consideration in networked installations 
is that ops accounts presume that the client host provides user 
authentication .  . os 2 server ops users are only as secure as the 
least secure machine on the network. hence you should probably 
not define any ops accounts on systems with pc 's , or limit access 
of ops accounts to data with no security concerns .  . unix oracle 
servers provide for disabling ops access over the network  ( orasrv 
option) , while relying on host security for local processes .  . 

internally oracle provides powerful and well documented  ( sic ) 
audit mechanisms which the dba will use to monitor system and 
data access. these tools can be used to track the primary security 
risks from within the oracle environment. 

oracle password security is based on a proprietary usage of des 
encryption .  . oracle corp. states that the algorithm is not prone 
to cleartext attack. this is a difficult claim to substantiate 
since the algorithm is unknown. the concern here is that if users 
choose easily guessed passwords .  . if a cracker can gain access 
to your oracle database files through the host operating system , 
s he could extract the  cyphertext  password data and apply 
cryptanalysis techniques to learn the users passwords .  . 

as security risks go , the above scenario is pretty low severity .  . 
certainly once an intruder has access to the raw database files , 
s he can access to the data in them. if a cracker could break 
the passwords , however , s he could do substantial damage without 
the mechanism 's , and leaving and audit trail 
which would point to valid users. at present oracle  ( like unix) 
provides no native means of ensuring that passwords are not 
 . 

as with all computer security , the most important defense is to 
educate users in the safe choice of passwords .  . these techniques 
are well discussed in internet rfc 1281 and the crack manual , 
 ( both available from ftp archive servers ) and ,  ( unix(r ) system 
security  ( curry , david a. addison 1992) 



forrest 
boston scientific corp. watertown ma 

from  ( steve gardner ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method 
nntp posting host imagine . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 20 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
in article  ( carl m. kadie ) writes 


so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front 
ends. 

this only makes sense if the government prohibits alternative non escrowed 
encryption schemes .  . otherwise , why not just use the front end without 
clipper 
because everyone but you expects that making alternative methods of 
encryption illegal is the next step. otherwise the cripple chip is 
utterly worthless .  . it should be obvious that 
a) the cripple chip is aimed at spying on ordinary citizens 
or 
b) that other forms of encryption will soon be illegal .  . 

smg 



from  ( eric weaver) 
subject citations for electronic cash papers please 
organization sony advanced video technology center san jose , ca usa 
lines 6 


deeply grateful for citations to any papers on electronic cash schemes .  . 
minds c .  .  .  . 

eric weaver sony 677 river oaks pkwy , ms 35 sj ca 95134 408 944 
chief engineer , 89 . 7 . college , los hills ca 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re hearing on 29 april 1993 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 143 

in article  ( theodore m.p. lee ) writes 
in article glenn s. , 
writes 
of interest. i understand that on 29 april , mr. markey will be holding 
a 
hearing on the questions raised in this letter. there may also be a 
follow on 
hearing dedicated to the clipper chip , but that 's not definite .  . 

glenn , 

thanks for posting that. i was surprised to notice , however , that one 
question i might have expected to be asked was not are all forms of 
strong encryption other than the clipper to be made illegal speaking 
of which , is anyone aware of whether that question has been asked of 
any knowledgeable or official spokesperson for the government i have 
not yet seen it mentioned in any of a dozen places it might have been 
reported , but i could have easily missed it. 

please let us know if you get a solid answer to the question of legality 
of other strong cryptosystems .  . so far any references i have seen 
have been weasel words ( more plans in the future , etc ) , but nothing 
that could be taken as a no  ( strong crypto will not be outlawed ) . i 
have heard (not verified ) that the crime bill before congress has 
language that either requires escrow of keys , or that will regard 
all systems  unapproved  for public use , like strong cryptosystems 
not trivially broken by the govt , or without escrowed keys 
which one cannot readily change  ( read use being only permitted by 
folks with  special  connections , or government agencies ) as either 
 terrorist tools' or  drug dealers tools' .  . not outlawed specifically 
but by added civil forfeiture powers , and clever wording , effectively 
outlawed for all intents and purposes. 

now , for some idle speculation ... for those who do n't care , hit 'n' now. 

crypto being effectively outlawed could be done without specifically 
outlawing any class of crypto systems. for example , a crowbar , hammers , 
screwdrivers , and such can be regarded as  tools' pretty much 
at the whim of the authorities , based primarily on the individual 
possessing them in the car , etc. not being in a trade that makes routine 
use of these tools. in a like manner , one who has no  legitimate need  
 ( gov't definition) for strong crypto software or systems , and is caught 
using them , might find themselves in possession of  terrorist tools' .  . 
in other words , if one is not working for a corporation with extremely 
sensitive commercial data that warrants  ( in the fed 's opinion) strong 
security , or a government agency , and securing only work related data , 
not personal data , one will most likely be nailed on this if discoverd .  . 
a personal desire for  privacy  most certainly will not be regarded as 
a  legitimate need  
why do you want such strong security , especially from  legitimate law 
enforcement  an individual with  legitimate  endeavors would not be so 
concerned government is not in the business of revealing your personal 
secrets to the public .  .  .  . so you must be trying to conceal or planning 
to conceal some unlawful or criminal activity .  .  .  . do you have something 
to hide , hmmmm 
i expect that initially there will be some people selected either at 
random , or who happen to have been  troublemakers  for the purposes of 
 making an example  for those who think the feds are not serious about 
this .  .  .  .  ( mega ' ( 's) 

one asking about a 'right' to privacy will probably get a response that 
there is no constitutional right for privacy spelled out as such  ( an 
argument used in the abortion debate ) you do not have a right to have 
security that  legitimate law enforcement cannot break   ( as suggested 
in the clipper press release) .  . 

this , in a nutshell , is what i find so extremely frightening .  . not only 
for crypto systems , as in this case , but for the precident it will set , 
laying the groundwork for future of privacy  ( escrow of both 
safe deposit box keys  master  keys or combinations for privately 
owned safes , and so on. why not ) .  .  .  . 

i cannot think of a better way to make an  end run  around those 
 inconvenient  parts of the us constitution .  . a law cannot be easily 
declared unconstitutional , if it there is no specific law. it would 
simply be a minor extension of the rico statutes or wod policies .  . a 
simple policy decision , just like so many of the gun regulations are 
mainly batf policy decisions .  .  .  . the conversation of the fed agents 
would go something like 

we are gonna seize your home , your computers , your car , your bank 
account ,  ( you do n't have to undress and give us yer clothes , unless you 
have a floppy in yer pocket ) because they are all connected with your 
acquisition , transport , and use of  terrorist tools' and or  drug dealers 
tools' part of the wod or against terrorism , ya  .  .  . no 
decent american subject would be against these noble causes .  .  .  . . 

note we are not accusing you of any wrong doing ... we are only saying 
your home , computers , car , bank assets are connected with wrong doing 
somehow they housed , transported , and funded these  terrorist tools' .  . 
only a civil matter ... heh heh ... we had this  .  .  . grin . 

therefore , the constitutional protection on individual rights do not 
apply we are  arresting  the tainted property .  .  .  . not you .  .  .  . evil grin . 

if you wish to deposit a bond , hire some attorneys , and go to court to 
prove the innocence of this property  ( that they are not  terrorist tools' 
and again to prove they are not also  drug dealers tools' ) , go ahead , 
we have no problem with that !  course , with your bank assets seized , 
no car , computer , or home ,  ( probably no job , too) and your 
less than limitless resources , you might run into some minor practical 
difficulties grin ... . 

that is what has me going so damned ballistic .  .  .  . it is exactly how 
the logic goes when someone gives a  tip  that your home has been 
used to store drugs .  .  .  . note no trace of drugs need to be found on 
the property .  .  .  . only some bozo who will say  . i stored stuff in 
that dude 's house .  .  . ' .  ( probably to get out of a 10 year sentence for 
 . much more cost effective to let him walk , to bust another 
day , and hit the with your assets .  .  .  . 

ob disclaimer  ( of course) .  .  .  . 

ok , note that i am not a lawyer , and can only base these speculations 
on what i have read heard been told regarding past civil forfeiture 
cases , and how they are used to augment the budgets of assorted agencies , 
or to get  cooperation  of folks who just want to be left alone , or who 
do not wish to be put in a risky situation  ( especially in areas where 
they are denied either meaningful police protection , and the means to be 
able to even pretend to defend themselves , as is quite common back east , 
like nj , ma , nyc , wa dc , or out west in  . these people have the 
choice of under the government boot , or under threats 
of pissed off drug dealing gang bangers .  .  .  . helpless in either case .  .  .  . 
all behind some dude who drops a dime on you for his gain , or behind 
the feds wanting to  make an  .  .  . civil forfeiture being the  . 

point is , are these speculations way out of line , or are they all too 
typical , and if so , does the extension to crypto and just about anything 
that the feds regard as  inconvenient  seem reasonable and if not 
why not  ( what are our guarantees , besides the government promises ) 

none 

ted lee 
trusted information system , inc. 
po box 
, mn 


without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization dsi 
lines 25 

in article 
(peter gutmann ) writes 


something similar has happened to me ages ago when we were working on pgp 
we used to send short messages about development issues or simply to test 
new features around. now at this time pgp  ( and certainly the newer version) 
was unknown over here. suddenly the admin at the site i was using received 
a request that i stop sending encrypted email. now there is almost no way 
that some automatic scanner could have found this , since they would n't have 
known about pgp they must have checked for unknown data types in the 
message , tried to it , found they could n't get past the pem 
armour part , and then contacted the sysadmin and asked me to stop. luckily 
the current email carriers are less picky about what goes over their 
networks ) .  . 

is the sending of encrypted traffic without government permission legal in 
new zealand 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from theodore m.p. lee 
subject re hearing on 29 april 1993 
x id 52 . mr . net . 
x sun , 25 apr 93 05 02 21 gmt 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d20 . 
lines 22 

in article glenn s. , 
writes 
of interest. i understand that on 29 april , mr. markey will be holding 
a 
hearing on the questions raised in this letter. there may also be a 
follow on 
hearing dedicated to the clipper chip , but that 's not definite .  . 

glenn , 

thanks for posting that. i was surprised to notice , however , that one 
question i might have expected to be asked was not are all forms of 
strong encryption other than the clipper to be made illegal speaking 
of which , is anyone aware of whether that question has been asked of 
any knowledgeable or official spokesperson for the government i have 
not yet seen it mentioned in any of a dozen places it might have been 
reported , but i could have easily missed it. 

ted lee 
trusted information system , inc. 
po box 
, mn 

from (steven bellovin ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 
in article (peter gutmann ) writes 
article deleted 

just doing a quick reality check here is this for real or did someone 
invent it to provoke a reaction from people it sounds more like the 
sort of thing you 'd have heard , suitably rephrased , from the leader of a 
certain german political party in the 1930 's .  .  .  .  . 

it sounds like a joke  ( but then the war on drugs has always been a joke .  .  . ) .  . 

i'm seeking permission to repost the actual note , but someone on another 
mailing list checked the archives on  ( upi and all major newspapers ) , 
and found no mention of that article. 

from (david koontz ) 
subject re new encryption 
organization loral mil spec computers 
lines 50 

from 
the clipper chip a technical summary 

dorothy denning 

revised , april 21 , 1993 

the chips are programmed by mykotronx , inc. , which calls them the 
myk 78 .  . the silicon is supplied by vlsi technology inc. 


all clipper chips are programmed inside a  ( secure compartmented 
information facility ) , which is essentially a vault .  . the contains 
a laptop computer and equipment to program the chips. about 300 chips 
are programmed during a single session. the is located at 
mykotronx .  . 

acknowledgment and distribution notice. this article is based on 
information provided by nsa , nist , fbi , and mykotronx .  . permission to 
distribute this document is granted .  . 

so , who is mykotronx , inc. it would be nice to know that they were 
not a front company used by an intelligence or other agency of the 
u.s. government. trusting the fox to guard the chickens , and all that. 
seems suspicious when the rest of the sources are  . 

while we are at it , the chip  ( design(s ) should be examined and verified 
against silicon to insure no trap doors or hidden protocols exist in silicon , 
regardless of the security level of the encryption algorithm .  . it would be a 
shame if some three letter agency had the ability to interrogate my chip , when 
all i 'd know is that someone rang , and when i attempted to go off hook the 
line went dead. could be even worse if the chip were intended to connect 
directly to a modem .  . 

the design examination should be done to the gate level. does anyone have 
a good idea how to tell if there is a piggyback design on silicon the model 
would be extra logic sharing pins with the advertised function. tip offs 
would be circuitry that would ignore incoming data if formats or sequence 
is not right. i can think of only two ways an output pin could be used , 
and its possible that might be noticed , but could be edited from the netlist .  . 
i think the silicon itself needs to be investigated .  . imagine a design 
done in two layer metalization , yet finding a third layer under the 
microscope .  . 

the government is asking for a lot of blind trust the encryption algorithm , 
operating protocols , the agency having physical control of the devices , the 
silicon implementation .  . i 'd feel like keeping one hand on my wallet. 




from  ( doug bank) 
subject re clipper and conference calls 
reply to 
organization motorola land mobile products sector 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 146 . 35 . 
lines 25 


just curious , how would the clipper chip system handle 
conference calls 

depending on the encryption system , so long as everyone has the same 
key , it can be done. for example , i was using vat , which is an 
internet audio tool , for a conference call , and we were encrypting the 
session. (unfortunately , one site was doing more work , and did n't 
have the cpu for it , so it did n't sound all that good at a different 
site) 

you would have to use something other than the at t black box in other 
words , i do n't think public key would work. the session key would have 
to be agreed upon prior to the conversation and distributed to all 
sites beforehand .  . 

or go out and get a stu iii ) 


doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications sector 
schaumburg , illinois 
708 576 8207 

these opinions do not reflect motorola thinking in any way , shape , or form. 

from  ( russell earl whitaker ) 
subject meeting uk association 
distribution world 
organization institute 
reply to 
x mailer simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 19) . 
lines 89 

begin pgp signed message 

meeting of the uk association 


saturday , 8 may 1993 , 1500 

to be held at the offices of 

forest 
4th floor 
2 gardens 
london 

this is located at the corner of hobart place , a couple of 
blocks west of victoria station , and almost directly across from 
the dark green shelter .  . 

if you have trouble finding the place , please call the office on 
071 823 6550 .  . or , call me  ( russell whitaker ) on my pager , 
081 812 2661 , and leave an informative message with the 
telephone number where you can be reached i will return the 
call almost immediately. 

discussion will range from the usual general topics , such as the 
use of secure public key cryptosystems to protect message data , to 
specific topics , such as recent moves by the u.s. government 
to restrict choice in data privacy  ( reference recent discussion 
on usenet groups , e.g. sci.crypt and alt . security .  . 

all are invited .  . particularly welcome are members of the 
newly formed uk community group ... the local 
eff in spirit if not in name folks. 

those who plan to attend should email me and let me know. 
please. 

all attendees are requested to bring diskettes preferably 
ms dos with their pgp 2. public keys. as is usual at these 
gatherings , several of us will bring our laptops , and will sign 
public keys , subject to the usual caveats  ( reference the 
documentation for pgp 2.2 , specifically files doc . and 
doc) .  . 

if you do not already have a copy of pgp 2.2  ( ms dos) , and would 
like to have a copy of this public domain program , please bring 
a formatted , medium or high density 3.5 inch floppy pc diskette 
you will be provided a copy of the program. 

of course , you might prefer to ftp a version of the program from 
one of the various archive sites. i suggest trying demon 
internet systems , which carries the full range of pgp  ( phil 
zimmerman 's pretty good privacy ) implementations directory 
pub pgp at gate . demon . co . uk .  . 

meetings are of indeterminate time. those who are interested 
are invited to join the rest of us at a 
determined pub afterwards. 

please note 

in the past few months , interested people have emailed me , 
requesting faqs and special information mailings .  . i regret 
that , except in very unusual cases (e . g .  . working press) , i 
cannot , in a timely manner , respond to these requests. i will , 
however and for the first time do a writeup of this meeting , 
which i will post in various places. 

what i am willing to supply is general information on our 
activities for the maintainers of existing faqs , such as that 
for alt . privacy .  . faq maintainers can contact me at 


russell earl whitaker 
communications editor 
the journal of thought 
board member , institute  ( exi ) 
pgp 2.2 public key available 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 






end pgp signature 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject basic crypto requirements 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 20 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 


in order to have formulate a rational position on what cryptography 
policies are acceptable , we must set forth a list of basic requirements. 
i would propose the following as a starting point 

1. the algorithm must be publicly known , and must have a record of 
surviving attempts by outside experts to find weaknesses .  . 

2. the system implementation must make it possible to verify that the 
advertised algorithm is , in fact , the one that is being used. 

3. the key must be quickly changeable by the user , and must be of a 
sufficient length and complexity to defeat any brute force search 
possible now or in the reasonably near future. 

note that these requirements are not incompatible with some form of key 
escrow system the may 1993 issue of byte describes an example of an 
encryption system which can clearly be implemented in a manner consistent 
with the above requirements while requiring that parts of the key be 
escrowed in order to have one 's public key listed by a central distributor .  . 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
distribution na 
lines 22 

 ( jerry han ) writes 
in article  ( rens 
troost ) writes 

in this giant bally ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather 
disturbing trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've tossing back and 
forth. 

me too. a tendency on the part of some people to hide their head in 
the sand. 

i never advocated hiding in the sand. i'm advocating a peaceful 
solution while a peaceful solution is possible. unless you want blood on 
your hands. 

no one has mentioned violence other than you , mr. han .  . i believe you 
are things. 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( karl denninger ) 
subject government intentions regarding 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 16 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host localhost . mcs . com . 

there is an article in communications week  ( april 12 's issue) which 
states definitively that not only is the justice department trying to revive 
the wiretapping bill , but they are also trying to find a way to force key 
registration .  . clipper is an obvious thrust in exactly this direction. 
dorothy dennings is quoted in this  . 

communications week , april 12th , page 8. read it and get peeved folks. 
then act now or lose your fundamental right to privacy .  . 

clinton has shown us that his only interest in this has to do with abortion , 
and not the right of all citizens to be secure in their papers and effects. 


karl denninger you can never please everyone except 
data line 1 312 248 0900 by bankrupting yourself. 
live internet in chicago an first ! 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re clipper crap 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 39 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article  ( karl kluge ) writes 
in article  ( shaun p. hughes ) writes 
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the 
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield 
criminals and terrorists .  . we need the clipper chip and other 

just a random passing thought , but can anyone cite a documented use 
of encryption technology by criminals and terrorists .  . 
 ( excluding the iran contra gang ) 

sure , the rum runners in prohibition .  . see kahn 's the codebreakers . 
the irony was , they were using better codes and key security than 
most governments were. 

yes great chapter. elizabeth friedman (sp ) comes shining through. 

however , the chapter also notes that these rum runners invented their own 
crypto hired ex military folks , in fact.  ( how 's that for a revolving 
door ) 

now , given that today 's rum runners  ( coke runners , actually) have even more 
money than yesterday 's , it 's reasonable to expect them to have even better 
cryptography .  . i doubt they have a chip foundry of their own yet , but .... 

so , my question of the fbi nist nsa is how are you going to make the rum 
runners use the clipper chip 

answer you 're not. 

question ok in that case , your justification for taking away our 
rights has evaporated .  . how do you justify our loss of rights 
if you ca n't use the drug dealers and terrorists 



disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from  ( glenn s. tenney ) 
subject hearing on 29 april 1993 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 105 

i received a fax of a letter from representative markey  ( subcommittee on 
telecommunications and finance ) to ron brown  ( secretary of  . since 
encryption and the clipper chip are raised in this letter , i felt it would be 
of interest. i understand that on 29 april , mr. markey will be holding a 
hearing on the questions raised in this letter. there may also be a follow on 
hearing dedicated to the clipper chip , but that 's not definite .  . 

i 've typed in the letter , which follows .  . any errors in transcription are 
mine .  .  .  . 


glenn 
amateur radio 
voice (415) 574 fax (415) 574 

letter of interest follows 

april 19 , 1993 

the honorable ronald h. brown 
secretary 
department of commerce 
14th and pennsylvania ave. , nw 
washington , dc 

dear secretary brown 

as you know , i have long been interested in the privacy 
and security of telecommunications transmissions and data in 
a networked environment. recent reports concerning the 
administration 's endorsement of an electronic encryption 
standard , based upon clipper chip technology , have raised a 
number of related issues. the international competitiveness 
of u.s. high tech manufacturers and the software industry is 
a key factor that the government should consider when 
addressing issues of encryption and data security. as the 
nation moves forward in developing the national 
communications and information infrastructure , security of 
telecommunications transmissions and network data will be an 
increasingly important factor for protecting the privacy of 
users. 

the hacker community can compromise the integrity of 
telecommunications transmissions and databases linked by the 
network. the people and businesses that use the nation 's 
telecommunications network and the personal computers linked 
through it increasingly are demanding that information be 
protected against unauthorized access , alteration , and theft .  . 

i am concerned that the administration 's plan may mean 
that to remain competitive internationally , u.s. companies 
would be compelled to develop two products one for u.s. 
government customers , and another for private , commercial 
users who may want a higher encryption standard. this may 
inadvertently increase costs to those u.s. companies hoping 
to serve both markets .  . to assist the subcommittee 's analysis 
of this issue , please respond to the following questions 

1. has the encryption algorithm or standard endorsed by the 
administration been tested by any entity other than nsa , nist 
or the vendor if so , please identify such entities and the 
nature of testing performed .  . if not , please describe any 
plans to have the algorithm tested by outside experts and how 
such experts will be chosen .  . 

2. under the administration 's plan , what entities will be the 
holders of the keys to decrypt scrambled data what 
procedures or criteria will the administration utilize to 
designate such key holders 

3. does the encryption algorithm endorsed by the 
administration contain a trap door or back door , which 
could allow an agency or entity of the federal government to 
crack the code 

4. it is clear that over time , changes in technologies used 
for communications will require new techniques and additional 
equipment. how will encryption devices adapt to the rapid 
advancement of telecommunications technology 

5. what additional costs would the proposed encryption place 
on the federal government what is the estimated cost to 
consumers and businesses which opt for the federal standard 
in their equipment 

6. what is the commerce department 's assessment of the 
competitive impact of the administration 's endorsement of the 
clipper chip technology on u.s. exports of computer and 
telecommunications hardware and software products 

i would appreciate your response by no later than close 
of business , wednesday , april 28 , 1993. if you have any 
questions , please have your staff contact colin crowell or 
karen of the subcommittee staff at (202) 226 2424 .  . 

sincerely , 

edward j. markey 
chairman 



glenn 
voice (415) 574 fax (415) 574 
ham radio 

from  ( pwgll ) 
subject re looking for ms dos crypto programs 
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 19 

maddison , david wrote 
i am a new reader of sci.crypt i would like to obtain a copy of a 
public domain program that can encrypt files , preferably using des , 
that runs under ms dos .  . 

i would also like to obtain a program which will password protect 
floppy disks , if this is possible. 

thanks. 

david maddison 
melbourne , australia 

when you find out a floppy password protect program , could you e mail me. 
thanks 

marcus jones 
dept. materials technology , brunel university .  . 
pgp v2 . 2 . public key on request 

from  ( jim gillogly ) 
subject re ideas on clipper 
organization banzai institute 
lines 50 
nntp posting host mycroft . rand . org . 

i was annoyed to find that this guy posted my private e mail response to 
him , but since i believe what i said , i 'll defend it anyway. 

in article  ( jon c. r. bennett ) writes 
jim gillogly writes  ( in private e mail) 

they 're betting that you ca n't e to get u given n . 
... but we ca n't 
do this right now with des , even knowing the encryption method without 
doing almost the whole 56 bit search. 

that is not true , with chosen plaintext attacks des keys can be determined 
without the full search. 

by almost i mean the differential cryptanalysis attack. the chosen 
plaintext attack requires a detailed analysis of about 2 36 chosen plaintexts 
drawn from a total of about 2 47 that need to be run , if i understand the 
situation correctly. this is certainly a break under the meaning of the 
act , but does not constitute much less work than the brute force keysearch .  . 

the rest of his article assumes that we can figure out the skipjack 
encryption algorithm e by choosing the correct data to send through it and 
observe the results. i wish him joy of it , and choose not to try that attack. 

i am not defending the system , and in fact am offended by the ideas of 
escrowed keys or a secret algorithm becoming a de facto industry standard. 
however , i also object to opposing it for the wrong reasons , since that 
the case against it. 

i said  ( in my private e mail) 
it 's not clear that the experts will be told f. in fact , i 'd be surprised. 
i 'd expect something more of the form of the fips pub describing des , so that 
they could look at the algorithm in general , rather than with the specific 
set of keys chosen .  . 

oh come on , thats like saying you could evaluate des without the s box 
constants .  .  .  .  .  . 

no , it 's quite different. the government would have no percentage in 
choosing f to be a weak key , since it 's not to their advantage to have 
anybody else know it. the experts could thus assume that f is no worse 
than anything else during their analysis. totally different situation 
from unknown s boxes. again , i'm not saying it would be good or 
satisfactory for the experts to just be given the raw algorithm without 
the rest of the surrounding details regarding the chip and protocols and 
so on simply that i doubt that they would be given all the 
information. 

jim gillogly 
, 2 s.r. 1993 , 03 01 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization dsi 
lines 11 


doug holland claims tom clancy has provided the recipe for nuclear bombs .  . 
clancy himself says he has omitted certain crucial steps. further , how do we 
know clancy knows , rather than repeating what he 's read or been told in the 
unclassified domain 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (paul repacholi ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
lines 12 
organization curtin university of technology 
distribution inet 

in article ,  ( carl ellison ) writes 
i do n't know about you , but i have nearly forgotten how to generate paper 
mail. 

if i had e mail to congress , i would have written many letters by now. 
i have n't written one yet , as it turns out. writing on paper is such 
a complicated job , for those of us hooked on our way cool internet. 

just ask postmaster for the e mail address of the printer .  . ) 

paul 


from (david conrad ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
organization cat talk conferencing system 
keywords nea 
lines 25 

in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 
well , actually , this one 's easy. it 's their job. the nsa is 
supposed to develop cryptosystems .  . if the government chooses to go 
ahead and sell those cryptosystems to the masses , so be it. 

ah , but developing cryptosystems which are specificially designed to 
protect the government 's domestic spying capabilities takes them beyond 
that mandate , into the forbidden field of domestic wiretapping .  . 


but the nsa will not be doing any wiretapping .  . the actual wiretapping will , 
presumably , be conducted by the fbi .  . of course , the capability for this was 
provided by the nsa , but i think that they are still within the limitations 
of their charter .  . 

i realize this is a fine point , and some may differ , but this is my opinion. 
although i do n't care for clipper and wo n't support or use it , i do n't see 
the nsa as having overstepped their bounds .  . 

david r. conrad no his mind is not for rent to any god or government 

cat talk conferencing network , computer conferencing and file archive 
1 313 882 , 300bps , v . 32 . v . 32bis . new users use  new  
as a login id. available via pc pursuit ! ! !  ( city code ) 
e mail address 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re tempest 
distribution na 
nntp posting host beethoven . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university , computer science department 
lines 25 

in article  ( william w. hughes ) writes 
in article  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
 ( william w. hughes ) writes 
hell , just set up a spark jammer , or some other very electrically noisy 
device. 

as i 've noted , you can likely get around that with a directional 
sensor .  . phased array systems could completely defeat this scheme .  . 

true , but the basic idea behind any communications security system is not 
to absolutely deny access , but to make access more expensive  ( in time , 
money , manpower ) than it is worth. 

another idea use a laptop computer. as mentioned earlier , the lcd screen 
is a lot less noisy than a standard crt , but since many laptops have power 
supplies that run at 3 volts instead of 5 , they would be considerably 
quieter .  . 

doug holland 



doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to pry it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! ! 

from  ( matthew ) 
subject implementing a diffie hellman key exchange .  . 
keywords diffie hellman encryption des 
organization a unix box , where else 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
reply to matt 
lines 21 


i want to add link encryption to a module that upper 
level routines into a single data link. the upper levels wo n't know 
about this , and thus key exchange shall only need to occur once (at 
the initial link  . i figure that i can do this with 
des and a diffie hellman key exchange .  . 

is using a diffie hellman exchange to establish a 64 bit des key 
acceptable , in other words , what are the pro 's and con 's of such a 
setup are there any important issues to watch out for  ( aside from 
filtering out unacceptable keys) 

and in order to achieve this , i guess i will need to use math 
routines  ( for probable prime number calculation , exponentiation etc) , 
so could someone point me towards a good package  ( this is strictly 
non  . 

matthew .  . 

matt 
'the power of one man seems like a small squirt  .  .  . ' . 

from  ( derek atkins ) 
subject re clipper and conference calls 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 28 
nntp posting host podge . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 25 apr 1993 11 48 20 gmt 

in article (steven bellovin ) writes 

in article ,  . michael feeley ) writes 
just curious , how would the clipper chip system handle 
conference calls 

it 's not clipper , it 's any encryption system. i 've seen a number of 
designs they generally involve a multi line cleartext bridge. 

depending on the encryption system , so long as everyone has the same 
key , it can be done. for example , i was using vat , which is an 
internet audio tool , for a conference call , and we were encrypting the 
session. (unfortunately , one site was doing more work , and did n't 
have the cpu for it , so it did n't sound all that good at a different 
site) 

so , you do n't neccessarily have to have a clear text bridge. but if 
you do , its totally internal to one of the sites involved in the 
conversation .  .  .  .  . 

derek 



derek atkins , mit '93 , electrical engineering and computer science 
secretary , mit student information processing board  ( sipb ) 
mit media laboratory , speech research group 
pp 

from (john ioannidis ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization columbia university department of computer science 
distribution na 
lines 11 

in article  ( shaun p. hughes ) writes 

perhaps someone should ask zippy the pinhead for his opinion. ) 


yow ! am i encrypting yet 

did n't we go over this guns n crypto discussion a few months ago must 
we go over it again 

ji 

from  ( jerry han ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
nntp posting host debra . dgbt . doc . ca . 
organization communications research centre , ottawa 
distribution na 
lines 75 

in article  ( rens 
troost ) writes 

in this giant bally ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather 
disturbing trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've tossing back and 
forth. 

me too. a tendency on the part of some people to hide their head in 
the sand. 

i never advocated hiding in the sand. i'm advocating a peaceful 
solution while a peaceful solution is possible. unless you want blood on 
your hands. 

how many people do you want jailed for their convictions , for their 
insistence on real privacy why sit by quietly while the preconditions 
for a real civil war are put in place by a short sighted government. 

read the above. 

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried 
that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens 
and paper. 

the terminal is mightier than the pen ) 

i type corrected. ( ) 

really i guess you mean the u.s. revolution .  . how about england , 
india , mexico , france , holland .  .  .  .  . 

english revolution what revolution they never had one. 
india if they could get around their religion restrictions 
mexico point taken , i forgot about this one. 
france napoleon would have something to say about this. 
holland i did n't know they had one , wo n't comment because i do n't know 
enough. 

that 's not very good odds .  . 

you are misinformed .  . but this whole issue is off the topic. 

actually , i consider the issue on topic. when you start gambling with 
fire crackers , sooner or later , somebody is going to lose a hand. 

when the cops kick in your door for using pgp , tell them that. all 
we 're doing here is exercising our (so called , rapidly narrowing ) 
right to free speech. 

fine. exercise the right to free speech. that 's great ! but do n't resort 
to armed violence until there 's no other possibility .  . 

perhaps you should talk to the government about that. or are you a 
disciple of david the cops are our friends sternlight 

no. i believe there are bad cops , and good cops .  . there are bad people , 
and good people.  ( and all that grey inbetween . ) . 

i have had the pleasure of knowing a police officer who did his best to 
uphold the laws he swore to defend .  . i have also seen what happens when 
police power is abused .  . 

do n't generalize in either direction. it just causes problems. 

the implied threat of the of private crypto , the 
not so subtle subtext of the clipper announcement , is what worries me. 
i do n't want my children growing up in a police state. 

me either. nice can of worms , ai n't it 


jerry han crc doc div. of behavioural research 
these are my opinions , and my opinions only. 
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors band 
memories of those i 've left behind , still ringing in my ears. genesis 

from  ( kevin l schlegelmilch ) 
subject source code for substitution cipher 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 7 

i was wondering if anyone knew of where i could find source 
code for a program to solve a substitution cipher 

thanks ! 
kevin 

(please post your answer instead of e mailing me directly ) 

from  ( ralph wirthlin ) 
subject re is it illegal to transmit encrypted data 
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci .  . 
lines 12 

 ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) writes 

the fact that the nsa is listening may affect your willingness to use 
wimpy crypto technologies , but it may also affect your willingness to 
use technologies that violate rsa 's patents , e.g. if you use pgp , the 
nsa may tell rsa that you 're doing so , and if the secret service catches on , 

i'm afraid i have to disagree with you on that point. nsa will not 
tell rsa or any other non dod entity anything that its eavesdropping 
reveals .  . that includes the fbi and service  ( although there 
have been rare exceptions) .  . 


from  ( cliff figallo ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
originator 
nntp posting host eff.org 
organization the electronic frontier foundation 
distribution inet 
lines 31 

 ( josh a. goldfoot ) writes 

tarl neustaedter wrote 

it means that the eff 's public stance is complicated with issues irrelevant 
to the encryption issue per se .  . there may well be people who care about 
the encryption issue who do n't care to associate themselves with the 
network erotica issue  ( or may even disagree with the eff 's position) .  . 

perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it 
was posted encrypted 

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain .  . 

well , regardless of what policy liabilities anyone in washington may think 
eff has , it is going ahead aggressively attacking the assumptions that are 
behind the administrations clipper chip initiative .  . for all the reasons 
stated here. in washington , you have to work under the assumption that 
everyone has some liabilities .  . government and non governmental 
organizations alike all share the same glass house. eff is variously 
identified as the hacker defense fund , the first amendment absolutists , 
the new communists , etc , but it is also an acknowledged leader in the 
civil liberties arena and is respected as a serious player in the 
policy circles .  . so unless there is another organization with the 
credibility and clout and right policy stance that you know of in 
washington , please do n't count eff out as a valid representative of 
your views in the clipper chip matter. 


cliff 
eff online guy  ( 617)576 ) 

from ( mike h. ) 
subject re s1 , s2 
distribution world 
organization none 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 12 

in article steve writes 
the only theory that makes any sense is that s1 and s2 are either the 
same for all chips , or vary among very few possibilities , so that anyone 
trying to break the encryption by brute force need only plow through the 
possible serial numbers (2 30 , about one billion ) , multiplied by the number 
of different s1 , s2 combinations .  . 

iff the phones transmit their serial nos. as part of the message then what 
is to say that each phone can take that serial number and use it to generate 
the required key .  .  .  .  . 



from  ( mel beckman ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization beckman software engineering 
reply to 
distribution world 
x mailer lite macintosh release 1 . 5v5 . 
lines 37 


in article (sci . crypt . , alt . security . , comp . org . ieee) . , (david sternlight ) writes 
maybe so , but it 's quite common. there are millions of macintosh users who 
have no idea what 's in apple 's patented roms .  . many have modems connected .  . 
how do you know all your business secrets are n't being stolen answer 
1. because you trust apple 
2. because if any such attempt , however , came out , it would 
destroy apple 's credibility forever. 


david , 

neither (1) or (2) apply with the government , though. the feds , unlike 
apple , have repeatedly demonstrated that trust is an unsafe thread on which 
to hang your freedom .  . why because unlike apple in (2) , the govt has no 
credibility to lose. i'm serious about this. one can name just about any 
agency the irs , rtc , fcc , faa , fbi , nsa , cia and find numerous examples 
of the public trust run roughshod over. worse , one can rarely find in such 
examples any serious consequences to the offending agency .  . even supposing 
we could get a reign on trust somehow , there 's always the matter of competence 
in govt agencies .  . can they even trust themselves 

mel 

p.s. i was amused when you mentioned the usda as an example of an agency 
capable of managing the an escrow .  . i'm a consultant to the usda , and while those 
i work with are wonderful grin , the agency itself is ranked in industry 
publications such as govt computer news as one of the worst of 
its computer resources. recently , prime time live did a long segment on 
the usda 's computer troubles .  . they are making a concerted effort to change , 
but intentions do n't make a track record. 


mel beckman internet 
beckman software engineering compuserve 75226 , 2257 
ventura , ca 93003 voice fax 805 647 1641 805 647 3125 

you can observe a lot just by watching. yogi bera 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa 
lines 23 
nntp posting host chaos . intercon . com . 
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1 

 ( brad templeton ) writes 
they have a much better reason to classify the algorithm than to 
protect its security. they want to protect its market share. 

that 's one way to put it. keeping the algorithm classified means that 
disclosure of it falls under the rubric of national security. nothing like 
federal marshalls to guard a monopoly .  .  .  . 

the result is tappable 
cryptography without laws forbidding other kinds , for 99 of the 
populace .  . 

agreed , although this is still somewhat better than the status quo ) .  . 

to get crypto , you would have to build a special phone that 
runs on top of this system , and everybody you talk to would have to 
have an indentical one. 

sounds like a job for the free software foundation ) 2 .  .  .  . 


amanda walker 
intercon systems corporation 

from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
organization clarinet communications corp. 
lines 60 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 
the security of the system should depend only on the secrecy of 
the keys and not on the secrecy of the algorithms dorothy denning 




you 're reading far too much into this  ( aside from the obvious fact 
that you should n't hold anybody to what they wrote in a 10 year old 
book in a rapidly changing field like this . ) . 


quite simply she says that the security should not depend on the 
secrecy of the algorithm .  . a secret algorithm can still be secure , 
after all , we just do n't know it. only our level of trust is 
affected , not the security of the system. 

the algorithm could be rsa for all we know , which we believe to 
be secure .  . 

they have a much better reason to classify the algorithm than to 
protect its security. they want to protect its market share. 

if they publish the algorithm , then shortly manufacturers would 
make chips that implement the algorithm and standard but do not 
use a key stored in escrow .  . and of course , everybody would buy them. 


the whole push of this chip is that by establishing a standard that 
you can only use if you follow their rules , they get us to follow 
their rules without enacting new laws that we would fight tooth and 
nail .  . 

quite simply , with clipper established , it would be much harder for 
another encryption maker to define a new standard , to make phones that 
ca n't talk to the leading phone companies. the result is tappable 
cryptography without laws forbidding other kinds , for 99 of the 
populace .  . 


to get crypto , you would have to build a special phone that 
runs on top of this system , and everybody you talk to would have to 
have an indentical one. 

that 's the chicken and egg of crypto .  . the government is using its 
very special ability to solve chicken and egg problems of new 
technologies to control this one in a way they like. 


it 's almost clever. when the eff started , i posed the question here 
what are the police going to do when they wake up and discover they 
ca n't wiretap and nobody here had an answer  ( or even thought it was 
much of a question) 

then came the backdoor and digital telephony bills , which we fought .  . 

now we have their real answer , the of all. 


brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366 

from  ( hal finney ) 
subject re s1 , s2 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 38 
nntp posting host alumni . caltech . edu . 

steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 

second question why ! ! why is such a strange procedure used , and not 
a real rng this turns those s1 , s2 in a kind of bottleneck for system 
security. 

the only theory that makes any sense is that s1 and s2 are either the 
same for all chips , or vary among very few possibilities , so that anyone 
trying to break the encryption by brute force need only plow through the 
possible serial numbers (2 30 , about one billion ) , multiplied by the number 
of different s1 , s2 combinations .  . 

my interpretation of denning 's description is that s1 and s2 are chosen 
randomly by agents of the key escrow companies at the start of each 300 
chip programming session. i imagine that the chips are in a carrier which 
will allow them all to be programmed fairly quickly there would not be 
a need to transfer chips one at a time into a little programmer as some 
people have envisioned .  . 

my guess as to why this procedure is used is that basing the keys on the 
s1 and s2 using a specified algorithm provides an  ( in principle ) 
way to verify that no back doors exist in the choice of the random numbers 
used to generate the keys. since we have to trust the escrow companies 
anyway , it does not weaken the system to have the keys be generated from 
random seeds entered by the escrow agents .  . and since the algorithm for 
key generation is public  ( modulo skipjack secrecy ) then in principle an 
agent could challenge the procedure , ask for s1 and s2 to be exposed , and 
run his own independent calculation of u1 and u2 to verify that that is 
what is actually being put onto the floppies .  . 

and yes , there are many ways in which failures to follow this scheme could 
be hard to check. the laptop probably will not really be destroyed each 
time. hidden cameras in the ceiling could see the s1 and s2 entered by 
the trusted escrow agents .  . back doors in the chip could allow u to be 
recovered .  . heck , each chip could be recorded with the same u , ignoring 
what was on the floppy .  . 

hal finney 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa 
lines 23 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . intercon . com . 
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1 

in article ,  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 
think again. you wo n't see me using apple 's new signature from the 
finder feature. 

why not it has n't been released , so there 's no way for you to evaluate it 
yet. after all , apple could have been smart and had use an md5 hash 
encrypted with rsa , just like pkcs signatures .  . they could even be actually 
pkcs compliant , for all you know why not wait until it is released , and hard 
information is available , before passing judgement on it 

's algorithm 's are n't secret because apple 's being fascistic itself 
remains secret (except for apple demos at macworld )) , simply because it 's 
not done yet. 

it may be flawed , and it may not. however , you ca n't tell which until you 
actually see it. i , at least , am quite impressed with what i have seen so 
far , and have no expectation of being disappointed. 


amanda walker 
intercon systems corporation 



from  ( jonathan k saville ) 
subject re triple des 
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 18 

richard wrote 
i have seen various references to  triple des  recently. could anyone 
tell me what it is from context , i would guess that it means 
encrypting each block 3 times , with a different key each time , but 
i 'd like to be sure. 

replies by email preferred our news is unreliable .  . 

could people replying to the above question post their responses here 
as well , as i'm sure others  ( including myself) would like to hear them. 

thanks. 

jon 

jon saville who alive can say ,  thou art no keats , 
poet , may  st not tell thy dreams ' 1819 
pgp 2.2 public key available upon request or by finger 

from (john kelsey ) 
subject clipper and backdoors 
organization university of missouri 
lines 12 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 

david sternlight says 

it discredits the writer with third parties to claim clipper has a back 
door. it does not. 

actually , david , i do n't think it 's any more intellectually honest to 
say there are no backdoors than to say there are backdoors , unless you 've 
had a chance to examine the algorithm and the silicon closely .  . for all 
we know , skipjack could be easily broken , or impossible to break. and 
clearly , if skipjack is not secure , then the clipper chip is not worth much. 

john kelsey 

from  . michael feeley ) 
subject clipper and conference calls 
organization university of pennsylvania 
lines 5 
nntp posting host psych . upenn . edu . 

just curious , how would the clipper chip system handle 
conference calls 




from (david sternlight ) 
subject wiretapping reality today 
organization dsi 
lines 24 


some of the messages here seem to reflect the view that the government is 
listening in on everything and one will have to hide one 's clipper messages 
somehow if non escrowed crypto goes away. 

a little perspective might be in order. 

the number of court ordered wire taps is pretty low. law enforcement has to 
present pretty good evidence to get even that limited number of 
authorizations .  . 

thus the overwhelming majority of conversations are neither tapped nor 
recorded by the government , and for that to happen they have to 
a) have a pretty good reason , with evidence 
b) use this on highest priority pretty good reasons. 

though the system may be imperfect , it is a long way from the horror stories 
some here seem to believe or anticipate .  . 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (david sternlight ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization dsi 
lines 16 

in article 
 ( gideon yuval ) writes 

if these personal attacks are what stopped prof. denning from 
replying on issues of substance , they have cause real harm 
to the serious debate here. 

they are and they have. 

david 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( anthony shipman ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . au . 
organization computer power software group pty ltd 
distribution inet 

 ( nina yuan ) writes 

i'm not a lawyer and i do n't even play one on tv , but intuitively there 's 
something wrong with having one 's words archived for possible future 
use against you. this possibility frightens me more than any of the 
talk about the clipper chip , right to cryptography , etc. 

) 

i can just imagine it. the mother is wheeled into the labour ward .  . after 
delivery a government agent steps up to read the baby its rights .  .  .  . 
you have the right to remain silent .  . if you give up this right anything 
you say may be taken down and used in evidence against you. 





anthony shipman you 've got to be taught before it 's too late , 
cp software export pty ltd , before you are six or seven or eight , 
19 cato st. , east , to hate all the people your relatives hate , 
melbourne , australia , 3121 you 've got to be carefully taught .  . r h 

e mail 

subject re crypto papers on the net. 
from (peter gutmann ) 
organization computer science dept. university of auckland 
lines 26 

in (john kelsey ) writes 

i 've recently been reading a paper of merkle 's  ( publixhed only on the 
net , i think) discussing three potential replacements for des .  . was 
ever done with these are khufu , , and or snefru still 
being discussed anywhere (i know snefru is referenced in the rsa 
faq , and i think it may also be in the sci.crypt faq . ) . 

the paper was distributed  ( against the wishes of the nsa i have a copy 
with a few  illicit distribution  footnotes on it ) , and eventually 
published at one of the crypto conferences .  . things were looking good. 

then xerox patented the algorithms .  . plonk ! 

i do n't know of anything which uses them. also , was broken at a 
later conference and from work on a related algorithm i do n't think the 
existing khufu would hold up too well against a converted differential 
cryptanalysis attack , although it can probably be changed to resist this 
type of attack .  .  .  .  . 

peter .  . 

in case you do n't know what the plonk is about , check the new hacker 's 
dictionary . it 's the sound someone makes when they fall to the bottom 
of a killfile 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 6 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

nonsense ! i was n't asked if larry o'brien should trust nixon with his keys , 
but whether i would. 

well , that explains it. the government has no real need to spy on people 
who already love big brother it 's the people who are inclined to talk 
back who need to be watched .  . 

from  ( robin hanson ) 
subject estimating wiretap costs benefits 
nntp posting host jabberwock . arc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa arc information sciences division 
lines 166 

would wiretap chip be cost effective 

by robin hanson 
draft , april 21 , 1993 

summary compared to an average monthly phone bill of sixty dollars , 
wiretaps are only worth two cents a month to police .  . so the 
proposed wiretap chip must raise phone costs by less than one part 
in three thousand to be cost effective. 

background 

until now , phones have happened to allow the existence of wiretaps , 
detectors which could pick up conversations on a phone line. and over 
time , law enforcement agencies have come to rely on this capability to 
aid in criminal investigations .  . however , powerful new encryption 
technologies threaten this status quo , by making possible truly 
private communication .  . a small chip in each phone could soon make it 
literally impossible to a conversation without physical 
microphones at either end. 

in order to preserve the ability of law enforcement agencies to tap 
phone conversations , the u.s. government announced on april 16 , 1993 
that it had developed and begun manufacturing a special wiretap chip 
to be placed in future phones , instead of the total privacy chips 
which have been under private development. the same day , at t 
announced it would use these chips in all its secure telephone 
products . 

each chip would be created under government supervision , when it would 
be given a fixed and encryption key. periodically during 
each conversation , the chip would broadcast its identifier and other 
info in a special law enforcement block . law enforcement officers 
with a court order could then obtain the key corresponding to the 
from special trust agencies , and could thereby listen in 
on any future or previously recorded conversations on that phone. 

to date , most concerns voiced about this plan have been about its 
security. the government wo n't disclose the encryption algorithm , and 
many suspect the government will not limit its access in the way it 
has claimed .  . the track record of previous governments does not 
inspire confidence on this point 1 . 

however , this paper will neglect these concerns , and ask instead 
whether this new wiretap chip is a cost effective tool for police 
investigation .  . that is , which is a cheaper way for society to 
investigate crime force phone communications to support wiretaps , or 
give police agencies more money to investigate crimes in other ways 
or to put it another way , would police agencies be willing to pay for 
each wiretap , if they had to pay their share of the full social cost 
of forcing phones to support wiretaps 

to start to answer this question , we might compare the current 
benefits wiretaps provide to law enforcement agencies with projected 
costs of implementing the new wiretap chip plan. and since current 
benefits are easier to estimate , we begin there. 

wiretap benefits 

1990 is the latest year for which wiretap statistics are available 
2 . in that year , 872 wiretap installations were requested , and no 
requests were denied .  .  ( this figure does not include wiretaps obtained 
with the consent of a party to the conversation . ) . 2057 arrests 
resulted from wiretaps started the same year , arrests came from 
wiretaps in previous years , and 55 of arrests led to convictions .  . 
76 of the wiretaps were for phones (vs , email , etc . ) . , 60 were 
regarding drug offenses , and 40 were requested by federal 
authorities .  . each wiretap installation heard an average of 1487 
calls , 22 of them incriminating , among 131 people , and cost an 
average of 45 , 125  ( extrapolating from the 794 installations 
reporting costs) , mostly for labor .  . 

thus a total of about 40 million was spent on wiretaps , to obtain 
about 4000 arrests , at 10 , 000 per arrest .  . thus these arrests are at 
least four times more expensive than the 2500 per arrest figure one 
gets by dividing the 28 billion spent by all police nationally by the 
total 11 million non traffic arrests 3 . thus the 30 million per 
year spent on phone taps is only one of the total police 
expenditures .  . and if we divide this by the 138 million phone access 
lines in the country 3 , we get about 23 cents spent per year per 
phone line , or about two cents a month. 

in general , we deter a given class of criminals through a combination 
of a perceived probability of being caught and convicted , and some 
expected punishment level if convicted .  . so the social value of having 
wiretaps is no more than the amount that we would have to pay to get 
the same criminal deterrence through other means. if unable to 
wiretap a particular suspect 's phone , police might instead use hidden 
microphones , or investigate that suspect in other ways. or police 
might focus on suspects more easily investigated without wiretaps .  . or 
we might raise the fine or prison time for certain types of crime .  . 

if we generously assume that these substitutes for wiretaps would be 
on average twice as expensive as wiretaps , then the annual social 
benefit of phone wiretaps is about equal to the current spending level 
of two cents a month per phone line. 

wiretap costs 

let us for the moment optimistically assume that the us government 
encryption scheme is as secure as whatever private enterprise would 
have offered instead , protecting our conversations from the spying 
ears of neighbors , corporations , and governments , both foreign and 
domestic .  . even so , the need to support wiretaps would add many 
additional costs to build and maintain our communication system. 

extra law enforcement blocks would be added to phone transmissions , 
increasing traffic by some unknown percentage .  . a special process must 
be used to add encryption keys to chips , while securely distributing 
these keys to special agencies , which must be funded and monitored .  . 
the chips themselves are designed by a military contractor , whose 
design is to remain secret , and are manufactured through a special 
process so that the chip becomes nearly impossible to take apart. 
 ( chips are now offered at the relatively high price of 30 a peice in 
lots of 10 , 000 4  . ) . private encryption systems not supporting 
wiretaps would require none of these extra costs. 

perhaps most important , government degree would at least partially 
replace private marketplace evolution of standards for how voice is to 
be represented , encrypted , and exchanged in our future phones. it is 
widely believed that governments are less efficient than private 
enterprise in procuring products and standards , though they may perhaps 
perform a useful role when we choose between competing private 
standards. how much less efficient is a matter of debate , some say 
they pay twice as much , while others might say only 10 more. 

currently , a total of 96 billion is spent as operating expenses of 
u.s. phone companies 3 , which comes out to about 60 per month per 
access line. if we compare this to the wiretap value of two cents per 
month , we see that if wiretaps raise average operating costs by even 
as much as one part in 3000 , then wiretaps are not cost effective ! 
and this does n't even include extra costs phone owners pay because 
their encryption chips are more expensive. of course most phones 
would n't have encryption chips for a while , but the wiretap benefit 
per phone is still the same , so this argument still applies .  . 

conclusion 

given this dramatic difference between the total cost of running the 
phone system and the value of wiretaps , we can justify only the 
slightest modification of the phone system to accommodate wiretaps .  . 
when the only modification required was to allow investigators in to 
attach clips to phone wires , wiretap support may have been reasonable .  . 
but when we consider substantial modification , the burden of proof is 
clearly on those proposing such modification to show that the costs 
would really be less than the benefits. 

if consensus cannot be obtain on this cost benefit estimate , a 
compromise might be to tax phones which do not support wiretaps at a 
rate of say five cents per month , a tax payable to police agencies 
nationwide to compensate them for their loss of wiretap abilities .  . 

1 the invisible weapon , oxford press , isbn 0 19 6 

2 report on applications for orders authorizing or approving the 
interception of wire , oral , or electronic communications , 1990 , 
administrative office of u.s. courts , washington , dc  . 

3 u.s. statistical abstracts , 1992. 

4 dorothy denning , the clipper chip a technical summary , 
distributed to sci.crypt newsgroup april 21 , 1993. 

robin hanson 
415 604 3361 ms 269 2 , nasa ames research center , moffett field , ca 94035 
510 651 7483 male terrace , fremont , ca 94539 7921 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
nntp posting host beethoven . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university , computer science department 
lines 22 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 

doug holland claims tom clancy has provided the recipe for nuclear bombs .  . 
clancy himself says he has omitted certain crucial steps. further , how do we 
know clancy knows , rather than repeating what he 's read or been told in the 
unclassified domain 

tom clancy omitted these key steps to try to prevent groups of people from 
building a nuclear bomb .  . however , he asserts that you can find these key 
steps in any university library. the main point of five minutes to midnight 
is that it is impossible to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons , 
since it has become easy to acquire the knowledge to build one , and 
materials are nearly impossible to control. read this article , or better 
yet , run to your library yourself and dig up some stuff on constructing a 
nuclear weapon .  . 

doug holland 


doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to pry it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! ! 

from  ( free radical ) 
subject re tempest 
nntp posting host damon . ccs . northeastern . edu . 
organization college of cs , northeastern u 
distribution na 
lines 22 

in article 
leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu .  ( kirill shklovsky ) writes 
... 
i heard somewhere (ca n't name the source) that tempest does not necessarily 
pick up just crts , but it can pick up emissions from almost any chip .  . if 
that is true , the kind monitor would not make any difference becuase everything 
on the screen can be picked up from the video controller .  . can anybody verify 
or refute this 

as anyone who attended will attest , you can pick information 
off the video chip .  . it 's surprisingly easy too. the guy did it with 
a portable tv , with very minor mods .  . it only worked from 3 feet , but 
then it was just a demonstration .  . 

ra 

 ( rogue agent sod ! ) 

the nsa is now funding research not only in cryptography , but in all areas 
of advanced mathematics .  . if you 'd like a circular describing these new 
research opportunities , just pick up your phone , call your mother , and 
ask for one. 

subject re what is going on ... 
from (scott doty ) 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host santarosa . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 49 

paul repacholi wrote 

ps the first posting i saw i thought was a joke in very bad taste. my appologies 
to the person who broke the news. 

for what it 's worth .  .  .  . 

clipper chip announcement wrote 

note this file will also be available via anonymous file 
transfer from csrc . ncsl . nist . gov . in directory pub and 
via the nist computer security bbs at 301 948 5717 .  . 


the white house 


i have n't been able to open an ftp session with that machine. 

operating under the assumption that the address was wrong , i tried using 
and whois .  .  .  . 

ls nist . gov . 
nsf . net . 
host or domain name internet address 
... 
ncsl server mail gw . ncsl . nist . gov . 
mail gw . ncsl . 129 . 6 . 48 . 199 . 
ncsl server dove . nist . gov . 
ncsl server ecf . ncsl . nist . gov . 
ecf . ncsl . 129 . 6 . 48 . 2 . 
ncsl server nist . gov . 
ncsl server ncsl . nist . gov . 
ncsl . 129 . 6 . 48 . 12 . 
... 

that 's all i could find about the ncsl domain .  .  . oh . , and i tried an mx lookup 
on the machine in question , which failed. whois domain at 
both registries failed , too. 

so i thought , hey , i'm just not using the tools right and tried calling 
the bbs number no answer. 

i'm probably doing something wrong .  .  . or . , perhaps , the machine has been put 
behind a firewall .  . but it does look like csrc . ncsl . nist . gov . has become an 
un machine. if someone would try ftp ing to it , or knows what 's up , i 'd 
really appreciate the info. 

scott 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 30 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article  ( eli brandt ) writes 
remember in the 
announcement they described this scheme as balancing the two 
extremes of having no privacy and claiming that citizens had a 
constitutional right to encryption 

so much for clinton 's support of the right of privacy . 

there 's an out for him. the announcement talked about strong cryptography 
i believe. specifically 

nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
unbreakable commercial encryption product. 

every vendor claims his product is unbreakable so this was sloppy wording .  . 

i am not claiming that we private citizens should have access to the nsa 's 
best , secret algorithms .  . i do n't want any nsa algorithms , actually. 

i 'll let them break my pitiful amateur algorithms and rsa 's .  . 

all i want is what i have already the ability and right to invent and use 
my own algorithms , share them with my friends and sell them. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from  ( louis emmet mahoney ) 
subject re clipper two additional possible problems 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 10 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

 ( harry erwin ) writes 

anyone interested in adopting british telecom 's quantum encryption scheme 
they 've demonstrated it over a 10 km link. it automatically detects 
wiretapping .  . 

can you tell us more 




reply to  ( jeff hupp ) 
from  ( jeff hupp ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
lines 23 


well , actually , this one 's easy. it 's their job. the nsa is 
supposed to develop cryptosystems .  . if the government chooses to go 
ahead and sell those cryptosystems to the masses , so be it. 

ah , but developing cryptosystems which are specificially designed to 
protect the government 's domestic spying capabilities takes them beyond 
that mandate , into the forbidden field of domestic wiretapping .  . 


the nsa 's charter forbids them from doing any purely domestic 
intelligence work , i would think that even providing assistance in 
development of the skipjack is a violation of that charter .  . 
but as with any government agency , they will do what they 
think is  . 



jeff internet 
, apt. 1807 ad contract programming , novell 
houston , texas network design and support. 
voice (713) 780 the best govenment does n't me. 


from  ( russ schnapp ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
keywords paranoia cryptography clipper 
nntp posting host habu 
organization technologies inc. 
distribution na 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( jerry han ) writes 
in this giant bally ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather 
disturbing trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've tossing back and 
forth. 

somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot 
in a new civil war 

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried 
that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens 
and paper. 

well , i know one person who is ready to kill .  . me. and the victim is 
this whole topic ,  . 

please stop copying all this crap to comp . org . acm .  . please 


 .  .  . russ . schnapp 
email netcom ! ! or or 
technologies voice 619 452 fax 619 452 0401 
la jolla , california unless otw specified , speaking only for myself ! 

from  ( ross anderson ) 
subject re hardware hash function 
keywords hash , md5 , des , hardware , software 
nntp posting host ely . cl . cam . ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( erol basturk ) 
writes 

so , the question is has a fast hash 
function been designed for hardware implementation 

yes , you can use a stream cipher chip to hash data with only slight 
modification .  . see 

fast cryptographic checksum algorithm based on stream ciphers  , x lai , 
ra , j , 92 pp 8 7 to 8 11. 

ross 

from  ( tauren n mills ) 
subject thoughts and questions 
article i.d. pdxgate . 7325 . 
lines 35 

i just joined this group recently and really do not know much about 
cryptography , but a couple things came to mind while reading through 
the posts. 

1. is the clipper chip going to be exported if not , how will 
people communicate with other countries will they have to do 
that in un crypt mode. will other encryption techniques be 
legal  ( assuming the government cracks down on using others) when 
going overseas , but not within the states 

2. i 've read about authentication systems that use an electronic 
security card that looks like a calculator to create an encrypted 
pin based on the time date. the host system has the algorithm 
built into it as well so that it can authenticate a user. 
is there some form of encryption technology that would create 
keys that are only valid at a certain instant in time the 
systems would then allow a window of time around this instant 
where the key would work. 
i realize that this technique would increase the amount of information 
needing to be stored because you would need entire algorithms rather 
than just keys. but for smaller scale things it might work. 
could some similar method be used to make the two 80 bit keys that 
are issued to police fbi etc to tap a phone only usable for one week 
 ( for instance) .  . if further surveilance was needed , they would have 
to go back to the escrow service to get another key. this would 
make it useless for local police to database keys they have used. 

i assume this is not possible because the receiving phone would need 
to be able to the message. but any thoughts on the subject 

thanks , 
mills 

mills 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 5 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

it is my intent to cut the government off at the knees with the pen 
 ( and keyboard) .  . true , the lawyer and the lawbook only go so far , but 
i agree that it is best to use those resources to the maximum extent 
before seriously contemplating anything more .  .  .  . disruptive .  . 


from  ( martin j hannigan ) 
subject re new encryption 
keywords sternlight , , crypt , archive , cross post , david , bart 
organization twisted pair consulting , boston , ma .  . 
lines 56 

in article  ( dan muntz ) writes 
in article (david sternlight ) writes 
, whose name is either an unfortunate 
coincidence or casts serious doubt on his bona fides , posts a message in 
which he seems willing to take the word of a private firm about which he 
knows little that their new encryption algorithm is secure and contains no 
trapdoors , while seemingly that of the government about clipper .  . 

will someone please post the david sternlight faq to alt . privacy . clipper . before 
someone unfamiliar with him takes him seriously and starts yet another 
flame fest 

dan 



hello. i am the david sternlight keeper of the faq .  . unfortuantely i cannot 
find it at the present time. 

from the original faq 

question does anyone take david sternlight serious 

fact no one takes david sternlight serious. they review his opinions and 
in most cases immediately discard them or jerk them over to 
alt . fan . david . sternlight which actually should be alt . flame . david . sternlight .  . 

a photograph of david sternlight for the curious 





 ( o)(o ) 
c ) david sternlight 
, net . police . 
a.k.a. proud 
0 0 dick of 
0 0 the internet 

david police 




question why does david continue to relate mis statements regarding 
encryption and other topics 

fact david sternlight has a chemical imbalance of the right side of his 
brain. 




martin twisted pair consulting 617 623 
mac ibm pc mainframe unix 

from (robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 35 

in article  ( ian farquhar ) writes 
in article  ( ian ameline ) writes 
i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip , 
and knowlege of the algorithm will likely be fairly widespread .  . any back 
doors or weaknesses would further discredit the scheme , and help grow 
the market demand for a secure alternative .  . 


there are companies  ( one in canada , as i recall) which specialize in 
analyzing chips to understand process technology , design rules , 
... to understand the probable yield of the assembly line making them , 
and therefore the probable current cost and possible future cost curves , 
given design shrinks , statistical quality control better yields , etc. 

taiwanese , japanese and especially korean semiconductor manufacturers 
have all  ( korea continues ) reverse engineered foreign chips and 
produced the chip .  . taiwan and japan have signed intellectual 
property treaties , and now at least extract the gate level 
design before laying the chip out again. the koreans still 
use mask level copying , i believe. at least , they are under a lot 
of pressure to pass laws to meet international intellectual property 
standards. 

all this despite lots of attempts to hide the designs. there are lots 
of techniques to do so in both hardware and software design. 

for a complex chip , there will be real intellectual effort extracting 
the gate design from the transistor design , and the algorithm from 
the gate design. but it wo n't take two smart guys even 6 months , working 
40 hour weeks. koreans work 60 or more 8) 

lew 

lew glendenning 
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr  ( or somebody like that) .  . 

from (ron asbestos dippold ) 
subject clipper not good enough for government 
originator 
nntp posting host qualcom . qualcomm . com . 
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 18 

there 's been some discussion very recently as to whether the 
government once again might exempt themselves from something they use 
to screw us over .  .  .  . well , from comp . dcom . telecom . 

from 
subject odds 'n ends in the news 

the clipper chip device introduced yesterday by at t may not be 
suitable for government use , says house telecom subcommittee chairman 
markey .  . in a letter to commerce secretary brown , markey asked whether 
the use of the technology could lead to inadvertently increased costs 
to those u.s. companies hoping to serve both the government and 
private markets .  . markey has ordered brown to answer several questions 
about security and cost concerns by april 28.  ( communications daily , 
4 20 93) 

show me a guy who 's afraid to look bad , and i 'll show you a guy you can beat 
every time. 

reply to  ( jeff hupp ) 
from  ( jeff hupp ) 
subject re clipper and conference calls 
lines 20 


in article ,  . michael feeley ) writes 
just curious , how would the clipper chip system handle 
conference calls 

it 's not clipper , it 's any encryption system. i 've seen a number of 
designs they generally involve a multi line cleartext bridge. 

a  multi line cleartext bridge 

and just were would you put that bridge if it is n't at one of 
the location , forget encryption at all. you have blown any 
security you thought you might have had. 


jeff internet 
, apt. 1807 ad contract programming , novell 
houston , texas network design and support. 
voice (713) 780 the best govenment does n't me. 


from (steven bellovin ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( jeff hupp ) writes 
the nsa 's charter forbids them from doing any purely domestic 
intelligence work , i would think that even providing assistance in 
development of the skipjack is a violation of that charter .  . 
but as with any government agency , they will do what they 
think is  . 

there are other laws and directives which bear upon the subject. for 
example , the national computer security act of 1987 specifically directs 
nbs sic to work with nsa on developing security standards for civilian 
federal computers.  ( pick up the bill from cpsr . org . it also includes 
a report describing it , and some of the legislative history , including 
concerns about nsa 's involvement . ) . note also that nsa is specifically 
charged with running the national computer security center , to 
quote the aforementioned report also will work with industries at 
the dod computer security center to develop security standards for private 
sector use . '' . 

it may or may not be a good idea to have nsa tinkering with this , but 
i'm pretty sure it 's legal .  .  ( btw when it comes to development of 
cryptosystems , there may be two choices. either nsa helped develop it , 
in which case maybe they can crack it , maybe not , but probably , no one 
else can or nsa did n't help , in which case they probably can crack it , 
and maybe others as well .  .  . ) . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re the escrow database. 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 26 

in article , (david sternlight ) writes 
in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 
after the waco massacre and the big brother wiretap chip , any tactic 
is fair. 

this is pernicious nonsense ! 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 

since the fbi 's account of what happened is being contradicted on an 
increasingly frequent basis by other officials investigating the 
fire , the most pernicious idea of all is believing that big brother 
is going to be well behaved with respect to cryptographic keys. 

in light of the very serious allegations with respect to the doj 
selling software to various other intelligence services , what do 
you suppose the chances are of some future doj selling escrowed 
keys to business firms 

trusting the government to be honest and fair is putting the 
fox in charge of protecting the chickens .  . 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( victor iseli ) 
subject re freely distributable public key cryptography c code where 
organization corporation , cincinnati ohio 
lines 10 



numerical recipes in c  .  . fortran .  . pascal . has a nice section on 
encryption and decryption based on the des algorithm .  . there is 
also source code provided (i think some versions of this book are 
distributed with the source code on disk the source code can 
also be ordered from the publisher) .  . 

victor 


from  ( barry shein ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
in reply to 's message of sat , 24 apr 1993 18 12 10 gmt 
organization the world 

lines 50 


if the crooks use an innocent person 's clipper phone on the tapped line 
there 's no problem. the feds do n't care whose phone instrument is used , just 
that the conversation is by the suspect on the tapped line. they get the 
serial number , get the keys , and they are in business. 

no clipper chip to person association is ever needed. 

yeah , but who wants to start a pool on the first person arrested 
mistakenly and has their life turned upside down because some law 
enforcement agency does make a chip person association 

i wonder if there are any plans to keep these records (e . g .  . encode the 
serial number into the upc scanned at k mart along with the credit 
card info , voila . ) . 

at least your phone number tends to only locate to your house or 
whatever (i . e .  . to be coming from your telephone number the person 
likely is in your house etc . ) . , plus or minus some shenanigans of 
course. 

but i 'd hate to think of these guys getting the clipper id , recording 
the conversation , then doing a quick cross lookup and your name comes 
up as owner of that id  ( mistakenly , maybe you sold the phone at a 
garage sale or the phone was stolen from your car or whatever . ) . they 
might only know who one side of the conversation is , for example. 

anyone who thinks the govt is forbidden by law to cross correlate such 
databases loses two points. first , law enforcement agencies can of 
course do this. second , they 're only forbidden from any 
money for it. the irs , for example , does do this anyhow. they just 
do n't spend any money on it so it 's  ( technically ) legal i guess. 

instead they probably trade little favors with companies like 
mastercard  ( if you 're the irs i 'll bet you have a lot of 
opportunities to trade favors with major corps for their databases . ) . 

i know , an irs guy read an amazing list off to me (from his screen , i 
could hear him typing to pull up each screen) once on the phone during 
a dispute i had with them  ( to intimidate me , actually , not much of a 
dispute , i did n't particularly disagree , but for some reason this 
fellow wanted to play tough guy with me , i hope he 's better now . ) . 

amazing stuff he had at his finger tips. be afraid. 


barry 

software tool die uunet ! world ! 
to the trade voice 617 739 login 617 739 

subject re what would happen if export restrictions violated 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 

organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 35 

in  ( bruce schneier ) writes 

in article  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

ok , i heard a lot of talk about the nsa 's infamous control over encryption 
export through the itar .  . here 's a question. say i develop this great new 
encryption system , and i want to sell my software worldwide .  . the thought 
police then come in and say this algorithm is a threat to national security. 
you will not be permitted to export it. at this point , what kind of trouble 
could i get into if i ignored the itar and sold my program to international 
customers anyway 

doug holland 

you would be arrested as an international arms  . 

there are several things in itar which have never been tested in court. 
the concensus appears to be 

you could be arrested as an international arms  .  ( you could , 
regardless of the state of the law , but there are some paragraphs which 
suggest you would be violating the law . ) . 

if it goes to court , the could be thrown out is incompatible with the 
first amendment or the court could rule that software is technical 
data not subject to the or the court could rule that the 
phrase publicly available as defined in the would apply , 
making it only subject to requiring a general export license or , you could 
be prosecuted successfully for arms or espionage .  . general 
concensus among lawyers who have read the , is that one of the first 
two would occur .  . 

arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( marc anderson ) 
subject re sorry folks  ( read this) 
nntp posting host spot . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 32 

in article  ( douglas mckee ) writes 
in article ,  ( marc anderson ) writes 
in article  ( marc anderson ) writes 
... 
(the date i have for this is 1 26 93) 
... 
washington  ( upi ) the war on drugs is about to get a fresh 
... 
i just found out from my source that this article was a joke. heh heh .  .  . 
it seemed pretty damn convincing to me from the start i just did n't 
notice the smiley at the end of the article , and there were a few other 
hints which i should of caught. 

well , is n't this just a ! ) all i read on this group is a bunch 
of ppl fearing the of information by the big bad evil govt. 
this just happens to be a case of an ordinary joe netter , who decided 
that he would create and or distribute some misinformation .  . ppl buy 
into bs posts like this (i know , because i forwarded a copy of the 
post to my office mate , who turned around and was  ( although he wo n't 
admit it .  .  . sorry . joe ! ) ready to get in a fight about f o r f e i t u r e ! ! ! ) 
please , if we 're going to hold our govt (which admittedly has had and 
still has its problems) to high standards , then must n't we follow these 
too electronic freedoms only go so far. 

again i'm extremely sorry about this .  .  . i got this message several 
months ago  ( quite a bit before the clipper chip proposal) when it was posted 
to a different newsgroup .  . it was very startling to me as well , and i guess 
i should of verified the source at least to some extent before reposting .  .  . 

 .  . 

marc 

from (john kelsey ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 25 

in article  ( lynn r grant ) writes 

about 50 people so far have asked , once the fbi gets your clipper keys , 
wo n't they be able to read all your future and past traffic 

there has been no response from nist , nsa , ms. denning , mr. hellman , or 
anyone else who might be able to give us an authoritative answer. 
this is troubling .  . 

it was implied in the first technical posting by dorothy denning that the 
fbi would do the decryption for the law enforcement agencies .  . it was n't 
clear to me from the post whether this would be done in realtime or not , or 
whether the fbi would just decrypt the session keys for the locals , or would 
do the whole message. 

one thing i'm a bit puzzled by why are n't they doing this with a public 
key scheme of some sort you could generate two public private 
for each chip .  . then , escrow the private keys with the escrow agencies .  . set 
the protocol up to encrypt the session key with both public keys. to decrypt 
a message , both escrow agencies  ( in the right order , for most pk schemes ) 
have to decrypt with the escrowed private key. this way , there would n't be 
that , once the police had asked fo a warrant wiretap , they 
would have your key  . 

john kelsey 

from  ( steve gardner ) 
subject re clipper will corrupt cops  ( was wh proposal from police point of view) 
nntp posting host imagine . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 8 

in article writes 
clipper will make criminals out of cops .  . do we want to do this to our 
police forces 
the war on some drugs has already turned alot of police into 
criminals .  . this is yet another nail in the constitution 's coffin .  . 


smg 

from  ( gene baxter ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host ped . ford . com . 
organization ford motor co. , electronics 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 27 

douglas craig holland wrote 
in article graham toal writes 
in article  ( marcus j ranum ) writes 
i 'd really like to see such a thing developed so that interactive 
internet talk radio could be done. ideally , though , it should be a general 
purpose device. it should be a general purpose enough device that nobody 
should be able to balk at its widespread use. obviously , to make it easy 
for , it should use pretty common hardware. 

why do n't we move down even further toward the masses by setting this 
up on an ibm pc  ( clone(probably needs to be a 386 or a 486) with a 
sound blaster and a v . 32bis . modem .  . those components are very widely 

i concur for a pc to pc version. but for a interactive thing like 
internet talk radio ! ! it makes me cringe at the amount of hogging such 
a thing would do to the bandwidth of the internet. i mean 15 meg files getting 
floated around for internet talk radio is bad enough. i have a solution use 
the phone system take your electronics and use them on point to point 
conversations through the phone and thats it. if you need to tell someone 
something secret and very important would n't it make more sense to write it 
out concisely and if it 's just a quick yo then use a code word and spend 
your twenty cents. 
those good ol analog systems like shortwave , telephones , and tv 's have 
a use do n't up a nice digital packet network trying to emulate them ! 

baxter 
baxter .  . 

from  ( axel dunkel ) 
subject summary how sensible is des towards bit errors 
organization c . a . t .  . system 
lines 150 

hi , 

i 'd like to thank you all for the fast responses. 
special thanks go to those who replied  ( lexical order) 

marcus j ranum 
paul crowley 
(paul schlyter ) 
 ( todd w. arnold ) 
 ( bill stewart) 

my question was 

how sensible is des encrypted data towards bit errors how much data per 
bit will be lost in average (i assume you still have the correct key) 

how much of the des encrypted data is affected depends on the used 
encryption mode. according to marcus j ranum there is 

cfb cipher feedback mode 
ecb electronic code book mode 
cbc cipher block chaining mode 
ofb output feedback mode 

each mode does some stuff better than others. ofb and cfb are designed 
for communications streams more than for files. 

, people strongly disagree which mode will lead to destruction 
of all of the following data. sure seems that some modes will resync quite 
fast , others will never , others will even only effect the very block. 

summarized , people said concerning this matter 


in cbc mode , only the current block will be affected 
todd w. arnold ) .  . 

if you use cbc  ( cihper block chaining ) , then the remainder of the data 
will be destroyed as well. paul ) 

in cfb mode , des quite fast  ( probably within 1 block 
according to j ranum ) .  . 


maybe someone definitely knows what happens in which mode 

nevertheless , thank you all very much again. 

axel dunkel 



i include the responses i got 

from  ( todd w. arnold ) 

in axel dunkel writes 
how sensible is des encrypted data towards bit errors how much data per 
bit will be lost in average (i assume you still have the correct key) 

it depends on the mode you 're using. for a single 64 bit input block , a 
one bit error will have a 50 percent chance of corrupting each of the 64 
output bits in other words , it essentially turns the output block into 
a random number. if you 're encrypting data in cbc mode , however , only the 
one 64 bit block will be affected .  . the next block , and all that follow it 
will be decrypted properly. 

it 's a good idea to have some kind of error correction in your system if 
corrupted bits are likely. 

todd 



from (paul schlyter ) 

in article you write 
hello , 

how sensible is des encrypted data towards bit errors how much data per 
bit will be lost in average (i assume you still have the correct key) 

at least 8 bytes of data will be destroyed if one bit encrypted data is 
in error. 

if you use cbc  ( cihper block chaining ) , then the remainder of the data 
will be destroyed as well. 

des is very for single bit errors. this is as it should be. 



paul , swedish amateur astronomer 's society  ( saaf ) 
75 a , 6 tr , s 114 40 stockholm , sweden 
internet 



from paul crowley 

how sensible is des encrypted data towards bit errors how much data per 
bit will be lost in average (i assume you still have the correct key) 

probably very bad you might lose the rest of the data stream .  . if you 
want safety against dropped bits use an error correcting coder like the 
freeware gnu ecc .  . 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus ! 



from 

how sensible is des encrypted data towards bit errors how much data per 
bit will be lost in average (i assume you still have the correct key) 

it depends on the mode you 're using des in. 
electronic code book  ( ecb ) takes a block of 64 input bits 
and produces 64 output bits , so if any bits are changed , 
the entire block of 64 bits becomes bad. 
i forget which feedback mode is which .  . 
in all of them , the results of encrypting one block affect later blocks .  . 
with some modes , the system self , so errors are repaired 
in a few blocks .  . with other modes , once one block is bad , 
all later blocks will be bad too. 

there 's also the framing problem. if you have a bit change , 
the block that it 's in changes , and maybe later blocks also change. 
but if you have bits lost or bits added  ( 64 bits in , 63 or 65 bits out) , 
everything is confused after that. 



from marcus j ranum 

depends on the mode you 're using. cfb , for example , 
pretty fast. figure a bit error will destroy the current block and the 
next one. 

mjr .  . 




experience is what you get if you do n't get what you want .  .  .  . 

axel dunkel , strasse 41 , d , germany 
e mail , voice 49 , fax 49 


from  ( kian lim ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena , ca 
lines 19 
nntp posting host sgi1 . wag . caltech . edu . 

the security of the system does depend only on the secrecy of the keys. 

the ability to tap is an inherent insecurity which depends fundamentally on 
the secrecy of the algorithm .  . to spell it out , because so many people seem to 
miss the point , if the algorithm were published , anyone could create a chip 
which would work correctly with the skipjack chips but which would not have 
its key registered .  . 

i believe there is no technical means of ensuring key escrow without the 
government maintaining a secret of some kind. for example , the secret could be 
the private keys of the escrow agencies their digital signatures would be 
required before a key could be used. in this case , the nsa nist whoever has 
decided that protecting the entire algorithm is easier cheaper more secure than 
other possible protocols .  . 


lim , genie k . 
materials molecular simulation center , caltech 
henry spencer left of , margaret signature fan 

from ( paul l. allen ) 
subject re wiretapping reality today 
reply to 
organization chaos 
lines 36 
x newsreader archimedes 

begin pgp signed message 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 

the number of court ordered wire taps is pretty low. law enforcement has to 
present pretty good evidence to get even that limited number of 
authorizations .  . 

thus the overwhelming majority of conversations are neither tapped nor 
recorded by the government , and for that to happen they have to 
a) have a pretty good reason , with evidence 
b) use this on highest priority pretty good reasons. 

david , given the proposition of the first first paragraph , the conclusion of 
the second should read 

thus the overwhelming majority of conversations are neither tapped nor 
recorded legally by the government ... 


which completely your argument. to not see this requires an 
unbelievable degree of stupidity or naivete on your part. perhaps it 's time 
for you to own up and say which spook agency you work for .  .  .  . 

paul 


begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 






end pgp signature 


from (p .  . joseph hong ) 
subject hidden markov modeling 
organization institute for theoretical physics 
lines 11 
nntp posting host rad . sunysb . edu . 
summary nsa use of hmm references 
keywords markov modeling nsa 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 

in the article at last ! now you can talk to your computer. in the may 
issue of fortune magazine , it was mentioned that prediction 
used hidden markov modeling .  . this was the statistical method that markov 
developed to predict letter sequences in 's novel , eugene . 
it was then said that this technique worked so well that the nsa used 
it to crack codes .  . 
does anyone have any references for hmm and how the nsa used it 
or is this just an extension of the letter frequency tables that we 
are all using anyway 

joe 

from (george mitchell ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization test systems strategies , inc. , beaverton , oregon 
distribution na 
lines 25 

 ( marc thibault ) writes 
looking at it from up here in the frozen north , it looks like 
you could do worse than get the nra involved. they have a 
kindred problem , a large number of voters , the right attitude , 
and lots of funds .  . 

they also have a lot of the other voters really irritated at them. 

from an ethical or constitutional viewpoint , i have n't seen 
a good argument for cryptographic rights that does n't also 
support the nra position on guns  ( and vice versa) .  . 

okay , folks , i know i'm in the minority on this issue , but i ca n't 
let this assertion go unchallenged yet again. i'm going to say this 
only once , in the hopes of not starting a flame war off of the main 
topic. 

guns are offensive .  . cryptography is defensive .  . see the difference 
the only way you can use a gun is to hurt somebody else. crypto 
helps prevent other people from hurting you. 

sorry for the digression .  . let 's not forget the issue that we do 
agree on we want continued access to crypto technology of our 
choice , without key registration .  . 
george mitchell 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re clipper and conference calls 
organization electronic society 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 01 54 02 gmt 

nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 36 

in article  ( jeff hupp ) writes 
conference calls 
it 's not clipper , it 's any encryption system. i 've seen a number of 
designs they generally involve a multi line cleartext bridge. 

a  multi line cleartext bridge 

and just were would you put that bridge if it is n't at one of 
the location , forget encryption at all. you have blown any 
security you thought you might have had. 

most of the people using encrypted conference bridges these days are 
military  ( or equivalent , like cia and other embassy personnel) , 
so putting bridges on the recipient 's location is normal 
it 's in a vault on a military base or ft. meade , and the 
secure phones are in sound proof rooms with big locks on the doors 
because they 're talking about classified stuff  ( or golf with other generals . ) . 

that paradigm will change as we start using encrypted phones in our 
offices or homes to carry on normal conversations about dinner plans 
and stock purchases and meeting schedules and technical info 
and the good batch of illegal that we got last weekend from bob 
most people do n't use sound proof vaults , and may use bridges in their 
pbx or from the local phone company (3 way calls ) or long distance 
or value added phone company (e . g .  . alliance conference  . 

if is mainly used for the radio portion of cellular phones , 
the conferencing aspects do n't change. but there may be a market niche for 
trusted conference bridge providers , though i suppose the inquisitors 
would try to get a blanket wiretap authorization for many bridges , 
just in case a bad guy might use the service. 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from (george livsey ) 
subject is it illegal to transmit encrypted data 
organization communications services (713) 684 5900 
keywords encryption munitions act 
lines 11 


i am aware of the restrictions imposed by the munitions act 
on the export of cryptographic technology , however , is it illegal to 
transmit encrypted data from the u.s. to another country if so , 
then which laws apply to this situation 



george visualize ! 
net 's worth 
(713) 994 

from (john hesse ) 
subject re fighting the clipper initiative 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 18 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 


er , excuse me but since the escrow agencies are n't yet chosen , how can you 
say they have a history of untrustworthy behavoir sic 

i'm sure each of us can think of agencies without such a history. price 
waterhouse has kept the secret of the academy awards for many years , even in 


damn , you 're dead right ! that pretty much settles it. not to worry. 



john hesse a man , 
a plan , 
moss beach , calif a canal , bob .  . 


from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re my letter about clipper 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa 
lines 30 
nntp posting host chaos . intercon . com . 
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1 

david reeve sward sward writes 
we do n't know this , do we the algorithm is classified .  . 

i speculate , from the mykotronx data sheet on the myk 78 , that the algorithm 
is a classified cryptosystem , similar in application to des but cleared by 
the nsa for classified traffic , that has been in use for a number of years. 
refers to it as government type ii encryption , which matches the 
designation of one of the types of encryption available on stu iii phones , 
and may be the same as a cryptosystem i have heard called . 

this would make sense , since this is evidently a field proven cryptosystem 
which can act as a pin compatible substitute for des .  . combined with a 
tappable key exchange protocol , this would offer exactly what is claimed for 
clipper secure encryption with access via a key escrow .  . if this is fact the 
case , it would make me quite confident of the encipherment algorithm itself. 

now , i do not know if these are in fact the same cryptosystem my knowledge 
of classified cryptography is n't even fuzzy ) , it 's nonexistent .  . however , 
it would certainly have been the least effort approach on the part of the 
government take an old military cipher that people can drop in place of des 
 ( and which is at least as secure ) , set up a key escrow scheme for law 
enforcement , and promote it for public use. this also fits with mykotronx , 
who 's been around but almost invisible for years. 

has anyone else made this sort of connection , or am i just hallucinating pink 
elephants here ) .  . my curiousity has been piqued .  .  .  . 


amanda walker 
intercon systems corporation 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
organization dsi 
lines 25 

in article  ( lynn r grant ) writes 

about 50 people so far have asked , once the fbi gets your clipper keys , 
wo n't they be able to read all your future and past traffic 

there has been no response from nist , nsa , ms. denning , mr. hellman , or 
anyone else who might be able to give us an authoritative answer. 
this is troubling .  . 

the proposal could be modified so that if they get a court order to tap you 
and do n't charge you with a crime within , say , 90 days , they have to buy you 
a new phone. 

if they do charge you , and you are found innocent , they have to buy you a 
new phone. 

) 

david 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (john kelsey ) 
subject crypto papers on the net. 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 13 

i 've recently been reading a paper of merkle 's  ( publixhed only on the 
net , i think) discussing three potential replacements for des .  . was 
ever done with these are khufu , , and or snefru still 
being discussed anywhere (i know snefru is referenced in the rsa 
faq , and i think it may also be in the sci.crypt faq . ) . 
on a related topic , can anyone point me toward good sites to find 
papers articles discussions of cryptology i think i 've about exhausted 
the math sci library here , which does n't seem to have anything more recent 
than about '84 .  . 

thanks. 

john kelsey 

from  ( tree hugger ) 
subject rush limbaugh 's address (oops from before) 
organization usr users  . organization . 
lines 30 
nntp posting host twain . ucs . umass . edu . 

i think this did n't get posted before (i 've been reading 
usenet for the longest time , but never had much interest in posting 
until recently) .  . this is what i typed before 

i have written mr. limbaugh before , and i loathe to use the 
name rush in association with him , because he is unworthy to have a 
name in common with some of the greatest musicians in our time , the 
band , rush .  . 
his address , as some of you wanted is 

he has been to wrapped up in himself to respond to me , but 
maybe some of you will have better luck. ) bye ! 

g bye for now .  .  .  . 

i tree i a.k.a. andy novak 






g bye for now .  .  .  . 

i tree i a.k.a. andy novak 






from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 32 

jon writes 
a person i know , belonging to a research lab of a 
company , claimed to me during a conversation that , given the 
equipment in his lab , he could crack a kerberos ticket in 15 minutes to 
an hour. he had access to rather powerful des hardware , but not of an 
kind , i believe. the attack was possible because of the 
amount of known plaintext in the ticket , which itself constitutes a small 
message. this was two years ago. 

i do n't believe you , and i do n't believe your friend. 

why 

because des is not known to have any known plaintext attacks readily 
availble .  . unless your friend knows something and is keeping it secret , 
he was bullshitting you. 

now , it is possible that he noted a weakness in the implementation of 
the kerberos protocol .  . for instance , using a weak rng to generate keys 
might cut down on the keyspace (not for the user keys for the other 
kind who 's name i ca n't remember) .  . however , this is not what was 
claimed .  . you are claiming a general weakness in des , which is not 
known to exist in the open literature. 

do n't get me wrong des is weaker than it should be. however , 
cracking it in 15 minutes requires more money be spent on the cracking 
machine than any organization i know of has available. 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( marcus j ranum ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
lines 48 
nntp posting host sol . tis . com . 

graham toal writes 
yes. i'm not sure if my to comp . speech . made it to here too , but 
i 've found that a low sample rate  ( 3300 samples sec at 8 bits per sample ) 
plus the pd  shorten  lossless sound compression code actually does get 
speech into 14 . 4k . with a left over. this is definitely worth 
working on , folks. and shorten works in well under real time. 

i do n't think that this should be worked on just in the context 
of cryptography .  . that 's sure to pose all sorts of problems for all sorts 
of people. 

what 's needed is for someone to develop a portable telephone 
quality speech rs232 converter .  . imagine , if you will , a little box that 
takes data on its serial port and puts out sound , and takes sound and codes 
it to signals on its serial port. full duplex .  . now , this device is not a 
cryptographic device. it 's a portable poor man 's sound blaster or whatever 
you want to call it. it 's got loads of perfectly legitimate applications 
for 
a) speech synthesis  ( with a few nifty libraries and some samples ) 
b) speech recording for electronic messaging 
c) building voicemail systems 
d ) internet talk radio 
e) internet relay chat 

of course , some of the electronic messaging in item b might be 
encrypted , possibly realtime , but that 's the user 's decision. one would 
need 2 of these boxes and a pair of modems and some kind of cutout 
to switch over , and some code on , say , a 486 laptop .  . 

i 'd really like to see such a thing developed so that interactive 
internet talk radio could be done. ideally , though , it should be a general 
purpose device. it should be a general purpose enough device that nobody 
should be able to balk at its widespread use. obviously , to make it easy 
for , it should use pretty common hardware. 

it 's interesting to note that i 'd already talked with a couple 
of folks about building such a thing , before this whole clipper thing 
started. i even went so far as to track down a couple of folks who are 
able to make sample units , given incentive and some time. i 'd envisioned 
finding a couple of folks interested in such a project and helping fund 
development of a public domain board layout and parts set , that could 
be published in the form of cad drawings for a couple of major cad 
packages , and in postscript .  . 

anyone interested i 'll start a provisional mailing list. let 
me know if you want on. 

mjr .  . 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re tempest 
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew 
distribution na 
in reply to leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu . 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 19 38 01 gmt 


nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 31 

in article leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu .  ( kirill shklovsky ) writes 
in article  ( ross anderson ) writes 
i'm afraid this does n't work either. we can pick up laptop screens without any 
problem. ... 

i heard somewhere (ca n't name the source) that tempest does not necessarily 
pick up just crts , but it can pick up emissions from almost any chip .  . if 
that is true , the kind monitor would not make any difference becuase everything 
on the screen can be picked up from the video controller .  . can anybody verify 
or refute this 

yes , that 's true. tempest is nothing magic , it 's just listening to any 
available electromagnetic emissions and using all the analysis techniques 
you know to separate out the interesting stuff. 

the nice thing about old crts is that they used to put out lots of 
signal , so they 're easy to detect , and if you do your sync carefully , 
you can watch the output on the monitor in your marked 
chevy step van .  . some brands of electric typewriters were even worse. 
in both cases , it 's especially nice because it gets you the data the 
user is looking at , rather than whatever stuff the paging algorithm is 
paging out to disk , etc. 

with newer , quieter equipment , there is n't as much signal , and it 's harder to 
isolate the fun parts. tempest rated equipment has much lower signal levels. 
but everything has vibrations , as master said. 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
distribution na 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 21 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

in article (ron asbestos dippold ) writes 
(george mitchell ) writes 
guns are offensive .  . cryptography is defensive .  . see the difference 
no. they 're both neutral .  . whether they 're offensive or defensive 
depends on how you use them. 

nonsense. 

mike , in heinlein 's moon is a harsh mistress decides that a weapon is some 
mechanism which allows you to deliver energy at a distance. (i do n't 
have the book handy or i 'd find the exact quote) .  . 

guns do that. 

cryptosystems do not. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

subject re freely distributable public key cryptography c code where 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 17 

in marc vanheyningen writes 

pgp is not available on the archive site rsa . com .  . if it were , it 
would be highly amusing , since rsa . com .  ( actually public key partners , 
but it 's the same entity ) is the organization holding the patents 
which they claim are violated if you actually make , use or sell pgp .  . 
i believe those patents also apply in canada , but i'm not a patent 
lawyer or anything. 

the patents do n't apply in canada .  . i think the free trade agreement may 
provide for recognition of new patents , but not old ones. 



arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re subliminal channels in dss 
organization capriccioso 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 59 

may i suggest that any any proposed cipher system 
having less entropy than the user 's key and message can have 
an embedded subliminal channel as big as the 
difference in between the entropy of the user 
input  ( message ) and the entropy of the output 

for example , take plain des .  . the unsuspecting 
user inputs a string plaintext to be enciphered .  . 

he cranks the algorithm which has been hacked 
by george quisling and comes out with j  . 

nine char in and nine chars out. right 

the user ships the ciphertext 
to be and the message plaintext 
is produced .  . everything fine , right nope .  . 


imagine the algorithm did a lz compression 
on plaintext before desing .  .  ( compressing is 
down to four characters with more entropy 

9 wj 

the opponent now pads the message with his 
own message , also compressed 



before applying des to the concatenated 
compressed pairs .  . when , the 
first compressed message is stripped off 
and declared sent. to the 
receiver , the opponents accomplice collects 
the remaining message in the bit bucket and 
to kill now. 

and to prevent all such subliminal or covert 
storage channels you would need to have 
maximal entropy all the time which is 
a priori impossible because  ( for example) 
a stereotypical message might be 
replaced by one bit in the output reserving 
the rest of the output bits for the long 
covert message. 

in other words , if you opponent get to muck 
with the algorithm you either have got to 
muck with it last or concede his possible 
embedding of covert channels .  . 

in other words , if you present a message 
to an opponet with less than maximal entropy 
then you have given him free bits of storage. 


2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re is key escrow enough 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

the points raised about checking what is actually in the chip , as 
opposed to what is allegedly programmed therein , raise yet another trust 
issue. even if we assume that these trusted agents are really entering 
a wide range of s1 and s2 seeds  ( rather than using the same one all the 
time to reduce the key search space to 30 bits) , i assume they are not 
doing so by picking up an iron filing and poking it into the circuitry 
at carefully selected points to encode data. they would presumably be 
punching numbers into a computer , which for all they know could program 
the chips in a manner completely independent of the s1 and s2 values they 
are feeding into the system. 





from  ( doug bank) 
subject re encryption chip availibility 
reply to 
organization motorola land mobile products sector 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 146 . 35 . 
lines 21 

in article , writes 
in article , stephen j. 
says 

hi everybody ! 

does anyone know of companies that are currently manufacturing 
encryption chips for sale to the general public get them while you 
can ! some pointers would be greatly appreciated. 

motorola certainly makes them , but i do n't know how you 
would go about buying one. you 'd probably have to buy one 
of our secure radios .  . 

you could also bring in encryption chips from outside the country. 


doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications sector 
schaumburg , illinois 
708 576 8207 

from mathew 
subject re new encryption 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 02 . 
lines 15 

 ( haywood j. blowme ) writes 
additonally i spoke with mr. melnick about their algorithm .  . he could n't tell 
me much about their new because it has n't been patented yet. 
... 
right now the company is afraid that the new clipper chip will put them out 
of business. this is a very real possibility .  . so they really need help in 
stopping the clipper chip from becoming a standard. 

if they 're planning on patenting an algorithm , then i hope they go out of 
business as quickly as possible. and you can tell them i said that. 

i'm sure many other readers of these newsgroups will agree , too. 


mathew 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re the clipper chip a technical summary 
organization dsi 
lines 14 


pat myrto says if law enforcement wants keys , let them get a court order and 
then ask him for them. 

most use of probably cause wiretapping warrants is n't to decrypt historical 
traffic , but for prospective listening once probably cause is established .  . 
pat 's approach would tip off the crooks .  . 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( gideon yuval ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization microsoft corporation 
lines 21 

in article  ( graham toal ) writes 
does dorothy denning read this group if not , is someone on the group 
forwarding questions like these to her , or martin hellman , or anyone else 
who 's seen more details about the chip 

of course she does it 's just she 's been toasted so often for being 
an nsa patsy that she 's keeping her head down. you can always mail 
her directly as , 
or 

g 

i found the personal attacks on prof. denning pretty disgusting .  . 
i do n't agree with all her positions but i think scholars can 
disagree without the argument getting into the gutter .  . 

if these personal attacks are what stopped prof. denning from 
replying on issues of substance , they have cause real harm 
to the serious debate here. 

gideon yuval , , 206 882 8080  ( fax 883 8101 160520 ) 

from  ( bi chen ) 
subject help where is faq for sci.crypt and other questions 
organization worcester polytechnic institute , worcester , ma 01609 2280 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host wpi . wpi . edu . 


dear netters 

i have been scanning this news group for a while but has not found a faq .  . 
could someone enlight me where to find the faq if there is a one. also , 
could someone recommend a few good books about and decription , 
about patent information , goverment regulation on this science technology. 
i will appreciate any of your help very much. 

sincerely 

bi chen 



from  ( matthew lyle ) 
subject re clipper chip reverse engineering 
organization systems , dallas , tx 
lines 31 

 ( mark a allyn ) writes 
you all mention that the algorithm is classified and have expressed 
concerns and ideas of how to figure out the algorithm using software. 

the question that i have is why cant someone take one of these chips 
and reverse engineer it i mean , take the thing to a chip testing 
analysis facility , one with a decent electron microscope .  . just pry 
off the top of the chip and start scanning it with the electron 
and figure out the circuitry .  . i remembered a place that i use 
to work for had one of these facilities that they used to analyze chips 
that we accidently blew out while running tests. they could actually find 
the area that was fried and show us where in the circuit it was. 

i am sure that many companies and universities must have these facilities 
and that the potential is there , especially at a university where the 
security at such a facility is looser , for someone to take a clipper 
apart and analyze it 

what can the government do to prevent this start taking away all 
analysis facilities and electron microscopes 


they are using some technology developed by vlsi systems , the other manufacturer of 
the clipper chips , that produces chips that are supposed to be highly resistant to 
reverse engineering .  . 



matthew lyle 

system , dallas , texas (214) 888 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re is it illegal to transmit encrypted data 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 7 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

i'm afraid i have to disagree with you on that point. nsa will not 
tell rsa or any other non dod entity anything that its eavesdropping 
reveals .  . 

i do n't know about that they might if they find it the most expedient 
way to keep people from using something they ca n't crack .  . 


from  ( hal finney ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 26 
nntp posting host alumni . caltech . edu . 

 ( graham toal ) writes 

i forwarded an old posting about celp speech compression 
... 
i 've since been told that the source of this is on cygnus . com . 
in pub celp . speech . tar . z . 

i'm not in a position to any sun tcp ip gurus out there who think they 
can marry this with by the end of the week ) seriously. i 
think someone with real net access and two could have this running 
by the end of the week. then we ask the pgp guys to add a bytestream 
crypto filter .  . two weeks at the most. damn , i wish i had my sparc 
back .  .  .  . i'm stuck on a 386sx 

i tried this code yesterday. on my sparcstation elc it takes over 
300 seconds to compress 22 seconds  worth of speech. this means that it 
needs to be optimized by over a factor of 10 before it will be usable 
in even a half duplex mode. 

i question whether celp is the best approach for this application. it produces 
great compression but at the expense of tremendous cpu loads .  . we want 
something that can be run on ordinary workstations or even high end pc 's 
without dsp cards. my guess is that some other algorithm is going to be 
a better starting point. 

hal finney 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re tempest 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 6 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

the low radiation claims one sees on monitors these days pertain to 
allegedly harmful electromagnetic emissions , which does not necessarily have 
anything to do tempest security. 
(i think the alleged hazard is bs , but that 's another topic . ) . 



from  ( johan wevers ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization department of physics , eindhoven university of technology. 
lines 19 
nntp posting host blade . stack . urc . tue . nl . 

 ( matthew t. russotto ) writes 

in the clipper case , a representative body of experts is going to be allowed 
to audit it , and we 'll have assurances  ( maybe even from the president ) that 
other than the escrowed keys there are no back doors. while some may not 
have confidence in that (i am not among them) 

wow , assurances from the president. why , those are almost as good as 
campaign promises ! i do n't see why anyone would n't have confidence in 
those. 

i do n't think mr. clinton can even understand the technical details of 
the clipper encryption scheme .  . so , his assurances are of no value at 
al , if he gives them he just says what a panel of  ( experts ) told him. 
if i lived in the usa , i would hope those experts were not paid by the 
fill here you favorite 3 letter combination . 

j . c . a .  . the only nature of reality is physics .  . 


from  ( greg onufer ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
organization sun microsystems computer corporation , mtn .  . view , california 
lines 229 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cheers 

in graham toal writes 
in article  ( hal finney ) writes 
i tried this code yesterday. on my sparcstation elc it takes over 
300 seconds to compress 22 seconds  worth of speech. this means that it 
needs to be optimized by over a factor of 10 before it will be usable 
in even a half duplex mode. 

ouch ! thanks for trying it. 

the following program is a very quick hack i created a few months 
ago to determine whether a sun sparcstation ipc could perform 
real time , full duplex encrypted audio with resulting data rates 
sustainable by today 's modems .  . 

this test program reads linearly encoded audio from the audio device , 
compresses it with gsm 06 . 10 .  ( compresses frames of 160 13 bit samples 
recorded at into 260 bits resulting in a 50 hz frame rate) , encrypts 
it with des , then the process and sends the reconstructed audio 
back to the audio device. the compressed , encrypted audio stream 
is 13 s ( ! ) .  . 

my sparcstation ipc (not exactly a very fast machine these days , 
certainly slower than an elc ) would just barely sustain this activity 
 ( audio would but the speech was very  . i 
ran it as a real time process to get the best results. remember , 
though , that this program is a quick hack and the performance can 
certainly be improved .  . 

the audio compression routines can be ftp 'd from tub . cs . tu . berlin.de , 
i believe  ( look for gsm or  . i used eric young 's des 
implementation but i no longer know where i got it from. 

cheers ! greg 

cut here 

test program to see how much cpu it takes for secure digital audio. 
written by g. 

written on a sun ipc running solaris 2.2 with a sun isdn s bus card 
and a  . 

include stdlib.h 
include h . 
include h . 
include stdio.h 
include sys types.h 
include sys h . 
include h . 

include gsm . h . 
include des . h . 

boolean t 
audio  ( init(int fd , audio info t prev info) 

audio info t info 

if  ( prev info ! null ) 
if  ( ioctl(fd , audio , prev info) 0) 
 ( perror audio ) 
return (b false) 



audio  ( initinfo info) 

info . record . pause . b true 
info . play . pause . b true 

info . play . sample . rate 8000 
info . play . encoding . audio encoding linear 
info . play . channels . 1 
info . play . precision . 16 
info . record . sample . rate 8000 
info . record . encoding . audio encoding linear 
info . record . channels . 1 
info . record . precision . 16 

info . record . buffer . size 320 4 

if  ( ioctl(fd , audio , info) 0) 
 ( perror audio ) 
return (b false) 


if  ( ioctl(fd , i flush , flushrw ) 0) 
 ( perror i flush ) 
return (b false) 



audio  ( initinfo info) 

info . record . pause . b false 
info . play . pause . b false 

if  ( ioctl(fd , audio , info) 0) 
 ( perror audio ) 
return (b false) 


return (b true) 



boolean t 
 ( in(int , gsm handle , gsm byte buf ) 

gsm signal sample 160 

if  ( read(ifd , sample , sizeof  ( sample ) ! sizeof  ( sample ) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , in short read n ) 
return (b false) 


gsm  ( encode(handle , sample , buf ) 

return (b true) 



boolean t 
 ( out(int , gsm handle , gsm byte buf ) 

gsm signal sample 160 

if  ( gsm  ( decode(handle , buf , sample ) 0) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , out gsm decode failed n ) 
return (b false) 


if  ( write(ofd , sample , sizeof  ( sample ) ! sizeof  ( sample ) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , out short write n ) 
return (b false) 


return (b true) 



 ( main( ) 

gsm handle 
gsm frame frame 
int 
int option 
des key , in , out 
des key schedule ks in , ks out 
des in 4 , out 4 , buf 4 

 ( open dev audio , o rdwr ) 
if  ( audiofd 0) 
 ( perror open ) 
 ( exit(4 ) 



initialize gsm compression code 

if  ( handle gsm  ( create( ) null ) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , gsm create failed n ) 
 ( exit(4 ) 


option b true 
if  ( gsm  ( option(handle , gsm opt fast , option) 0) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , gsm option  ( fast ) failed n ) 
 ( exit(4 ) 



initialize des code 

des random  ( key key) 

if  ( des set  ( key key , ks in) 0) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , des set key failed n ) 
 ( exit(4 ) 

if  ( des set  ( key key , ks out) 0) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , des set key failed n ) 
 ( exit(4 ) 

 ( memset(ivec in , 0 , sizeof  ( ivec in ) 
 ( memset(ivec out , 0 , sizeof  ( ivec out ) 


open audio device and configure it 

if ( ! audio  ( init(audiofd , null ) 
 ( exit(3 ) 

for ( ) 

get 160 samples (16 bit linear 8000hz ) and 
convert to a 33 byte frame 

if ( !  ( in(audiofd , handle , frame ) 
 ( exit(1 ) 


encrypt decrypt block 

des cbc  ( encrypt(frame , out ,  ( long)32 ) , ks in , in , 
des encrypt ) 
des cbc  ( encrypt(cbuf out , buf ,  ( long)32 ) , ks out , out , 
des decrypt ) 

 ( memmove(frame , buf , 32) 

if 0 
if  ( memcmp(cbuf in , buf , 32) ! 0) 
 ( fprintf(stderr , failed n ) 
 ( exit(4 ) 

endif 


take 33 byte frame and convert to 160 samples 
and play 

if ( !  ( out(audiofd , handle , frame ) 
 ( exit(2 ) 


gsm  ( destroy(handle ) 

cut here 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re suggestions for escrow agencies  ( was re more technical details) 
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 19 31 22 gmt 

nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 46 

in article (david sternlight ) 
brings up the issue of how the escrow agent will be paid , and the fact 
that the government had financial leverage if they do n't cooperate .  . 
it 's an important issue , especially if one of the escrow agents 
decides they 'd rather stop offering the service. 
i assume that if the escrow agent is n't the government , 
then the contract for providing escrow service would include some 
termination clause like returning the keys. 

the easiest way is a user fee for each clipper chip manufactured .  . 
this makes the funding separate from government. 

but who 's the user paying the fees here , and what 's the service 
if the user is the government , then the funding 's not separate from the government. 

if the user is the buyer , what 's the service 
keeping the key for me no thanks i do n't need , and wo n't buy their service ! 
not telling everybody my key sounds like blackmail ! 

if the user is the manufacturer , does the user have a choice about buying 
the alternative is to just generate the key and not escrow it , which is fine 
i 'd certainly pay more for this kind of key than an escrowed key ! 

face it , the escrow provider is providing a service the users do n't want. 
the only people who want it are the government , not the users. 
what you 're really talking about is either the government paying for 
the service , up front or per year , either from general taxes , 
or from a special direct tax on wiretap chips , or on an indirect tax 
 ( forcing the manufacturer to pay the fee to the escrow agent . ) . 

i hope the escrow people have no way of finding out your name from 
your serial number , especially if the escrow is a government agency .  . 

here in new jersey , we have lots of people willing to provide that 
sort of services for user fees .  . there are people willing to keep your 
store from burning down for a small monthly fee , though sometimes people 
refuse to pay and discover that the service really was effective. 
if you go to a baseball game at yankee stadium , there are people who 
will watch your car in the parking lot for a small user fee. 
something could scratch the paint , after all. 
and what a shame if your clipper key got out ! 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
organization electronic society 
in reply to 's message of 25 apr 93 21 59 33 gmt 

nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 22 

in article  ( jim gillogly ) writes 
i did. you 're mistaken .  . nsa 's communications intelligence mission is 
strictly against foreign governments .  . here 's an excerpt from the enabling 
charter (24 oct 52 , truman ) that should clarify this. the charter was 
declassified in about feb 1990 when an foia request made it public. 
interesting ! where can i get the whole thing 

nsa is not in the standard setting business , though that 's why this 
clipper stuff came from nist , which i believe is with coming up 
with standards based on their best inputs from other government agencies , 
which would include nsa .  . 

several of the newspaper reports have made it fairly clear that the 
nsa did all the real work. you ca n't believe everything you read in 
the papers ) , but the package of information the nist is faxing out 
has so little information beyond what 's widely known that it sounds 
like it 's true. 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( lulu of the lotus eaters ) 
subject info on mathematics of encryption wanted 
organization university of massachusetts , amherst 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host twain . ucs . umass . edu . 

i just signed up for this group , so i hope i'm not missing something 
in a faq , but i'm looking for a good introduction to the mathematics 
of encryption particularly des and public key , though others would 
be interesting also. probably a good library could help me out , but i 
thought it might be even easier if i could obtain a nice article 
entirely electronically  ( besides , i have this rather rational phobia 
of libraries for reasons stemming from this dissertation thing 
hanging over my head )) .  . 
i have a basic knowledge of mathematics .  .  .  . number theory is a 
bit unfamiliar to me , but i 've had a few graduate level math courses 
in some other areas anyway , i'm not a complete novice to the field. 
so probably something aimed at a basic graduate introductory level 
would be about right. something , anyway , which is more specific than 
a really big prime number is generated to code the message . 
if someone knows of a good text available by ftp  ( or gopher ) , 
or would like to email me one .  .  .  . please let me know. i 'll probably keep 
reading this group but it would be nice if you would email me at the 
same time , so i do n't miss it. 

thanx ,  .  .  . 

this message was brought to you by enterprises 

the opinions expressed here must be those of my employer .  .  .  . 
surely you do n't think that i believe them ! 

from  ( william smythe ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
nntp posting host its . rpi . edu . 
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny 
lines 41 

in article  ( nathaniel sammons ) writes 
1) i think that most of us can afford a stamp and an envelope , and the 
cost of printing out a letter. 

2) if some kind soul out there would write a letter , and upload it to 
the net , everyone could capture it , print it out , and snail mail it 
out to their local congressional critter .  . 

btw i'm working on one. 

dear senator congressman president fill in the blank 

i am writing you to voice my strong opposition to president clinton 's clipper 
chip initiative .  . this proposal to establish a secret government designed 
cryptography chip with government key registration as the standard for voice 
encryption is very disturbing .  . the idea that citizens must register their 
secrets with the government just in case they are trying to keep them secret 
is patently unamerican .  . additionally , the press release for this program 
strongly implied that other forms of cryptography would be banned after the 
clipper chip standard is in place. this latest attack on our civil rights is 
deeply disturbing and is frankly a voting issue for me. 

the presidents press release stated that the plan strikes a balance between the 
legitimate needs of law enforcement and a citizens right to privacy but this 
is not the case. the fact is that since other strong cryptographic equipment 
is avalible the criminals , drug dealers and terrorists mentioned in the press 
release will simply use non clipper cryptography .  . meanwhile the average citizen 
may gain no protection against wiretaps by the government since the 
government escrowed key is derived from the unit serial number 
which is broadcast by the chip its  . this seems like an 
obvious back door for the nsa and law enforcement .  . if you still do 
understand my objection to key registration , consider the way j. edgar hoover 
blackmailed government officials like yourself would you now use a phone to 
transmit personal details of your life that the nsa and fbi have the keys to 



well heres a letter , i didnt spell check it since i dont know how in emacs 
so you might want to do that. 

bill smythe 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
article i.d. rwing . 2109 . 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 99 

in article  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 
in article  ( jerry han ) writes 
in this giant bally ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather 
disturbing trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've tossing back and 
forth. 
... deleted ... 
a circut court judge in illinois once said when dealing with a government 
that seeks continually new and more creative ways to spy on its  citizenry , 
one cannot discourage the move to the common citizen with the means 
to parry this attack on personal privacy .  . 

(unfortunately the comment was with regard to the banning of radar 
detectors .  .  .  . ) . 

the point remains .  . more and more i see the government slowly washing 
away privacy .  . even unwittingly .  . do you think i will ever live in a 
that issues smart cards to citizens at birth do you think i 
will live in a that insists i register my crypto keys so they 
can keep track of what i'm saying even if there is no evidence of my 
guilt do you think i will ever live in a that seeks to meddle 
in the affairs of its  citizenry without recourse of any kind i'm tired 
of it. there is (imho) no compromise with an administration that seeks 
to implement these proposals under the guise of enhancing privacy .  . 

more than the proposals themselves , i read the language of the press 
releases , the obvious deception involved in presenting these pieces to 
the public , and i am sickened .  . i am revolted .  . i am repulsed .  . 

90 , perhaps even 95 of this country could care less about the 
clipper chip , the wiretap bill , the smart card , because they are so 
in the rhetoric of the clinton administration. 

the problem is , the people are not having the scope , or 
pointed out to them. hell , most have n't even heard of clipper , and 
when they do , it will be in soothing language telling everyone how 
nice the government is at  letting them have  privacy .  . 

how come the media is not telling about the provisions of the clipper 
decision the provisions of the crime bill the abuses of civil forfeiture 
the government uses polls to support 75 percent of the people want 
gun bans , etc. , yet the same pollsters have determined  ( according to 
the media ) that 30 percent of the people are unaware of what the holocaust 
is .  .  .  . 

the people cannot be expected to give decent decisions when they are 
denied the information that all these abuses and away of 
rights are going on quietly .  . when they find out  ( when it hits them) , 
it will be too late. one cannot expect each citizen to spend all their 
time probing , searching , researching , etc. for example , how big a 
percentage of the average population even has access to usenet way 
less than 1 percent , i bet. how many outside of internet usenet 
are even aware of what big brother is doing , or have been exposed to 
arguments of both sides of the issue 

what the public will get is only one side the government 's side. 

that is scary. 


this and frightens me. 

i am a believe it or not. a law and order  . 
but the move to a centralized regime really scares me , 
mostly because i know you cant go far wrong the 
intelligence of the american people. tell them it 's going to keep 
them safe from drug dealers and terrorists , and they will let you 
put cameras in their home. 

how can the bulk of the people be informed , when the media refuses to 
do it 

even in the wake of waco , you find those who support the increasingly 
moves .  . 

somebody once said something like armed violence is meant only to be 
used in response to an armed attack. it is not meant to be used in 
agression .  . this is the difference between self defence and murder .  . 

to be quite honest , the way things are going , i 'd call it self defense .  . 

let 's try to avoid killing things , eh there 's enough blood shed in the 
world , without adding a couple of riots , civil wars , etc. 

i'm probably overreacting .  . but what i 've read scared me a lot. i do n't 
want my children growing up in a war zone. 


and i dont want mine up in the eyes of a security camera 
24 hours a day. 

the people at large need to be informed .  . but how i am but one person. 
i try to talk to everyone that will listen , but i can hardly make any 
kind of dent .  . 


without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

from  ( carl ijames ) 
subject re revised technical summary of clipper chip 
organization national institutes of health 
lines 44 

in article , writes 

each chip includes the following components 

the skipjack encryption algorithm 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips 
n , a 30 bit serial number  ( this length is subject to change) 
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip 
... 

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t 
telephone security device  ( as it will be) .  . suppose i call someone and 
we both have such a device. after pushing a button to start a secure 
conversation , my security device will negotiate an 80 bit session key k 
with the device at the other end. this key negotiation takes place 
without the clipper chip .  . in general , any method of key exchange can 
be used such as the diffie hellman public key distribution method. 

once the session key k is established , the clipper chip is used to 
encrypt the conversation or message stream m  ( digitized voice) .  . the 
telephone security device feeds k and m into the chip to produce two 
values 

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field , 
... 

which are transmitted over the telephone line. the law enforcement 
field thus contains the session key k encrypted under the unit key u 
concatenated with the serial number n , all encrypted under the family 
key f. the law enforcement field is decrypted by law enforcement after 
an authorized wiretap has been installed. 

is the u used in the law enforcement field from the phone which placed the 
call , from the unit whose  start secure session  button was pressed first , 
or does each phone transmit its own law enforcement field even assuming 
one of the first two choices , the fbi is going to get a fresh n , u for its 
own database about every other phone call , eventually accumulating keys for 
all the phones used to connect to the line they are monitoring , not just 
the  suspects  key.  ( assuming the ever thrifty fbi does n't forget each key 
after its wiretap permission has expired . ) . not quite a pyramid , but not 
bad , either. 

carl more worried every day. 

from  ( william w. hughes ) 
subject re tempest 
nntp posting host lonestar . utsa . edu . 
organization university of texas at san antonio 
distribution na 
lines 16 

in article  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
 ( william w. hughes ) writes 
hell , just set up a spark jammer , or some other very electrically noisy 
device. 

as i 've noted , you can likely get around that with a directional 
sensor .  . phased array systems could completely defeat this scheme .  . 

true , but the basic idea behind any communications security system is not 
to absolutely deny access , but to make access more expensive  ( in time , 
money , manpower ) than it is worth. 


remember waco ! 
who will the government decide to murder next maybe you 
opinions are mine i do n't care if you blame the university or the state. 

from  ( ted crum ) 
subject re trademark violation claimed 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 6 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host garnet . berkeley . edu . 
keywords clipper , wiretap 


the risc processor made by fairchild , sold to intergraph , much the same 
story as the r4000 .  . 

remember how lost the control of star wars when the dod started 
using the name the loss was confirmed in court. 

from (michael golan ) 
subject clipper serial numbers need 2nd court order 
originator 
nntp posting host atomic . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 28 

something that no one has discussed yet  ( or i missed it) 

the fbi sets up a wiretap after the court order was handed .  . 
only at this point they can access the line and detect 
the serial number n. 

what happens next , does the fbi simply asks for the keys 
for n , and , since a warrant was issued for the line , the fbi 
simply gets it what if multiple phones are used from the 
same house , the fbi just asks for n1 , n2 , etc. 

exactly who is to prevent the fbi from claiming some 
other serial number , x , was also used over the 
line and get the keys for x 

either a second court order  ( for the specific serial key) 
is required  ( and i have seen no indication of this) , or 
the fbi can effectively ask for any pair of keys at any 
time , so the escrow key holders are a total fake. 

an unrelated issue if and when all phones always use 
the clipper chip , how are call transfers going to take 
place ! 


michael golan 



from (david sternlight ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
organization dsi 
distribution na 
lines 17 

in article 
 ( perry e. metzger ) writes 



no one has mentioned violence other than you , mr. han .  . i believe you 
are things. 

this is factually incorrect .  . there was at least one message that said that 
waco and clipper justified anything in response. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( karl barrus ) 
subject re wiretapping reality today 
organization university of houston 
lines 27 


nntp posting host menudo . uh . edu . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 20 48 36 gmt 


david sternlight writes 
a little perspective might be in order. 

i cannot believe you can make these claims given hard evidence of 
abuse .  . do you ignore stories about of martin luther 
king , have you blocked from your mind mccarthy 's crusade in the 50 's 

the number of court ordered wire taps is pretty low. 

and how many illegal wiretaps are performed funny , but i 'll be that 
the fbi does n't keep statistics on these ! 

confidential illegal wiretap 


karl l. barrus 
preferred address 
 ( nextmail ) 




karl l. barrus 
preferred address 
 ( nextmail ) 


from (john flanagan ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization university of hawaii , dept. of physics astronomy 
distribution inet 
lines 25 

in article 
(david hayes ) writes 

this company routinely sent most of the manufacturing data to the field 
offices .  . the japanese had simply intercepted it. so my friend , the computer 
systems admin , came up with a solution. he started sending the data out 
double block encrypted with des .  . 

two days after this new distribution plan was implemented , the president of 
the company got a visit from a pair of government agents .  . they told him to 
knock it off . the president gave in , since his company did a considerable 
business with the federal government. 

now , if the government was n't monitoring the communications , how would they 
even know that the encryption system was installed 

how can you be sure the two visitors were really government agents 
) 

john 

john flanagan i believe in my theories , 
they give me a feeling of 
u. of hawaii , dept. of physics astro .  . security , and , they inflate 
rd. , honolulu , hi my ego enormously .  . a. 

from  ( steve kramarsky ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution inet 
lines 34 

in article (steven bellovin ) writes 

that is the cops send the to the f holder. the f holder strips 
off f , and sends u k , n to the escrow agents .  . they send either u or k 
to the cops .  .  ( don says u , i say k . ) . the cops ca n't use u in the 
future , because they ca n't strip off f. the f holder never sees u. in 
don 's model , the escrow agents ca n't read the traffic , because they 
do n't have k in my model , they have k , but not the message itself. 
and i trust that more because i think the cops and the fbi (the 
f holder ) are more likely to collaborate on breaking the rules. the 
net result is that by involving the f holder and the escrow agents on 
every tap , we can avoid extending permission to tap .  . 

i 've been reading this board passively for a while now and find the 
subject absolutely fascinating , especially from the point of view of 
a civil rights nut like myself. my problem is that i'm new to the field 
and paragraphs like the above keep popping up. i'm sure what mr. 
bellovin is writing about is both fascinating and important , but i have 
no idea what it means. ) 

anyway i'm keen to learn and will read anything i can get my hands on 
that explains this stuff in lay terms (i have a decent cs background , but 
not a huge amount of hyper advanced  . can anyone point me to a faq 
or a decent source of information about the guts of current cryptography and 
maybe a little history as well i read the piece in this month 's wired , can 
anyone tell me how much i should trust the references they suggest 

thanks in advance , 
steve .  . 


steve kramarsky , university of chicago law school 
or 
all i did was kiss a girl. jake , the night before his hanging .  . 

from  ( free radical ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
nntp posting host damon . ccs . northeastern . edu . 
organization college of cs , northeastern u 
distribution inet 
lines 43 

in article steve 
 ( steve brinich ) writes 
... 
feds we need the keys to joe blow 's phone. 

escrow agent joe blow you have a warrant to tap his line 

feds well , no , but we have a warrant to tap carlos slime devil gonzales  
line , and our tap shows that mr. gonzales is using mr. blow 's phone. 

escrow agent well , ok .  .  .  .  . 

no no no no no no no. 

it will go like this 

feds we need the key to phone  . 

escrow you have a warrant to tap the line phone is on 

feds yes. 

escrow fine , here is our key. 

what happens is , feds tap a line find clipper is being used extract 
serial number get key decipher  . the serial number is never 
registered to a specific owner , it is sent as part of the 
conversation. if i give you my clipper phone , you do not need to 
re register it  ( mainly because it was never  registered  to me in the 
first place) .  . 

there are a lot of things that bother me about clipper , but this is 
not one of them. let 's get our facts straight and not waste effort 
straw men. 

ra 

 ( rogue agent sod ! ) 

the nsa is now funding research not only in cryptography , but in all areas 
of advanced mathematics .  . if you 'd like a circular describing these new 
research opportunities , just pick up your phone , call your mother , and 
ask for one. 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
lines 16 

i do n't think mr. clinton can even understand the technical details of 
the clipper encryption scheme .  . so , his assurances are of no value at 
al , if he gives them he just says what a panel of  ( experts ) told him. 
if i lived in the usa , i would hope those experts were not paid by the 
fill here you favorite 3 letter combination . 

the doctrine of plausible deniability . no one is going to tell him 
it has a back door. the nsa will assume he has the sense to work it out 
for himself or they would n't be pushing it. clinton might even believe 
the nsa when they tell him , for the record , it does n't have a back door. 

and no foia request in the world will ever find it. these guys do n't 
play by that set of rules. they have their own rule book , and no , you 're 
not allowed to see that either. 

g 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re wiretapping reality today 
organization dsi 
lines 22 

in article  ( jamie jamison ) writes 


again we have the trust in government problem here. members of 
mr. sternlight 's generation trust the government to a degree which 
members of my generation find ridiculous. i would suggest that mr. sternlight 
read about the program , or about j. edgar hoover , or about 

you should read the history. it was hoover who stopped nixon 's 
dead in its tracks because he said it was unconstitutional .  . they tried to 
get around him every way they could. 

despite other things he may have done , for this alone , hoover saved the 
constitution .  . 

david 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( rahul dhesi ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
nntp posting host bolero 
organization network 
distribution na 
lines 20 

in  ( pat myrto ) writes 

how come the media is not telling about the provisions of the clipper 
decision ... 

how can the bulk of the people be informed , when the media refuses to 
do it 

the answer to your second question lies in the way you phrased the 
first one 'the media is .  .  . ' .  . 

the is n't  . the media  .  media  means  more than one 
medium . ' . there are thousands of publications .  . some say this , some say 
that. 

how can the bulk of the people be informed , when they wo n't read 
informative publications 

rahul 
also 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re the escrow database. 
organization dsi 
lines 41 

in article 
 ( steve gardner ) writes 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
after the waco massacre and the big brother wiretap chip , any tactic 
is fair. 

this is pernicious nonsense ! 
in what way david our government is totally out of control , 
whether you realize it or not. i know you find it painful to 
think of your old buddy uncle sam as evil but it 's true. other 
democracies have fallen before. ours is on its way and knee jerk 
sheep that instinctively trust government are helping it slide .  . 
power corrupts david , why is that so hard to understand 


that was n't my point. my point is that your implied position about the waco 
massacre is an assertion cum political position. according to a cnn poll , 
about 86 of americans think the fbi acted properly , and a majority think 
they should have done it (the tear gas ) a lot sooner. a large majority also 
believe the fbi was not at all responsible for the death of the victims , 
koresh was.  ( let 's avoid the kind of fruitless argument of the sort if a 
had n't x 'd , then b might not have y 'd .  .  .  . ) . 

what you call the big brother chip is right now a proposal under 
discussion , and it is not yet clear that strong crypto is going to be 
banned. 

therefore neither justifies any tactic is fair. thus the statement is 
nonsense. it is pernicious , because any tactic can lead to damaging 
others. 

as i see you know from the tone of your reply , there 's nothing personal 
intended. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( steve gardner ) 
subject re hearing on 29 april 1993 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
lines 44 
nntp posting host imagine . convex . com . 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 

in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
a personal desire for  privacy  most certainly will not be regarded as 
a  legitimate need  
why do you want such strong security , especially from  legitimate law 
enforcement  an individual with  legitimate  endeavors would not be so 
concerned government is not in the business of revealing your personal 
secrets to the public .  .  .  . so you must be trying to conceal or planning 
to conceal some unlawful or criminal activity .  .  .  . do you have something 
to hide , hmmmm 
you have underlined here the battle that must be fought .  . it is 
a battle for the hearts and minds of the american public. 
people must realize that the government is not their a fit 
father confessor . the government does not have a right to 
share our every thought the moment we decide to share that 
thought with someone else at a distance. in order to protect 
ourselves from a government bent on undermining the constitution 
we must realize that our government is our enemy as much if not 
more than the soviet union ever was. this is hard for 
some people who have been brought up with loyalty to our government 
cast as being with patriotism .  . 

i expect that initially there will be some people selected either at 
random , or who happen to have been  troublemakers  for the purposes of 
 making an example  for those who think the feds are not serious about 
this .  .  .  .  ( mega ' ( 's) 
we must be and make sure that we do not let such 
events go by  . we must be willing to fight the 
government at every step of the way. 

that is what has me going so damned ballistic .  .  .  . it is exactly how 
the logic goes when someone gives a  tip  that your home has been 
used to store drugs .  .  .  . note no trace of drugs need to be found on 
the property .  .  .  . only some bozo who will say  . i stored stuff in 
that dude 's house .  .  . ' .  ( probably to get out of a 10 year sentence for 
 . much more cost effective to let him walk , to bust another 
day , and hit the with your assets .  .  .  . 
its time we rolled back this nonsense. civil forfeiture is 
the most effective end run around the constitution that has 
ever been promulgated .  . our enemy used to be the soviets now 
it is clearly our own government. 



smg 

from (james davies ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization cray computer corporation 
lines 19 

in article (david koontz ) writes 
clipper also allows an extraordinary opportunity for the criminal to 
conceal use of super encryption .  . an automated full system surveillance 
mechanism  ( quite feasible across radio bandwidth) which knows family key f , 
can validate clipper wrappers and n esn associations , but it cannot reveal 
in realtime the use of super encryption , unless it knows all unit keys , 
which we are being assured are only to be made available in two separate 
pieces , upon specific wiretap like order. 

the serial number will be in a 64 bit block , with a 34 bit filler .  . does n't 
take a lot to check to see if that is correct. 

yes , but the extra encryption could be applied before the message 
is encrypted by the clipper , so that the wrapper would be fine , the 
phone 's serial number and the session key would be in the law enforcement 
field , etc. , but the message would n't be readable even if the particular 
clipper 's key were obtained from the escrow agents .  . in fact , it should n't 
even be possible to detect that a message has been double encrypted without 
a court order , right 

from (john nagle ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
keywords nea 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 36 

 ( arthur melnick ) writes 
ever since craig rowland posted his piece new encryption 
to sci.crypt there has been some discussion of our company , 
secured communications technologies , inc , and on encryption 
algorithm , nea .  . 

the classic comment on new encryption algorithms comes from 
friedman 

no new cypher is worth considering unless it comes 
from someone who has already broken a very hard one. 

historically , friedman has been right. it 's really hard to develop 
a good cypher .  . ibm 's lucifer , the precursor to des , turns out to have 
been fatally flawed .  . most of the des like systems other than des seem 
to be vulnerable to differential cryptanalysis .  . the first two tries at 
public key encryption  ( remember cyphers ) were broken. most 
if not all of the machine cyphers of the era were 
broken eventually. attempts in the computer era to home brew encryption 
have been disappointing the classic a survey of data insecurity packages 
in contains analyses and breaking techniques for a few of the 
popular security packages of the late 1980s .  . 

a new , proprietary algorithm no way. 

if the us is permitting general export of this thing , it has 
to be weak that 's how the current regulations work. currently there 's 
a willingness to allow systems with short keys  ( 32 bits appears to be 
no problem the 56 bits of des are too many) or weak algorithms 
(i think word perfect qualifies under that rule ) to be exported .  . 
i ca n't believe these guys their technique through the 
and the state department 's arms control division without finding that out. 

john nagle 

p.s. no , i'm not thrilled with clipper either , but that 's a different issue. 

from  ( diomidis spinellis ) 
subject greek comint installation  ( was re the secret source of that announcement ) 
organization dept of computing , imperial college , england 
lines 40 
distribution world 
nntp posting host doc . ic . ac . uk . 
summary was old us military base 
keywords marathon us base nea 

from article , by 
in article , 
 ( 1016 2ef221 ) writes 
... 
the most popular cipher systems in captured soviet spies was 
the one time pad , even with the necessity of keeping incriminating 
evidence about , is known to be the only proven unbreakable system. 
soviet paranoia , right 

and what do you think the nsa does with its and 
huge pointed embassy row and their sites near 
satellite uplink and downlink sites duh. 
... 
one case of slovenian paranoia .  . 

once upon a time a tried to walk over the  ( famous ) marathon field , not far away 
from athens .  . i could not do that mostly becouse the field is now a huge 
antenna farm .  . probably a greek comint installation , would you agree 

are you sure that the field is in the area you found the antenna 
farm the tomb ( ) of marathon which herodotus specifies as near 
the fighting area is in an area open to the public. 

you must be referring to the u.s. army base of nea . it was 
built by the u.s. in the same manner as bases all over the world 
(w .  . germany , spain , philippines , turkey etc . ) . were built .  . i think 
it was a telecommunications hub .  . over the recent years u.s. forces 
have withdrawn from the base and removed all military equipment. the 
area is currently under the control of the greek navy until the all 
interested parties  ( local goverment , central goverment , political parties 
agree on what should be done with the land  ( park , recreation area , 
real estate . ) . 

 ( this has nothing to do with cryptography , security and the eff i have 
redirected followups to soc . culture . 



internet uucp ... ! ! ! dds 
department of computing , imperial college , london sw7 include dev tty 

from (robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 15 

there are chips which perform the voice compression expansion .  . they ca n't 
be expensive , because they exist in many phones connected to or on the 
pbx line cards , as well as in a lot of equipment which compresses 
voice grade circuits to save the cost of long distance , leased or 
satellite circuits .  . 

i ca n't remember the generic term for these chips. my impression is that 
this was a big deal 10 years ago , but circuits have gotten so cheap that 
it is n't done much now. 

lew 


lew glendenning 
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr  ( or somebody like that) .  . 

from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re is this overreaction 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 42 

perry e. metzger wrote 
... 
we would like to keep it that way. thats the point. by reacting 
strongly and forcefully now , we will assure that we continue to remain 
free. you cannot overreact to a threat like this. the worst that 
happens if we overreact is that we waste time and effort. the worst that 
happens if we is tyranny .  . i prefer overreaction myself. 
.... 
only through centuries of overreaction have we managed to maintain 
ourselves in this state of even moderate freedom .  . i suggest that 
overreacting now and in the future is a good thing. 

perry is right on target here. careful analysis of the clipper chip 
announcement reveals that is not likely to remain voluntary for 
very long .  .  . the . cost of the system , the cost of generating and then 
storing the escrow keys , and the admitted security holes pretty much 
make the a loser. 

strong crypto will it , if strong crypto is allowed. this is 
the battle we face. 

we had rumblings of this totalitarian key registration thing a while 
back , and now the other shoe has dropped .  . the of commentary 
and criticism this time around reveals the almost immediate revulsion 
this wiretap chip  ( and automatic caller id and id , do n't 
forget ! ) generates in everyone , or almost everyone , who hears about 
it. 

this is a battle we ca n't afford to lose. 


tim may 



 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money , 
anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero 
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from state . edu . (james r ebright ) 
subject re tempest 
nntp posting host bottom . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution na 
lines 13 

in article  ( ross anderson ) writes 
 ( william w. hughes ) writes 
ideas that are claimed not to work deleted .  .  .  . 

how about putting your system inside a faraday cage even i could build 
one .  .  .  . 
jim 


information farming at .  .  .  . for addr phone finger a a 
the ohio state university state . edu .  ( 0 0 ) 
jim ebright e mail jre 
support privacy support encryption ( ) 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re fear , uncertainty , doubt 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 21 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

more accurate is that the government says its solid , other people 
in the field who might be able to find out have n't yet done their 
review of the chip design , and there 's been a lot of wild speculation 
and from those with little information that it might be 
swiss cheese .  . 

oh , that puts the debate on excellent terms for our side 

feds you people saying that clipper is insecure do n't have any real 
information to support that judgment .  . 
me fine show me this information that would prove me wrong. 
feds that 's secret ! 

when it comes down to that , it looks suspiciously like some government 
official pasting top secret stamps over embarrasing information in order 
to save his own hide .  . in fact , framing the secrecy issue in that perspective 
is more likely to turn joe 's suspicions against the feds than the 
constitutional argument a point i urge the others on the pro freedom 
side to consider when making their case. 



from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject write to clinton 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 


i 've been reading the sci.crypt , alt . privacy . clipper . and comp . org . eff . talk . 
discussions about the clipper chip and find  ( as usual ) that most of us 
think alike so there 's a lot of  . if each of these messages 
were sent to clinton as well as to the net  ( or instead of to the net) , we 
might actually have some effect. 

 ( white house) 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from (david koontz ) 
subject re how to make the clipper chip and wiretapping less bad 
organization loral computer systems 
lines 18 

what is the reason for the push on clipper 

two days after the lead story here in the mercury times  ( murky news) 
there was another article on industrial espionage by the french .  . 

someone had said what can it hurt to allow the government to have 
continued access to our communications , they already have it. the 
problem is that , yes the do have access , and probably more than 
we realize .  . the government wants exclusive access to communications 
intercept here in the united states , cutting out other access detrimental 
to the national security (tm) .  . 

i also doubt that a letter agency , that originated the encryption 
algorithm and the chip designs needs to have anything to do with the 
escrow system to continue their intercept effort. 

better yet , who owns the company doing the programming 


from (david sternlight ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
organization dsi 
lines 44 

in article  ( timothy c. may ) 
writes 

(alt . security . clipper . added , to keep them informed of this issue) 


david sternlight wrote 
.... 
the proposal could be modified so that if they get a court order to tap you 
and do n't charge you with a crime within , say , 90 days , they have to buy you 
a new phone. 

if they do charge you , and you are found innocent , they have to buy you a 
new phone. 

) 

yes , but will they buy you a ticket on a time machine to allow you to 
go back and use the phone with the new key instead of the phone whose 
key they obtained 

it is unclear whether obtaining the key at time 0 also unlocks 
messages recorded (by whomever ) at earlier times. the announcement was 
silent on this. the betting seems to be that once your key has been 
obtained (by the authorities , by divorce lawyers , by the mafia , by the 
fbi , by lost or stolen backup tapes , by the nsa , etc . ) .  . all previous 
conversations are unsecure .  .  ( session keys are negotiated , but knowing 
the private key is believed by many commentators here to break the 
security. no doubt more details will emerge . ) . 


does n't matter if we assume they are obeying the law , since they wo n't have 
had a court order to tap calls prior to the date of the court order , and 
thus wo n't have them available. 

if they are n't obeying the law , we are in an entirely different discussion , 
in which this is the least of one 's worries .  . 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from lyle 
subject re new encryption 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 18 

nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

 ( martin j hannigan ) writes 
hello. i am the david sternlight keeper of the faq .  . unfortuantely i cannot 
find it at the present time. 

cool it , will you let people form their own opinions. 
even mr. sternlight might be right sometime , and you guys 
are setting things up so that the only way he can regain 
any credibility is to renounce his previous statements and 
move towards the mainstream of net . opinion .  . this does not 
tolerance , imo. 

c ) david sternlight 
, net . police . 

indeed .  .  .  . 

lyle 707 grant street 
412 338 4474 the gulf tower pittsburgh 15219 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

though i think this an overstatement , it does contain a grain of truth. it 's 
drug dealers , spies , terrorists , and organized crime figures  ( assuming 
enough probable cause to convince a judge ) who need to be watched , not 
law abiding citizens .  . 

do n't tell me tell the feds .  . they , not i , need to get a clue about this. 




from graham toal 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
originator 
nntp posting host pizzabox . demon . co . uk . 
reply to graham toal 
organization anonymous 
lines 19 

in article  ( marcus j ranum ) writes 
i 'd really like to see such a thing developed so that interactive 
internet talk radio could be done. ideally , though , it should be a general 
purpose device. it should be a general purpose enough device that nobody 
should be able to balk at its widespread use. obviously , to make it easy 
for , it should use pretty common hardware. 

i suggest we start with the ubiquitous sun , to get a lot of momentum 
going. custom hardware is n't going to go anywhere until there 's a 
user base. 

anyone interested i 'll start a provisional mailing list. let 
me know if you want on. 

count me in. i need someone at the us end to experiment on the 
protocols with , and i like the way you code. give me 3 weeks to 
move house and settle in then we 'll go for it seriously .  .  .  . 

g 

from  ( jerry natowitz ) 
subject pd code for  ( crypt(1 ) like encryption 
organization guest of stephen dyer consulting 
distribution usa 
lines 9 

i am looking for some public domain  ( and exportable ) code for 
encryption .  . nothing elaborate , just something that will satisfy 
a marketing need ) 
oh yes , unix platform. 

jerry 
guest user on 
arpa major . spdcc . com . 
uucp ima , harvard , , linus , m2c ! spdcc ! jin 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 25 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
in article 
 ( gideon yuval ) writes 

if these personal attacks are what stopped prof. denning from 
replying on issues of substance , they have cause real harm 
to the serious debate here. 

they are and they have. 

are you in contact with her , is that what she said , or what you think 
her reason is 

also , could it be possible that she is not replying because she has 
no reply that would n't confirm the worst suspicions if the suspicions 
are way out of pocket , one would think the person would be in there 
saying so , and indicating why they are out of pocket. hiding behind 
a veil of secrecy is not reassuring .  . 



without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
distribution na 
organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 18 

in  ( jeff makey ) writes 

in article graham toal writes 
i am completely baffled by why dorothy denning has chosen 
to throw away her academic respectability like this. 

she has n't .  . dorothy denning has spent many years earning the 
professional respect of her colleagues , and something won in this 
manner is not easily lost. her support of the clipper no matter 
how unpopular that position may be serves far more to enhance the 
clipper 's respectability than to diminish her own. 

i would n't think so. asking people to trust a secret algorithm seems 
unsound to me. 

arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject a parable .  . 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
distribution usa 
lines 100 

(scott miller  ( techcom ) writes 
me that all this concern over the government 's ability 
to eavesdrop is a little overblown .  .  .  . what ca n't they do today 
my understanding is that they already can tap , listen , get access 
 . to our phone lines , bank records , etc. etc again. 

well , they ca n't listen in on much of mine , since i already use 
cryptography for much of my electronic mail , and will start using it 
for my telephony as soon as practical .  . 

however , allow me to tell a parable .  . 

there was once a far away land called , and in 
there was a strange all the trees that grew in 
were transparent .  . now , in the days when people had lived in 
mud huts , this had not been a problem , but now high tech wood 
technology had been developed , and in the new age of wood , everyone in 
found that their homes were all 100 see through. now , until 
this point , no one ever thought of allowing the police to spy on 
someone 's home , but the new technology made this tempting .  . this being 
a civilized country , however , warrants were required to use binoculars 
and watch someone in their home. the police , taking advantage of this , 
would get warrants to use binoculars and peer in to see what was going 
on. occassionally , they would use binoculars without a warrant , but 
everyone pretended that this did n't happen. 

one day , a smart man invented paint and if you painted your house , 
suddenly the police could n't watch all your actions at will. things 
would go back to the way they were in the old age completely 
private. 

indignant , the state decided to try to require that all homes have 
video cameras installed in every nook and cranny .  . after all , they 
said , with this new development crime could run rampant .  . installing 
video cameras does n't mean that the police get any new capability 
they are just keeping the old one. 

a wise man pointed out that citizens were not obligated to make the 
lives of the police easy , that the police had survived all through the 
mud hut age without being able to watch the citizens at will , and that 
was a civilized country where not everything that was 
expedient was permitted .  . for instance , in a neighboring country , it 
had been discovered that torture was an extremely effective way to 
solve crimes .  . had banned this practice in spite of its 
 . indeed , why have warrants at all , he asked , if we are 
interested only in 

a famous paint , dorothy quisling , intervened however. she 
noted that people might take photographs of children 
should the new paint technology be widely deployed without safeguards , 
and the law was passed. 

soon it was discovered that some citizens would cover their mouths 
while speaking to each other , thus preventing the police from reading 
their lips through the video cameras .  . this had to be prevented , the 
police said. after all , it was preventing them from conducting their 
lawful surveilance .  . the wise man pointed out that the police had never 
before been allowed to listen in on people 's homes , but dorothy 
quisling pointed out that people might use this new invention of 
covering their mouths with veils to discuss the kidnapping and 
mutilation of children. no one in the legislature wanted to be accused 
of being in favor of mutilating children , but then again , no one 
wanted to interfere in people 's rights to wear what they liked , so a 
compromise was reached whereby all homes were installed with 
microphones in each room to accompany the video cameras .  . the wise man 
few if any child mutilations had ever been solved by the old 
lip reading technology , but it was too late the microphones were 
installed  . 

however , it was discovered that this was insufficient to prevent 
citizens from hiding information from the authorities , because some of 
them would cleverly speak in languages that the police could not 
understand. a new law was proposed to force all citizens to speak at 
all times only in , and , for good measure , to require that 
they speak clearly and distinctly near the microphones .  . after all , 
dorothy quisling pointed out , they might be using the opportunity to 
speak in private to mask terrorist activities ! terrorism struck 
terror into everyone 's hearts , and they rejoiced at the of 
this new law. 

meanwhile , the wise man talked one evening to his friends on how all 
of this was making a sham of the constitution of , of which 
all were proud. why , he asked , are we obligated to 
sacrifice all our freedom and privacy to make the lives of the police 
easier there is n't any real evidence that this makes any big dent in 
crime anyway ! all it does is make our privacy forfeit to the state ! 

however , the wise man made the mistake of saying this , as the law 
required , in , clearly and distinctly , and near a 
microphone .  . soon , the newly formed secret police arrived 
and took him off , and got him to confess by torturing him. torture 
was , after all , far more efficient than the old methods , and had been 
recently instituted to stop the recent wave of people thinking obscene 
thoughts about tomatoes , which dorothy quisling noted was one of the 
major problems of the new age of plenty and joy. 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re what would happen if export restrictions violated 
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 21 53 06 gmt 


nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 28 

in article  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 
ok , i heard a lot of talk about the nsa 's infamous control over encryption 
export through the itar .  . here 's a question. say i develop this great new 
encryption system , and i want to sell my software worldwide .  . the thought 
police then come in and say this algorithm is a threat to national security. 
you will not be permitted to export it. at this point , what kind of trouble 
could i get into if i ignored the itar and sold my program to international 
customers anyway 

first of all , it 's not the thought police , it 's the export police .  . 
if you move overseas with your great thoughts in your head , write the software there , 
and then sell it , the us thought police probably ca n't do too much about it , 
though you might want to check with your lawyer first. 

however , if you write the program here , and sell it to furriners , 
you are now an international arms dealer and can get thrown in the 
for many years , especially if they decide you 'd be a good example , 
and drug dealers and fanatic middle eastern terrorists buy your stuff. 

 ( definitions of public domain are different for itar purposes , so if 
you 've got a good enough lawyer who 'll do your case for free after 
they 've confiscated everything you own as evidence , you might win. 
but nobody wants to go first , since the stakes are quite high . ) . 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization thibault friends 
lines 11 

in article 
 ( jerry han ) writes 

a smart warrior defeats the enemy in ambush on the battlefield 
a smarter warrior defeats the enemy in open warfare on the battlefield 
the warrior defeats the enemy without using the battlefield 

y'all got the first two reversed .  . 

judge roy bean 


subject re tempest 
from (peter gutmann ) 

organization computer science dept. university of auckland 
lines 27 

in  ( william w. hughes ) writes 

hell , just set up a spark jammer , or some other very electrically noisy 
device. or build an active cage around the room , with a noise 
signal piped into it. while these measures will not totally mask the 
emissions of your equipment , they will provide sufficient interference to 
make remote monitoring a chancy proposition , at best. there is , of course , 
the consideration that these measures may  ( and almost will) 
cause a certain amount of interference in your own systems. it 's a matter 
of balancing security versus convenience .  . 

the problem is that this will also cause a certain amount of interference 
in all systems within the range of the device. a long time ago i built a 
small jammer to dissuade my brother from using his radio alarm clock at 
something like , which had just enough range to cover my room and his. 
however something powerful enough to mask all  ( or at least most ) emissions from 
your computer equipment is also going to knock out half your 
radio and tv reception .  . this is n't going to make you many friends. 

incidentally , an older model makes a fine jammer grin 

peter .  . 

p gutmann 

 ( in order of preference one of 'em 's bound to work) 
everything was so different before it all changed 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject strong encryption 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ellisun . sw . stratus . com . 

i just posted this reply to comp . risks .  ( answering risks digest 14 .  . 
summary re 14 . 53 . mark key escrow 

from mark 
subject key escrow  ( clipper chip risks 14 . 

advances in digital computing have made it possible for ordinary people to 
use powerful machine cipher techniques. 

it is tempting  ( albeit chauvinistic ) to believe that we have a new situation 
here , thanks to our pet computers. this is not true. david kahn 's the 
codebreakers , a history of cryptography , makes two things obvious 

1. cryptography is a spontaneous invention of private human individuals 
and has been going on for thousands of years. teen age slang and 
cipher inventions provide a modern example of this spontaneous 
creation. 

2. the systems people created on their own were roughly as secure as  ( and 
sometimes more secure than ) those used by military and diplomatic 
users of that time  ( although they seem very simple and insecure 
today) .  . e.g. , in places , the bible used a more complex simple 
substitution than caesar did for his military , but before 
caesar .  . 

i commend kahn 's book to all who might be interested. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 
carl ellison 
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel  ( 508)460 ) 2783 
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax  ( 508)624 ) 7488 

from  ( steve gardner ) 
subject re the escrow database. 
nntp posting host imagine . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 12 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
after the waco massacre and the big brother wiretap chip , any tactic 
is fair. 

this is pernicious nonsense ! 
in what way david our government is totally out of control , 
whether you realize it or not. i know you find it painful to 
think of your old buddy uncle sam as evil but it 's true. other 
democracies have fallen before. ours is on its way and knee jerk 
sheep that instinctively trust government are helping it slide .  . 
power corrupts david , why is that so hard to understand 


from  ( marcus j ranum ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
lines 28 
nntp posting host sol . tis . com . 

 ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
really , none of this stuff is especially hard. all you need for a true 
private phone is an isdn codec , a vocoder  ( either a chip or 
software) , an encryptor (a chip is fine , but software is more than 
fast enough) , a v . 32 . or v . 32bis . modem module , and maybe a 
microcontroller to run the whole thing. its easy to do , its cheap. and 
any normal company trying to put one out will likely get a visit 
from the boys in the dark suits from washington , just like qualcomm 
did. 

have the feds shut down the people making sound blaster what 
about apple and next apple , next , sun , and others make systems that 
can handle cd quality audio in and out , and can perform arbitrary 
transformation on it in the process of transmitting it across a network 
or modem .  . 

perhaps there 's a market for a portable vocoder .  . not a crypto 
device , simply an rs232 voice converter .  . make it capable of recording 
speech and playing it back simultaneously .  . it has applications for 
multimedia , computing for the handicapped , internet talk radio , irc , 
etc , etc , etc. it would n't be a cryptographic device at all but i 
suppose someone could have it hooked to a 486 laptop with a v . 32bis . 
modem and some crypto software. i 'd market the thing with an api for 
text to speech using simple and the ability to use speech 
samples .  . and , of course , i 'd publish the interface to it so other 
folks could write any applications they wanted to talk to the thing. 

mjr .  . 

from leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu .  ( kirill shklovsky ) 
subject re tempest 
organization northeastern university 
distribution na 
lines 31 

in article  ( ross anderson ) writes 
i'm afraid this does n't work either. we can pick up laptop screens without any 
problem. 

most of the so called radiation  monitors are also useless. the description 
turns out to a marketing assertion rather than an engineering one. 

we thought there might be a market for a monitor which was not as 
expensive as the military tempest kit , but which was well enough shielded to 
stop eavesdropping using available receivers .  . we built a prototype , it works , 
and it 's still sitting on my lab bench .  . commercial interest was exactly zero .  . 

in the absence of open standards , a monitor which really is radiation  
 ( and costs 500 dollars more) ca n't compete against a monitor which just 
claims to be radiation   ( and whose only extra cost of production is the 
pretty blue sticker on the box) .  . 

ross 

i heard somewhere (ca n't name the source) that tempest does not necessarily 
pick up just crts , but it can pick up emissions from almost any chip .  . if 
that is true , the kind monitor would not make any difference becuase everything 
on the screen can be picked up from the video controller .  . can anybody verify 
or refute this 

leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu . 
btw these are my opinions , and not that of any other entity 

my god , its full of stars ! dave 
i do n't know about you , but we 've got company ! epidemic 


from ( mike h. ) 
subject re clipper chip and crypto key esc 
distribution world 
organization boring 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 20 

in article writes 

i thought it was quite difficult to record a modem session at some 
intermediate point on the line. maybe they have taken a crash course 
in data comms and have a unit that demodulates the tones and stores the 
digital stream for decryption later. this would still suffer from the 

called babt .  . it has been stated , either here or in the uk . telecom . group , 
that they will not approve equipment that does encryption .  . i do n't know 
if this is true or not , but this would make a good test case. 

peter ilieve 

you forget the obvious ! if it is an authorised tap then it can be done at 
the exchange .  . if the exchange is digital then i suspect that you can 
auto monitor a line and pickup the full link. therefore a piggyback 
modem on the line would not be impossible i suspect .  . 


mike h. 

subject re key registering bodies 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 16 

in (john nagle ) writes 

since the law requires that wiretaps be requested by the executive 
branch and approved by the judicial branch , it seems clear that one 
of the key registering bodies should be under the control of the 
judicial branch .  . i suggest the supreme court , or , , the 
courts of appeal. more specifically , the offices of their clerks .  . 

now that makes sense. but the other half must be in a non government 
escrow .  . (i still like eff , but i admin their security has not been 
tested . ) . 


arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 71 

in article lyle writes 
 ( jerry han ) writes 
somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this. 

that was probably me. 
i meant only that nobody has overreacted yet. it seemed to me that 
jerry was suggesting that people are currently overreacting , and i 
vehemently disagree. i see a lot of talk , but not much action. 
i see now that i misunderstood jerry 's position. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot 
in a new civil war 

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried 
that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens 
and paper. 

not this bunch. they 'll just bitch on the net for a while , and 
then go back to lurking .  . 

can people work within the system before trying to break it examine your 
history books , and find out how many armed revolutions led to democratic 
 ( or democratic style) governments .  . i think you 'll only find one in over 
five thousand years of written history. 

actually , it 's not quite that bad , but it 's close. 

i think everyone would just as soon work within the system. the presence 
of the possibility of using the bullet box instead of the ballot box 
is supposed to be a deterrent by keeping the price of massive abuse 
unacceptable .  . however , governments being what they are , sure would 
like to remove that deterrence , which will make the need for armed 
citizens all the more great  ( you do n't need 'em till you do n't have  . 
then i think we can be more accurately called  subjects  instead of 
 . the idea of the people being sovereign over the government 
is sure not in vogue in the beltway these days , that is for sure .  .  .  . 
the administration is saying we know best. we will tell you what 
you need , or do n't need .  .  .  . after , that old fashioned anachronism 
called the bill of rights is not needed in these  enlightened  .  .  . 

look , we  ( collectively ) have the power to throw the bums out , but we 
do n't use it. we clearly do n't need to go burning things down , but we 

not if the government has its way there are eight bills before congress 
that will either ban , tax , or register all useful weapons 
in the hands of the unconnected us subject. can you say 200.00 just 
for a box of cartridges for practice one of the current administrations 
top priority items is to disarm all who are not well connected , or that 
work for the government. 

clearly do need to throw at least some of the bums out. 
unfortunately , the bums have learned to target only small groups of 
people at a single time , so the masses wo n't react and throw them out. 
eventually , the masses will react , unless the bums cease their 
relentless encroachment on liberty and of the economy. 
the sooner it happens , the less the damages will be. i do n't want to 
live in a war zone , either i want to see the bums thrown out before 
they do some real damage. 

another tactic is to toss out so many outrages at once that nobody can 
give justice to them all. like is being done right now. 

lyle 707 grant street 
412 338 4474 the gulf tower pittsburgh 15219 



without prejudice ucc 1 207  ( pat myrto ) seattle , wa 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! rwing ! pat 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert einstien 

from (james davies ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization cray computer corporation 
lines 15 

in article  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) writes 

it is still easy to conceal super encryption , at least until the 
inquisitors get ahold of the k key , which can take a while , 
presumably not in near real time.  ( worst case , in which the escrow agencies 
provide the u key to the local cops , still only gets one side of the 
conversation per warrant , unless the same key is used for both directions , 
which i suppose the capstone version of the chip will probably insist on . ) . 

i was under the impression (from reading denning 's description of the 
clipper 's operation) that the same session key is used in both directions for 
encrypting the message text , but that each chip uses it 's own key for 
encrypting the session key into the law enforcement field. so , you only 
need to know the u key for one of the phones involved to decrypt the 
messages in both directions. 

from  ( marcus j ranum ) 
subject re write to clinton 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
lines 32 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host sol . tis . com . 

 ( white house) 

is this white house e mail address really working yet someone 
posted such an address on compuserve a few months ago , but apparently 
the white house was n't really set up to hundreds  ( thousands ) 

this is a real address. my understanding of the current process 
that mail takes is it gets downloaded on floppy disk and is processed 
by volunteers , who match the message against message profiles 
and check the message count. (i . e .  . yeah , that 's a for gays in the 
military .  . what 's this clipper stuff must be against gays in the 
military .  .  .  . ) 

the higher volume white house email stuff is in the works , 
i know for a fact , but wo n't be online for probably another month 
or two at the  . my understanding is that the link speed will 
increase  ( direct internet instead of compu erve to floppy ) but the 
message processing will remain the same. 

unless the people at the white house print and distribute this mail 
every day , you may have better luck printing out a letter  ( on paper , 
that flat white stuff all over my desk ) and snail mailing it to the 
white house. i imagine writing to your local representative and 
senator would n't hurt either. heck , why not write to al gore while 
you 're at it 

the white house email does get read. i agree that printing it 
and sending cc to everyone you can think of is probably better because 
it is more visible , but the message processing  ( fitting messages against 
a template ) is the same in either case. 

mjr .  . 

from  ( ken guyton ) 
subject amiga ripem 
reply to 
organization emory university information technology division 
lines 9 
nntp posting host monolith . cc . emory . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

has anyone ported ripem to the amiga yet or is anyone working on it 

emailed responses are fine. 


ken , emory university preferred 
information technology division uucp  .  .  . gatech . ! ! 
atlanta , ga non domain bitnet 
phone (404) 727 fax (404) 727 

from  ( greg brail ) 
subject re write to clinton 
organization citibank 
lines 29 

in article  ( carl ellison ) writes 

i 've been reading the sci.crypt , alt . privacy . clipper . and comp . org . eff . talk . 
discussions about the clipper chip and find  ( as usual ) that most of us 
think alike so there 's a lot of  . if each of these messages 
were sent to clinton as well as to the net  ( or instead of to the net) , we 
might actually have some effect. 

 ( white house) 

is this white house e mail address really working yet someone 
posted such an address on compuserve a few months ago , but apparently 
the white house was n't really set up to hundreds  ( thousands ) 
of messages a day to that account and did n't want people to use it 
yet. so is this mci address something the people at the white house 
actually read , or is it another craig story i do n't know 
i'm just asking. 

unless the people at the white house print and distribute this mail 
every day , you may have better luck printing out a letter  ( on paper , 
that flat white stuff all over my desk ) and snail mailing it to the 
white house. i imagine writing to your local representative and 
senator would n't hurt either. heck , why not write to al gore while 
you 're at it 

greg 


greg citibank 

from  ( mathew ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 26 
x newsreader v1 . 02 . 

 ( thomas grant edwards ) writes 
if these personal attacks are what stopped prof. denning from 
replying on issues of substance , they have cause real harm 
to the serious debate here. 
they are and they have. 
if prof. denning is afraid of posting here due to personal attacks , 
perhaps she should use an anonymous posting service. that is why 
they are there , to allow heated debate to occur without the personal 
attacks .  . 

er , people are going to make personal attacks on prof. denning whether she 
posts here or not. that much should be obvious from looking at the traffic 
over the last few weeks. therefore i conclude that the existence of personal 
attacks is irrelevant to any decision concerning whether to post. 

i suspect that prof. denning is actually using the attacks as an excuse for 
not posting , and that the real reason for the silence is that clipper is not 
the sort of proposal any self respecting cryptographer can support via 
reasoned argument. 


mathew 

if you want to have constructive discussions here , and more importantly , be 
taken seriously by your peers , you may wish to consider shaping up. 
advice i was offered by david sternlight 

from  ( shaen bernhardt ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
distribution na 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 82 

in article  ( jerry han ) writes 
in this giant bally ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather 
disturbing trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've tossing back and 
forth. 

somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot 
in a new civil war 

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried 
that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens 
and paper. 

can people work within the system before trying to break it 

a circut court judge in illinois once said when dealing with a government 
that seeks continually new and more creative ways to spy on its  citizenry , 
one cannot discourage the move to the common citizen with the means 
to parry this attack on personal privacy .  . 

(unfortunately the comment was with regard to the banning of radar 
detectors .  .  .  . ) . 

the point remains .  . more and more i see the government slowly washing 
away privacy .  . even unwittingly .  . do you think i will ever live in a 
that issues smart cards to citizens at birth do you think i 
will live in a that insists i register my crypto keys so they 
can keep track of what i'm saying even if there is no evidence of my 
guilt do you think i will ever live in a that seeks to meddle 
in the affairs of its  citizenry without recourse of any kind i'm tired 
of it. there is (imho) no compromise with an administration that seeks 
to implement these proposals under the guise of enhancing privacy .  . 

more than the proposals themselves , i read the language of the press 
releases , the obvious deception involved in presenting these pieces to 
the public , and i am sickened .  . i am revolted .  . i am repulsed .  . 

90 , perhaps even 95 of this country could care less about the 
clipper chip , the wiretap bill , the smart card , because they are so 
in the rhetoric of the clinton administration. 

this and frightens me. 

i am a believe it or not. a law and order  . 
but the move to a centralized regime really scares me , 
mostly because i know you cant go far wrong the 
intelligence of the american people. tell them it 's going to keep 
them safe from drug dealers and terrorists , and they will let you 
put cameras in their home. 

even in the wake of waco , you find those who support the increasingly 
moves .  . 

somebody once said something like armed violence is meant only to be 
used in response to an armed attack. it is not meant to be used in 
agression .  . this is the difference between self defence and murder .  . 

to be quite honest , the way things are going , i 'd call it self defense .  . 

let 's try to avoid killing things , eh there 's enough blood shed in the 
world , without adding a couple of riots , civil wars , etc. 

i'm probably overreacting .  . but what i 've read scared me a lot. i do n't 
want my children growing up in a war zone. 


and i dont want mine up in the eyes of a security camera 
24 hours a day. 

jerry han crc doc div. of behavioural research 
these are my opinions , and my opinions only. 
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors band 
memories of those i 've left behind , still ringing in my ears. genesis 

uni 


public keys by finger and or request 
public key archives pgp public 
sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past. fight clinton 's wiretap chip ! 
crypto is not a crime ! ask me how ! 

from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization thibault friends 
lines 30 

in article 
 ( dwight tuinstra ) writes 
great slogan ! i'm ready to sign up with a crypto lobbying effort  ( though 
i would n't want to do it through an nra  . shall we also push 
for the cra cryptographic rights amendment 

looking at it from up here in the frozen north , it looks like 
you could do worse than get the nra involved. they have a 
kindred problem , a large number of voters , the right attitude , 
and lots of funds .  . 

from an ethical or constitutional viewpoint , i have n't seen 
a good argument for cryptographic rights that does n't also 
support the nra position on guns  ( and vice versa) .  . 

cheers , 
marc 


marc thibault 
automation architect cis , 2226 
r . r . 1 . , oxford mills , ontario , canada nc freenet 

begin pgp public key block 




end pgp public key block 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 20 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

if the crooks use an innocent person 's clipper phone on the tapped line 
there 's no problem. the feds do n't care whose phone instrument is used , just 
that the conversation is by the suspect on the tapped line. they get the 
serial number , get the keys , and they are in business. 

so , you admit that clipper opens the doors wide for the following scenario 

feds we need the keys to joe blow 's phone. 

escrow agent joe blow you have a warrant to tap his line 

feds well , no , but we have a warrant to tap carlos slime devil gonzales  
line , and our tap shows that mr. gonzales is using mr. blow 's phone. 

escrow agent well , ok .  .  .  .  . 






from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject what would happen if export restrictions violated 
nntp posting host beethoven . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university , computer science department 
lines 15 


ok , i heard a lot of talk about the nsa 's infamous control over encryption 
export through the itar .  . here 's a question. say i develop this great new 
encryption system , and i want to sell my software worldwide .  . the thought 
police then come in and say this algorithm is a threat to national security. 
you will not be permitted to export it. at this point , what kind of trouble 
could i get into if i ignored the itar and sold my program to international 
customers anyway 

doug holland 


doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to pry it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! ! 

from (john nagle ) 
subject re key registering bodies 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 29 

since the law requires that wiretaps be requested by the executive 
branch and approved by the judicial branch , it seems clear that one 
of the key registering bodies should be under the control of the 
judicial branch .  . i suggest the supreme court , or , , the 
courts of appeal. more specifically , the offices of their clerks .  . 

courts already operate substantial record keeping operations .  . some 
of these records are confidential .  . so the concept of a court holding 
information in confidence in accordance with law has longstanding legal 
precedents .  . the judiciary is more immune to pressure from the executive 
branch than any executive branch agency or contractor can be. so judicial 
control of keys is appropriate. 

for the other half of the key , i suggest a unit of congress , the 
general accounting office. the gao is congress 's staff unit for keeping 
tabs on the executive branch , and has an excellent reputation .  . it 's 
controlled strictly by congress the executive branch has no authority 
over it. 

with keys split between the legislative and judicial branches , 
we might have a chance of this system working honestly .  . if , of course , 
a way can be found to keep the keys from being siphoned off before 
they reach the repositories .  . 

this should not be construed as an endorsement by me of the 
whole clipper concept. but if we have to have it , splitting control 
across all three branches of government might make it work. 

john nagle 

from (mike schmelzer ) 
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow 
in reply to 's message of sat , 24 apr 1993 18 19 50 gmt 
organization uw 


lines 39 


argh .  . this is what i get for acknowledging david sternlight 's existence .  . 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
though i think this an overstatement , it does contain a grain of truth. it 's 
drug dealers , spies , terrorists , and organized crime figures  ( assuming 
enough probable cause to convince a judge ) who need to be watched , not 
law abiding citizens .  . 

okay , it looks like i am going to have to do the history lesson after all. 

during the vietnam war , there were a great many citizens opposed to it 
who considered themselves perfectly law abiding , although mr. nixon and 
his lackeys thought otherwise. 

the federal government had no compunction about adding people who 
are otherwise decent , law abiding and upstanding , but disagree with 
us to your nice little list. do you think this could never happen 
again 

note that i am not speculating about what the government could do , 
but discussing the sort of observation including but not limited 
to phone tapping that the government put its citizens under during 
a time of national tension .  . 

your naivete is still appalling , btw. i mean , read what you posted again. 
how are we to differentiate between good people and bad people answer 
a priori , we ca n't we have to assume .  . now , which way do we assume do 
we assume a priori that a citizen is law abiding , or rather a potential 
one of the things that 's 
supposedly great about america is the freedoms enjoyed by citizens who 
are presumed to be law abiding until proven otherwise. 



mike , ,  ( 608)262 )  . finger for pgp .  . 
people did n't riot the minute they saw that film. 
they waited on justice. which never came. ice t. 


from (paul crowley ) 
subject re clipper and conference calls 
reply to (paul crowley ) 
organization edinburgh university 
lines 11 

quoting in article 
you would have to use something other than the at t black box in other 
words , i do n't think public key would work. the session key would have 
to be agreed upon prior to the conversation and distributed to all 
sites beforehand .  . 

why ca n't one site decide a session key and send it to the other sites 
by public key encryption 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus ! 

from () 
subject crypto file system reference 
organization wang labs , lowell ma , usa 
nntp posting host wang . com . 
lines 10 

a while ago there was a reference to a paper on a crypto file 
system  ( cfs ) given by someone at at at t ( ) .  . how can i 
get a copy is it available on the net was it published 
who was the author 

thanks 


peter ..... ..... 
well , that about says it. 

from (michael mauldin ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
nntp posting host mt . cs . cmu . edu . 
reply to 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 16 

in article (mike godwin ) 
writes 
in article  ( jim hart ) 
writes 
the security of the system should depend only on the secrecy of 
the keys and not on the secrecy of the algorithms dorothy denning 

cite source , please. 

dorothy denning , cryptography and data security , 1982 , addison wesley .  . 
page 8 , under the heading cryptosystems must satisfy three general 
requirements. the other two are efficiency and ease of use. 

michael l. mauldin 
carnegie mellon university 


from  ( lynn r grant ) 
subject re once they get your keys .  .  .  .  . 
organization yale cs mail news gateway 
lines 16 

about 50 people so far have asked , once the fbi gets your clipper keys , 
wo n't they be able to read all your future and past traffic 

there has been no response from nist , nsa , ms. denning , mr. hellman , or 
anyone else who might be able to give us an authoritative answer. 
this is troubling .  . 

did n't nsa think about this or is it a feature , and they thought we 
would n't notice 

i would have thought that by now they would have responded with something 
of the form , well , that wo n't be a problem because .... 

very curious. 

lynn grant 

from  ( jim gillogly ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization banzai institute 
lines 49 
nntp posting host mycroft . rand . org . 

steve bellovin writes a well thought out and nearly persuasive article about 
why the clipper  ( are we still calling it clipper today , or have they figured 
out a non infringing word yet ) protocol is almost as good as one can do 
given their marching  . 

in article (steven bellovin ) writes 
i issue this invitation assume that you were charged with 
implementing such a system , with complete regard for civil rights and 
due process. what would you do differently in answering this 
question , please accept nsa 's fundamental assumptions that both 
strong cryptography against outsiders , and the ability to wiretap 
some domestic users , is necessary. 

i 'll accept the second assumption only for the sake of argument. in my 
view the primary remaining flaw is that the encryption algorithm is 
secret , leading to suspicion that there is a back door. without complete 
disclosure this suspicion cannot be dispelled , no matter how many trusted 
experts are allowed to look at it in isolation .  . 

is it possible to do this whole thing with a public algorithm the only 
concern i 've seen with making skipjack public is that someone could build 
without registering the keys. assume f can really be kept 
secret as the government assumes .  . then as part of the initial connection , 
a executes a protocol with the to demonstrate 
that they both know f. for example , the initiating phone picks a number q 
and sends e q f . the receiver sends back e q 1 f , and the initiator 
sends back e q 2 f to demonstrate that her first packet was n't just a 
random 64 bit block. repeat in the opposite direction with another q so 
it ca n't be defeated by somebody building up a library of sequential 
numbers by remembering responses and using those responses as the initial 
numbers of subsequent challenges .  . this way will talk only 
to other  . of course the pseudo company can build their own 
proprietary skipjack phone , but the presidential fact sheet implies that 
they wo n't get approval for it without equivalent key escrow .  . 

what 's wrong with this picture it depends of f staying secret and on 
skipjack being resistant to cryptanalysis , but the government appears to 
believe in both of these. even if the particular q a i suggest has some 
flaw , i imagine there 's a zero knowledge proof protocol that does n't .  . 

says 
the third , and most serious issue , is whether or not clipper is a good 
idea even if carried out strictly according to the letter of the law. 

agreed. my view , and you can quote me if it 's not worth doing , it 's 
not worth doing well. 

jim gillogly 
, 3 s.r. 1993 , 20 48 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re clipper serial numbers need 2nd court order 
organization dsi 
lines 42 

in article (michael golan ) writes 
something that no one has discussed yet  ( or i missed it) 

the fbi sets up a wiretap after the court order was handed .  . 
only at this point they can access the line and detect 
the serial number n. 

what happens next , does the fbi simply asks for the keys 
for n , and , since a warrant was issued for the line , the fbi 
simply gets it what if multiple phones are used from the 
same house , the fbi just asks for n1 , n2 , etc. 

exactly who is to prevent the fbi from claiming some 
other serial number , x , was also used over the 
line and get the keys for x 

either a second court order  ( for the specific serial key) 
is required  ( and i have seen no indication of this) , or 
the fbi can effectively ask for any pair of keys at any 
time , so the escrow key holders are a total fake. 


two safeguards 

1. the fbi could be asked to produce the law enforcement block to the escrow 
agencies , and associate it with a particular court order 

2. if the thing comes to trial the defense attorneys can probe this issue 
closely .  . it is not too different from proving that the speaker on a legal 
wiretap is the person the court order covered. 

putting it another way , this question is not very different from the 
pre clipper question what 's to prevent the fbi from getting a court order 
to tap al capone and then using it to tap jonathan livingstone seagull 
instead 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 18 

(david sternlight ) writes 
well , that explains it. the government has no real need to spy on people 
who already love big brother it 's the people who are inclined to talk 
back who need to be watched .  . 

though i think this an overstatement , it does contain a grain of truth. it 's 
drug dealers , spies , terrorists , and organized crime figures  ( assuming 
enough probable cause to convince a judge ) who need to be watched , not 
law abiding citizens .  . 

and thus , , in which horrible people who threatened the 
republic by disagreeing with the government were systematically kept 
track of for years .  .  .  . 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from  ( ross anderson ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
keywords nea 
nntp posting host ely . cl . cam . ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk 
lines 24 

in article , 
 ( bruce schneier ) writes 

unlike the cia , the nsa has no prohibition against domestic spying .  . read 
bamford 's the puzzle palace .  . 

we had a senior nsa scientist in cambridge at one of our workshops recently 
 ( in fact he was here when the clipper announcement was made , but we did n't 
learn of it till after he 'd  . he said on this point that he was forbidden 
by law to monitor conversations between us nationals  ( and he is a chap who is 
very precise about his choice of  . so i do n't expect he 'd have any qualms 
about monitoring a domestic us conversation if one of the parties was an alien .  . 

however it got me thinking of the navajo code  . just imagine 

, is that the iraqi mission in new york this is the iraqi foreign 
ministry in baghdad , i am hussein , us citizen , social security number 
so and so  

, indeed , this is the new york mission , mustafa speaking , also a 
us citizen , my social security number is such and such , here is our report 
on activities against the satan clinton  

ross 

from  ( stan ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
organization the temple of stan tbs world hq concord , mass , usa 

 ( nathaniel sammons ) writes 
i second the motion. 

all in favor 

in favor. if y'all have any newsletters or are taking down addresses for 
any in the future , feel free to put me on such a list. 

from  ( todd w. arnold ) 
subject re how sensible is des towards bit errors 
organization ibm cryptographic facility development 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3.1 
lines 15 

in axel dunkel writes 
how sensible is des encrypted data towards bit errors how much data per 
bit will be lost in average (i assume you still have the correct key) 

it depends on the mode you 're using. for a single 64 bit input block , a 
one bit error will have a 50 percent chance of corrupting each of the 64 
output bits in other words , it essentially turns the output block into 
a random number. if you 're encrypting data in cbc mode , however , only the 
one 64 bit block will be affected .  . the next block , and all that follow it 
will be decrypted properly. 

it 's a good idea to have some kind of error correction in your system if 
corrupted bits are likely. 

todd 

from (david feustel ) 
subject re the escrow database. 
organization os 2 software support consulting 
lines 5 

and the fox has rabies too. 

dave feustel 

sig being revised 

from 
subject re key registering bodies 
reply to 
organization j. stefan institute , lj , slovenia 
lines 24 

in article , 
graham toal writes 
in article (john nagle ) writes 
since the law requires that wiretaps be requested by the executive 
branch and approved by the judicial branch , it seems clear that one 
of the key registering bodies should be under the control of the 
judicial branch .  . i suggest the supreme court , or , , the 
courts of appeal. more specifically , the offices of their clerks .  . 

i 've got a better idea. we give one set to the kgb c o washington embassy , 
and the other set to the red chinese .  . 

imho , one should place the into satellites (space) .  . the 
recovery should be done only by  ( highly visible ) teams of astronauts .  . 



b. , d . sc .  . x . 400 . c si a mail p ac o ijs s 
j. stefan institute internet 
university of ljubljana , phone 386 1 159 199 
si 61111 ljubljana , slovenia pgp public key available on request 

kalis 


from  ( thomas grant edwards ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 16 
nntp posting host kolo . src . umd . edu . 

sternlight ) writes 
 ( gideon yuval ) writes 
if these personal attacks are what stopped prof. denning from 
replying on issues of substance , they have cause real harm 
to the serious debate here. 
they are and they have. 

if prof. denning is afraid of posting here due to personal attacks , 
perhaps she should use an anonymous posting service. that is why 
they are there , to allow heated debate to occur without the personal 
attacks .  . 

is back up yet 

thomas 


from (james kliegel ) 
subject crypto 
organization amdahl advanced systems 
lines 24 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host canary . key . amdahl . com . 

i came. i lurked .  . i read the faq .  . 

now having purchased the recommended books , and having taken to heart the advice that 
one knows nothing about crypto without having done a stint as a cryptanalyst , i would like 
to correspond with people interested in cryptology .  . 

i am working on implementing the cryptanalyst 's workbench example in booch 's ood with 
applications. i hope to start sending ciphers back and forth so each of us can practice cracking 
them. i would like to start with simple 's ciphers and progress roughly according to 
david kahn 's book. of course i would be interested in general discussions and math also. 

i hope to have some foriegn so that we can test the response time of the 
men in the suits i 've been hearing so much about. unfortunately as a product of the american 
education system i only know english. 

looking forward to any and all responses. 

james 


james m. 
(510) 623 



from  ( bruce schneier ) 
subject re new encryption algorithm 
keywords nea 
organization public access unix 
lines 14 

in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 
well , actually , this one 's easy. it 's their job. the nsa is 
supposed to develop cryptosystems .  . if the government chooses to go 
ahead and sell those cryptosystems to the masses , so be it. 

ah , but developing cryptosystems which are specificially designed to 
protect the government 's domestic spying capabilities takes them beyond 
that mandate , into the forbidden field of domestic wiretapping .  . 


unlike the cia , the nsa has no prohibition against domestic spying .  . read 
bamford 's the puzzle palace .  . 

bruce 

from (david conrad ) 
subject cryptography bibliography 
organization cat talk conferencing system 
summary bibliography available on request 
lines 16 

yesterday i read an article from someone who was requesting references for 
introductory texts on cryptography .  . although i marked the article to 
return , it appears to have expired on this site. 

anyway , on one of the previous occasions when this subject arose i saved 
a couple articles which made suggestions. one of the articles contained 
a quite impressive bibliography .  . if the poster of the request  ( or anyone 
else) would like to email me , i would be glad to send out copies of these 
recommendations , including the bibliography .  . 

david r. conrad no his mind is not for rent to any god or government 

cat talk conferencing network , computer conferencing and file archive 
1 313 882 , 300bps , v . 32 . v . 32bis . new users use  new  
as a login id. available via pc pursuit ! ! !  ( city code ) 
e mail address 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject how to escrow , if escrowing were ok 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 24 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

there is a description of something called a fair crypto system in the 
may 1993 issue of byte , p. 134 , attributed to mit professor silvio  . 

the way it works is as follows 

you generate your private key s , and break it up into pieces s1 , s2 , s3 , 
s4 , and s5 , such that  ( s1 s2 ... s5 ) mod p s. 
you give each piece s1 , s2 , etc. to a different escrow agency .  . 
the agencies each compute g sn mod p , and forward the result to the public 
key telephone book keeper .  . 
the public key telephone book keeper multiplies all the g sn mod p , reduces 
the result to mod p , and this will be the user 's public key. 

now , if there were several hundered recognized escrow agencies , and the user 
could give a piece of the key to each of the ones he trusted , the result would 
be something of an improvement over the proposed clipper system. 

i still do n't think key escrow is a good idea , for both philosophical and 
security reasons , but i do offer this suggestion simply to determine whether 
escrow advocates are at all interested in considering alternatives in good 
faith , or whether the goal is to insure the use of only two agencies selected 
for in the face of official requests. 



from ( wendy m. grossman ) 
subject re fifth amendment and passwords 
distribution world 
organization lincoln house productions 
reply to 
x mailer simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 19) . 
lines 17 

in article writes 

in  ( carl m kadie ) writes 

looks like you ca n't be forced to reveal a password , if anyone can provide 
a convincing legal argument to the contrary (ie an actual court case) i 'd 
be most interested .  .  .  . 

this is the case in britain , according to the head of the computer crime 
unit here when i interviewed him a couple of months ago. 

wg 

wendy m. grossman 
9a north avenue , founder , the skeptic (uk) 
richmond , surrey writer 
(44) (81) 948 recovering 

subject re tempest 
from (peter gutmann ) 


distribution na 
organization computer science dept. university of auckland 
lines 12 

in  ( free radical ) writes 

as anyone who attended will attest , you can pick information 

off the video chip .  . it 's surprisingly easy too. the guy did it with 
a portable tv , with very minor mods .  . it only worked from 3 feet , but 
then it was just a demonstration .  . 

a convention for santa claus please elaborate , minds 
 ( those in the second and third jars from the left ) want to know .  .  .  .  . 

peter .  . 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization dsi 
distribution inet 
lines 29 

in article jon c. r. bennett writes 


(david sternlight ) writes 
if the crooks use an innocent person 's clipper phone on the tapped line 
there 's no problem. the feds do n't care whose phone instrument is used , just 
that the conversation is by the suspect on the tapped line. they get the 
serial number , get the keys , and they are in business. 

no clipper chip to person association is ever needed. 

phones .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

direction finding and directional monitoring receivers .  . can you say little 
black truck 

) 

david 


jon 



david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( mark a allyn ) 
subject clipper chip reverse engineering 
organization boeing defense space group 
lines 26 

i have been looking over the postings about the clipper chip and noticed 
an interesting omission from the discussion. 

you all mention that the algorithm is classified and have expressed 
concerns and ideas of how to figure out the algorithm using software. 

the question that i have is why cant someone take one of these chips 
and reverse engineer it i mean , take the thing to a chip testing 
analysis facility , one with a decent electron microscope .  . just pry 
off the top of the chip and start scanning it with the electron 
and figure out the circuitry .  . i remembered a place that i use 
to work for had one of these facilities that they used to analyze chips 
that we accidently blew out while running tests. they could actually find 
the area that was fried and show us where in the circuit it was. 

i am sure that many companies and universities must have these facilities 
and that the potential is there , especially at a university where the 
security at such a facility is looser , for someone to take a clipper 
apart and analyze it 

what can the government do to prevent this start taking away all 
analysis facilities and electron microscopes 

mark 



from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host beethoven . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university , computer science department 
lines 25 

in article graham toal writes 
in article  ( marcus j ranum ) writes 
i 'd really like to see such a thing developed so that interactive 
internet talk radio could be done. ideally , though , it should be a general 
purpose device. it should be a general purpose enough device that nobody 
should be able to balk at its widespread use. obviously , to make it easy 
for , it should use pretty common hardware. 

i suggest we start with the ubiquitous sun , to get a lot of momentum 
going. custom hardware is n't going to go anywhere until there 's a 
user base. 

why do n't we move down even further toward the masses by setting this 
up on an ibm pc  ( clone(probably needs to be a 386 or a 486) with a 
sound blaster and a v . 32bis . modem .  . those components are very widely 
available. i do n't know if the pc has enough horsepower to encrypt the data 
at realtime , but the sound blaster has 4 to 1 hardware compression and will 
work at any sampling rate from 4khz to 23 khz .  . 

doug holland 


doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to pry it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! ! 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 14 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

maybe so , but it 's quite common. there are millions of macintosh users who 
have no idea what 's in apple 's patented roms .  . many have modems connected .  . 
how do you know all your business secrets are n't being stolen answer 
1. because you trust apple 
2. because if any such attempt , however , came out , it would 
destroy apple 's credibility forever. 

the reason i could theoretically trust apple  ( though i'm a pc person 
myself ) ) is that apple has to worry about their customers deserting 
them if they screw up badly enough. the government does n't have any such 
worry it can change the rules by force to get the outcome it wants. this 
is the ultimate reason why private enterprise is usually more efficient 
than government agencies .  . 


from (michael sawyer ) 
subject re more clipper stuff 
organization university of hawaii 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
distribution inet 
lines 25 

ben wrote 
what if clipper is fairly secure but leaves a distinct clipper signature .  .  .  . 
that is , what if it 's not too difficult to tell that a msg .  . was clipper 
encrypted , even if you ca n't tell the contents in that case , anyone 
who is trying to hide behind encryption scheme will stand out 
from all of the other traffic and raise a red flag to the nsa , etc. 

i think the obvious answer (which may have been posted , but i have n't 
seen it) is to encrypt your data with some other scheme , then run it 
through clipper .  . the only way the police will be able to detect the 
other encryption is through a wiretap , so even if they do notice with 
an illegal wiretap , i have a hard time seeing a judge issuing a 
warrant for a search to confiscate the illegal scheme  ( assuming that 
at one day , it comes to this a worse case) based on an illegal 
wiretap .  . then again , maybe i am an idealist .  . 


ben internet 



michael sawyer my opinions are mine , not necessarily uh 's , nsf 's , or nasa 's 
university of hawaii physical oceanography satellite remote sensing 
ripem public key available , 


from (steven bellovin ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 29 

in article , jon writes 
a person i know , belonging to a research lab of a 
company , claimed to me during a conversation that , given the 
equipment in his lab , he could crack a kerberos ticket in 15 minutes to 
an hour. he had access to rather powerful des hardware , but not of an 
kind , i believe. the attack was possible because of the 
amount of known plaintext in the ticket , which itself constitutes a small 
message. this was two years ago. 
des is no longer usable for encryption of really sensitive data. for a 
lot of purposes , however , it is still very adequate .  . 

this sounds an awful lot like a password guesser , not a weakness in 
des .  . merritt and i pointed out this weakness in kerberos in a paper 
that came out about 2.5 years ago , in both computer communications 
review and  . for that matter , it was loudly discussed on the 
kerberos mailing list even earlier. 

the problem has nothing whatsoever to do with des , and everything to do 
with bad password selection. 

i'm perfectly willing to believe that there are cryptanalytic attacks 
possible on des .  . i'm quite dubious that private research labs know 
them. and the parameters of a brute force attack are quite well 
established see , for example , the garon and paper in the 
july '91  . you 're not going to do it in an hour with only 
powerful des  . i 'll leave the arithmetic as an 
exercise for the reader. on average , you 'll need to do 2 55 trials .  . 
pick your own parameters for how fast the des engine runs , and for 
how many such engines are used. 

from clausthal . de .  ( joerg czeranski ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip) 
organization  . univ. clausthal 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 31 

ag russell wrote 
at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was 
des encryped 
and the person that had sent it , went on vaction .  . rather than wait 
two weeks 
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only 
took  ( two(2 ) 
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des .  . 

then it was either really good luck or you had some very fast 
machine. des has 2 56 possible keys , each two of which are simply 
to convert into each other , so you have to expect 2 54 trial encryptions 
in the mean case , assuming known plaintext .  . 
2 54 2 (24 60 60) is ca.  . 
so you must have managed to do encryptions per microsecond .  . 
ce infosys builds a very fast des chip that manages 2 ( ! ) encryptions 
per microsecond .  . 

yes , i'm not very seriously bothered about the security of des yet 
though you might prefer to use triple des or idea , both of which 
use more key bits. 

joerg 


joerg email clausthal . de . 
strasse 55 smtp 139 . 174 . 2 . 10 . 
w clausthal voice (at work) 49 72 
germany voice (at home) 49 

to obtain pgp public key , finger clausthal . de . , or email me. 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization partnership for an america free drug 
lines 25 

(paul crowley ) writes 
how fast do the fastest modems go 

the shannon limit for voice lines is likely somewhere around  . 
we are rapidly approaching it. the fastest affordable full duplex 
modems currently on the market are v32bis , which is  . 

how far can voice be compressed 

celp manages to sound decent at 4800 bps .  . 

in theory , if you built a speech recognition system that turned voice 
into ascii , and a perfect synthesis system on the other end that 
sounded just like the person you were speaking to , you could get it 
down to the information content of the speech. 

with various kinds of , you can get it down to 2400 bps or prehaps 
even less , at which point it sounds horrible. 

4800 bps is more than for our purposes. 


perry metzger 

laissez faire , laissez passer .  . le monde va de lui meme .  . 

from (steven bellovin ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
distribution inet 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 34 

in article ,  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) writes 
on the other hand , i can easily see them recording the traffic for 
interesting people , such as dissidents , suspected criminals , 
foreign telephone calls , and anybody noticed using encryption .  . 
as ken speculates , recording encrypted traffic will probably 
be judged not to be an invasion of privacy pretty soon .... 

as i read the current wiretap law , it would not be legal now. on the 
other hand , assuming a legislative change , recording but not decrypting 
clipper conversations would probably be found constitutional by the supreme 
court , using the same reasoning  ( or the lack thereof .  .  . ) . by which they 
permit random roadblocks to check for drunk drivers. 

incidentally , if we use that as our model , the court will likely not 
uphold selective recording .  .  ( on the other hand , i do n't think they 've 
thrown out courier profiles   yet. must be that exception to 
the fourth amendment that i can never find in my copy of the bill of 
rights . ) . 

a lot and i mean a lot will depend on exactly how 
 ( or , for encrypted music ) are used. don alvarez showed in 
the latest risks digest that it 's possible to prevent the cops from 
reading traffic after their warrant expires .  . 

that is the cops send the to the f holder. the f holder strips 
off f , and sends u k , n to the escrow agents .  . they send either u or k 
to the cops .  .  ( don says u , i say k . ) . the cops ca n't use u in the 
future , because they ca n't strip off f. the f holder never sees u. in 
don 's model , the escrow agents ca n't read the traffic , because they 
do n't have k in my model , they have k , but not the message itself. 
and i trust that more because i think the cops and the fbi (the 
f holder ) are more likely to collaborate on breaking the rules. the 
net result is that by involving the f holder and the escrow agents on 
every tap , we can avoid extending permission to tap .  . 

from  ( joel b levin ) 
subject re does rush read his e mail 
lines 38 
nntp posting host fred . bbn . com . 

(robert silvers ) writes 
send something to rush about clinton taking away our right 
to privacy and how if the govt. standard takes off , only people with lots 
of money  ( drug dealers ) will be able to justify des stuff. he will slam 
clinton for this on the air. 

he 'll slam clinton for anything at all on the air. i just do not 
understand why he remains so popular. he 'll take a piece of video of 
clinton walking along find a frame in which clinton wrinkles his 
nose , say freeze on it and blow it up full screen and then rant for 
five minutes on how no one could possibly trust someone with such a 
face and such greedy little eyes. i 've seen this on his tv show 
(it was around the time of the  . can anyone call this 
stuff legitimate (i hate to say informed ) commentary how can 
anyone with half a brain in his or her head 1 continue to watch 
it 2 

the american tv watching  ( and i guess radio listening ) public never 
ceases to amaze me. 

j 

1 oops , have i just inadvertently answered my own question 

2 i myself only see it when i run across it every couple months when 
channel surfing late at night the longest i 've been able to stand 
him was about 10 minutes. 

 ( apologies for stripping the alt . fan . rush . groups from the newsgroups 
line the software here apparently rejects anything with groups we 
do n't carry , and we do n't carry those. also i removed sci.crypt from 
followups . ) . 


nets there were sweetheart roses on 's 
pots  ( 617)873 ) 3463 bureau that morning. wide eyed and distraught , she 
stood with all her faculties rooted to the floor. 
s. j. 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re new encryption 
organization dsi 
lines 24 


, whose name is either an unfortunate 
coincidence or casts serious doubt on his bona fides , posts a message in 
which he seems willing to take the word of a private firm about which he 
knows little that their new encryption algorithm is secure and contains no 
trapdoors , while seemingly that of the government about clipper .  . 

i suppose it depends on how paranoid one wishes to be , but how does the 
writer know the firm is n't , for example , an nsa front for purposes of this 
message , how do we know is n't 

i do n't suggest that , but post this to point out that there is a class of 
speculation that has no more truth value , without lots of hard evidence , 
than the contrary one. 

by the way , if had said , in lower case letters , that the firm 
claims there was no back door , i 'd have no problem with that phrasing .  . 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from  ( russell earl whitaker ) 
subject from to cryptography 
distribution world 
organization institute 
reply to 
x mailer simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 19) . 
lines 566 

begin pgp signed message 

please note that the following speech was made by chuck 
in 1987 .  . address all letters to his address , given at the end 
of this document .  . 
russell 

from to cryptography thwarting the state via 
technology 

given at the future of freedom conference , november 1987 


you know , technology and particularly computer 
technology has often gotten a bad rap in libertarian cir 
 . we tend to think of orwell 's 1984 , or terry 's 
brazil , or the proximity detectors keeping east berlin 's 
slave citizens on their own side of the border , or the so 
bugging devices nixon used to harass those on 
his enemies list. or , we recognize that for the price of 
a ticket on the we can fly at twice the speed of 
sound , but only if we first walk thru a magnetometer run by 
a government policeman , and permit him to paw thru our be 
if it beeps .  . 

but i think that mind set is a mistake. before there 
were cattle , governments tortured their prisoners with 
clubs and rubber  . before there were lasers for 
eavesdropping , governments used binoculars and lip readers. 
though government certainly uses technology to oppress , the 
evil lies not in the tools but in the wielder of the tools. 

in fact , technology represents one of the most promis 
ing avenues available for re capturing our freedoms from 
those who have stolen them. by its very nature , it favors 
the bright  ( who can put it to use) over the dull  ( who can 
not) .  . it favors the adaptable  ( who are quick to see the 
merit of the new  ( over the sluggish  ( who cling to time 
tested ways) .  . and what two better words are there to de 
scribe government bureaucracy than dull and sluggish 

one of the clearest , classic triumphs of technology 
over tyranny i see is the invention of the man portable 
 . with it , an untrained peasant could now reliably 
and engage a target out to fifty meters even if 
that target were a mounted , chain mailed knight .  .  ( unlike 
the , which , admittedly was more powerful , and could 
get off more shots per unit time , the required no 
formal training to utilize .  . whereas the required 
elaborate visual , tactile and coordination to 
achieve any degree of accuracy , the wielder of a 
could simply put the weapon to his shoulder , sight along the 
arrow itself , and be reasonably assured of hitting his tar 
get . ) . 

moreover , since just about the only mounted knights 
likely to visit your average peasant would be government 
soldiers and tax collectors , the utility of the device was 
plain with it , the common could defend themselves 
not only against one another , but against their governmental 
masters .  . it was the medieval equivalent of the armor 
piercing bullet , and , consequently , kings and priests (the 
medieval equivalent of a bureau of alcohol , tobacco and 
crossbows ) threatened death and excommunication , 
, for its unlawful possession .  . 

looking at later developments , we see how technology 
like the firearm particularly the repeating rifle and the 
handgun , later followed by the gun and more advanced 
machine guns radically altered the balance of interpersonal 
and inter group power. not without reason was the colt .45 
called the equalizer .  . a dance hall hostess with one 
in her possession was now fully able to protect herself 
against the in any saloon .  . advertise 
ments for the period also reflect the merchandising of the 
repeating cartridge rifle by declaring that a man on 
horseback , armed with one of these rifles , simply cannot be 
captured .  . and , as long as his were relying upon 
or single shot rifles , the quote is doubtless a 
true one. 

updating now to the present , the public key cipher 
 ( with a personal computer to run it) represents an equiv 
quantum leap in a defensive weapon .  . not only can 
such a technique be used to protect sensitive data in one 's 
own possession , but it can also permit two strangers to ex 
change information over an insecure communications 
channel a wiretapped phone line , for example , or 
, for that matter) without ever having previously 
met to exchange cipher keys. with a thousand dollar com 
, you can create a cipher that a multi cray 
x mp ca n't crack in a year. within a few years , it should 
be economically feasible to similarly encrypt voice communi 
cations soon after that , full color digitized video images. 
technology will not only have made wiretapping obsolete , it 
will have totally demolished government 's control over in 
formation transfer .  . 

i 'd like to take just a moment to sketch the 
ics which makes this principle possible. this algorithm is 
called the rsa algorithm , after rivest , shamir , and adleman 
who jointly created it. its security derives from the fact 
that , if a very large number is the product of two very 
large primes , then it is extremely difficult to obtain the 
two prime factors from analysis of their product. ex 
in the sense that if primes p and q have 100 
digits apiece , then their 200 digit product cannot in gen 
be factored in less than 100 years by the most powerful 
computer now in existence .  . 

the public part of the key consists of (1) the prod 
pq of the two large primes p and q , and (2) one fac 
tor , call it x , of the product xy where xy (p 1) 
(q 1) 1 . the private part of the key consists of the 
other factor y. 

each block of the text to be encrypted is first turned 
into an integer either by using ascii , or even a simple 
a 01 , b 02 , c 03 , ... , z 26 representation .  . this integer 
is then raised to the power x  ( modulo pq ) and the resulting 
integer is then sent as the encrypted message. the receiver 
decrypts by taking this integer to the  ( secret ) power y 
 ( modulo  . it can be shown that this process will always 
yield the original number started with. 

what makes this a groundbreaking development , and why 
it is called public key cryptography , is that i can 
openly publish the product pq and the number x , while 
keeping secret the number y so that anyone can send me 
an encrypted message , namely 
x 
a  ( mod pq ) , 
but only i can recover the original message a , by taking 
what they send , raising it to the power y and taking the 
result  ( mod  . the risky step  ( meeting to exchange cipher 
keys) has been eliminated .  . so people who may not even trust 
each other enough to want to meet , may still reliably ex 
change encrypted messages each party having selected and 
disseminated his own pq and his x , while maintaining 
the secrecy of his own y. 

another benefit of this scheme is the notion of a dig 
ital signature , to enable one to authenticate the source of 
a given message. normally , if i want to send you a message , 
i raise my plaintext a to your x and take the result  ( mod 
your pq ) and send that. 

however , if in my message , i take the plaintext a and 
raise it to my  ( secret ) power y , take the result  ( mod my 
pq ) , then raise that result to your x  ( mod your pq ) and 
send this , then even after you have normally decrypted the 
message , it will still look like garbage .  . however , if you 
then raise it to my public power x , and take the result 
 ( mod my public pq ) , so you will not only recover the 
plaintext message , but you will know that no one but i 
could have sent it to you  ( since no one else knows my secret 
y) .  . 

and these are the very concerns by the way that are to 
day the soviet union about the whole question of 
personal computers. on the one hand , they recognize that 
american are right now growing up with com 
as commonplace as used to be more so , in 
fact , because there are things computers can do which will 
interest  ( and instruct ) 3 and 4 year olds .  . and it is pre 
these students who one generation hence will be going 
head to head against their soviet counterparts .  . for the 
soviets to hold back might be a suicidal as continuing to 
teach while your adversaries are learning 
ballistics .  . on the other hand , whatever else a personal 
computer may be , it is also an exquisitely efficient copying 
machine a floppy disk will hold upwards of 50 , 000 words of 
text , and can be copied in a couple of minutes. if this 
were n't threatening enough , the computer that performs the 
copy can also encrypt the data in a fashion that is all but 
unbreakable .  . remember that in soviet society publicly ac 
xerox machines are unknown. (the relatively few 
copying machines in existence are controlled more 
sively than machine guns are in the united states . ) . 

now the conservative position is that we should not 
sell these computers to the soviets , because they could use 
them in weapons systems. the liberal position is that we 
should sell them , in the interests of mutual trade and 
cooperation and anyway , if we do n't make the sale , there 
will certainly be some other nation willing to. 

for my part , i'm ready to suggest that the libertarian 
position should be to give them to the soviets for free , and 
if necessary , make them take them . . . and if that does n't 
work load up an sr 71 blackbird and air drop them over 
moscow in the middle of the night. paid for by private sub 
, of course , not taxation . . . i confess that this 
is not a position that has gained much support among members 
of the conventional left right political spectrum , but , af 
ter all , in the words of one of 's characters , we 
are political non the shortest distance to a 
particular goal may not look anything like what most people 
would consider a straight line. taking a long enough 
world view , it is arguable that breaking the soviet govern 
ment monopoly on information transfer could better lead to 
the and , indeed , to the ultimate dissolution of 
the soviet empire than would the production of another dozen 
missiles aimed at moscow .  . 

but there 's the rub a long enough world view does 
suggest that the evil , the oppressive , the coercive and the 
simply stupid will get what they deserve , but what 's not 
immediately clear is how the rest of us can escape being 
killed , enslaved , or in the process. 

when the liberals and other began to at 
tack freedom , they possessed a reasonably stable , healthy , 
functioning economy , and almost unlimited time to proceed to 
hamstring and dismantle it. a policy of political 
gradualism was at least conceivable .  . but now , we have 
patchwork crazy quilt economy held together by wire 
and spit .  . the state not only taxes us to feed the poor 
while also inducing farmers to slaughter milk cows and drive 
up food prices it then simultaneously turns around and sub 
research into agricultural chemicals designed to in 
crease yields of milk from the cows left alive. or witness 
the fact that a decline in the price of oil is considered as 
potentially frightening as a comparable increase a few years 
ago. when the price went up , we were told , the economy 
risked collapse for for want of energy. the price increase 
was called the moral equivalent of war and the feds swung 
into action. for the first time in american history , the 
speed at which you drive your car to work in the morning be 
came an issue of federal concern. now , when the price of 
oil drops , again we risk problems , this time because 
can oil companies and third world basket case nations who 
sell oil may not be able to ever pay their debts to our 
grossly over extended banks .  . the suggested panacea is that 
government should now re raise the oil prices that opec has 
lowered , via a new oil tax. since the government is seeking 
to raise oil prices to about the same extent as opec did , 
what can we call this except the moral equivalent of civil 
war the government against its own people 

and , classically , in international trade , can you imag 
any entity in the world except a government going to 
court claiming that a vendor was selling it goods too 
cheaply and demanding not only that that naughty vendor be 
compelled by the court to raise its prices , but also that it 
be punished for the act of lowering them in the first place 

so while the statists could afford to take a couple of 
hundred years to trash our economy and our liberties we 
certainly cannot count on having an equivalent period of 
stability in which to reclaim them. i contend that there 
exists almost a black hole effect in the evolution of 
nation states just as in the evolution of stars. once free 
dom contracts beyond a certain minimum extent , the state 
the fabric of the political continuum about itself to 
the degree that subsequent re emergence of freedom becomes 
all but impossible. a good illustration of this can be seen 
in the area of so called welfare payments .  . when those who 
at the public trough outnumber  ( and thus outvote ) those 
whose taxes must replenish the trough , then what possible 
choice has a democracy but to perpetuate and expand the 
ing from the few for the unearned benefit of the many go 
down to the nearest welfare office , find just two people 
on the dole . . . and recognize that between them they form 
a voting bloc that can forever you on the question 
of who owns your life and the fruits of your life 's labor .  . 

so essentially those who love liberty need an edge of 
some sort if we 're ultimately going to prevail .  . we obvi 
ously ca n't use the  other of 
work , slave , suffer , sacrifice , so that next generation of 
a billion random strangers can live in a better world. 
recognize that , however immoral such an appeal might be , it 
is nonetheless an extremely powerful one in today 's culture. 
if you can convince people to work for a 
cause , caring only enough for their personal welfare so as 
to remain alive enough and healthy enough to continue 
working then you have a truly massive reservoir of energy 
to draw from. equally clearly , this is just the sort of ap 
which cannot be utilized for or 
libertarian goals. if i were to stand up before you tonight 
and say something like , listen , follow me as i my 
noble cause , contribute your money to support the cause , 
give up your free time to work for the cause , strive 
to bring it about , and then  ( after you and your 
children are dead ) maybe your children 's children will actu 
ally live under egoism you 'd all think i 'd gone mad. and 
of course you 'd be right. because the point i'm trying to 
make is that libertarianism and or egoism will be spread if , 
when , and as , individual libertarians and or find it 
profitable and or enjoyable to do so. and probably only 
then. 

while i certainly do not disparage the concept of poli 
action , i do n't believe that it is the only , nor even 
necessarily the most cost effective path toward increasing 
freedom in our time. consider that , for a fraction of the 
investment in time , money and effort i might expend in try 
ing to convince the state to abolish wiretapping and all 
forms of censorship i can teach every libertarian who 's in 
how to use cryptography to abolish them 
unilaterally .  . 

there is a maxim a proverb generally attributed to 
the , which very likely most libertarians have al 
ready heard. and while you likely would not quarrel with 
the saying , you might well feel that you 've heard it often 
enough already , and that it has nothing further to teach us , 
and moreover , that maybe you 're even tired of hearing it. i 
shall therefore repeat it now 

if you give a man a fish , the saying runs , you feed him 
for a day. but if you teach a man how to fish , you feed him 
for a lifetime. 

your exposure to the quote was probably in some sort of 
a vs. welfare context namely , that if you 
genuinely wish to help someone in need , you should teach him 
how to earn his , not simply how to beg for it. 
and of course this is true , if only because the next time he 
is hungry , there might not be anybody around willing or even 
able to give him a fish , whereas with the information on how 
to fish , he is completely self sufficient .  . 

but i submit that this exhausts only the first order 
content of the quote , and if there were nothing further to 
glean from it , i would have wasted your time by citing it 
again. after all , it seems to have almost a crypto 
slant , as though to imply that we should structure our ac 
so as to maximize the benefits to such hungry 
beggars as we may encounter .  . 

but consider 

suppose this eskimo does n't know how to fish , but he 
does know how to hunt  . you , on the other hand , 
have often gone hungry while traveling thru country 
because you had no idea how to catch the damn things , and 
they ate most of the fish you could catch .  . and now suppose 
the two of you decide to exchange information , 
fishing knowledge for hunting knowledge. well , the first 
thing to observe is that a transaction of this type 
categorically and unambiguously refutes the marxist premise 
that every trade must have a winner and a loser the 
idea that if one person gains , it must necessarily be at the 
expense of another person who loses .  . clearly , under this 
scenario , such is not the case. each party has gained some 
thing he did not have before , and neither has been 
in any way. when it comes to exchange of information 
 ( rather than material objects ) life is no longer a zero sum 
game. this is an extremely powerful notion .  . the law of 
diminishing returns , the first and second laws of 
thermodynamics all those laws which our 
bilities in other contexts no longer bind us ! now that 's 
anarchy ! 

or consider another possibility suppose this hungry 
eskimo never learned to fish because the ruler of his 
nation state had decreed fishing illegal .  . because fish 
contain dangerous tiny bones , and sometimes sharp , he 
tells us , the state has decreed that their consumption and 
even their possession are too hazardous to the people 's 
health to be permitted . . . even by knowledgeable , willing 
adults. perhaps it is because citizens  bodies are thought 
to be government property , and therefore it is the function 
of the state to punish those who improperly care for govern 
ment property. or perhaps it is because the state 
ously extends to competent adults the benefits it provides 
to children and to the mentally ill namely , a full time , 
all pervasive supervisory so that they need 
not trouble themselves with making choices about behavior 
thought physically risky or morally naughty .  . but , in any 
case , you stare , while your eskimo informant re 
lates how this law is taken so seriously that a friend of 
his was recently imprisoned for years for the crime of pos 
session of nine ounces of trout with intent to distribute .  . 

now you may conclude that a society so 
oppressive as to enforce a law of this type is simply an 
to the dignity of all human beings .  . you may go far 
ther and decide to commit some portion of your discretion 
, recreational time specifically to the task of thwarting 
this tyrant 's goal.  ( your rationale may be altruistic in 
the sense of wanting to liberate the oppressed , or 
in the sense of proving you can the 
oppressor or very likely some combination of these or per 
haps even other motives . ) . 

but , since you have zero desire to become a martyr to 
your cause , you 're not about to mount a military campaign , 
or even try to run a boatload of fish through the blockade .  . 
however , it is here that technology and in particular in 
formation technology can multiply your efficacy literally a 
 . i say literally , because for a fraction of 
the effort  ( and virtually none of the risk ) attendant to 
smuggling in a hundred fish , you can quite readily produce a 
hundred xerox copies of fishing instructions.  ( if the tar 
government , like present day america , at least permits 
open discussion of topics whose implementation is re 
, then that should suffice .  . but , if the government 
attempts to suppress the flow of information as well , then 
you will have to take a little more effort and perhaps write 
your fishing manual on a floppy disk encrypted according to 
your mythical eskimo 's public key parameters .  . but as far as 
increasing real world access to fish you have made genuine 
headway which may continue to snowball as others 
re disseminate the information you have provided. and you 
have not had to waste any of your time trying to convert id 
adversaries , or even trying to win over the 
 . recall harry browne 's dictum from freedom in an 
unfree world that the success of any endeavor is in general 
inversely proportional to the number of people whose 
sion is necessary to its  . 

if you look at history , you cannot deny that it has 
been dramatically shaped by men with names like washington , 
lincoln , . . . nixon . . . marcos . . . . . . 
. . . and their ilk .  . but it has also been shaped 
by people with names like edison , , marconi , tesla and 
 . and this latter shaping has been at least as per 
, and not nearly so bloody .  . 

and that 's where i'm trying to take the 
project. rather than the state to please not en 
slave , plunder or us , i propose a libertarian net 
work spreading the technologies by which we may seize 
freedom for ourselves. 

but here we must be a bit careful. while it is not (at 
present) illegal to encrypt information when government 
wants to spy on you , there is no guarantee of what the fu 
ture may hold .  . there have been bills introduced , for exam 
, which would have made it a crime to wear body armor 
when government wants to shoot you. that is , if you were to 
commit certain crimes while wearing a kevlar vest , then that 
fact would constitute a separate federal crime of its own. 
this law to my knowledge has not passed . . . yet . . . but 
it does indicate how government thinks .  . 

other technological applications , however , do indeed 
pose legal risks .  . we recognize , for example , that anyone 
who helped a pre civil war slave escape on the underground 
railroad was making a clearly illegal use of technology as 
the sovereign government of the united states of america at 
that time found the buying and selling of human beings quite 
as acceptable as the buying and selling of cattle .  . simi 
, during prohibition , anyone who used his bathtub to 
ferment yeast and sugar into the illegal psychoactive drug , 
alcohol the controlled substance , wine was using 
in a way that could get him shot dead by federal agents 
for his crime unfortunately not to be restored to life 
when congress reversed itself and re permitted use of this 
drug .  . 

so . . . to quote a former president , un indicted co 
and felon . . . let me make one thing 
perfectly clear the project does not advocate , 
participate in , or in the violation of any law no 
matter how oppressive , unconstitutional or simply stupid 
such law may be. it does engage in description  ( for 
tional and informational purposes only) of technological 
processes , and some of these processes  ( like flying a plane 
or manufacturing a firearm ) may well require appropriate li 
to perform legally .  . fortunately , no license is 
needed for the distribution or receipt of information it 
self. 

so , the next time you look at the political scene and 
despair , thinking , well , if 51 of the nation and 51 of 
this state , and 51 of this city have to turn libertarian 
before i 'll be free , then somebody might as well cut my 
goddamn throat now , and put me out of my misery recognize 
that such is not the case. there exist ways to make your 
self free. 

if you wish to explore such techniques via the project , 
you are welcome to give me your name and address or a fake 
name and mail drop , for that matter and you 'll go on the 
mailing list for my published newsletter .  . any 
friends or acquaintances whom you think would be interested 
are welcome as well. i'm not even asking for stamped self 
addressed envelopes , since my printer can handle mailing la 
and actual postage costs are down in the noise compared 
with the other efforts in getting an issue out. if you 
should have an idea to share , or even a useful product to 
plug , i 'll be glad to have you write it up for publication .  . 
even if you want to be the proverbial free rider and just 
benefit from what others contribute you 're still welcome 
everything will be public domain feel free to copy it or 
give it away  ( or sell it , for that matter , 'cause if you can 
get money for it while i'm taking full page ads trying to 
give it away , you 're certainly entitled to your capitalist 
profit . .  . ) . anyway , every application of these principles 
should make the world just a little freer , and i'm certainly 
willing to underwrite that , at least for the forseeable fu 
ture .  . 

i will leave you with one final thought if you do n't 
learn how to beat your into swords before they 
outlaw swords , then you sure as hell ought to learn before 
they outlaw too. 

chuck 

the project 
3194 drive 
los angeles , california 
90064 
310 836 



the above address was updated december 1992 , with the 
permission of chuck , by russell whitaker 

those interested in the issues raised in this piece should participate 
in at least these newsgroups 

alt . privacy . 
alt . security . pgp . 
comp . org . eff . talk . 
sci.crypt 

a copy of the rsa based public key encryption program , pgp 2.1  ( pretty 
good privacy ) , can be obtained at various ftp sites around the world. 
one such site is gate . demon . co . uk . , where an ms dos version can be had by 
anonymous ftp as zip . in pub pgp .  . 

versions for other operating systems , including unix variants 
and macintosh , are also available. source code is also 
available. 

here 's the blurb for pgp , by the way 

quote 
pgp  ( pretty good privacy ) ver 2.2 rsa public key encryption freeware 
for msdos , protects e mail. lets you communicate securely with people 
you 've never met , with no secure channels needed for prior exchange of 
keys. well featured and fast ! excellent user documentation .  . 

pgp has sophisticated key management , an rsa conventional hybrid 
encryption scheme , message digests for digital signatures , data 
compression before encryption , and good ergonomic design. source 
code is free. 

filenames zip .  ( executable and manuals ) , zip .  ( sources ) 
keywords pgp , pretty good privacy , rsa , public key , encryption , 
privacy , authentication , signatures , email 
end quote 

russell earl whitaker 
communications editor 
the journal of thought 
board member , institute  ( exi ) 


begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 

cfh 
4 
q4 


end pgp signature 


from (david sternlight ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip) 
organization dsi 
lines 34 

in article  ( ag russell ) 
writes 


at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was des encryped 
and the person that had sent it , went on vaction .  . rather than wait two weeks 
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only took  ( two(2 ) 
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des .  . 


taking this at face value  ( though it seems quite dissonant with much else 
that has been published here about brute force des cracking , unless russell 
was lucky with respect to the key) , i 'd be very interested in whether the 
program russell used is available in whether he used a cleartext 
recognition algorithm in the program or whether he had to examine each 
decryption by hand in whether he used a known plaintext attack 

he probably should also tell us , given his address , what machine he used a 
desktop , workstation , or super computer. 

depending on his answer , this could be an appalling development calling into 
question both des and rsa des .  . dunno about rsa idea. 

if any bright programmer with a little idle machine time can crack a single 
des message in a couple of days  ( assuming no tricks that are 
message specific ) , then here 's my clipper key , nsa give me the chip at 
once. ) 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (david koontz ) 
subject is key escrow enough 
organization loral computer systems 
distribution world 
lines 48 

from 
revised , april 21 , 1993 

the chips are programmed by mykotronx , inc. , which calls them the 
myk 78 .  . the silicon is supplied by vlsi technology inc. 

all clipper chips are programmed inside a  ( secure compartmented 
information facility ) , which is essentially a vault .  . the contains 
a laptop computer and equipment to program the chips. about 300 chips 
are programmed during a single session. the is located at 
mykotronx .  . 

acknowledgment and distribution notice. this article is based on 
information provided by nsa , nist , fbi , and mykotronx .  . permission to 
distribute this document is granted .  . 

so , who is mykotronx , inc. it would be nice to know that they are 
not a front company used by an intelligence or other agency of the 
u.s. government. 

while we are at it , the chip  ( design(s ) should be examined and verified 
against silicon to insure no trap doors or hidden protocols exist in silicon , 
regardless of the security level of the encryption algorithm .  . there is 
no proof that the chip wo n't and role over for someone with the 
proper knowledge to interrogate it via the communications link. 

the design examination should be done to the gate level. also , how does one 
verify that what you are looking at is reflected in , or masks 

the silicon should be examined as well , the design in hand (a clean room 
publicly defined clipper chip) can be merged with another design later , or 
changed between completion and mask out. there is little proof that what 
you are told is in the chip is all that is in the chip .  . 

put the  ( verified ) masks in escrow , and use them for chip production , 
use a third escrow party for programming the chips. 

the government is asking for a lot of blind trust the encryption algorithm , 
operating protocols , the agency having physical control of the devices , the 
silicon implementation .  . if the government is so trustworthy , why escrow 
anything 








from (paul repacholi ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
lines 31 
organization curtin university of technology 

in article , (david sternlight ) writes 

brad yearwood posts a long response to the issue of registering a 
phone clipper relationship. 

it does n't wash. 

recall that law enforcement gets a court order to tap a suspect 's phone 
calls. they do what they do now figure out which lines to tap .  . they then 
record the stuff. if it 's clipper , they read the law enforcement block , 
extract the serial number , and get the keys using the court order. 

no new difficulties  ( such as using someone else 's phone instrument or phone 
line) are introduced that would n't have existed absent clipper .  . if the 
crooks were going to use a pay phone  ( say ) , they could have done so without 
clipper .  . if the government figures out they 're so doing , they listen in , and 
if it 's a clipper conversation they get the serial number and then the keys. 

if the crooks use an innocent person 's clipper phone on the tapped line 
there 's no problem. the feds do n't care whose phone instrument is used , just 
that the conversation is by the suspect on the tapped line. they get the 
serial number , get the keys , and they are in business. 

no clipper chip to person association is ever needed. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (david sternlight ) 
subject back doors in clipper 
organization dsi 
lines 20 


i think it very unlikely there are back doors in clipper , for two reasons 

1. the government does n't need them if it can get the key  ( and yes , i assume 
that the official government obeys court orders , etc. and that the design 
of the chip and its approval were official ) 

2. it would defeat the whole purpose of providing secure crypto for american 
business that could n't be read by our economic adversaries .  . if this were not 
a legitimate and genuine purpose , and as many think , the nsa can read des , 
why bother otherwise 

rational responses preferred to conspiracy theories , thanks. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



from (mr .  . weather ) 
subject re does rush read his e mail 
organization texas a m university , academic computing services 
lines 12 
distribution inet 
nntp posting host zeus . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

 ( sean dean ) writes .  .  .  . 

other 2 posts deleted 

i 've heard he does n't read alt . fan . rush .  .  .  .  .  . 
but i have no idea of a compuserve e mail address .  .  .  . 

does anyone have rush limbaugh 's e mail address is there anyone out there 
on compuserve who might be able to look it up or otherwise find it 
maybe it would be impossible , but i thought i should at least ask .  .  .  . 

mr. weather ken blair 

from mathew 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 02 . 
lines 9 

 ( ian farquhar ) writes 
hmmm .  .  .  . i also wonder what intergraph thinks about the use of the name 
clipper for this device. ) 

not to mention computer associates .  . i 'll have to be careful to stop telling 
people i'm a clipper programmer , they might lynch me .  .  .  . ) 


mathew 

from graham toal 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
originator 
nntp posting host pizzabox . demon . co . uk . 
reply to graham toal 
organization anonymous 
lines 21 

in article  ( hal finney ) writes 
i tried this code yesterday. on my sparcstation elc it takes over 
300 seconds to compress 22 seconds  worth of speech. this means that it 
needs to be optimized by over a factor of 10 before it will be usable 
in even a half duplex mode. 

ouch ! thanks for trying it. 

i question whether celp is the best approach for this application. it produces 
great compression but at the expense of tremendous cpu loads .  . we want 
something that can be run on ordinary workstations or even high end pc 's 
without dsp cards. my guess is that some other algorithm is going to be 
a better starting point. 

yes. i'm not sure if my to comp . speech . made it to here too , but 
i 've found that a low sample rate  ( 3300 samples sec at 8 bits per sample ) 
plus the pd  shorten  lossless sound compression code actually does get 
speech into 14 . 4k . with a left over. this is definitely worth 
working on , folks. and shorten works in well under real time. 

g 

from (robert i. eachus ) 
subject re can des code be shipped to canada 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 20 55 04 gmt 
nntp posting host spectre . mitre . org . 
organization the mitre corp. , bedford , ma .  . 
lines 40 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 

i believe it is illegal to send any cryptographic code out of the 
country without an export license.  ( others will correct me if 
this is inaccurate . ) . 

glad to ! you are correct , it is illegal to send cryptographic 
code  ( and lots of other things) out of the country without a license. 
however , every us citizen has a general export license , allowing 
export of lots of things , including constitutionally protected speech. 
this has the effect that it is legal for us citizens to export some 
things which it is illegal for a us corporation to export without 
first obtaining a license. 

dunno if you 'd get one for the particular code you have the only 
way to find out is to apply for a license. 

nope , talk to a good lawyer in the area of export law. but , in 
general , the government has to have a very good national security case 
to try prevent the export of anything you personally might wish to 
publish .  . (yes , i worded that the way i did intentionally .  . it is a 
lot easier for the government to try to prevent the export of 
information than to charge someone with a crime after the fact. 
espionage is probably the only exception . ) . 

note that you need to distinguish between what is legal to send 
to canada if you have such a license , and what is legal to send 
if you do n't .  . 

if you are a us citizen , you have a general license. (i am not a 
lawyer , so take some of this with a grain of salt. however , i have 
also had to swim through both itar and export regs in a few cases . ) . 



robert i. eachus 

with standard disclaimer 
use standard disclaimer 
function message  ( text in clever ideas ) return better ideas is .  .  .  . 

from  ( mel beckman ) 
subject re suggestions for escrow agencies  ( was re more technical details) 
organization beckman software engineering 
reply to 
distribution world 
x mailer lite macintosh release 1 . 5v5 . 
lines 29 


in article (sci . crypt . , alt . privacy . clipper) . , (david sternlight ) writes 
the easiest way is a user fee for each clipper chip manufactured .  . this makes 
the funding separate from government. 

it also has the neat side property that if the chip does n't catch on , the 
scheme breaks down , and the government is back to the drawing boards , 
assuming that they have n't prohibited alternatives in the meantime .  . 

in fact , maybe this should be part of the official system. before the 
government is allowed to move this past the experimental stage , they 
should have to demonstrate economic viability by mass adoption .  . 

david , 

while i disagree strongly with you on the issue of our trusting the government , 
i think you have a good idea here. there is danger that , with funding coming 
from asset , the government could continue to promulgate a bad 
product in spite of poor acceptance .  . making the product pay its way  ( as 
it must for private ventures ) would be a good incentive for quality and 
listening to we , the  . ) 

mel 


mel beckman internet 
beckman software engineering compuserve 75226 , 2257 
ventura , ca 93003 voice fax 805 647 1641 805 647 3125 

you can observe a lot just by watching. yogi bera 

from (richard lucock ) 
subject triple des 
keywords des 
organization joint european torus 
lines 22 

i have seen various references to  triple des  recently. could anyone 
tell me what it is from context , i would guess that it means 
encrypting each block 3 times , with a different key each time , but 
i 'd like to be sure. 

replies by email preferred our news is unreliable .  . 

thanks , 
richard 




pgp public key available on request 




pgp public key available on request 

disclaimer please note that the above is a personal view and should not 
be construed as an official comment from the jet project. 

from (john kelsey ) 
subject how to make the clipper chip and wiretapping less bad 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 15 

i 've got an idea that would remove most of the political complaints 
i have about the clipper chip .  . pass a law stating that if , within a 
year of a wiretap on someone , a police agency has n't 
managed to convict the suspect of the crime the warrant wiretap was for , 
then that agency the suspect 1 million to repay him her for 
lost privacy .  . 
of course , there are still problems with the technical aspects of 
clipper , and with the one size fits all mentality that would be behind 
an attempt to enforce it as a standard. but this would be a way for 
those in favor of allowing continued wiretaps to assure us that it will 
only be used in cases where the crime is important and the police are 
all but certain that there really will be a conviction .  .  .  .  . 

john kj 


from  ( servalan ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization express access online communications usa 
lines 38 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

in article  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
qualcomm had spare cycles in the dsps for their new cdma digital 
cellular phones. they wanted to put strong crypto into them since they 
had the capacity .  . the government decided to discourage them. 

you 're blowing smoke. qualcomm wants to sell to nice , lucrative overseas 
markets like japan and the ec .  . the government told them do n't do encryption 
if you ever hope to export this technology . the reason that cdma does n't 
have encryption is not because the g men came a knocking at qualcomm 's door. 
it 's because qualcomm does n't think that the us market for digital cellular 
is big enough for them. this is just the international traffic in arms 
regulations all over again. 

if you do n't believe me , call qualcomm and ask them. do n't just throw 
out theories .  . at least , do n't do it on sci.crypt there are 
whole other newsgroups devoted to this kind of uninformed claptrap .  . 

any normal company trying to put one out will likely get a visit 
from the boys in the dark suits from washington , just like qualcomm 
did. i suspect that companies like are tolerated because their 
products are too expensive. 

hah .  . they 're not that much more expensive. besides , if a drug dealer 
can afford a rolex and a mercedes , he can darn well afford phones. 
no , sells their phones because they 're willing to make different 
stuff for domestic use vs. export .  . qualcomm is n't .  . so makes 
money that 's capitalism , comrade .  . 

someone out there will build a unit to do all this. better yet , 
prehaps someone will produce a package that turns any 486 box with a 
sound card into a secure phone. 

someone this and someone that. if you think it 's so easy , why are 
you whining on the net instead of getting your butt in gear and writing 
it your name would become known and loved by dozens ! but no , that would 
require actual effort. 



from (mike schmelzer ) 
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow 


organization uw 
lines 18 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 05 38 45 gmt 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your 
crypto keys i would n't .  . 

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon .  . sure. 
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon . 

mr. sternlight , your naivete and historical ignorance is appalling .  . 

history lesson detailing 1968 74 deleted. 

mike , ,  ( 608)262 )  . finger for pgp .  . 
people did n't riot the minute they saw that film. 
they waited on justice. which never came. ice t. 

from  ( mel beckman ) 
subject re wiretapping reality today 
organization beckman software engineering 
reply to 
distribution world 
x mailer lite macintosh release 1 . 5v5 . 
lines 18 


in article (sci . crypt) . , (david sternlight ) writes 
you should read the history. it was hoover who stopped nixon 's 
dead in its tracks because he said it was unconstitutional .  . they tried to 
get around him every way they could. 


unfortunately , hoover thought himself above the constitution , whatever he 
considered the limits others should obey .  . he ruthlessly invaded the privacy 
of many private and public citizens .  . 

mel 


mel beckman internet 
beckman software engineering compuserve 75226 , 2257 
ventura , ca 93003 voice fax 805 647 1641 805 647 3125 

you can observe a lot just by watching. yogi bera 

from  ( ross anderson ) 
subject re tempest 
nntp posting host ely . cl . cam . ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk 
distribution na 
lines 37 

 ( william w. hughes ) writes 

hell , just set up a spark jammer , or some other very electrically noisy 
device. 

this does n't work , due to the near field far field effect. you may stop 
someone five yards away from listening in , but someone fifty yards away will 
be relatively unaffected unless you pump out hundreds of watts and jam all 
the neighbourhood tv 's as well. in that case the government will stomp on you 
ask any radio ham ! democratic governments care even more about their voters  
right to watch soap than they do about national security , and dictators 
consider their propaganda to be an integral part of their national security. 

and  ( doug holland ) writes 

another idea use a laptop computer. as mentioned earlier , the lcd screen 
is a lot less noisy than a standard crt , but since many laptops have power 
supplies that run at 3 volts instead of 5 , they would be considerably 
quieter .  . 

i'm afraid this does n't work either. we can pick up laptop screens without any 
problem. 

most of the so called radiation  monitors are also useless. the description 
turns out to a marketing assertion rather than an engineering one. 

we thought there might be a market for a monitor which was not as 
expensive as the military tempest kit , but which was well enough shielded to 
stop eavesdropping using available receivers .  . we built a prototype , it works , 
and it 's still sitting on my lab bench .  . commercial interest was exactly zero .  . 

in the absence of open standards , a monitor which really is radiation  
 ( and costs 500 dollars more) ca n't compete against a monitor which just 
claims to be radiation   ( and whose only extra cost of production is the 
pretty blue sticker on the box) .  . 

ross 

reply to  ( jeff hupp ) 
from  ( jeff hupp ) 
subject pgp where to get it 
lines 16 

i am both new to this news group and to the net. 

i am facinated by the things i have heard about the pgp 
encryption program. does anybody out there know where i might get a 
version of this program that runs under windows 3.1 , ms dos , unix 
w source as of this writting i have no unix access and am running on a 
nifty windows of uucico .  . 
thanks in advance ! 



jeff internet 
, apt. 1807 ad contract programming , novell 
houston , texas network design and support. 
voice (713) 780 the best govenment does n't me. 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re is this overreaction 
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa 
lines 12 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . digex . net . 

good points. in addition , i would point out that now is one of the 
best times to fight this political battle , with much of the opposition 
in disarray an fbi director  ( sessions ) on his way out , an attorney 
general  ( reno ) who has only been in long enough to find the office coffee 
machine two tries out of three  ( and , between slow confirmations and 
clinton 's saturday night massacre , has n't much of a staff in place) .  . 
if we really get lucky , both of the above will be too busy trying to 
keep their feet from being held to the waco fire to spend much effort 
insisting on their alleged right to spy on the american people. 

i swear to you , we are n't finished yet. james t. kirk , st iii 


from mainz . de . (prof .  . dr. klaus pommerening ) 
subject summary des init vector as additional key 
keywords des , key search , vector 
nntp posting host anke . imsd . uni . mainz . de . 
organization johannes gutenberg mainz 
lines 60 

at the risk of getting lost in the clipper chip discussion i give a 
summary on my recent question 

in article mainz . de . i wrote 
the recent discussion in this news group suggests that a key search 
attack 
against des is quite feasible now. but normally des is applied in cbc or 
cfb 
mode where one chooses a random init vector of 8 bytes .  . questions 

makes it sense to handle the init vector as an additional key then 
we have 
a 56 64 120 bit key. 

if yes is anything known about the security of this key scheme can 
we 
break it faster than by exhaustive search through the 120 bit key space 

unfortunately the answer is no concealing the vector 
essentially does n't give any additional security. i got 3 answers (from 
, , that 
opened my eyes. it 's pretty simple 

say e is encryption  ( and d decryption ) with key k on 64 bit blocks .  . 

let c 0 be the vector , 
m 1 , m 2 , ... the message blocks , 
c 1 , c 2 , ... the cipher text blocks .  . 

then encryption in cipher block chaining (cbc) mode works by the formula 

c i e(m i xor c i 1 ) , 

and decryption by 

m i c i 1 xor  ( d(c i ) .  . 

so if the attacker does n't have c 0 this only affects the first message 
block m 1 . but she can do her key search attack on m 2 , m 3 , ... 

the situation in cipher feedback  ( cfb ) mode is a bit more complicated but 
similar and left as an exercise for the reader ) 

finally there is the modified output feedback mode (ofb) where des  ( or 
whatever block cipher you use) simply acts as random generator by 

s i e(s i 1 ) with vector ( seed ) s 0 , 

and encryption is given by 

c i m i xor s i . 

here the usual plaintext  attack against xor bitstream ciphers 
reduces the cracking to key search for k. 


klaus pommerening 
institut fuer medizinische statistik und dokumentation 
der johannes gutenberg 
strasse 69 , w 6500 mainz , germany 

from (john w. luther ) 
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host mcs213c . cs . umr . edu . 
distribution na 
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo 
lines 12 

in article (andrew richard conway ) writes 

of course do n't over react but do n't under react .  . 

better yet act. 

john 

john w. luther anybody who mistakes my 
best for email opinions for umr 's just 
! does n't know umr .  . 


from  ( rob boudrie ) 
subject re suggestions for escrow agencies  ( was re more technical details) 
organization center for high perf .  . computing of wpi marlboro ma 
lines 7 

what are the assurances the escrow people will not be forbidden to 
report any access attempts for one 's keys 


in ny state it is already a crime to inform anyone of a law enforcement 
wiretap on their phone , even if the person doing the informing learns 
about it through non means. 

from jon c. r. bennett 
subject re clipper considered harmful and amplified 
organization robotics institute , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 14 
distribution inet 

nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 



(david sternlight ) writes 
if the crooks use an innocent person 's clipper phone on the tapped line 
there 's no problem. the feds do n't care whose phone instrument is used , just 
that the conversation is by the suspect on the tapped line. they get the 
serial number , get the keys , and they are in business. 

no clipper chip to person association is ever needed. 

phones .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


jon 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re tempest 
distribution na 
organization colorado state university , computer science department 
lines 40 
nntp posting host beethoven . cs . colostate . edu . 

in article leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu .  ( kirill shklovsky ) writes 
in article  ( ross anderson ) writes 
i'm afraid this does n't work either. we can pick up laptop screens without any 
problem. 

most of the so called radiation  monitors are also useless. the description 
turns out to a marketing assertion rather than an engineering one. 

we thought there might be a market for a monitor which was not as 
expensive as the military tempest kit , but which was well enough shielded to 
stop eavesdropping using available receivers .  . we built a prototype , it works , 
and it 's still sitting on my lab bench .  . commercial interest was exactly zero .  . 

in the absence of open standards , a monitor which really is radiation  
 ( and costs 500 dollars more) ca n't compete against a monitor which just 
claims to be radiation   ( and whose only extra cost of production is the 
pretty blue sticker on the box) .  . 

ross 

i heard somewhere (ca n't name the source) that tempest does not necessarily 
pick up just crts , but it can pick up emissions from almost any chip .  . if 
that is true , the kind monitor would not make any difference becuase everything 
on the screen can be picked up from the video controller .  . can anybody verify 
or refute this 

just thought of something. yes , laptops can still be read , but it 's not quite 
as easy as a normal pc with a crt .  . my thought , airline pilots lately have 
been complaining about how laptops being used in flight mess with the plane 's 
instruments .  . if this can be hyped up , manufacturers may start building 
laptops with even lower emmisions .  . it would probably still be possible to 
pick up with surveillance equipment , but at this point , it would be a lot 
cheaper to mask the remaining signals with tempest techniques. 

doug holland 


doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to pry it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! ! 

from  ( nathaniel sammons ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
nntp posting host casco . lance . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state u. engineering college 
lines 16 

1) i think that most of us can afford a stamp and an envelope , and the 
cost of printing out a letter. 

2) if some kind soul out there would write a letter , and upload it to 
the net , everyone could capture it , print it out , and snail mail it 
out to their local congressional critter .  . 

btw i'm working on one. 

nate 

o o 
i hate quotations .  . this message brought you by 
tell me what you know. nate sammons , and the number 42 .  . 
ralph waldo emerson 
o o 

from 
subject birthday attack 
distribution world 
organization technologies 
lines 7 


i recently saw a message here  ( posted by bob silverman , i think) which 
referred to a birthday attack on a cryptosystem .  . i'm looking for 
references on , and explanations of , this type of attack. 

thanks , 
paul 

from  ( carl shapiro ) 
subject re my letter about clipper 
organization las vegas sun 
distribution inet 
lines 19 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 
part of the basis for my belief is that we nsa have more people , spend much 
more money , and have much better hardware than anyone else. 

the same could be said for many other goverment agencies , but big budgets , 
large staffs , and long lead time have n't made many of them into models of 
effectiveness .  . 

the fact is that those of us outside the inner circles have only james 
bamford 's word that the people at the nsa use those legendary masses of 
computers for anything other than reading netnews , like many of us. 

the nsa does n't have an impressive record of accomplishments , at least 
not a public record. 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 

this , on the other hand , is ! where 's it from 

from  ( philippe hoogvorst ) 
subject re clipper chip 
nntp posting host fr . 
organization ecole normale superieure , paris , france 
lines 42 

in article , writes 
is it realistic for the government to try to keep the details 
of the encrytion algorithm secret if it intends to use evidence from .  .  .  . 
james b. 

i do not think they can use the eavesdropping as evidence at all. however , 
using the info they gather while listening , they can go searching the right 
place and find good , strong evidence , which they can use in court. 

question currently , it is easy to wire tap , from the technical point of 
view , at least. anybody using the appropriate radio receiver can listen 
to communications between a car telephone and the ground station. the police 
also , obviously. the clipper chip will make it much more difficult for the 
non authorized person to eavesdrop  ( note that i do not write impossible ) .  . 
the privacy will thus improve from the current situation. poeple who really 
have something to hide already do not use the phone to speak of these things. 
if an illegal operation is really worth , one can afford having critical data 
carried by a person rather than sending it electronically .  . 
the clipper chip will not change this. 

the problem is more politic .  . foreign countries will never accept the clipper 
chip is the access to the escrow cannot be directly granted to their own 
police following their own law , not the us law. i.e. each country will have 
its own escrow .  . how then will it be possible to monitor the international 
traffic or , will encrypted international traffic be possible or will there 
be an international escrow , some kind of u.n. thing 

forbidding communication is impractical how is it possible to spot 
a communication in the thousands of megabytes of data which circulate 
on the various existing networks .  . what about private networks and this will 
be more and more impossible as the volume of electronic traffic will 
in the next years. 

i think that the clipper chip can only be an interesting device to limit the 
risk of , for instance , one 's girlfriend 's husband listening to his wife 's 
communications .  . it will bring no more as regards to security. is it worth 
i think so if its cost is limited , i think that many privacy invasions are done 
not only by official services , but also by private entities .  . the clipper can 
help reducing these. provided we do not hope too much of it , it is not a real 
danger and it can be helpful. 

ph. 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa 
lines 19 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . intercon . com . 
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1 

state . edu . (james r ebright ) writes 
(i assume most of the time these guys sat around the office with their 
thumbs up their ass as there is n't that much stuff coming out of 
columbus ) 

compuserve is in columbus , oh. so are the corporate headquarters of several 
major insurance companies , the largest private r d company in the world 
 ( batelle memorial institute) , (the defense construction supply 
center) , ohio state university  ( one of the three largest us universities) , 
(the online college library center) , and so on. you 'd be amazed , 
actually. 

columbus only looks like a cow town. 


amanda walker 
intercon systems corporation 



from  ( owen lewis ) 
subject re tempest 
distribution world 
organization project management 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1.90  ( ka9q dis 1 . 21) . 
lines 44 

in article leghorn . coe . northeastern . edu . writes 

i heard somewhere (ca n't name the source) that tempest does not necessarily 
pick up just crts , but it can pick up emissions from almost any chip .  . if 
that is true , the kind monitor would not make any difference becuase everything 
on the screen can be picked up from the video controller .  . can anybody verify 
or refute this 

you are correct  ( several times) .  . tempest is a for a standard , shared between the nato governments , to limit the inadvertent emission of information by either electromagnetic radiation or conduction .  . the limits set in the 
standard are classified but there is open source information to the effect 
that either the electrical or magnetic components of can be 
exploited .  . it is a basic rule of physics that there is an electromagnetic 
field associated with any path that conducts a flow of electrons .  . 

among other things , i drive a 1987 korean built at clone and an associated 24 pin printer .  . the major source of unintentional emission is the crt .  . to that can be added the video driver card , the rs232 parallel cable and the 
printer head. the emissions from these are gross can be detected with the 
of equipment. were i to apply good test equipment and some 
intelligence to measuring emission levels , i would find many other potential 
sources of leaked information. 

where cryptography is used for serious purposes , poor tempest protection 
becomes an important security hazard .  . 

in the early eighties , the need to allow some commercial concerns , 
particularly financial institutions , a level of protection against tempest 
threat led to a series of briefings to invited corporations and to the 
 release  of a cut down tempest for commercial use. i say  release  
for while equipment to meet the standard is available (at a price and to 
approved customers ) even the commercial standard remains classified .  . if 
you think about it , it would really have to would n't it 



owen lewis 
@ 
tele fax 44  ( 0)794 ) project management 

pgp 2 . x . public key on request 

from (mike godwin ) 
subject re dorothy denning opposes clipper , capstone wiretap chips 
originator 
nntp posting host eff.org 
organization electronic frontier foundation 
lines 17 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 
the security of the system should depend only on the secrecy of 
the keys and not on the secrecy of the algorithms dorothy denning 

cite source , please. 


mike 





mike godwin , ariel rose godwin 
born 4 15 93 at 4 34 pm in cambridge 
(617) 576 4510 7 pounds , 1.5 ounces , 19.75 inches long 
eff , cambridge a new citizen of the electronic frontier 

from (john kelsey ) 
subject forbidden to reveal wiretap 
organization university of missouri 
lines 4 
nntp posting host mizzou1 . missouri . edu . 


if it 's forbidden to inform someone of a police wiretap on their phone , then 
is it legal to work as a sweeper , and report to the person you 
work for whether you found a bug 

from  ( howard s shubs ) 
subject re overreacting  ( was re once tapped , your code is no good any more) 
organization university of massachusetts dartmouth 
distribution na 
lines 19 

in lyle writes 

look , we  ( collectively ) have the power to throw the bums out , but we 
do n't use it. we clearly do n't need to go burning things down , but we 
clearly do need to throw at least some of the bums out. 
unfortunately , the bums have learned to target only small groups of 
people at a single time , so the masses wo n't react and throw them out. 
eventually , the masses will react , unless the bums cease their 
relentless encroachment on liberty and of the economy. 
the sooner it happens , the less the damages will be. i do n't want to 
live in a war zone , either i want to see the bums thrown out before 
they do some real damage. 

before they do some real damage you have n't been paying attention , it 
seems. the so called war on drugs has already done major damage to 
the us constitution .  . 

howard s for to win 100 victories in 100 
the denim adept battles is not the acme of skill. 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re new encryption 
nntp posting host beethoven . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university , computer science department 
lines 38 

in article (david sternlight ) writes 

, whose name is either an unfortunate 
coincidence or casts serious doubt on his bona fides , posts a message in 
which he seems willing to take the word of a private firm about which he 
knows little that their new encryption algorithm is secure and contains no 
trapdoors , while seemingly that of the government about clipper .  . 

i have a couple reasons why i would be more likely to trust this algorithm 
1. the algorithm will be made totally public , once it is patented .  . 
2. the keys will not be escrowed .  . 
of course if either of these is not true , i will not use this new algorithm .  . 
since i have never seen this new algorithm , i have no idea how secure it is 
yet. 

i suppose it depends on how paranoid one wishes to be , but how does the 
writer know the firm is n't , for example , an nsa front for purposes of this 
message , how do we know is n't 

i do n't suggest that , but post this to point out that there is a class of 
speculation that has no more truth value , without lots of hard evidence , 
than the contrary one. 

by the way , if had said , in lower case letters , that the firm 
claims there was no back door , i 'd have no problem with that phrasing .  . 

i ca n't make any judgements about the algorithm itself yet , but i do notice 
that the creators of this algorithm are being more open about how the 
thing works , and is willing to make it public , showing that after a bit 
of scrutiny , any weaknesses will probably be revealed , while we do n't know 
about clipper .  . 

doug holland 


doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to pry it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! ! 

from  ( jim hart ) 
subject trademark violation claimed 
keywords clipper , wiretap 
organization open communications forum 
lines 25 


forwarded from 

date tue , 20 apr 93 10 30 47 pdt 
from  ( al date) 
subject clipper chip not ! 
to 

clipper tm chip is a registered trademark of intergraph corp. 

the so called clipper chip which was recently mentioned here 
and in other media 
with respect to encryption is being used in violation of that trademark .  . 

the intergraph clipper chip is a unix microprocessor , originally 
developed by fairchild semiconductors , and has no relationship 
to the encryption chip whatsoever. 

i mention this here with the hope that someone reading this will 
intercede before the group alt . privacy .  . clipper is established .  . 


al date 



subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 

distribution inet 
organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 23 

in  ( carl ellison ) writes 

in article a. charles gross writes 
the nra is successful because  ( among a number of things) , on the drop of 
a hat , they can get a congresspersons office flooded with postcards , 
faxes and phone calls. certainly , with our way cool internet powers of 
organization , we can act in the same way , if such action is appropriate. 

i do n't know about you , but i have nearly forgotten how to generate paper 
mail. 

if i had e mail to congress , i would have written many letters by now. 
i have n't written one yet , as it turns out. writing on paper is such 
a complicated job , for those of us hooked on our way cool internet. 

that 's what mci mail is for !  ( compuserve also has (tm) . ) . 

this is not intended as an advertisement that really is what mci mail was 
intended for  ( according to their  . 

arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( jamie jamison ) 
subject re wiretapping reality today 
article i.d. shelley . 
organization university of washington 
lines 43 
nntp posting host stein2 . u . washington . edu . 

(david sternlight ) writes 


some of the messages here seem to reflect the view that the government is 
listening in on everything and one will have to hide one 's clipper messages 
somehow if non escrowed crypto goes away. 

a little perspective might be in order. 

the number of court ordered wire taps is pretty low. law enforcement has to 
present pretty good evidence to get even that limited number of 
authorizations .  . 

thus the overwhelming majority of conversations are neither tapped nor 
recorded by the government , and for that to happen they have to 
a) have a pretty good reason , with evidence 
b) use this on highest priority pretty good reasons. 

though the system may be imperfect , it is a long way from the horror stories 
some here seem to believe or anticipate .  . 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 

again we have the trust in government problem here. members of 
mr. sternlight 's generation trust the government to a degree which 
members of my generation find ridiculous. i would suggest that mr. sternlight 
read about the program , or about j. edgar hoover , or about 
the wire tapping of martin luther king , then , after he has digested this 
information he can ponder the fact that while the government does not 
tap every conversation that they have a record of tapping many conversations 
that they have no right to , even under their own laws .  . given the long 
history of members of the us government ignoring the laws that apply 
to them , it is no wonder that so many people in here sound so paranoid , and 
given the fact that it is often difficult or impossible to punish these 
individuals once they are discovered , it is no wonder that so many people 
in here have so little faith in the escrow proposal for clipper .  . 




jamie 

from  ( doug bank) 
subject re revised technical summary of clipper chip 
reply to 
organization motorola land mobile products sector 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 146 . 35 . 
lines 53 

in article , writes 

the chips are programmed by mykotronx , inc. , which calls them the 
myk 78 .  . the silicon is supplied by vlsi technology inc. they are 
implemented in 1 micron technology and will initially sell for about 
30 each in quantities of 10 , 000 or more. the price should drop as the 
technology is shrunk to .8 micron .  . 

hmmmmmm .  . 30 seems a bit expensive. how big is the chip what kind 
of packages will be used 3 volt or 5 volt technology how much 
current will it draw i think there are many practical questions 
that have n't been answered , especially since this chip already exists ! 

all clipper chips are programmed inside a  ( secure compartmented 
information facility ) , which is essentially a vault .  . the contains 
a laptop computer and equipment to program the chips. about 300 chips 
are programmed during a single session. the is located at 
mykotronx .  . 

at the beginning of a session , a trusted agent from each of the two key 
escrow agencies enters the vault .  . agent 1 enters a secret , random 
80 bit value s1 into the laptop and agent 2 enters a secret , random 
80 bit value s2 .  . these random values serve as seeds to generate unit 
keys for a sequence of serial numbers. thus , the unit keys are a 
function of 160 secret , random bits , where each agent knows only 80 .  . 

ok , i 've got a big problem with all of this. how in the world do you 
expect to sell these chips for even 30 after all the overhead involved 
in this programming procedure 2 4 people , a laptop , only 300 chips at 
a time give me a break. and how long does all of this take even if 
it is a minute per chip , it will take the greater part of a day to 
turn out 300 of these things. how long do you suppose it will take to 
program those 10 , 000 chips mentioned above this is highly impractical ! 

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t 
telephone security device  ( as it will be) .  . suppose i call someone and 
we both have such a device. after pushing a button to start a secure 
conversation , my security device will negotiate an 80 bit session key k 
with the device at the other end. 

so where can i find info on this at t device what kind of vocoder 
does it use does it require isdn phone lines if not , is it full 
duplex how does it sound what kind of synchronization scheme is 
used will all other little black boxes have to conform to at ts choices 
of protocol , etc. will anybody else be allowed to build boxes that 
conform to these specifications 



doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications sector 
schaumburg , illinois 
708 576 8207 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re the clipper chip a technical summary 
organization dsi 
lines 10 


for some reason my fingers want to type probably cause whenever i want to 
say probable cause. sorry for any confusion in the previous message. 

david 

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 



subject re clipper chip questions 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
organization beckman instruments , inc. 
nntp posting host dsg4 . dse . beckman . com . 
lines 21 

in  ( marcus j ranum ) writes 

about scanning clipper and reverse engineering the algorithm 
am i missing something obvious here what could have the government done 
to address this possibility do they really care if it stays classified 

yeah , you 're missing the obvious fact that since the algorithm 
is classified , if you reverse engineer it from the chip , and later 
publish it , or build a compatible chip , you 're divulging classified 
information and are in a big load of trouble. 

i do n't think they can do that without changing the law. the chip itself 
is n't classified , and reverse engineering is allowed by law  ( possibly ) 
unless prohibited by a valid contract. the algorithm may be classified , 
but there are many court cases ruling that information identical to 
information , but obtained from unclassified sources , is freely 
 ( with the possible exception of nuclear weapon information . ) . 

arthur l. rubin a  ( work ) beckman instruments brea 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 ) 
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only 
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew 
in reply to 's message of 23 apr 1993 01 29 19 0400 

nntp posting host rainier . ho . att . com . 
lines 46 

in article  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
qualcomm had spare cycles in the dsps for their new cdma digital 
cellular phones. they wanted to put strong crypto into them since they 
had the capacity .  . the government decided to discourage them. 

you 're blowing smoke. qualcomm wants to sell to nice , lucrative overseas 
markets like japan and the ec .  . the government told them do n't do encryption 
if you ever hope to export this technology . the reason that cdma does n't 
have encryption is not because the g men came a knocking at qualcomm 's door. 
it 's because qualcomm does n't think that the us market for digital cellular 
is big enough for them. this is just the international traffic in arms 
regulations all over again. 

perry has already stated on the net that qualcomm wanted to sell overseas , and 
the government told them they would n't be allowed to export , 
so he 's only blowing the same smoke you are ) 
sure , they probably could have made a us version , and a non crypto 
export version , and contracted with a bulgarian or japanese software house to 
develop an overseas crypto rom , but that 's getting pretty expensive. 

no , sells their phones because they 're willing to make different 
stuff for domestic use vs. export .  . qualcomm is n't .  . so makes 
money that 's capitalism , comrade .  . 

well , some people like capitalism , and others prefer free enterprise 
they 're different ! using the government to stifle your competition is capitalist .  . 

someone out there will build a unit to do all this. better yet , 
prehaps someone will produce a package that turns any 486 box with a 
sound card into a secure phone. 
someone this and someone that. if you think it 's so easy , why are 
you whining on the net instead of getting your butt in gear and writing it 

writing good crypto code is something most good programmers can do 
writing good new crypto algorithms is a very specialized skill. 
developing new voice coding algorithms is also pretty specialized , 
but finding ways to implement the more complex ones when you do n't 
have enough horsepower is still fairly hairy stuff. 
once the 586 pentium becomes widespread , or the next generation of 
sound boards has dsps on it , i suspect we 'll see it happen. 
maybe the vanilla 486 soundblaster is enough. 

pray for peace bill 
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 at t bell labs holmdel nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace .  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461 

from  ( arthur melnick ) 
subject new encryption algorithm 
summary the history of nea 
keywords nea 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization the whole earth  link , sausalito , ca 
lines 76 


ever since craig rowland posted his piece new encryption 
to sci.crypt there has been some discussion of our company , 
secured communications technologies , inc , and on encryption 
algorithm , nea .  . 
i spoke to craig at length on 4 21 93 and we covered a lot 
of ground. some of the information in the posting requires some 
clarification , and i would like to answer some of the questions 
raised on sci . crypt .  . 
sct is a small company based in silver spring maryland .  . our 
two main products at this time are a pc based secure 
communications program called and a general purpose 
encryption chip which uses the nea algorithm developed for  . 
provides an encrypted secure communication link 
between two pc 's connected over dial up telephone lines. it 
supports simultaneous bi directional file transfer and keyboard 
to screen chat . it has its own proprietary communications 
protocol which is tightly integrated to the encryption .  . all 
though it is a link , the data stream appears to be 
continuous because the packet boundaries are hidden .  . 
when was initially developed , it was implemented to 
use des encryption .  . a business decision was made to seek export 
approval for the product because it was perceived that the 
overseas market was a large one and provided a good marketing 
opportunity. 
we soon found out that we would never be granted general 
export approval for anything using des .  . all though the reason 
for this was never explicitly stated , it seems to have something 
to do with secret government to government agreements which are 
still in effect. 
in any event , the decision was made to develop a new and 
different algorithm which would take the place of des .  . this was 
the reason nea  ( new encryption algorithm ) was born. 
at this time nea is being held as a trade secret. the 
preliminary work of patenting it has begun , and the plan is to 
make it public once the patent process is complete. all though 
one can make certain legal arguments for keeping it an ongoing 
secret , i think in the case of an encryption algorithm it is 
necessary to let people shoot at it over an extended period of 
time to prove its worth. 
in order to get export approval for nea , it was 
necessary to go through nsa and to reveal to them the details of 
the program and algorithm .  . this was done only after we had a 
finished product to submit .  . 
let me state unequivocally that there is no back door to 
the program or the algorithm .  . secured communications 
technologies is a closely held private company and 
nsa fbi cia nist whatever has no financial interest in any way 
whatsoever with the company or any of the people involved. 
from a practical business standpoint , we are interested in 
selling chips and software  ( hopefully in large quantities ) and a 
back door to the encryption , if found out , could destroy our 
credibility and our business. 
with the encryption algorithm approved for export , we set 
out to talk to a number of potential customers for encryption 
products and systems. we were able to identify several common 
threads of functionality requirements. this led to the design of 
a chip with the encryption algorithm cast in silicon and 
certain other capabilities added so that the chip could fulfill 
the broad range of requirements that we identified .  . 
we are strongly opposed to the clipper capstone chips. in a 
press release today , our president , dr. stephen stated 

it seems as if the government has an unlimited source 
of funds to use to push its new bugged chips on the american 
public. but do we not understand how the national security 
agency , which is not supposed to be involved in domestic 
spying , can fund the development of a commercial chip 
intended to accommodate u.s. government domestic spying 
activities. 

if they had asked me to put a back door in nea i would 
have told them to g f ed. 
can nsa break nea or for that matter can they break des , 
rsa , idea , diffy hellman , pgp , rc2 , rc4 , or whatever i do n't 
know and probably never will. 

from (david sternlight ) 
subject re political point of attack clipper infrastructure 
organization dsi 
lines 24 

in article writes 


from these figures , estimate the number of clipper tap requests the fbi 
is expecting .  . publish this figure. compare it on a per capita basis 
with the amount of tapping now known or suspected .  . 

the attorney general publishes the number of court ordered taps each year. 
it is n't enough  ( around a thousand ) for the average non crook , non spy to 
worry about. in fact , considering any reasonable guess about the number of 
big time crooks and spies around , it may not be enough even for most crooks 
and spies to worry about. 

there 's no reason to believe that it will go up with clipper , since the 
number of taps now includes many targets too stupid to use encryption  ( based 
on the we 've heard in court cases) .  . 

david 


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and omissions excepted .  . 
