from  ( bjorn b. larsen ) 
subject re satanic tounges 
reply to 
organization 
lines 63 

in article 
 ( mark ashley ) writes 

citing article 
 ( matthew huntbach ) 

i have a simple test. i take several people who can speak 
only one language (e . g .  . chinese , russian , german , english) .  . 
then i let the gifted one start speaking in toungues . 
the audience should understand the gifted one clearly 
in their native language. however , the gifted one can 
only hear himself speaking in his own language. 
works everytime .  . 8 ) 

this thread si starting to get really silly. such nonsense do not 
belong in s . r . c . and it really hurts me to read some of the posts on 
this issue. 

we chose to believe we want , but we are not allowed to define 
our own christianity .  . we see in parts. if you see something that i do 
not see , or vice versa , it does not give me the right to play jokes on 
your belief ! 

there is no wonder that your miracle does not work. you it 
yourself , and even if you were able to collect a group of people like 
the one you describe , i see no reason why your miracle should really 
happen. god is the one who does miracles , not humans ! 

after all we are all on the same way , or at least , we are all headed 
for the same goal , following different paths .  . remember that we are 
going to spend eternity together. if i can not stand your view here on 
earth , how can i possibly stand spending eternity together with you 

tongues is a question of belief .  . not wether you believe in jesus , but 
if you believe that he is able to give you this gift. just as any 
other of the gifts mentioned in the bible .  . but there is no evidence in 
the bible that people who do not accept these gifts are in any way 
better than others. 

perhaps i would believe the gifted ones more if they were 
glorifying god rather than themselves. then perhaps we 'd 
witness a real miracle .  . 

maybe some of the people who have received spiritual gifts are more 
interested in glorifying themselves than glorifying god , i do n't know. 
but if this is the case , it still does not suggest that the gifts are 
faked .  . 

in the bible you will find that jesus did not always do miracles .  . he 
said that i do nothing , except what my father tells me. perhaps it 
be for the best of all if we where all able to live by that 
example ! 

in him , 
bjorn 


s mail e mail 
bjorn b. larsen 

n 7034 trondheim tel 47 7 
norway fax 47 7 


from  ( anni dozier ) 
subject soc . religion . christian . 
organization university of tennessee , department of conferences 
lines 7 

after reading the posts on this newsgroup for the pasts 4 months , it 
has become apparent to me that this group is primarily active with 
liberals , catholics , new  , and athiests .  . someone might think 
to change the name to soc . religion . any . or perhaps even 
soc . religion . new .  . it might seem to be more appropriate. 
heck , do n't flame me , i'm catholic , gay , and i voted 
for bill clinton .  . i'm on your side ! 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 3 

dishonest money away , but he who gathers money little by little makes 
it grow .  . 
proverbs 13 11 

from  ( nichael cramer ) 
subject re , esp. 
reply to 
organization bbn , interzone office 
lines 35 

writes 
on these counts , the falls short of the glory of god. 
to quote unger 's bible dictionary on the 
1. they abound in historical and geographical inaccuracies and 
anachronisms .  . 
2. they teach doctrines which are false and foster practices 
which are at variance with sacred scripture .  . 
3. they resort to literary types and display an of 
subject matter and styling out of keeping with sacred scripture .  . 
4. they lack the distinctive elements which give genuine 
scripture their divine character , such as prophetic power and 
poetic and religious feeling. 

first , to point out the obvious while 4 would clearly be a highly 
subjective issue , one would be hard pressed to point to another book 
of the ot  ( or for that matter the nt ) that does n't , on some issues , in 
some way , fail one or more of the first three of these tests. 

second , one factor the share is the of 
their composition .  . i do n't recall the exact dating of all of the 
books , but most if not all were written after the latest of the 
canonical books (i . e .  .  . 

furthermore , while the may or may not have been 
originally written in greek , they are clearly deeply hellenistic in 
nature. both of these features probably figured heavily in the 
rejection of these books from the various canons .  . 

these may not be strict and uniformly applicable criteria by which to 
judge the canonicity of these books , but , as these discussions have 
shown , i think the one thing we can see is that there are no purely 
objective standards for determining canonicity .  . 

nichael 
 ( and  ( funcall  ( get  smile icon  like predicate ) 'lisp )  ( sys honk ) 

from  ( mail server) 
subject secret ceremonies  ( was re mormon temples ) 
lines 47 

!  ( larry l. overacker ) writes 
in article 
 ( mail server) writes 

i do n't necessarily object to the secrecy but i do question it , since i see 
no 
biblical reason why any aspect of christian worship should involve secrecy .  . 

early in church history , the were dismissed prior to the 
celebration 
of the eucharist .  . it was secret , giving rise to the rumors that christians 
were cannibals and all sorts of perverse claims .  . the actions were considered 
too holy to be observed by non christians , as well as potentially dangerous 
for the individual christian who might be identified .  . 

larry overacker  . sig . deleted for brevity 

larry 

thanks for the reply , but this is n't quite the same thing. like i said before , 
i can understand why non christians would be denied access to holy 
ceremonies , but the ceremony itself  ( communion ) was not secret. in fact , all 
four gospels record the first breaking of the bread in some detail. 
communion was a fellowship meal , and it was  ( and still should be , in my 
opinion) inappropriate to invite those who did not share in the fellowship of 
the body of christ .  . the fact that unbelievers , denied access to these communal 
meals , began to imagine all sorts of secret and rituals during 
communion does not by any means imply that the early christians were in fact 
hiding shameful things from the general public. in fact , i think if you read 
some of the early church fathers , you will find that they were not at all 
bashful about describing what went on during communion .  . that 's why it seems 
funny to me when mormons , who claim to be the only true restoration of 1st 
century christianity , insist on hiding certain rituals on the grounds that they 
are too sacred .  . 

mark 

actually , that 's not quite the case. john omits the central elements 
of the last supper .  . his gospel is full of symbolism of bread and 
wine. but the actual story is n't there. some people think he has 
omitted some of the details because they were not talked about in 
public in his community. there is also evidence that some aspects of 
baptismal practice were kept secret. see morton smith 's secret 
gospel i do n't agree with his lurid speculations on what the 
secret practices actually were , but there does seem to be some 
evidence that mark omitted certain details because they were 
inappropriate for publication .  . clh 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 24 

there 's some ambiguity about the meaning of the words in the passage 
you quote. both liberal and conservative sources seem to agree that 
homosexual is not the general term for homosexuals , but is likely to 
have a meaning like homosexual prostitute .  . 

from what i understand of my experience in looking up this word , and 
discussing it with a greek literate individual , the meaning of the 
word is rather clear. basically it literally means he who beds with a man 
or he who has sex with a man. the burden of proof is on the 
pro homosexuality side of the argument to show that the word has an 
idiomatic meaning nor evident from its literal meaning. one can speculate 
all day long that it might mean something else , but we need evidence 
before we create new doctrines , and get rid of the historical understanding 
of the meaning of this word. 

link hudson .  . 


i 've read enough discussions of this passage , in both liberal and 
conservative sources , to be sure that the meaning even the literal 
meaning is not certain .  . that does n't mean one ca n't come to some 
conclusion , nor does it mean that i think there 's any doubt about what 
paul thinks of homosexuality .  . but there are plausible arguments for 
a couple of different meanings .  . clh 

from  ( stan friesen ) 
subject re re major views of the trinity 
reply to 
lines 31 

in article , bocher writes 

it seems that during the middle ages , it was customary for pastors to 
explain the trinity to their parishoners by analogy to water. 
water is water , but can exist in three forms liquid , ice and vapor .  . 
thus it is possible for one essence to exist in three forms. 

this sounds to me like a sort of generic  ( in the the three phases 
of water are but different modes of behavior of the same physical stuff) .  . 
it certainly does not seem to me to describe the orthodox position. 

of course , i suppose that the medieval view of water may have been 
different , but now we know that the phases of water are just different 
behaviors of the same physical stuff different modes , not different 
identities but perhaps the medieval people did not know that . 

and recently , the pastor of my church drew an analogy , which i 
also found useful a woman is often percieved by others in three 
ways , depending on their relationship to her a mother , a wife and 
an employee in a business. 

this is clearly , since these three aspects depend 
solely on point of view , and are do not really represent actual variety 
within the person. 

do you now begin to see why 


 ( formerly ! sarima ) 
or 


from (seth w mcman ) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 34 

in article  ( mail server) writes 

i can see that some of the above verses do not clearly address the issues , 
however , a couple of them seem as though they do not require incredibly 
perverse interpretations in order to be seen as condemning homosexuality .  . 
... 
would someone care to comment on the fact that the above seems to say 
will not inherit the kingdom of god how does this apply 
to homosexuals i understand fornication to be sex outside of 
marriage. is this an accurate definition is there any such thing as 
same sex marriage in the bible my understanding has always been that 
the new testament blesses sexual intercourse only between a husband 
and his wife. i am , however , willing to listen to scriptural evidence 
to the contrary .  . 

if we take things this literally then we must also forbid women from 
speaking in church. paul while led by the holy spirit was human and could 
err .  . i find it interesting that christ never discussed the issue of 
homosexuality , certainly it existed back then and if it was a serious 
transgression christ would have condemned it. 
i find it disturbing that the modern church spends its energy trying 
to stamp out something that christ did n't consider worth a single word 
of condemnation .  . christ repeatedly warns us against judgement .  . 
do n't we risk judgement in equal measure when we condemn people who 
god himself did not judge when he walked on the earth 


the love of christ is contagious ! 



i should not that many of our readers do in fact advocate 
women from speaking in church. this is an issue we have discussed 
in the past , and i'm not interested in  . clh 

from (d .  . andrew byler ) 
subject re , esp. 
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 21 

michael siemon writes 

furthermore , it is inaccurate to say that the reformers threw out these 
books. basically , they just placed them in a secondary status  ( as jerome 
had already done) , but with the additional warning that doctrine should 
not be based on citations from these alone. 

protestants love to play up jerome for all he is worth. they should 
remeber that after the decree of pope st. i , jerome did not 
hesitate in the , and quoted them as scripture in 
his later writings .  . and as i have already pointed out , in a previous 
letter on this subject , the catholic church has accepted the 
deuterocanon from the beginning. and the protestants in the 1500 's all 
of a sudden the old theory of some , condemned by pope , council , 
and church , that the deuterocanon were not inspired. 

again , why must the church of jesus christ adopt the canon of the 
unbelieving jews , drawn up in in 90 ad , in countering the 
christian use of the septuagint .  . 

andy byler 

from  ( cardinal ximenez ) 
subject dialogue with conservatives wanted 
organization national association for the disorganized 
lines 14 


are there any members of conservative , religious , politically active groups 
 ( such as the christian coalition ) out there i come from a very liberal 
background , and i 'd like to talk to some conservative people out there in a 
public forum  ( such as this one . ) . i frankly ca n't understand the rationale or 
christian basis for much of the conservative position , and i 'd like to try and 
learn more about this movement after all , we 're part of the same church. is 
anyone interested in explaining a bit about the conservative viewpoint 
thanks. 

alan if your children knew just how 
oakland university , rochester , mi lame you were , they 'd murder 
you in your sleep. 
rushing in where angels fear to tread .  . frank zappa 

from  ( mail server) 
subject re eternal marriage 
lines 31 


 ( hal f lillywhite ) writes 
in article 
(david hammerslag ) writes 

this paragraph brought to mind a question. how do you  ( mormons ) reconcile 
the idea of eternal marriage with christ 's statement that in the ressurection 
people will neither marry nor be given in marriage  ( luke ,  . 20) 

deletions 

i think what jesus is saying here  ( and it is clearest in matthew 's 
and mark 's accounts) is that marriages will not be performed in the 
resurrection .  . this goes along with our belief that if a person is 
to marry at all it must be done on this earth .  .  .  . deletions 

the problem with this view is that the topic under discussion in this 
passage is marriages that were performed on earth. jesus  words 
seem to me to indicate that he regards his response as the answer to their 
question about which earthly marriage would be valid after the resurrection .  . 
this being the case , the most straightforward interpretation , in my 
opinion , is that marriage does not exist in the next life because those 
who are raised are of a different nature than what we are now. other 
wise , why would jesus offer but are like the angels in heaven as a 
contrast to the idea of the resurrected marrying and being given in 
marriage we do not have angel like natures now , but someday we shall , 
and when we do , our earthly marriages will be irrelevant .  . or at least , 
that 's what i think jesus is saying about the post resurrection validity of 
marriages performed on earth. your mileage may vary .  . ) 

mark 

from 
subject ( 3) 
organization fnal ad net 
lines 199 

cont. dr. james 3 

r. 

robin has built upon the discussion of his predecessors and 
suggested a new twist to the word. believes that is a 
hellenistic jewish , perhaps influenced by awareness of rabbinic 
terminology .  . the term is derived from lev 18 22 20 13 where the 
the two words ( male ) and ( bed ) , and represents 
the hebrew ( lying with a male ) .  . yet he believes that paul did 
not originate the term , but borrowed it from circles of hellenistic jews 
acquainted with rabbinic discussions  ( 180 n . 14) .  . it was invented to avoid 
contact with the usual greek terminology  . if this is true , 
observes , it explains why the word does not appear in greco roman discussions 
of pederasty and why later writers avoided it. it was meaningless to 
native speaking greeks  . 

takes the second part as the active word and the first word as the 
object of the second part , thus differing from boswell 's learned discussion 
 . yet understands the general meaning of one who lies with a 
male to have a very narrow reference. with the preceding (i cor 6 9) , 
which interprets as the call boy , is the 
active partner who keeps the of the  mistress  or who hires him on 
occasion to satisfy his sexual desires  . hence does not 
refer to homosexuality in general , to female homosexuality , or to the generic 
model of pederasty .  . it certainly cannot refer to the modern gay model , he 
affirms  . 
this is 's interpretation of the term in i tim 1 10 also. the 
combination of ( ) , and ( slave 
dealers ) refers to male prostitutes , males who lie with them , and slave 
dealers who procure them  . it again refers to that specific form of 
pederasty which consisted of the of boys as youths for sexual 
purposes , and the use of these boys by adult males  . even serious 
minded pagan authors condemned this form of pederasty .  . he then uses these 
instances of in i cor and i tim to interpret the apparently 
general condemnation of both female and male homosexuality in rom 1. 
consequently paul must have had , could only have had pederasty in mind  . 
we cannot know what paul would have said about the contemporary model of 
adult adult mutuality in same sex relation ships  . 

in relating these terms to the context and to contemporary ethical 
concerns , emphasizes the point that the specific items in the list of 
vices in i cor 6 have no deliberate , intended meaning in paul .  . the form and 
function of the catalogue of vices are traditional and  . any 
relationship between an individual item in the list and the context was usually 
nonexistent .  . he concludes that paul does not care about any specific item in 
the lists  . 

both on the basis of the meaning of the terms and of the literary 
phenomenon of a catalogue of vices , argues that the scriptures are 
irrelevant and provide no help in the heated debate today  . the model 
in today 's christian homosexual community is so different from the model 
attacked by the nt that biblical judgments against homosexuality are not 
relevant to today 's debate. they should no longer be used in denominational 
discussions about homosexuality , should in no way be a weapon to justify 
refusal of ordination .  . . .  . 

reactions to the new interpretations of 

d. wright 

in more recent years the positions of bailey , boswell , and have 
come under closer scrutiny .  . perhaps the most critical evaluation of boswell 's 
view is that by david wright .  . in his thorough article , wright points out 
several shortcomings of boswell 's treatment of  . he faults 
boswell for failing to cite , or citing inaccurately , all the references to lev 
18 22 and 20 13 in the church fathers , such as eusebius , the apostolic 
constitutions , clement of alexandria , and origen  ( 127 28) .  . 
boswell has not considered seriously enough the possibility that the term 
derives either its form or its meaning from the leviticus passages  . this 
is significant , for if the term is so derived , it clearly refutes boswell 's 
claim that the first half of the word  ( arseno ) denotes not the object but the 
gender of the second half (  . the must mean a male who sleeps with 
a male , making the object. 

wright also faults boswell 's claims regarding linguistic features of the 
term , including suggested parallels  . though boswell claims that 
compounds with employ it objectively and those with employ it 
as an adjective , wright believes that the difference between the two is merely 
one of dialectical diversity no semantic import attaches to the difference 
between the two forms (131) .  . wright believes that in most compounds in which 
the second half is a verb or has a verbal force , the first half denotes its 
object and where the second part is , the first half denotes its 
gender  . 

it is with boswell 's treatment of the early church fathers that wright 
takes special issue , because the former has failed to cite all the sources. 
for example ,  apology (c .  . ad 138) probably uses , 
, and all with the same basic meaning of male 
homosexuality  ( 133 ) , contrary to boswell 's discussion. boswell fails to cite 
 .  .  . 5 26 22 23) and improperly cites eusebius and the 
syriac writer  . the latter uses syriac terms that are identical to 
the syriac of i cor 6 9 and i tim 1 10 (133 34) .  . 

next wright shows how the early church fathers use in 
parallel with referring to male homosexuality with teenagers , the 
dominant form of male homosexuality among the greeks  . sometimes this 
parallelism occurs in the threefold listings of ( adultery ) , 
( fornication ) , and , with replacing 
 . clement of alexandria in  . 10 108 5 cites the second table of the 
ten commandments as you shall not kill , ou ( you shall not commit 
adultery ) , ou ( you shall not practice homosexuality with 
boys ) , you shall not steal .  . . .  ( 150 n. 43) .  . 

another occurrence of ( commit homosexuality ) exists in the 
oracles 2 71 73 .  . it may be , wright observes , that the word was 
coined by a jewish pre christian writer in a hellenistic setting represented by 
or .  . , book 2 (137 38) .  . 

wright also discusses uses of in  ( 6th c . ) . who drew 
upon the first century ad writer , in  ( 4th 5th c . ) . , and in john 
the faster (d .  . 595 )  ( 139  . the last in particular bears the idea of 
homosexual intercourse , contrary to boswell .  . 

wright next replies to boswell 's contention that the term would not be 
absent from so much literature about homosexuality if that is what it denoted 
(140  . wright points out that it should not be expected in writers prior to 
the first century ad since it did not exist before then , that the greeks used 
dozens of words and phrases to refer to homosexuality , that some sources (e . g .  . 
didache ) show no acquaintance with paul 's letters or deliberately avoid citing 
scripture , and that boswell neglects citing several church fathers (140  . 

boswell 's treatment of in particular draws wright 's attention 
(141  . boswell misrepresents the witness of , 
omitting references and asserting what is patently untrue .  . gives a 
long uncompromising and clear indictment of homosexuality in his on rom 
1 26. boswell has exaggerated 's infrequent use of the term. wright 
observes that boswell has failed to demonstrate any us of 
etc. in which it patently does not denote male homosexual 
activity  . it is infrequent because of its relatively technical nature 
and the availability of such a term as that more clearly 
specified the prevailing form of male homosexuality in the greco roman world. 

wright also surveys the latin , syriac , and coptic translations of i tim 
and i cor .  . all three render with words that reflect the meaning 
homosexual i.e. , they understand as the object of the second half of 
the word  ( 144 45) .  . none of these primary versions supports boswell 's limited 
conclusion based on them. 

wright concludes his discussion with a few observations about the 
catalogues of vices as a literary form. he believes that such lists developed 
in late judaism as hellenistic jews wrote in clear condemnation of 
homosexuality in the greek world. this paralleled the increased concern on the 
part of moral philosophers over homosexual indulgence .  . the term came into 
being under the influence of the  ( 145 ) so that writers spoke generally of 
male activity with males rather than specifically categorized male sexual 
engagement with  . if and were 
interchangeable , it is because the former encompassed the latter  . 

in summary , wright seeks to show that is a broad term meaning 
homosexuality and arises with judaism .  . the views of boswell , , and 
others who limit the term to active male prostitutes or pederasty are without 
significant support from linguistic and historical studies. 

next the questioning of position by william peterson .  . after that , we 
get into the good stuff of historical linguistic studies. this will 
include symposium by plato .  . if there is any doubt as to the modern 
understanding of homosexuality being understood or at the time of 
paul , this will certainly clear things up. also we will review paul 's use of 
20 in the nt and how , as for him , 1) the law was fulfilled , but not done 
away with , 2) lev 18 20 was the universal and the following chapters the 
general. those who put forth that the ot no longer holds true today in our 
culture , should stick around for this one. 

13 r. , the new testament and homosexuality  ( phil 1983) 86 , 107 8. 
independently we came to the same conclusion .  . apparently the connection is 
made in e.a. sophocles , greek lexicon of the roman byzantine periods (from 
to ad  . 
14 see discussion , 101 4. he says the same thing about paul 's language in 
rom 1 26 27  . but this is doubtful .  . see the more cautious words of p. 
, i cor 6 . was homosexuality condoned in the corinthian church 
17  ( 1979 ) 205 12. he observes that the words , , and 
were part of jewish anti gentile  . yet paul 's at the end of the 
vice list , and such were some of you , indicate that paul is addressing real 
or potential abuses of his ethical message , not citing primitive tradition by 
(210) .  . wright disputes  attempt to associate the term with idolatry 
 . 
15 on boswell 's treatment of rom 1 26 7 , the article by r . b .  . hays , relations 
natural and unnatural a response to john boswell 's exegesis of romans 1 , jre 
14 1  ( spring 1986) 184 215 , is an excellent critique .  . 
16 d.f. wright , homosexuals or prostitutes the meaning of (i 
cor 6 9 , i tim 1 10) , vc 38 (1984) 125 53 .  . 
17 in an unpublished paper , henry , boswell on paul , 
effectively boswell 's claims regarding the of  . 
he finds the meaning to be general , a male who has sex with a male (4 11) .  . 
18 wright 's endnotes  ( 148 49 ) list additional sources in the church fathers .  . 
19 we also have noticed the same tendency by boswell to fail to cite all the 
references to sodom and sodomy in the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha .  . see j.b. 
, a critique of interpretations of the ot apocrypha and 
pseudepigrapha , 146 588 (1990) 437 53 .  . 
20 in light of the claim made by boswell that the of 
points to a meaning lacking homosexual significance , wright asks 
why neither nor josephus use , nor josephus , 
and why . . clement did not use the latter and the former (152 n. 
71) in a more recent article , homosexuality the relevance of the bible , 
61  ( 1989 ) 291 300 , wright reiterates these same points. paul shows a 
remarkable in extending the ot ethic to the church  . 



from  ( don miller) 
subject christian counseling psychology folks out there 
organization univ. nevada , las vegas grad student , don miller 
lines 20 

hello. 
hoping to net some netters 
who are in the helping professions 
 ( counseling , psychology , psychiatry , social work , therapy etc . ) . 
to network on some topics and consider 
the possibility of a sci . counseling . christian . type newsgroup 
or list. 

the integration of psychology and counseling and theology 
is a subject of great debate and one of particular interest 
to me. 

if you 're out there , please lemme know. 

email me direct if you will so we can get to know one another 
off the news. 

don miller 
unlv 


from (e alan idler ) 
subject re mormon beliefs about children born out of wedlock 
organization university of victoria 
lines 62 

 ( aaron bryce cardenas ) writes 

bruce webster writes 
indeed , lds doctrine goes one step further and in some cases 
holds parents responsible for their children 's sins if they have 
failed to bring them up properly (cf .  . d c 68 25 28 note that this 
passage applies it only to members of the lds church) .  . 

i include the key verse (d c 68 25) because others 
may not have the reference. 

and again , inasmuch as parents have children in zion , 
or in any of her stakes which are organized , that teach 
them not to understand the doctrine of repentance , 
faith in christ the son of the living god , and of 
baptism and the gift of the holy ghost by the laying 
on of the hands , when eight years old , the sin be 
upon the heads of the parents. 

what is the sin of the parents 

hi bruce .  . how do you reconcile this practice with ezekiel 18 
ezekiel 18 20 the soul who sins is the one who will die. the son will not 
share the guilt of the father , nor will the father share the guilt of the 
son. the righteousness of the righteous man will be credited to him , and 
the wickedness of the wicked will be charged against him. 

is ezekiel 18 not translated correctly in your eyes perhaps 

ezekiel 18 teaches a correct principle .  . 
however , it assumes that fathers and sons have 
equal knowledge to prepare for the judgment .  . 

parents are responsible to teach their children 
the gospel and other life skills. should they 
fail to make a sufficient attempt to teach their 
children , the parent would be held responsible 
not for their children 's sins , but for not 
teaching them properly. 

whenever the lord installs someone to a position 
of authority in either the family or the church he 
expects that person to teach those in his charge. 

in ezekiel 33 7 9 someone called to care for others 
is likened to a watchman unto the house of israel .  . 
if thou not speak to warn the wicked from 
his way , that man shall die in his iniquity but 
his blood will i require at thine hand. 
nevertheless , if thou warn the wicked of his way to 
turn from it if he do not turn from his way , he 
shall die in his iniquity but thou hast 
delivered thy soul. 

even though the d c this commandment with 
parents have children in zion i believe all 
parents are responsible for teaching their children 
whatever good principles they understand. 
however , lds parents accept greater responsbility 
and could be judged more strictly .  . 

a idler 

from 
subject re atheists and hell 
lines 21 

on sunday 9 may 1993 , kenneth engel writes  ( in substance ) 

we are told that the penalty for sin is an eternity in hell. 
we are told that jesus paid the penalty , suffering in our stead .  . 
but jesus did not spend an eternity in hell. 

this objection presupposes the forensic substitution theory of the 
atonement .  . not everyone who believes in the atonement understands it 
in those terms. for an expansion of this statement , send the 
messages 
get ruff 
get ruff 
get ruff 
get ruff 
to or to 

note that the character after the gen is a zero .  . if you want to 
read my from the beginning , start with  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re god , morality , and massacres 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 12 

without quoting at length from the preceeding post , i 'd just like 
to say that i find it a much more appropriate way of dealing with 
issues like the holocaust and bosnia that asserting that god is 
punishing them. 

the activity of god is always redemptive , which means restoring 
what has been lost , broken , or distorted .  . so , god does not will 
the brokenness , , distortion , genocide , poverty , etc , but 
is nonetheless capable , willing , and active to restore , heal , mend , 
and  . 



from 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
organization at t 
lines 40 

in article  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) writes 
in article lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) writes 
referring to mary 
she was immaculately conceived , and so never subject to original sin , 
but also never committed a personal sin in her whole life. this was 
possible because of the special degree of grace granted to her by god. 

i have quite a problem with the idea that mary never committed a sin .  . 
was mary fully human if it is possible for god to miraculously make 
a person free of original sin , and free of committing sin their whole 
life , then what is the purpose of the incarnation of jesus why ca n't 
god just repeat the miracle done for mary to make all the rest of us 
sinless , without the need for repentance and salvation and all that 

concept of mary 's sinlessness seems to me to be at odds with the 
rest of christian doctrine as i understand it. 

it 's always a two way street. god gave her the grace to avoid sin , 
thus when she was visited by gabriel , she gave her fiat , her total 
acceptance of god 's will. this fiat summarizes why catholics regard 
her as the highest of all humans , that god chose her and that she 
accepted. knowing this in advance , we extrapolate that she was 
neither stained by nor subject to original sin .  . 

god did create us all miraculously free to choose or not choose to sin .  . 
sufficient for the day is the evil thereof and the grace of god to 
command it. this amount of grace was precisely determined by god 
to be the amount required to do what god asked of her. the grace 
given to each of us is also enough , but we do not always choose 
to accept it. we also believe jesus was fully human and never 
sinned .  . 

god could have created a much better person than myself , one who 
always chose the right thing , yet he created me instead , despite 
my flaws .  . he proves he loves me as i am , continually drawing me 
towards perfection .  . for whatever purpose he has for me , he has 
confidence that i will accomplish it. if i ask god to repeat his 
miraculous creation of the mother of his son , where will that leave me 

joe moore 

from  ( dan , , , ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
reply to 
organization eastman kodak company 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( ann carlson ) writes 
anyone who thinks being gay and christianity are not compatible should 
check out dignity , integrity , more light presbyterian churches , affirmation , 
mcc churches , etc. meet some gay christians , find out who they are , pray 
with them , discuss scripture with them , and only then form your opinion. 

if you were to start your own religion , this would be fine. but there 
is no scriptural basis for your statement , in fact it really gets to 
the heart of the problem. you think you know more than scripture .  . 
your faith is driven by feel and not by the word of god. just 
because they are nice people does n't make it right. you can start all 
the churches you want and it wo n't change the fact that it is wrong. 
that is not to imply that gays do n't deserve the same love and 
forgiveness that anyone else does. but to call their behavior right 
just because they are nice people is baseless , and it offers satan a 
perfect place to work because there is no check on what he is doing. 

i suspect ann was suggesting that you look to see whether the 
spirit is alive among them , not whether they are nice people , 
though there 's something to be said for being nice too .  .  .  . clh 

from  ( ted kalivoda ) 
subject reason and homophobia 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 23 

this has troubled me for a long time and needs to be dealt with. 

from a long article available through an individual on this newsgroup .  . 

about scripture being against homosexuality 

when we are 
less homophobic we will see that what we know as gay and lesbian people , 
engaging in loving , voluntary erotic relations with each other , are n't even 
mentioned. in the bible , tk 


this frightens me (not in the homophobic sense , but intellectually ) , 
especially because it was written by someone from a homosexual church. 

so , if my interpretation is different than theirs , i am homophobic ! this 
ca n't be right. disagreement in interpretation of the bible and or rejection 
of homosexual acts is not tantamount of homophobia .  . 


ted kalivoda 
university of georgia , athens 
institute of higher ed. 

from 
subject hell 
lines 41 

on 20 april , stephen mcintyre writes 

i would rather spend an eternity in hell than be beside god in 
heaven knowing that even one man would spend his eternal life 
being scorched for his wrongdoings .  .  .  .  . 

stephen , i suspect that when you and i use the word hell , we have 
different concepts in mind. when you encounter references to heaven 
in terms of and and golden streets , i trust that you do 
not suppose  ( or suspect christians of supposing ) that the golden 
streets are to be taken literally , still less that they are what the 
concept of heaven is all about. why then should you suppose that 
about the fires of hell 
have you read the novel atlas shrugged do you remember the 
last description of james , sitting on the floor beside the 
ferris this comes close to a description of what is meant 
by hell in my circles .  . if the image of fire is often used in this 
connection , there are two reasons that occur to me. 
the first reason is that it conveys the idea of hell as 
something that any rational being would earnestly wish to avoid  ( as 
any rational being would wish to avoid the fate of james 
but the latter image is meaningful only to those who have read atlas 
shrugged , a smaller audience than those who have played with 
 . 
the second reason is the history of the hebrew word gehenna , 
one of the words translated hell in the new testament .  . it refers 
to the valley of , outside jerusalem .  . in early days , it was a 
place where the canaanites offered human sacrifices  ( burned alive ) 
to  . later , it was made a garbage or refuse dump , where fires 
burned continually , consuming the trash of the city of jerusalem .  . 
to be cast into gehenna or to burn in gehenna thus became a 
metaphor for to be rejected or discarded as worthless .  . 

lest you think that identifying hell with the fate of james 
is my own private fancy , i commend to you the book the great 
divorce , by c s lewis .  . it discusses heaven (no harps ) and hell (no 
 . it is shorter than atlas shrugged , and available at most 
bookstores and libraries .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( joe armstrong ) 
subject angels on needles 
organization telecom systems labs , stockholm , sweden 
lines 10 


i recall reading somewhere that a number of bishops spent a great 
deal of time debating the topic of how many angels could fit on the 
tip of a needle . 

does anybody have a reference to this 

thanks 

joe armstrong 

from  ( jen kilmer ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization microsoft corporation 
lines 27 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( lois christiansen ) writes 

he can , especially homosexuality .  . let 's reach the homosexuals for christ .  . 
let 's not try to change them , just need to bring them to christ .  . if he 
does n't want them to be gay , he can change that. .... 

do n't hate the people. i do n't .  . i do n't hate my kids when they do 
wrong either. but i tell them what is right , and if they lie or do n't 
admit they are wrong , or just do n't make an effort to improve or 
repent , they get punished .  . i think this is quite appropriate. 

note the difference here. one is saying , if christ disagrees with 
a christian being gay , christ can change that. 

the other is saying , if i think being gay is wrong , that a christian 
cannot be gay , i need to tell them to change. 


as lois said , and as before her paul wrote to the believers in rome , 
who are you to judge another s servant 

jen 



include msdos testing 

from !  ( gerry palo ) 
subject re jacob and esau  ( reincarnation ) 
lines 58 

in article writes 

gerry palo wrote that there is nothing in christianity that excludes 
the theory of a succession of lives. 

i wrote that the apostle paul , in romans 9 , speaks of god as 
choosing jacob over esau , and adds that this is not as a result of 
anything that either child had done , since they had not been born 
yet. 

clearly , paul does not believe that they had had previous lives , nor 
does he suppose that his readers will believe it. for if they had 
had previous lives , it would not make sense to say , neither of them 
has done anything good or bad as yet , since they are not yet born. 


paul 's statement only asserts that that particular choice was not 
a matter of fulfillment of the past , just as the fate of the 
man born blind (john 9) was not. there is no question here of the 
simplistic idea of karma as a machine that is the sole 
of one 's destiny .  . even the eastern traditions , or many of them , 
do not say that , as one knowledgeable poster pointed out. 

and if in fact that paul did not know about or believe in reincarnation 
does not say anything one way or another about it. even john the baptist , 
who jesus says emphatically is elijah (matt 11 14) , does not appear to 
have been aware of it , at least at the point at which he was asked. but 
it is interesting that his threefold denial to the question whether 
he is the christ , the prophet (i . e .  . isaiah ) , or elijah , is in 
the first case and very weak in the third .  . 

i would like to add once again that , while it is important to discuss the 
different passages that may point directly to the teaching of repeated 
earth lives , one way or another , what i really see as important in our 
time is that the subject be revisited in terms of the larger view of 
christianity and christian doctrine .  . for the most part , those who do 
accept it either reject the central ideas of christianity or , if they 
are christians , hold their conviction as a kind of separate treasure .  . 
i believe that christianity has important new understanding to bring 
to bear on it , and vice versa , much that is central to christianity 
takes on entirely new dimensions of meaning in light of repeated earth 
lives. it has a direct bearing on many of the issues frequently discussed 
in this newsgroup in particular .  . 

i have said openly that i have developed my views of repeated earth lives 
largely from the work of rudolf steiner .  . not that i hold him as an 
authority , but the whole picture of christianity becomes clearer in light 
of these ideas. steiner indicated that the old consciousness of 
nation necessarily had to fade away that it could be renewed in later 
times , after a time of development of the christ idea through the first 
two millenia after christ 's deed on golgotha .  . in our own time , it becomes 
important that , having received the basic gospel of salvation , our 
understanding of life and of the human being can now grow to embrace the 
significance of this idea. for the discussions in this newsgroup , i 
have tried to focus on that which can be related as directly as possible 
to scripture and to fundamental christian teaching and tradition .  . 

gerry palo 

from  ( nichael cramer ) 
subject the long text of acts was variants in the nt text 
reply to 
organization bbn , interzone office 
lines 80 

to the moderator i posted this about a week ago but it never showed 
up  ( locally ) on the net. if this has already 
actually been posted , please fill free to flush 
this copy. n 

from (d .  . andrew byler ) 
does anyone now where an english translation of the long recension of 
the acts of the apostles can be found 

1 a english translation of this can be found in 
the acts of the apostles , translated from the codex , with an 
introduction on its origin and importance , j. m. wilson 
 ( london , 1923) .  . 

2 another work that might be useful is 
the acts of the apostles , a critical edition with introduction and 
notes on selected passages , albert c. clark  ( oxford , 1933 
reprinted 1970) .  . 

 ( this is an edition of text of acts that makes the assumption that the 
text in codex is the more authentic .  . i do n't know if it 
actually contains an english translation or not . ) . 

3 another useful that discusses many of the variants in detail is 
the theological tendency of the codex in 
acts , eldon j epp  ( cambridge ,  . 

4 the most recent reference i found was an edition in french from the 
early '80s .  . (i can supply the reference if anyone 's interested . ) . 

5 now , many of the works are going to be difficult to find. so if 
you 're interested in examining the differences in the long recension 
an excellent  ( and easily obtainable ) discussion can be found in 
a textual commentary on the greek nt , bruce metzger  ( united bible 
society ,  . 

metzger 's book serves as a companion volume to the 3rd edition of 
the greek nt .  . it contains a discussion on the reasoning that went 
behind the decisions on each of the 1440 variant readings included in 
the  . furthermore , notes on an addition 600 readings are 
included in (the majority of these occur in acts) .  . 

in particular in the introduction to the section on acts metzger writes 
an attempt was made to set before the reader a more or less full 
report  ( with an english translation ) of the several additions and 
other modifications that are attested by western witnesses ... 
since many of these have no corresponding apparatus in the 
text volume , care was taken to supply an adequate of the 
evidence that supports the divergent readings .  . (p  . 

i understand that one of the early codexes , and has 
this version of acts .  . it would be interesting to know what the 
differences are between the long and the short forms. 

6 most of the copies of the text of acts that we have  ( including the 
ones in and siniaticus ) pretty closely to the shorter 
 ( or alexandrian ) version. the longer version to which you refer is 
usually called the western version and its main witness is the codex 
 ( althought there are a few other rather fragmentary sources) .  . 

7 as far as size , the difference is that in clark 's edition 
 ( mentioned above) the book of acts contains 19 , 983 words whereas the 
text edited by westcott and (a typical text) contains 
18 , 401 words i.e. a difference of about 8 1 2 . 

8 to answer the obvious questions , no , there are no major revelations 
in the longer text nor major omissions in the shorter text. the main 
difference seems to expansion of detail in the western text  ( or , if 
you prefer in the  . the western text seems 
to be given to more detail. there are some interesting specific 
cases , but this probably not the place to go into it in detail. 

9 the discussion over the years as to which of these versions is the 
more authentic has been hot and heavy .  . if there is anything 
approaching a modern consensus it is  ( i ) that neither text represents 
purely the authentic version ,  ( ii ) each variant reading has to be 
examined on its own merits however ,  ( iii ) the variant in the 
text is the better more often than not. 

n 

from  ( bill mayne ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
reply to 
organization florida state university computer science department 
lines 68 

in article writes 

christians can also feel that 
sense of difference , however , when they are associated with those 
weird televangelists who always talk about satan . if you 'll excuse 
the cliched sound of this , everyone has to deal with his her 
differences from other people. i can understand how being an atheist 
could be hard for you being a christian is sometimes hard for me. 

this is not at all comparable .  . christianity is the main stream in 
western culture. you are the experiences of others. 

i remember what it was like being different as a christian .  . we 
were told all the time that we were different , and in fact that 
only members of the our church were really christians  ( though others 
who believed in god were n't as bad as atheists ) , so we were a small 
minority .  . that was nothing compared to being an atheist .  . 

the only thing comparable would be a young child being christian 
being surrounded by staunch atheists , including parents , who 
actively persecute any religious both actual punishments 
and , even worse , emotional blackmail .  . they would also have 
to have the whole mainstream society on their side. maybe these 
conditions could have occured in the old soviet union not in a 
country with under god in its pledge of allegiance .  . 

i doubt it even then , because children have to be taught to be 
christians and hence must have support somewhere. 

i have sympathy for gays growing up in repressive environments and 
having to hide and sometimes at first try to deny a part of themselves 
because i 've been there. only in my case it was my rationality instead 
of sexuality which i was forced to try to repress .  . 

in some way the pressures were different , of course , because you 
chose your beliefs or are you saying that they were not your 
choice , but born of necessity please , no flames about whether or 
not gay people choose their lifestyle that 's elsewhere in this 
newsgroup 

yes. my atheism was born of necessity .  . for an intellectually honest 
person belief is mostly a response to evidence. will or wishes have 
nothing to do with it. i could choose to lie , or to be silent about 
my true beliefs .  . i could no more choose to believe in the god of 
christianity than i could decide that the ordinary sky looks red to 
me. still i should be clear that i'm not equating what i went through 
with what gays go through. however it is a mistake to assume that 
everyone who goes through painful experiences are broken by them. 
happily some are made stronger , once we get past it. 

i must say that i 
was n't hurt by my experiences in church any more than some of my friends 
who did n't become atheists .  . i was just hurt differently. 

i'm not sure i understand this sentence could you explain 

not without going to details and violating the of some of my 
childhood friends. suffice it say to that religion does not guarantee 
that a person will be happy and strong emotionally , and a repressive 
upbringing can leave its scars even , or especially , on those who do n't 
get free of it. i doubt that any sane and sincere person doubts that and 
i feel no need to defend it. 

by the way i am much happier and stronger being out of the closet. in 
the end it has been , as someone eloquently put it in private email , an 
experience of liberation rather than  . 

bill mayne 

from  ( randy l. hunt ) 
subject love in the morning by malcolm smith ministries 
lines 184 

begin included message 

the following teaching is brought to you on behalf of malcolm smith 
ministries , a ministry dedicated to leading believers everywhere into a 
knowledge of the love of god. if you would like more info on the ministry , 
and or would like to comment on whether you found this teaching beneficial , 
e mail to randy hunt at 


love in the morning  ( psalm 90 14) 

by malcolm smith 

moses wrote this prayer at a weary time in the history of israel .  . a generation 
before the time of its writing , the people of israel had stood at , 
gateway to canaan , and made the fateful choice to go their own way rather 
than god 's way. they refused an adventure of faith in god which would 
have given them canaan , the homeland of promise. god honored their 
decision , and said they would wander in the desert only a few miles from the 
land of promise until they were all buried in the sand. the young decision 
makers of that fateful day were between twenty and thirty years old , and 
destined to be dead within forty years .  .  .  . bones in the desert by the 
time they were seventy eighty , at the most. the lives of these 
had been sadness .  . moses described it as ending each year with a 
sigh (v .  . 9) .  . the fact that they knew , give or take a few months , when they 
were going to die , underscored the of their existence .  . 
whatever heights of success they reached , they would be a heap of 
bones within forty years. the only ones to live outside of that depression of 
hopeless disbelief were joshua and caleb , who had stood against the nation 
at and had god  s promise of one day entering the land. the 
forty year period was finally drawing to an end. the new generation , those 
who were children at , were now grown and eager to take the 
inheritance their parents had refused to enjoy. in the light of this , moses 
prays .  .  . it . is time for a new day to begin and the days of misery to be over. 
all these years , as moses had walked with these moaning and complaining 
people through the wilderness of their exile , he had carried a double burden .  . 
his was not only the sadness of living in less than what could have been but 
he also knew why they had chosen as they had at  . the problem was 
that they were ignorant of the character of their god. if asked. who is your 
god they would have described him as the god who is power. when 
aaron had created their concept of god in an idol .  . he chose a calf .  . or young 
bull a symbol of power , of virility .  . in their minds , god was the young bull 
who had pharaoh on his horns and egypt 's gods as he led 
israel to sinai .  . but when man worships a god of power , his miracles grow 
thin and even boring. after miracle food on the desert floor and water 
gushing miraculously from the solid rock through the desert wasteland , the 
god of becomes ho hum what  s next on the miracle menu 
and a god of power can be as unpredictable as a young bull calf .  . he might 
be all they need , but then .  .  . who . knows if he has all power , he has a right 
to do whatever he wants , whenever he wants. the only person these people 
had known who had absolute power was pharaoh , and men 's lives had hung 
on the whim of his moods , which could change with the wind. they believed 
god could work his wonders on their behalf , but they did not know him 
and , so , could not trust him. israel had a god based on what he did , his 
acts moses knew the heart of god , the motivation behind the acts .  . from the 
day of his encounter at the burning bush , moses had been fascinated by god. 
at sinai , he asked to be shown his glory .  .  . to . know who he really was. he 
had seen what god had done he wanted to know who god was. this 
request was granted , and moses was given a glimpse of god 's glorious 
person. he had come to know the heart of god as compassion and 
lovingkindness  ( exodus 34 6 , 7) .  . the word lovingkindness is not to be 
understood as a human kind of love. it speaks of the kind of relationship 
arising out of the making of a covenant .  . it can only be understood as the 
love that says , i will never leave you nor forsake you. lovingkindness is as 
tenacious as a british when the world walks out , this love digs in its 
heels and refuses to leave . and . it is not human romantic love , based on 
feelings and rooted in emotions .  . it is a love of covenant commitment and , 
therefore , operates quite apart from feelings. god 's love is not an emotion 
that day by day it is the total commitment of his being to seek our 
highest and best , and to bring us to our fullest potential as humans. god 
does not see something good and beautiful in us which arouses his feelings 
of love toward us .  .  . we . do not woo him and cause him to fall in love with 
us ! if that were the case , the first ugly , sinful thing we did would cause him 
to reject us. he is love , and he loves us because of who he is not 
because of who we are. he does not love what we do , but he is committed 
to us , pursuing us down every blind alley and of foolishness .  . he will 
not let us go. his is a love that is not looking for what it can get out of us 
but a committed love that searches for opportunities to give to us. it is 
saying to the recipient , for as long as we shall live , i am for you. the god 
who has revealed himself to man through scripture and , finally , in jesus in 
his coming , and in his death and resurrection is the god who is 
lovingkindness .  . thus he loves us and gives himself to us .  .  . he . will never 
leave us nor forsake us. tragically , many believers have never seen him as 
love they see him as power. no one will come to faith by just seeing 
miracles .  . miracles point to who he is , and that is when faith springs in the 
heart. israel did not see god as lovingkindness they saw his acts of power. 
moses knew his ways , the kind of god he was , and the love that he had for 
these people. because of their total lack of understanding of his love , they 
could not trust him to be their strength in taking the land. faith is born out 
of knowing the love he has for us it is the resting response to the one who 
gives himself to us. he is not the force , and to call him the almighty is to 
miss his heart. he is love who is the almighty and the infinite force. if 
man is to make force or raw power work for him , he must depend on 
knowing the and have faith in it. but the power that issues from 
love demands faith in the person of love himself. the forty years of 
meaningless wandering was a monument to a people who had never come to 
know the god of love. at this point , with the new generation and the 
possibility of enjoying all that god promised , moses prays verse 14. the 
language moses uses is reminiscent of a baby having slept secure in its 
mother 's love , now waking to look up into the delight of her eyes. it is 
waking to the consciousness of being loved .  .  .  . watched over , cared for , 
protected , fed , and cleaned , day and night , by the mother. suppose we were 
to ask , what has the baby done to deserve this or , have arrangements 
been made for the child to repay the parents for this inconvenience our 
questions would be considered unnatural , even immoral .  . the child was 
conceived in love , anticipated and prepared for with love 's excitement , a love 
that has been to the gates of death to bring it into being. the parents  love is 
unconditional , spontaneous .  .  . it . has nothing to do with the looks of the child 
or its performance. so god is love. he loves us unconditionally , 
spontaneously .  . we were conceived in his imagination and fashioned after 
his image , to be brought to where we are at this moment by the blood of the 
lord jesus .  . it is slanderous , and immoral , to even ask what we must do to 
earn and deserve that love. the child discovers its and identity 
through the eyes and touch , through the , of its parents  love. it is a 
scientific fact that a baby who is not touched and held will probably die or , if 
it survives , will have severe emotional problems. and a person who has been 
held and loved will still never know the true meaning of life without the 
embrace and knowledge of love from god. moses prays that the new 
generation will learn to wake every morning , resting with total confidence in 
the love of god. and will receive all his promises and blessings with joy and 
 . significantly , moses prays that they will be satisfied with his 
love. satisfied. in the hebrew language. is a rich picture word describing 
being filled with an abundance of gourmet food. it is also used to describe 
the earth after the rain has soaked it and all the vegetation has received 
enough water. moses prays that they will awaken every morning to be 
in the life giving love of god. that sense of satisfaction is the 
lifelong quest of every man and woman. when we are satisfied in our 
deepest selves , many of our emotional and even our physical problems 
disappear .  . man seeks that sense of satisfaction which comes from feeling 
that he is fulfilled as a human being .  .  . his . hours have meaning , which make 
sense out of the ordinary and mundane .  . apart from god , man seeks this 
satisfaction through intellectual pursuit , through the exciting of the 
emotions , and through the feeding of his body .  .  . he . will even seek it in 
religious exercise. but man will always be dissatisfied until he is responding 
to the love of the living god. only in knowing god 's love will the rest of life 
make sense. as the forty years drew to a close and the land of promise again 
became the inheritance to be taken , moses prayed this psalm .  . i find it 
fascinating that he should pray and ask god for a daily revelation of his 
love. considering the awe with which the people held moses .  . one would 
think he could have them on the subject of lovingkindness and , by 
the knowledge they gained , they would live in it. but moses knew 
better. god is the only one who can make known to us his love. we wo n't 
find it in a religious lecture or a formula which we can learn and use to 
manipulate him. nor is it in a beautiful poem to our emotions and 
give us god feelings. it is god , himself , the lover , who must open our eyes 
and satisfy us with his love. this prayer is man , in helplessness , asking god 
to make the love he is real in our hearts. moses  prayer was partially 
answered in the next generation and seen in the exploits of faith which 
worked by love in the book of judges .  . but it would not be answered in its 
fullest dimensions until the coming of the holy spirit , who pours out the 
love of god in our hearts  ( romans 5 5) .  . in the history of the early church , 
we read of the holy spirit falling upon the believers .  . this is an ancient 
expression that , in modern english , means to give a bear hug .  . it is used in 
luke 15 to describe the father running to the prodigal and falling on his 
neck and kissing him. the holy spirit is god you in your deepest 
self and you with divine kisses at the deepest level of your 
being. this is not a one time experience to be filed in our spiritual resumes .  . 
moses prayed that morning by morning we would awaken to the realization 
that we are loved. the world , and much of our religious training , has taught 
us to perform in order to be accepted. we have spent far too long living in a 
state of doing in order to find satisfaction for ourselves .  .  . to . find acceptance 
and love from others , and from god. we now come humbled to receive love 
we cannot earn .  .  . to . be still and let him tell us we are loved to let the holy 
spirit descend into us , pouring out the love of god. we come in stillness to 
think on and repeat his words of love to our minds. which have been jaded 
with the doctrine of perform to be accepted. we begin to realize that he 
loves us as we are , and gives meaning and purpose to all of life. i challenge 
everyone reading this to begin each day , from the moment you open your 
eyes , by celebrating the god of love and praying this prayer .  . you may not 
feel anything , but something always happens. i was x rayed the 
other day. i did not see or feel anything , but i noted that the technicians kept 
behind protective walls. they know you cannot be exposed to those rays 
without being affected .  . so it is as we consciously begin our day knowing 
that we are loved. such experiential knowledge will produce , according to 
moses , joy and all our days. joy is the result of a life that is 
functioning as god intended us to function when he made us. you might say 
that joy is the hum of an engine that is at peak performance. man' s highest 
performance is to rest in the love god has for him .  .  .  . the hum will be joy , and 
the result will be endless creativity arising from the sense of meaning he now 
has in life. stop wandering in the wilderness .  . be satisfied with his love and , 
in joy , day by day , receive all his promised blessings .  . 


end included message 

from  ( jimmy buddenberg ) 
subject resume 
lines 8 

i'm about to revise my resume and was wondering if i should put on there the 
fact that i'm a christian .  . give me some input on what you think. 



jimmy buddenberg 
student systems analyst 
muskingum college 

from  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 27 

in article lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) writes 
referring to mary 
she was immaculately conceived , and so never subject to original sin , 
but also never committed a personal sin in her whole life. this was 
possible because of the special degree of grace granted to her by god. 

i have quite a problem with the idea that mary never committed a sin .  . 
was mary fully human if it is possible for god to miraculously make 
a person free of original sin , and free of committing sin their whole 
life , then what is the purpose of the incarnation of jesus why ca n't 
god just repeat the miracle done for mary to make all the rest of us 
sinless , without the need for repentance and salvation and all that 

i do n't particularly object to the idea of the assumption , or the 
perpetual virginity  ( both of which i regard as catholic dogma about which 
i will agree to disagree with my catholic brothers and sisters in 
christ) , and i even believe in the virgin birth of jesus , but this 
concept of mary 's sinlessness seems to me to be at odds with the 
rest of christian doctrine as i understand it. 


seanna watson bell northern research , pray that at the end of living , 
ottawa , ontario , canada of philosophies and creeds , 
god will find his people busy 
opinion , what opinions oh these opinions. planting trees and sowing seeds .  . 
no , they 're not bnr 's , they 're mine. 
i knew i 'd left them somewhere. fred kaan 

from  ( sheila patterson ) 
subject re soc . religion . christian . 
organization cornell university cit 
lines 47 

in article ,  ( anni dozier ) writes 
after reading the posts on this newsgroup for the pasts 4 months , it 
has become apparent to me that this group is primarily active with 
liberals , catholics , new  , and athiests .  . someone might think 
to change the name to soc . religion . any . or perhaps even 
soc . religion . new .  . it might seem to be more appropriate. 
heck , do n't flame me , i'm catholic , gay , and i voted 
for bill clinton .  . i'm on your side ! 

my sentiments exactly .  .  .  . which is why i'm from this group. 
this is the 3rd  christian  discussion list i have ever belonged to 
and once again i'm being chased away by the strife , anger , discontent , 
lies , et al . 

as paul  ( saul ) said ,  i come to preach christ , and him crucified  
do n't let the simple beauty of faith in god get overshadowed by heady 
theological discussions or thousands of lines of post incarnation 
trappings of some church. 


as for the atheists agnostics who read this list if you are n't 
christian and if you have no intention of ever becoming one why on 
earth do you waste your time and mine by participating on a christian 
discussion list 

i will continue to search for christian discussion  ( prayerful , spirit filled , 
kind , humble , patient , etc . ) . in other circles .  . 


sheila patterson , cit cr technical support group 
315 ccc cornell university 
ithaca , ny 14853 
 ( 607 ) 255 


i'm afraid that any discussion group containing people with different 
views tends to turn into arguments about the largest differences 
present. so talk . religion . misc . spends a lot of time on 
christian atheist arguments , soc . religion . christian . spends a lot of 
time on arguments among different christian groups , and the bitnet 
catholic group spends a lot of time on arguments between conservative 
and liberal catholics .  . personally i would prefer to have a set of 
somewhat more specialized groups , at least as an alternative .  . liberal 
and conservative protestant and catholic would handle most of the 
traffic , though there are certainly significant groups (e . g .  . 
 . of course it may be that most of our readers like the 
arguments .  . i certainly find it painful moderating them. clh 

from (david wagner ) 
subject re baptism requires faith 
organization uh dept of math 
lines 132 

aaron aaron bryce cardenas writes 

aaron colossians 2 11 12 in him you were also circumcised , in the 
aaron putting off of the sinful nature , not with a circumcision done 
aaron by christ , having been buried with him in baptism and raised 
aaron with him through your faith in the power of god , who raised him 
aaron from the dead. 

aaron in baptism , we are raised to a new life in christ  ( romans 6 4) 
aaron through a personal faith in the power of god. our parent 's 
aaron faith cannot do this. do infants have faith let 's look at 
aaron what the bible has to say about it. 

yes , let do. try 

and if anyone causes one of these little ones who believes in me 
to sin , it would be better for him to be thrown into the sea 
with a large tied around his neck .  . mark 9 42 

let the little children come to me , and do not hinder them , 
for the kingdom of god belongs to such as these. i tell you 
the truth , anyone who will not receive the kingdom of god 
like a little child will never enter it. 

the colossians passage does not make faith a requirement 
for baptism .  . it merely says that in baptism we are born again , 
regenerated , and resurrected through faith. in the case 
of an infant i would say that baptism works faith in the 
heart of the infant through the power of the word. 

the colossians passage does make baptism a spiritual circumcision .  . 
circumcision was the means by which a male infant was made 
a part of god 's covenant with israel .  . it was commanded to be 
performed on the eighth day. the early church understood this , 
and even debated whether baptism had to be performed on the 
eighth day , or if it could in fact be done earlier. 

aaron romans 10 16 17 but not all the israelites accepted the good 
aaron news. for isaiah says ,  lord , who has believed our message ' 
aaron consequently , faith comes from hearing the message , and the 
aaron message is heard through the word of christ .  . 

aaron so then we receive god 's gift of faith to us as we hear the 
aaron message of the gospel .  . 

and the gospel is surely preached at any infant 's  ( or adult 's) 
baptism .  . indeed , in a very real sense , the sacraments are 
the gospel made tangible .  . 

aaron faith is a possible response to hearing 
aaron god 's word preached .  . kids are not yet spiritually , 
aaron intellectually , or emotionally mature enough to respond to 
aaron god 's word. 

how do you know they are not yet mature enough to have faith 
do you know this on the basis of god 's word , or from your own 
reason 

faith is also described as a gift from god , ephesians 2 8 , 9. 
he gives faith to infants just as he gives it to adults , through 
the power of the gospel , romans 1 6. 

aaron if you read all of ezekiel 18 , you will see that god does n't 
aaron hold us guilty for anyone else 's sins .  . so we can have no 
aaron original guilt from adam .  . 

here you show that you just do n't understand original sin 
you are arguing against a straw man. 
maybe you 've been talking to catholics too much. i do n't 
know. but original sin does not consist of god 's imputation 
of adam 's guilt to us. it consists of our inheritance of 
adam 's sinful nature. it is actual sin .  . see for example , 
the augsburg confession , article ii , and the apology of the 
augsburg confession , article ii , and , for extra credit , 
john knox 's scots confession  , article iii. 

aaron now then that we have a little more background as to why 
aaron original sin is not biblical , let 's look at some of the 
aaron scriptures used to support it. 

aaron romans 5 12 therefore , just as sin entered the world through 
aaron one man , and death through sin , and in this way death came to 
aaron all men , because all sinned 


ask yourself this question. do infants ever die then ask 
yourself , if infant baptism is not valid , then where was the 
christian church during all the centuries when almost all 
of the baptisms were performed on infants were luther , , 
calvin , , hus , knox , , and chemnitz christians 


aaron psalm 51 5 surely i was sinful at birth , sinful from the time 
aaron my mother conceived me. 

aaron this whole psalm is a wonderful example of how we should humble 
aaron ourselves before god in repentance for sinning .  . david himself 
aaron was a man after god 's own heart and wrote the psalm after 
aaron committing adultry with and murdering her husband. 
aaron all that david is saying here is that he ca n't remember a time 
aaron when he was n't sinful .  . he is humbling himself before god by 
aaron confessing his sinfulness .  . his saying that he was sinful at 
aaron birth is a hyperbole .  . the bible , being inspired by god , is n't 
aaron limited to a literal interpetation , but also uses figures of 
aaron speech as did jesus (john 16 25) .  . for another example of 
aaron hyperbole , see luke 14 26. 

who are you to say what is literal and what is not is a literal 
interpretation absurd in psalm 51 by reason of direct 
contradiction with a clear passage from the word of god 

you might also compare genesis 8 21 , the lord the 
pleasing and said in his heart , again will i curse 
the ground because of man , even though every inclination of 
his heart is evil from childhood .  .  .  .  . 

aaron we see 
aaron that he did grow and become wiser in luke 2 40 and 2 52 .  . the 
aaron implication is that jesus did wrong things as a child before he 
aaron knew to choose right over wrong. 

you are a long way from proving this  ( rather monstrous ) assertion .  . 
all you can say is that jesus grew in wisdom and in stature .  . a 
conclusion that he did wrong as a child is based on an 
of reason , not on a direct revelation in scripture .  . 

david h. wagner but mad reason rushes forth and , 
a confessional lutheran because baptism is not dazzling like 
the works which we do , 
regards it as worthless .  . 
martin luther , large catechism , 
fourth part , baptism .  . 

from (james haw ) 
subject presentation package for preaching 
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand 
lines 16 

hi , 
what presentation package would you recommend for a bible teacher 
i 've checked out graphics for windows. i think its more 
suitable for sales people than for preachers or bible teachers to present 
an outline of a message. 

i'm looking for one that 
is great for overhead projector slides .  . 
has or imports clip arts 
works with word for windows or imports word for windows files. 
works with inkjet printers 
if you know of any that meets part or all of the above , please let me know. 
please email your response as i do n't keep up with the newsgroup .  . 

thanking you in advance , 
james .  . 

from 
subject mary , blessed among women 
lines 23 

dave bernard writes 

when elizabeth mary with the words blessed art thou 
among women  ( luke 1 42) , it appears that this places mary 
beyond the sanctification of normal humanity .  . 

but deborah says  ( judges 5 24) 

blessed among women shall be the wife of the , 
blessed above all women in the tents .  . 

it can doubtless be taken that 's of was a type 
of mary 's victory over sin .  . but even if we take deborah 's words as 
applying prophetically or symbolically to mary , they must still be 
applicable literally to  . we may well take them to mean that 
god used her as a part of his plan for the deliverance of his 
people , and that she has this in common with mary .  . but we have no 
reason to suppose that they mean that she was sinless , and thus no 
reason to take the like expression applied to mary as proof that she 
was sinless .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( mail server) 
subject re dreams and out of body incidents 
lines 19 

(david e. goggin ) writes 

1) dreams and are totally mental phenomena .  . in this case no morality 
... 
2) dreams and have a reality of their own (i . e .  . are  another plane' ) 
... 
3) like (2) , but here we assume that though the and environs have 
a 
real existence , a different moral ethics apply there , and no  ( or maybe 
different ) moral laws apply there. 


i can think of another alternative 

4) 's are a form of contact with the demonic world , whereby one 
intentionally or unintentionally surrenders control of his or her perceptions 
to spiritual beings whose purpose is to deceive and them. 

mark 

from (e alan idler ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization university of victoria 
lines 49 

in article , 
writes 
therefore , until someone is capable of comprehending 
god 's laws they are not accountable for living them. 
they are in the book of life and are not removed until 
they can make a conscious decision to disobey god. 

a idler 

if babies are not supposed to be baptised then why does n't the bible 
ever say so. it never comes right and says only people that know 
right from wrong or who are taught can be baptised .  . 
what christ did say was 

i solemly assure you , no one can enter god 's kingdom without 
being born of water and spirit ... do not be surprised that i 
tell you you must all be begotten from above. 

could this be because everyone is born with original sin 

in some earlier discussions on this thread i may have 
given the impression that even though children did n't 
require baptism it would n't hurt if they were. 
to the contrary , when you baptize children before 
they are capable of comprehending it you deny them 
their opportunity to demonstrate their desire to 
serve god. 

have any of you considered that children are not 
accountable for sin because they are not capable of 
repentance 
peter said to a group of men and brethren , repent 
and be baptized every one of you  ( acts 2 38) .  . 
notice that he specified that if they repent then 
they may be baptized . 

in following peter 's instructions people must first 
demonstrate repentance (a forsaking of their sins and 
a desire to obey god 's commands) before they are 
eligible to be baptized .  . 

since young children are not capable of repenting , 
they are not eligible for baptism .  . 
and since god is both just and merciful sin is not 
imputed when there is no law  ( romans 5 13) , young 
children are not accountable for what they ca n't 
comprehend .  . 

a idler 

from  ( timothy shimeall ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in 
organization naval postgraduate school , monterey ca 
lines 32 

the cited passages are covered in depth in a faq for this group. 
that particular faq (i 've forgotten the author ) discusses the 
traditional vs. pro homosexual interpretations of the passages and 
indicates which points have strong textual support. 

perhaps the moderator might give again the instructions for 
retrieving the faq on this topic 

btw , this issue , while dealt with before , is very timely .  . one 
of the major presbyterian churches in california (st .  . andrews a 
in a rich neighborhood ) is withholding their support of 
synod  ( amounts to about 10 of the budget of the synod , which 
covers all of southern ca and hawaii ) until support for a 
pro homosexual lobbying group (the lazarus project ) is terminated .  . 
this came from a news report on cnn yesterday corrections welcome. 
tim 

i think it 's time for me to post the faq .  . 

this is an issue throughout the presbyterian church. on the other 
side , one of the major churches in cincinnati has been 
homosexual elders , and has ignored instructions not to do 
so. and the church in rochester where the judicial commission said 
they could n't install a homosexual pastor has made her an 
evangelist . these situations , as well as the one you describe , do 
not appear to be stable .  . this will certainly be a major topic for the 
general assembly next month. if the church ca n't come up with a 
solution that will let people live with each other , i think we 're end 
up with a split .  . clearly neither side wants that , but i think we 'll 
get pushed into it by actions of both sides. 

clh 

from  ( jen kilmer ) 
subject re if there were no hell 
organization microsoft corporation 
lines 40 

in article d . writes 
in article !  ( larry l. overacker ) writes 
q if you knew beyond all doubt that hell did not exist and that 
unbelievers simply remained dead , would you remain a christian 

interesting question , esp since i remember wishing with all 
my heart that this were true so that i would n't have to be a 
good christian anymore. christianity was terribly hard , the 
only reward was heaven and  ( maybe , sometimes , if i was really 
good) acceptance i wanted a way out. 

if you knew this beyond all doubt , then you would be foolish to be 
a disciple of a man who claimed it did exist. the truth is , you can 
not be jesus  disciple and disagree with him at the same time , not 
allowing him to be your lord . 

what jesus has done for me since i found him (some 6 months ago) 
i do not want to lose. period. 

that said , i originally interpreted the what if as if christ 
never mentioned sheol and weeping and gnashing of teeth , if 
christ preached that those who did not follow him died and stayed 
dead and at that point forever ceased to exist .  .  .  .  . 

 .  .  .  . fear . based religion is not a faith relationship with the 
one who made us all. i follow christ because it 's a great way 
to live life. and i could care less what really happens after 
i die. ..... 

so is being a buddhist a great way to live life. i'm not converting , 
though. 

i believe that we can only be complete through christ .  . 
do you think that buddhists can also be complete 

jen 



include msdos testing 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re question about virgin mary 
organization indiana university 
lines 20 

in article (d .  . andrew kille ) writes 
just an observation although the bodily assumption has no basis in 
the bible , carl jung declared it to be one of the most important pronouncements 
of the church in recent years , in that it implied the inclusion of the 
feminine into the godhead .  . 

jung may have said that , but he was in no way speaking for the 
catholic church. the dogma of the assumption in no way means mary is 
considered to be god or part of the godhead .  . therefore it implies no 
such thing about the feminine in general. 

also jung 's statement makes it sound as though the dogma was 
announced out of the blue. this also is incorrect , as dogma is only 
the formulation of what has always been part of tradition .  . this dogma 
has always been believed , but was not formally defined until the 
assumption was declared as an ex cathedra statement. 


steve creps , indiana university 


from rick  ( rick granberry ) 
subject re faq essay on homosexuality 
lines 62 

before you finalize your file in the faqs  ( or after ) , you might want to 
correct the typo in the following 

kinsey  ( see below) is the source 
of the figure 10 percent. he defines sexuality by behavior , not by 
orientation , and ranked all persons on a scale from zero  ( completely 
heterosexual ) to 6  ( completely  . 

it seems one or the other end of the rating scale should be identified with 
homosexual . 

as a personal note , i guess i differ with you on the question of work 
entering human life as a result of sin .  . 
note that in the 
creation story work enters human life as a result of sin .  . 

before the fall (gen 2 15) and the lord god took the man , and put him into 
the garden of eden to dress it and to keep it. which i would call work . 
for me , the difference introduced by sin is the painful aspects of work added 
at the fall (i take the cursing of the ground in vs . 17 . 19 to apply to the 
work for  . in a way , some view work as a blessing  ( ecclesiastes 
is a fun book ! for  . 

i hope i do not sound caustic , maybe you can enlighten me further. 

well , this is certainly a delicate subject , and i guess you accomplished what 
you state as your purpose it summarizes arguments for allowing christian 
homosexuality , not for me the most noble goal , but you are writing a faq .  . 

i wonder if you might the apparent sentence of the specific 
homosexual you propose  ( arguably  . 
the danger in advising christians to 
depend upon such a change is clear when conversion does n't happen , 
which is almost always , the people are often left in despair , feeling 
excluded from a church that has nothing more to say but a requirement 
of life long  . 
perhaps that would be true of from homosexual relations , or 
from their choice relationships , but that does not forbid 
heterosexual .  . could they not have enjoy heterosexual relations for what it 
was worth 

this depends upon the person. in some cases i think the answer is 
no. even with those who could , consider what you 're asking. i assume 
we 're talking about marriage i certainly would not want to suggest 
sex outside that. you 're talking about a permanent commitment to a 
kind of sexual relationship that they are n't really sure they can live 
with. there may be people for whom this is a possible solution , but i 
wonder whether it 's entirely fair to the other partner. i have a 
cousin who was a victim of exactly this situation. we found out later 
 ( after her death) that her husband had had problems with his sexual 
identity .  . his family  ( conservative christians) knew it , and pushed 
him into getting married. he continued having problems , and they were 
near divorce .  . she died in an accident whose circumstances some of the 
relatives consider odd. he has since had a sex change operation , and 
has been moving around from state to state without being able to hold 
a job , keeping their children in a kind of home life both sets of 
grandparents consider irresponsible .  . i hope you can understand why i 
am not enthusiastic about pushing homosexuals into marriage. i really 
liked my cousin .  . this is sort of an emotional issue for me. again , 
it may be possible for some , but this is the sort of situation that 
needs to be dealt with pastorally and not as a matter of fixed 
ideology .  . clh 

from  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 20 

in article (michael d. walker ) writes 

my feeling on baptism is this parents baptize their baby so that the 
baby has the sanctifying grace of baptism  ( and thus removal of original 
sin) on its soul in the event of an unexpected death. 

you are right , michael .  . 

in john 3 5 , jesus says , amen , amen , i say to you , no one can enter the 
kingdom of god without being born of water and spirit. that 's really what 
he said , and he meant it. that verse is the definition of baptism .  . i do n't 
have the law book in front of me , but there is a canon law that urges 
parents to baptize their children within one week of birth for the very 
reason that you state. 



randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 


from cs . cs . umn . edu .  ( dale wyttenbach ) 
subject question about hell 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 12 

what is the basis of the idea of hell being a place of eternal 
suffering if it is biblical , please reference. 

here 's my train of thought if god is using the earth to manufacture 
heavenly beings , then it is logical that there would be a certain 
yield , and a certain amount of waste. the yield goes to heaven , and 
the waste is burned  ( destroyed ) in hell. why is it necessary to 
punish the waste , rather than just destroy it 

peace and joy , 

dale 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re soc . religion . christian . 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 23 

in article , 
 ( sheila patterson ) wrote 
as for the atheists agnostics who read this list if you are n't 
christian and if you have no intention of ever becoming one why on 
earth do you waste your time and mine by participating on a christian 
discussion list 

i do n't think we should draw borders around newsgroups , christians 
are free to read and post entries on the atheist newsgroups , and 
muslims are free to so so in other groups as well. 

it 's up to each individual to define their time schedule concerning 
postings .  . the problems we all have noticed on various newsgroups 
is the method of telling that  i am right , and you are 
 . this is true of both theists and atheists .  . 

hopefully a more constructive dialogue between the groups 
would help concerning assumptions and of views. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from !  ( larry l. overacker ) 
subject re if there were no hell 
organization shell oil 
lines 21 

in article (m . r .  . mellodew ) writes 
in article , !  ( larry l. overacker ) writes 

fear based religion is not a faith relationship with the 
one who made us all. 

so does that mean that anyone who is a christian to avoid hell is n't really 
a christian at all it sounds like it to me. 

if that 's the only reason , i 'd be inclined to doubt whether or not what 
they profess is christianity .  . the relationship of faith is based upon 
trust .  . fear and trust are generally incompatible .  . if my only motivation 
is fear , is there room for trust if so , there 's room for faith. 
if fear precludes trust , then there ca n't be faith. 

larry overacker 


lawrence overacker 
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965 


from 
subject re athiests and hell 
organization fnal ad net 
lines 81 

in article 
(peter trei ) writes 
in article 
writes 
much deleted 
point today might be the masons .  .  ( just a note , that they too worshipped 
osiris in egypt .  .  . ) . 
much deleted 

it bugs me when i see this kind of nonsense. 

first , there is no reasonable evidence linking masonry to ancient 
egypt , or even that it existed prior to the late 14th century  ( and 
there 's nothing definitive before the  . 

my uncle was a 30 level mason .  . he let me look at some of the books 
(which after his death his brothers came over and took from his 
widow before his body had even  . do n't tell me you do n't worship 
osiris .  . you must not be past your 20th level. you should read wilkinson 's 
egyptians and how he shows this egyptian religion his own british 
masonry .  . there is a man here at this laboratory who is a 33 degree black 
mason .  . i 've talked with him , though much he likes to hide ( mystery ) .  . 
special and all. when he first started trying to evangelize me , 
he told me all kinds on special this , and special that. here is truely a 
mystery religion. there is the public side with mania and 
childrens hospitals and then there is the side that only the highest 
degree mason every learns of. 

second , worship of osiris is not , nor has it ever been , a part of 
masonic practice  ( we are strictly non  . 

i have n't read it , but the literature that is offered by the silver haired 
apologist (ca n't remember his name) on tv , did n't exactly come to this same 
conclusion .  . 

, the son of the great goddess mother , seems to have been 
represented as a full grown god. the babylonian divinity was also represented 
very frequently in in the very same in the land of his 
i.e. as a child in his mother 's  . this was the way in which osiris , 'the 
son , the husband of his mother , ' was often exhibited , and what we learn of this 
god , equally as in the case of , shows that in his original he was none 
other than nimrod .  . it is admitted that the secret system of free masonry was 
originally founded on the mysteries of the egyptian isis , the goddess mother , 
or wife of osiris .  . but what could have led to the union of a masonic body with 
these mysteries , had they not had particular reference to architecture , and had 
the god who was worshipped in them not been celebrated for his success in 
the arts of and building now , if such were the case , 
considering the relation in which , as we have already seen , egypt stood to 
babylon , who would naturally be up to there as the great patron of the 
masonic art the strong presumption is , that nimrod must have been the man. 
he was the first that gained in this way. as the child of the babylonian 
goddess mother , he was worshipped in the character of ala , 'the god of 
' . osiris , the child of the egyptian , was equally 
celebrated as 'the strong chief of the buildings . ' . this strong chief of the 
buildings was worshipped in egypt with every 
characteristic of nimrod .  . i have already noticed the fact that nimrod , as the 
son of cush , was a negro .  . now , there was a tradition in egypt , recorded by 
, that  osiris was  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

it was like a cold slap to my face , when my uncle brought out his 
dress and it was leopard skin. i mean real leopard skin. he told 
me that only the highest of degrees wore the leopard skin. (the reason that he 
started telling me all this was that he had just been given a couple of months 
to live and my wife had led him to a saving faith in christ and he immediately 
repented from  mysteries  of the lodge ! ) 

rod from , a leopard , and or rad to subdue .  . it is a 
universal principle in all , that the high priest wears the insignia 
of the god he serves .  . any representation of osiris usually show the wearing of 
some leopard .  . it is interesting that the druids of britian also show , or 
should i say hide , this representation .  . they , however , worshipped the spotted 
cow . 

i 'll stand by my statements .  . masonry is of the mystery religions that all 
find their source in babylon , the great  . sorry peter , i do not mean to 
be a cold slap to the face but there is to much evidence to the contrary that 
masonry does n't find its origins in egypt .  . of the masons i have personally 
talked to , all refered to egypt as their origin .  . why are you now separating 
yourself from this which not many years ago , was freely admitted 

rex 

from (michael covington ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 24 

in article writes 

... i believe that the one 
important thing that those who wrote the old and new testament 
passages cited above did not know was that there is scientific 
evidence to support that homosexuality is at least partly inherent 
rather than completely learned .  . this means that to a certain extent 
or to a great extent homosexuals cannot choose how to feel ... 

but one of the most basic concepts of christian morality is that we 
all have defective appetites due to original sin .  . not just 
homosexuals , but everybody. thus we are not entitled to indulge in 
whatever behavior our bodies want us to. 

i think we need to keep clear the distinction between homosexual 
behavior (which is wrong) and homosexual orientation (which is not 
a sin , merely a  . 

please no email replies. respond in this public forum. 

michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

from  ( stan armstrong ) 
subject sleeping with one 's aunt 
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada 
lines 37 

the last time we discussed homosexuality , i asked whether anyone could 
identify any other act besides homosexual intercourse that the bible 
prohibited , but which might in some circumstances bring no apparent 
harm to anyone. put another way , the question is whether homosexual 
intercourse is the only act that christians are supposed to believe 
is immoral solely on the basis that god says it is , with no insight 
being offered as to why it is immoral .  . no one could answer my 
question in either form from the bible .  . (i did get an interesting 
response based on roman catholic theology) .  . 

however , i think now that i can at least answer my first question. 
link hudson pointed me to it in his recent comments about sleeping 
with one 's aunt .  . incest is held to be immoral in every society , 
that is , there are some degrees of relationship where marriage 
 ( and thus , intercouse ) is prohibited .  . the bible is no exception. 
the trouble is that it may be difficult to see why a particular 
relationship qualifies as incestuous .  . societies differ as to 
how they define incest .  . genetic reasons are sometimes offered , but 
all the biblical cases cannot be dealt with that way. why ca n't 
a man sleep with his step mother assuming that his father is 
dead and that he has married her how does this case differ 
from the duty to marry one 's brother 's wife. 

are these two cases parallel does the bible prohibit some incestuous 
marriages and homosexual marriages for the same reason , perhaps 
that god knows they are not good for us and yet we are incapable 
of understanding why. 

p.s. please do n't bother writing me to tell me that i am a homophobe , 
as some did last time. my mind is not made up on these questions. 
you do n't know whether i am homophobic or not. you do n't 
know me. to call me or anyone else a homophobe without knowing the 
person may be as much an expression of bigotry as some homophobic 
remarks .  . 

stan armstrong .  . religious studies dept , saint mary 's university , halifax , n.s. 
att ! clyde ! ! water ! ! 

from  ( rj pomeroy ) 
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical 
lines 11 

from article , by  ( len howard ) 

hi eddie , many people believe the battle described in rev 12 7 12 
describes the casting out of satan from heaven and his fall to the 
earth. 
shalom , len howard 


also check out jude .  . plus , if you have a concordance handy , check 
out all the references to  . these are generally taken to mean 
angels , i believe. 

from (michael p . 
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical 
organization at t 
lines 20 

in article  ( len howard ) writes 

hi eddie , many people believe the battle described in rev 12 7 12 
describes the casting out of satan from heaven and his fall to the 
earth. 
shalom , len howard 

luke 10 16 18 

he that you me and he that you 
me and he that me him that sent me. 

and the seventy returned again with joy , saying , lord , even the 
devils are subject unto us through thy name. 

and he said unto them , i satan as lightning fall from heaven. 

if a prayer today is spoken , please offer it up for me 
when the bridge to heaven is broken and you 're lost on the wild wild seas 
lost on the wild wild sea 

from (david wagner ) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
organization uh dept of math 
lines 84 

michael michael siemon writes 

michael the kind of interpretation i see as incredibly perverse is 
michael that applied to the story of sodom as if it were a blanket 
michael equation of homosexual behavior and rape .  . since christians 
michael citing the bible in such a context should be presumed to have 
michael at least read the story , it amounts to slander a charge 
michael that homosexuality rape to use that against us. 

and 

michael it is just 
michael as wrong  ( though slightly less incendiary , so it 's a 
michael secondary argument from the  contingent ) to equate 
michael homosexuality with such behavior as to equate it with the 
michael rape of god 's messengers .  . 

let 's review the sodom and gomorrah story briefly .  . it states 
clearly that the visitors were angels .  . but all the men from every 
part of the city of sodom both young and old surrounded the 
house. they called to lot , are the men who came to 
you tonight bring them out to us so that we can have sex 
with them . ' . 

for the rest of the story the angels are referred to by the men 
of sodom and by lot as men . furthermore we know from gen 18 20 , 21 
that the lord had already found sodom guilty of sin before 
the angels visited the city. it is clear that the sin 
of sodom and gomorrah involved homosexual sex. it appears that 
the men had become so inflamed in their lust that they had 
group orgies in the public square which simply indicates 
the of their  . it does not show that lesser 
degrees of homosexuality are not sinful , as michael would have us 
believe. 

ultimately our understanding of god 's will for sexuality comes from 
the creation story not solely on the story of sodom and gomorrah .  . he 
created us male and female , and instituted marriage as a relationship 
between one male and one female , therefore a man will leave his 
father and mother , and be united with his wife , and they will become 
one flesh .  . this marriage relationship is the only sexual 
relationship which god blesses and sanctions .  . he and 
protects the marriage of man and woman , and even uses it as a picture 
of the relationship between himself and his church. but we find not 
one word of blessing or regulation for a sexual relationship between 
two men , or between two women. 

everything else that we find in the bible about sexuality derives from 
or expresses god 's will in and blessing marriage. thus 
the levitical code , which was given only to the jews , forbade incest , 
homosexuality , the ten commandments forbade adultery and 
the of our neighbor 's wife other commandments forbade rape .  . 
the men of sodom and gomorrah were regarded as sexually immoral and 
perverse  ( jude 7) because they abandoned and or polluted the marriage 
relationship. thus also paul regarded homosexuality as  , 
romans 1 26 , 27 not because this was simply paul 's opinion , 
but because it was contrary to god 's purpose in creating us 
male and female. 

michael christians , no doubt very sincere ones , keep showing up here 
michael and in every corner of usenet and the world , and all they 
michael ever do is spout these same old verses (which they obviously 
michael have never thought about , maybe never even read) , in total 
michael ignorance of the issues raised , slandering us with the vilest 
michael charges of child abuse or whatever their minds can 
michael manage to conjure up , tossing out red herrings with  ( they 
michael suppose) great emotional force to cause readers to dismiss 
michael our witness without even taking the trouble to find out what 
michael it is. 

really , have you no better response to  than more 
slander 

david h. wagner the day is surely drawing near 
a confessional lutheran when god 's son , the annointed , 
shall with great majesty appear 
as judge of all appointed .  . 
all mirth and laughter then shall 
cease 
when flames on flames will still 
increase 
as scripture truly  . 
es ist an der zeit v. 1 
, 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 5 


now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that you have 
sincere love for your brothers , love one another deeply , from the heart. 

1 22 

from 
subject more on 2 peter 1 20 
lines 22 

i wrote that i thought that 2 peter 1 20 meant , no prophecy of 
scripture  ( or , as one reader suggests , no written prophecy) is 
merely the private opinion of the writer. 

tony replies  ( sat 8 may 1993) that this in turn implies that 
it is not subject to the private interpretation of the reader 
either. i am not sure that i understand this. 
in one sense , no statement by another is subject to my private 
interpretation .  . if reliable historians tell me that the 
lost the war , i cannot simply interpret this away 
because i wanted the to win. facts are facts and do not go 
away because i want them to be otherwise. 
in another sense , every statement is subject to private 
interpretation , in that i have to depend on my brains and 
to decide what it means , and whether it is sufficiently 
well attested to merit my assent .  . even if the statement occurs in an 
inspired writing , i still have to decide , using my own best 
judgement , whether it is in fact inspired. this is not arrogance 
it is just an inescapable fact. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( van kelly ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
organization at t bell laboratories , murray hill , nj , usa 
lines 54 

(scott holt ) writes 

hate the sin but love the sinner  .  .  . i . 've heard that quite a bit recently , 
.... my question is whether that statement is consistent with christianity .  . 
i would think not. 

hate more hate , never love. .... 

in the summary of the law , christ commands us to love god and to love our 
neighbors. he does n't say anything about hate. in fact , if anything , he 
commands us to save our criticisms for ourselves. .... 

scott 

i too dislike the phrase hate the sin , love the sinner . maybe the 
definite article is also part of the problem , since it seems to give 
us license to fixate on our brother 's peculiar which we have 
managed to escape by a common grace of , economic situation , or 
culture. our outrage at evil is too often just a cheap shot. 

that said , i do n't think scott has adequately explored the flip side 
of this coin , namely the love of righteousness .  . in the , 
jesus blessed those who and for righteousness .  . in 
the new testament , it is never enough just to behave well , one should 
always actively desire and work for the cause of good. in that sense , 
it should be impossible to remain dispassionate about evil and its 
victims , even when these are its as well. 

maybe mourn sin , love sinners catches the idea slightly better than 
hate , but only slightly , since grief usually implies a passive 
powerless position. a balanced christian response needs grief , love , 
and carefully measured , constructive anger .  . jesus has all three. the 
european during wwii whose response to nazi atrocities was 
devoid of anger do not fare well as role models , however much love or 
grief they exemplified .  . 

my sister is an actress in new york and a christian .  . a few years 
back , jack , her long time professional friend and benefactor , died of 
aids , impoverished by medical bills , from his family , and 
abandoned by most of his surviving friends. only my sister and 
brother in law were there with him at the very end. in her grief over 
jack 's death , my sister found quite a few targets for anger 
bureaucracies , the rigid self protective of jack 's family , 
the inertia in christians  response to aids , and , yes , even jack 's own 
lapse in morality that eventually cost him his life. jack himself 
shared that last anger .  . brought up with strong christian values , he 
was contrite over his brief with promiscuous sex long before 
his aids appeared .  . (i imply no moral judgement here about jack 's 
innate sexual orientation , n . b . ) . 

maybe the hardest job is making our anger constructive .  . 

van kelly 


from  ( tony zamora ) 
subject re more on 2 peter 1 20 
reply to 
organization computer science , indiana university 
lines 45 

in article 
writes 
in one sense , no statement by another is subject to my private 
interpretation .  . if reliable historians tell me that the 
lost the war , i cannot simply interpret this away 
because i wanted the to win. facts are facts and do not go 
away because i want them to be otherwise. 
in another sense , every statement is subject to private 
interpretation , in that i have to depend on my brains and 
to decide what it means , and whether it is sufficiently 
well attested to merit my assent .  . even if the statement occurs in an 
inspired writing , i still have to decide , using my own best 
judgement , whether it is in fact inspired. this is not arrogance 
it is just an inescapable fact. 

yes , there are these two senses of interpretation , and certainly our 
decision to accept scripture as inspired ultimately rests on our own 
private opinion. however , when reading scripture , we have to remember 
that the scriptures were given by god for our instruction , and that 
the interpretation that matters is the one god intended. for example , 
if i decide that the fact that john the baptist is elijah teaches the 
doctrine of reincarnation , i am wrong because that is not the intended 
interpretation .  . the prophets did n't make up this teaching it came 
from god , and we must accept it as such. this necessarily means that 
our private interpretations must take a back seat to the meaning god 
intended to convey .  . certainly we must rely on our best efforts to 
determine what this meaning is , but this very fact should make us 
recognize that our private interpretations cannot be automatically 
accepted as the infallible interpretation of god. we need to test the 
spirits to see if they are from god. when the holy spirit speaks , he 
says the same thing to all he wo n't tell me that a passage means one 
thing and tell you it means another. if the two of us come to 
conflicting conclusions , we ca n't both be completely right. we know 
our interpretations are reliable only when the church as a whole 
agrees on what scripture means. this is how we know the doctrines of 
the trinity , the dual nature of christ , etc. infallibly .  . these 
matters are not up for private interpretation .  . 

this is the reason peter goes on to talk about the of 
the false teachers .  . they preferred their own private interpretation 
to the god given teaching of the apostles .  . it is through such private 
interpretation that the traditions of men , so soundly denounced in 
scripture , are started. 

tony 

from  ( hal f lillywhite ) 
subject eternal marriage  ( was mormon temples ) 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 65 

in article (david hammerslag ) writes 

this paragraph brought to mind a question. how do you  ( mormons ) reconcile 
the idea of eternal marriage with christ 's statement that in the ressurection 
people will neither marry nor be given in marriage  ( luke ,  . 20) 

well , here is something i wrote some time ago in response to a 
similar question. i hope it helps 

begin repeat of previous post 

as for the scripture mentioned i agree that it does seem to be a 
problem , not only for eternal marriage but marriage in general. 
luke 's version has jesus saying that the children of this world 
marry and are given in marriage but not those who will attain 
the kingdom of heaven. it almost sounds like marriage disqualifies 
one for salvation .  .  ( matthew and mark both omit this statement . ) . i 
think the accounts are not as clear as they might be. let 's have a 
look at the incident and see if we can come up with some reasonable 
ideas of what it means. the scriptures involved are mat 22 23 30 , 
mark 12 18 25 , and luke 20 27 36 .  . 

what happened was that the , who did not believe in the 
resurrection , thought they could trap jesus .  . they made reference to 
the marriage which required the brother of a man who died 
without children to take the widow to wife and raise up children. 
the children would be considered children of the deceased , just as 
though the woman 's first husband had fathered them. it seems 
obvious from this that the woman was still considered in a way to be 
the wife of her first husband. however , the a 
scene in which 6 brothers of the deceased each in his turn failed to 
father children by the widow .  . they seem to imply that the 
marriage was equal to the first for they ask , whose wife shall she 
be in the resurrection at this point it seems obvious that if she 
is anybody 's wife , it is the first husband. after all , had she 
borne children they would have been credited to him regardless of 
which brother was the biological father. it is possible jesus was 
refering to this when he says , ye do err , not knowing the 
scriptures or the power of god.  ( mat 22 29 , compare mark 12 24 , 
phrase not in luke 's account) .  . 

anyway , the ask , whose wife will she be in the 
resurrection , seeing that all 7 had her jesus answer is that , 
in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in 
marriage .  .  .  .  ( mat 22 30) when they rise from the dead they neither 
marry .  .  .  .  ( mark 12 25) they which are accounted worthy to obtain 
that world neither marry .  .  .  .  ( luke 20 35 ) all 3 accounts go on to 
say , but are as the angels in heaven or the equivalent .  . i find 
this last not very helpful since the bible does not define angels 
nor give any idea what their life is like. (some ministers claim 
that they are sexless , different that humans etc. but i can find no 
biblical support for this . ) . 

i think what jesus is saying here  ( and it is clearest in matthew 's 
and mark 's accounts) is that marriages will not be performed in the 
resurrection .  . this goes along with our belief that if a person is 
to marry at all it must be done on this earth. however , we do 
believe that a marriage performed by the authority of god can be 
binding in eternity .  . in fact , the first marriage appears to have 
been performed by god himself before death entered the world  ( in the 
garden of  . what therefore god hath joined together , let not 
man put asunder .  .  ( mat 19 6) jesus also told peter and the other 
apostles that whatsoever they should bind on earth should be bound 
in heaven  ( mat 16 19 , 18 18) .  . i believe that this also refers to 
marriages performed by the proper authority .  . 

from (a rose arose ) 
subject sj mercury 's reference to fundamentalist christian parents 
organization representing my own views here. 
lines 23 

in the monday , may 10 morning edition of the san jose mercury news an 
article by sandra gonzales at the top of page 12a explained convicted 
killer david edwin mason 's troubled childhood saying , 

raised in oakland and san lorenzo by strict fundamentalist 
christian parents , mason was beaten as a child. he once was 
tied to a workbench and with a cloth after he accidently 
urinated on his mother when she walked under his bedroom window , 
court records show. 

were the san jose mercury news to come out with an article starting with 
raised in oakland by mexican parents , mason was beaten .  .  .  . , my face would 
be red with anger over the injustice done to my mexican family members and 
the mexican community as a whole .  . i'm sure sandra gonzales would be equally 
upset. 

why is it that open like this is practiced and encouraged by the 
san jose mercury news when it is pointed at the christian community 

can a good christian continue to purchase newspapers and buy advertising in 
this kind of a newspaper this is really bad journalism .  . 

i'm upset. 

from  ( gary chin ) 
subject re when are two people married in god 's e 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( jen kilmer ) writes 
in article (michael covington ) writes 
none of the states currently recognize same sex marriages , but i know 
several couples whose marriages are more stable and loving and 
long lasting than most of my legally married friends and relatives .  . 
 ( this drives one friend 's family crazy. his brothers have been 
divorced twice , both his parents are divorced , and he the filthy 
gay has been married to his partner for 20 years . ) . 

just because those marriages are more stable and loving and long lasting , 
does n't make it right. same sex partners could have been best friends , 
without getting sexually involved with each other. 


gary chin 
staff engineer 
sun microsystems 
mt. view , ca 



from !  ( larry l. overacker ) 
subject re christianity and repeated lives 
organization shell oil 
lines 17 

in article writes 

is n't origen usually cited as the most prestigious proponent of reincarnation 
among christian thinkers what were his views , and how did he relate them 
to the christian scriptures 

he appears to have believed that. he had a view which was condemned by 
action , which is often taken to be condemnation of the idea of reincarnation .  . 
what was actually condemned was the doctrine of the pre existence of the soul 
before birth. similar , but not exactly the same thing. 

larry overacker 


lawrence overacker 
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965 


from 
subject certainty of 
lines 20 

on friday 7 may 1993 , marty helgesen wrote 

public revelation , which is the basis of catholic doctrine , ended 
with the death of st john , the last apostle .  . nothing new can be 
added. 

every so often , the pope declares that some departed christian is 
now in heaven , and may be invoked in the public rites of the church. 
it is my understanding that roman catholics believe that such 
declarations by the pope are infallible .  . i see three possibilities 
1) the church has received a public revelation since the death 
of  ( for example) joan of arc .  . 
2) the church was given a list before the death of st john 
which had joan 's name on it. 
3) there is no public revelation about joan , and roman 
catholics are free to doubt that she died in a state of grace , or 
even that she is a historical character. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) 
subject homosexuals 
reply to hulman . edu . 
organization news service at rose hulman 
lines 17 

several replies to my post have said that i should get to know 
christian homosexuals before judging them. i maintain that i was not 
judging them by saying that homosexuality is wrong. i would like to 
look at the responces to my post and make a general 
evaluation of the people who responded to the side of christianity 
and homosexuality being compatible  ( admitedly not all are homosexuals 
but i know that many are from their e mail  . i do n't 
normally make assumptions about groups of people , but 
since i have been asked to by many of the opposing veiw point i will. 

so far people have made wild assumptions , put me down because i do n't 
have the resources of others , and even reverted to name calling .  . if 
you do n't think this is an representation then those of you 
who are homosexual christians show me the diffrence .  . 

in christ 's love , 
bryan 

from 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization university of alaska fairbanks 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( fil sapienza ) writes 
i am interested in finding out why people become 
atheists after having believed in some god god. 
in conversing with them on other groups , i 've 
often sensed anger or hostility .  . though i do n't 
mean to imply that all atheists are angry or hostile , 
it does seem to be one motivation for giving up 
faith. thus , some atheism might result from 
broken ness .  . 


i'm atheist 
just because 
there is no supreme being 
there is the world as we know it 
and it 's wonderful and incredible 
and there is love between people 
and these things are everything 
i do n't believe in a god that made this all 
i believe in the amazing and beautiful 
teaming with life world i live in 

from (michael d. walker ) 
subject re new thought on 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 29 

2. it is more likely than not that when st. john  ( or whomever ) wrote 
the book of revelation what was then considered scripture was 
not the same thing you and i are holding in our hands ! 

revelation was almost certainly written the reign of 
(sp ) , a.d. 80 96 .  . thus it could be argues that we are all 
in sin if we accept 2 peter as scripture , since it was added to the 
book after the composition of revelation , when we are told to add 
nothing more. 

okay , i went back and looked sure enough , my hunch was right. 

2 peter was most likely written between 100 120 a.d. 

revelation was almost certainly written between 80 96 a.d. 

odds are the gospel of john was written around 90 a.d. 

best dates for luke and acts are around 80 a.d. , maybe later. 

again , this is from footnoted information in the new american bible , 
the best translation i 've come across in regards to giving complete 
historical information about each book. 
mike 
) 

of course the folks who you 're arguing with almost certainly do 
not accept 2 peter as being pseudonymous .  . in that case they 'd 
have to date it far earlier than this. clh 

from  ( bill rea ) 
subject re portland earthquake 
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand .  . 
lines 64 

bill rea wrote 
his theology clashed with the theology of the 
local prophets .  . it was out of a very deep understanding of the mosaic 
covenant and an awareness of international events that jeremiah 
spoke his prophesies .  . the judgement prophesies were deeply loaded with 
theological meaning. 

in my opinion , both the portland earthquake prophesy and the david wilkerson 
new york will burn prophesy are and bubble compared to the majestic 
theological depths of the jeremiah prophesies .  . 

perhaps one other thing i should have added is that jeremiah 's prophesies 
about the coming destruction of jerusalem would have been understood by 
the people of that time to be a full frontal assault on their understanding 
of their relationship with the lord .  . today the if the general populace 
hears prophesies like the portland earthquake or new york will burn 
ones , they are unlikely to see it in the context of their relationship 
 ( or lack of it) with the lord .  . they are far more likely to think that 
they are just the result of the fevered imaginations of a religious  . 
that is one reason why i am always deep y suspicious of bald judgement 
prophesies without any explanation of the reasons for the judgement .  . this 
does n't have to be long winded .  . to see a relatively modern example look 
at abraham lincoln 's second inaugural speech. the relevant section is 
below. it is this type of spiritual insight which was missing in both 
prophesies posted here. 

excerpt from abraham lincoln 's 2nd inaugural speech 

both read the same bible , and pray 
to the same god and each invokes his aid against the other. it may seem 
strange that any men should dare to ask a just god 's assistance in 
their bread from the sweat of other men 's faces but let us judge not 
that we be not judged .  . the prayers of both could not he answered that of neither 
has been answered fully .  . the almighty has his own purposes.   woe unto the 
world because of ! for it must needs be that come but woe to 
that man by whom the offence cometh if we shall suppose that american 
slavery is one of those which , in the of god , must needs come 
but which , having continued through his appointed time , he now wills to remove 
and that he gives to both north and south , this terrible war , as the woe due to 
those by whom the offence came , shall we discern therein an departure from 
those divine attribute which the believers in a living god always ascribe 
to him fondly do we hope do we pray that this mighty 
scourge of war may pass away. yet , if god wills that it continue , 
until all the wealth piled by the bond man 's two hundred and fifty years of 
toil shall be sunk , and until every drop of blood drawn with 
the shall be paid by another drawn with the sword , as was said three 
thousand years ago , so still it must be said the judgments of the lord , 
are true and righteous altogether 
with toward none with charity for all with in the right , 
as god gives us to see the right , let us strive on to finish the work we 
are in to bind up the nation 's wounds to care for him who shall have 
borne the battle , and for his widow , and his orphan to do all which 
may achieve and cherish a just , and a lasting peace , among ourselves , 
and with all nations .  . 




bill rea (o o) 
w u w 
bill rea , computer services centre , e mail 
university of canterbury , or 
christchurch , new zealand phone (03) 642 331 fax (03) 642 999 


from  ( stan friesen ) 
subject re definition of christianity 
reply to 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( larry autry ) writes 
... the subject of what the definition of 
christianity is. his definition is tied directly to that of the 
trinity and the catholic church 's definition of it and belief in 
jesus christ is not sufficient to call one 's self a christian .  . 
... 
so , is there common definition of what christianity is 

the basic definition that i use is 
the belief that jesus was god incarnate .  . 
the belief that jesus was crucified and raised from the dead 
for our salvation .  . 
the acceptance of jesus as personal lord and savior .  . 

this would include most christian denominations , but exclude the unitarians .  . 


 ( formerly ! sarima ) 
or 


from 
subject re faq essay on homosexuality 
organization fnal 
lines 82 

in article 
(paul hudson jr) writes 
i think we must be careful before we totally throw out leviticus .  . 
if the law is reflection of god 's character and true holy nature , then 
those who say that god endorses homosexuality run into a problem 


though this will be addressed in the series of articles i'm posting now under 
, i ca n't wait. this just really blew my socks off. read i tim 
1 3 11. verses 3 8 speaks against those who have perverted the teachings of 
the mosaic law. in vv . 9 . 10 , we have , in order , the 5th thru the 9th 
commandments and in the midst of this listing is homosexuals .  . the decalogue , 
above everything else , is seen as god 's absolute .  . if you do n't believe in 
absolutes , then you have nothing do do with jehovah of the ot , which paul 
reveals to be the messiah of the nt .  . lord christ jesus to read 
jehovah 's anointed savior .  . 
in i , we see the same emphasis of moral separation from the pagan 
gentiles as we do in lev 18 20. in i cor 6 9 10 , only one notation  ( drunkards ) 
is not found in lev 18 20. paul was not naive in his use of the  . he knew 
full well how he was using the law of god that was given in the ot , for 
application in the nt .  . as i 've said , the law was fulfilled , not done away 
with. 

of questions we are trying to deal with. he encountered homosexuality 
only in contexts where most people would probably agree that it was 
wrong. he had never faced the experience of christians who try to act 
straight and fail , and he had never faced christians who are trying 
to define a christian homosexuality , which fits with general christian 
ideals of fidelity and of seeing sexuality as a mirror of the 
relationship between god and man. it is unfair to take paul 's 
judgement on homosexuality among idolaters and use it to make 
judgements on these questions. 

this understanding is thoroughly in article that is being 
posted. please refer to it. 


one of the reasons that some of us do not accept that common argument 
is because paul probably did face this and other problems. 

we can do better than probably which is not an adequate defense against the 
statement that paul 's culture did n't have the same understanding of 
homosexuality as ours. 
again read the article because it uses facts. 

i claim that the question of how to counsel homosexual christians is 
not entirely a theological issue , but also a pastoral one. 

i do n't see how you come to that conclusion .  . 

i think i do , because i have worked in the homosexual community by means of 
working with aids patients .  . the pastoral is merely the practical application 
of the theological truth however. those who are working thru the issue of 
homosexuality need to have our love and understanding just as with a friend who 
is cheating on his wife or a friend who lives with his girlfriend , 
yet you continue to witness to him. but , once the choice is made , and there is 
no remorse , then i feel that paul 's pastoral care , as presented in the 
corinthian church , come to bear significance .  . the one in active rebellion 
should be placed outside of the church if a believer , and if a non believer , 
then one wipes his and leaves it in gods hand. if there was a member 
in your youth group who was constantly at the little girls , you would n't 
hesitate to deal with the matter quickly and  . that , in part , 
the present political correctness of the issue. pederasty is not accepted at 
the present , but some how we are to accept homosexuality because the latter is 
politically correct , while the former is not at least not yet. this is how 
the morals decay .  . 

i guess this would follow the liberal application in the political realm of 
economics .  . the liberals want to tax the rich in the federal , yet in their own 
states , when they try to get businesses to settle there , they give tax 
incentives to these same  . it comes down to a moral code of 
, or to use the cultural thing , politically correct at the moment. 
rex 

you might want to look over 1 tim 1 10 again. if this is really the 
5th through 9th commandments , we seem to be missing thieves , and 
homosexuals would have to be fit in under adultery .  . this is of course 
possible if has a narrower meaning than homosexuality 
in general , but i think that 's not your thesis. i have no objection 
per se to the idea that the author of 1 tim might have quoted the 10 
commandments , but 5 through 9 , minus one and plus a few things , begins 
to look a bit marginal .  . clh 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 10 

joseph h. buehler writes 

this all obviously applies equally well to infants or adults , since 
both have souls .  . infants must be baptized , therefore , or they cannot 
enter into heaven. they too need this form of life in them , or they 
cannot enter into heaven. 

are you saying that baptism has nothing to do with asking jesus to come into 
your heart and accepting him as your savior , but is just a ritual that we 
must go through to enable us to enter heaven 

from  ( cardinal ximenez ) 
subject re baptism requires faith 
organization national association for the disorganized 
lines 17 

 ( aaron bryce cardenas ) writes 

it troubles me that there have been so many posts recently trying to support 
the doctrine of original sin .  . this is primarily a catholic doctrine , with no 
other purpose than to defend the idea of infant baptism .  . ... 
if you read all of ezekiel 18 , you will see that god does n't hold us guilty 
for anyone else 's sins .  . so we can have no original guilt from adam .  . 

this neatly eliminates the need for a savior and proves that we can be 
saved by works alone ! if we have no original sin , then it is possible for 
us to save ourselves by not sinning .  . i understand the reasoning behind your 
argument , but it leads to sheer folly .  . original sin is the reason we need 
faith to be saved .  . 

alan  .  .  . and . the scorpion says ,  it 's 
oakland university , rochester , mi in my nature . ' . 


from  ( geno ) 
subject re atheists and hell 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 60 

imagine the worst depth of despair you 've 
ever encountered , or the worst physical pain you 've ever experienced .  . 
some people suffer such emotional , physical , and mental anguish 
in their lives that their deaths seem to be merciful .  . but at least 
the pain does end in death. what if you lived a hundred such lives , 
at the conclusion of one you were instantly reborn into another 
what if you lived a million , a billion years in this state 
what if this kept going forever 


did this happen to jesus i do n't think so , not from what i heard. he lived 
one day of suffering and died. if the wages of sin is the above paragraph , then 
jesus didn't pay for our sins , did he 

this is something i 've always found a little curious. i 've never quite understood 
the trinity thing. on the one hand , jesus is supposed to be god incarnate .  . but , 
at the same time , he is god 's son for god so loved the world that he gave his 
only begotten son . first question is , if jesus was god in human form , how could 
he really be god 's son if the holy ghost planted the seed in mary , so to speak , 
then it seems that jesus  relationship to god would be the equivalent to the 
human father son relationship. while a son might inherit alot of the father 's 
qualities , he is not the father. they are still two entities .  . to try 
and say that a son is the same person as the father is obviously wrong. in that 
case , jesus and god are n't the same. on the other hand , if their relationship 
is n't the same as the human father son relationship , but jesus is actually god 
incarnate , then he 's not really god 's son and he never was. he 's just god 
manifesting himself as jesus .  . at least , this is how i'm seeing it. can someone 
who is more knowledgeable about the trinity enlighten us 

getting back to the original question , what is the great price that jesus paid 
to redeem our sins was it dying on the cross since jesus knew that he would 
rise again in 3 days and then ascend back to heaven , i have a hard time seeing 
how this is considered paying such a great price for humanity .  . his earthly body 
may have been killed , but then , so what he suffered a few hours of physical 
pain , but then , there has been many a human who has suffered a great deal more. 
the fact that jesus was god 's only begotten son does n't seem to me to have much 
meaning since god can as many sons as he wants to. jesus being the only 
one was simply a matter of choice. i suspect that these questions will be very 
offensive to many christians on this net. to those people , please accept my 
sincere apologies .  . it is not my intention to offend or to christ .  . 
but , i do believe these are legitimate questions and i am genuinely curious. 

note that the trinity and incarnation have to be looked at together. 
first , your reading of the virgin birth is an uncommon one.  ( in this 
group , it 's dangerous to say that no one believes something . ) . you 
seem to be suggesting the jesus is god 's son in a physical sense , 
with the holy spirit as father and mary as mother. i consider that 
terrible heresy , though some people react less violently .  . the virgin 
birth says that jesus  birth is god 's responsibility .  . but it does n't 
imply that god 's sperm was involved. indeed one  ( though by no means 
the only) speculation is that god used joseph 's genetic material. 

second , jesus is in some sense doubly indirect from the father. in a 
trinitarian context , the term son refers to the eternal logos , who is 
a part of god. the son did n't come into existence with jesus  birth. 
jesus is the incarnation of the son. so his is n't 
specifically a result of being incarnated .  . rather , it 's the son 
who was incarnated .  . 

clh 

from (e alan idler ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization university of victoria 
lines 49 

writes 

but , have n't all sinned , and come short of the glory 
of god  ( romans 3 23) 
those that cite this scripture to claim that even 
babes require baptism neglect that sin is not imputed 
when there is no law  ( romans 5 13) .  . 

therefore , until someone is capable of comprehending 
god 's laws they are not accountable for living them. 
they are in the book of life and are not removed until 
they can make a conscious decision to disobey god. 

a idler 

if babies are not supposed to be baptised then why does n't the bible 
ever say so. it never comes right and says only people that know 
right from wrong or who are taught can be baptised .  . 
what christ did say was 

i solemly assure you , no one can enter god 's kingdom without 
being born of water and spirit ... do not be surprised that i 
tell you you must all be begotten from above. 

could this be because everyone is born with original sin 

(i presume you are quoting john 3 3 7 . ) . 

1. my king james bible says except a man be born of water 
and of the spirit , he cannot enter into the kingdom of god 
(john 3 5) .  .  ( here man adult ) .  . 
 ( however , this could be a quibble between translations . ) . 

2. we can also analyze to whom the lord is addressing 
marvel not that i said unto thee , ye must be born again 
(john 3 7) .  . here jesus is clearly directing his remarks 
to nicodemus a ruler of the jews (not a  . 

3. we can ask ourselves why the lord would even 
introduce the concept of spiritual re birth through 
baptism if newborn babies were n't free from sin 

a idler 

yup , in john 3 5 man is not in the original. a better translation 
is no one can enter .  .  .  . , as in  . of course in 3 7 , jesus is 
addressing the person who came to him. there are other places in the 
nt where he deals with children. they 've been mentioned in other 
postings .  . clh 

from  ( marida ignacio ) 
subject re bernadette dates 
organization trunking fixed 
lines 52 


writes 
joe moore writes 

mary at that time appeared to a girl named bernadette at 
lourdes .  . she referred to herself as the immaculate conception .  . 
since a nine year old would have no way of knowing about the 
doctrine , the apparition was deemed to be true and it sealed 
the case for the doctrine .  . 
bernadette was 14 years old when she had her visions , in , 
four years after the dogma had been officially proclaimed by the 
pope .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

i forgot exactly what her age was but i remember clearly 
that she was born in a family of poverty and she did not 
have any education , whatsoever , at the age of the apparitions .  . 
she suffered from asthma at that age and she and her family were 
living in a prison cell of some sort .  . 

she had to ask the  lady  several times in her apparitions about 
what her name was since her confessor priest asked her to do so. 
for several instances , the priest did not get an answer since 
bernadette did not receive any. one time , after several apparitions 
passed , the lady finally said , i am the immaculate conception . 
so , bernadette , was so happy and repeated these words over and 
over in her mind so as not to forget it before she told the 
priest who was asking. so , when she told the priest , the 
priest was shocked and asked bernadette , do you know what 
you are talking about . bernadette did not know what exactly 
it meant but she was just too happy to have the answer for 
the priest .  . the priest continued with , how did you remember 
this if you do not know . bernadette answered honestly that 
she had to repeat it over and over in her mind while on her 
way to the priest .  .  .  . 

the priest knew about the dogma being four years old then. 
but bernadette did not know and yet she had the answer which 
the priest finally observed and took as proof of an authentic 
personal revelation of our lady to bernadette .  . 

 ( note this lady of lourdes shrine has a spring of water which 
our lady requested bernadette to dig up herself with her 
bare hands in front of pilgrims .  . at the start little 
water flowed but after several years there is more water 
flowing . ) . 

marida 
 .  .  . spreading . god 's words through actions .  .  .  . 
mother teresa 

from  ( jim eggert g41 ) 
subject re robin lane fox 's the unauthorized version 
reply to 
organization mit lincoln lab group 41 
lines 19 

in article  ( lee kok james ) writes 
 ( marxhausen paul) writes 
my mom passed along a lengthy review she clipped regarding robin lane 
fox 's book the unauthorized version truth and fiction in the bible , 
... 
i 've read the book. some parts were quite typical regarding its 
criticism of the bible as an inaccurate historical document , 
alt . , etc carries typical responses , but not as vociferous as 
a.a. it does give an insight into how these historian  ( is he one .  .  .  . i 
do n't have any on him) work. i 've not been able to understand 
appreciate some of the arguments , something like , it mentions certain 
events , so it has to be after that event , and so on. 

robin lane fox is a historian and a  . he has written several 
history books , perhaps a recent one you might remember is the search 
for alexander . he has also written or edited several books on 
 . 

jim  ( jim eggert ) 

from  ( christopher js vance ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization computer science , university college , unsw adfa , canberra , australia 
lines 32 

in article !  ( larry l. overacker ) writes 
early in church history , the were dismissed prior to the celebration 
of the eucharist .  . it was secret , giving rise to the rumors that christians 

i have no problem with the idea that be dismissed before 
the eucharist .  . they were not considered qualified to participate .  . 

were cannibals and all sorts of perverse claims .  . the actions were considered 
too holy to be observed by non christians , as well as potentially dangerous 
for the individual christian who might be identified .  . 

does the dismissal in the early church mean that the eucharist was a 
secret i mean , was it 

you do n't have to stay from now on , only the membership can 
participate you really do n't have to hang around yes , i know 
you 're obliged to keep up attendance to qualify , but now is an 
exception , okay 

or was it 

you may not stay what happens next is secret 

when we have had reason to conduct business meetings after church , 
we 've made it clear that only members can vote. but we 've always been 
happy for non members to stay and observe .  . 

do you have evidence for intentional secrecy  ( other than rumours , 
which will always happen when you have an doing things not 
approved of by those in power ) 

christopher 

from (a rose arose ) 
subject re national repentance 
organization representing my own views here 
lines 63 

(michael covington ) writes 
i heard on the radio today about a christian student conference where 
christians were called to repent of america 's national sins , such 
as sexual promiscuity .  . 

to which i reply  .  .  . whoa . there ! 

how can i repent of someone else 's sin i ca n't .  . 

and when i claim to repent of someone else 's sin , am i not in fact 
judging him jesus equipped us to judge activities but warned us 
not to judge people. judge not that ye be not judged .  . 

c. s. lewis made the same point in an essay after world war ii , 
when some christian leaders in britain were urging national repentance 
for the horrors  ( sins ) of world war ii. 


i see your point , but i cannot more strongly disagree. 

to repent means to turn around. we , as a nation , have behaved incredibly 
arrogantly toward god , encouraging , and even forcing folks to 
participate in activity directly opposed to the written word of god. we 
have arrogantly set our nation far above the god who created it and allowed 
us the luxury of living in this land. we have set a bad example for other 
nations .  . we 've slaughtered unborn children by the millions .  . we have 
stricken the name of god from the classroom .  . we 've cheated god out of the 
honor due him at every turn , and we owe god an apology every bit as public 
as our sins have been. 

when jesus said judge not that ye be not judged , he was not addressing 
those like john the baptist who had repented and were calling others to 
repent .  . he was addressing those who remained in sin while down 
condemnation on others for their sins .  . his message to us all was to remove 
the log from our own eye before removing the from our brother 's .  . but 
he also said to rebuke and to  . do n't forget that this is a command 
too. 

our problem today is that we tend to judge and condemn as though we were 
rebuking and we tend to neglect bringing folks back to the lord with the 
excuse that we do n't want to judge anyone. 

in truth , what we need to do is to judge less and call others to repent more 
and to be able to distinguish between the two in our own motives .  . call sin 
what it is and do so openly .  . let it 's charge fall correctly where it should. 
but instead of running someone into hell over it , pull them out of their 
path and onto the path. 



i deplore the horrible crime of child murder .  .  .  . 
we want prevention , not merely punishment .  . 
we must reach the root of the evil .  .  .  . 
it is practiced by those whose inmost souls revolt 
from the dreadful deed .  .  .  . 
no mater what the motive , love of ease , 
or a desire to save from suffering the unborn innocent , 
the woman is awfully guilty who commits the deed .  .  .  . 
but oh ! thrice guilty is he who drove her 
to the desperation which impelled her to the crime .  . 

susan b. anthony , 
the revolution july 8 , 1869 

from (scott aaron ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization brandeis university 
lines 46 

in article , (scott holt ) writes 
hate the sin but love the sinner  .  .  . i . 've heard that quite a bit recently , 
often in the context of discussions about christianity and homosexuality .  .  .  . 
but the context really is n't that important. my question is whether that 
statement is consistent with christianity .  . i would think not. 

hate more hate , never love. consider some sin .  . i 'll leave it unnamed 
since i do n't want this to digress into an argument as to whether or not 
something is a sin .  . now lets apply our hate the sin .  .  .  . philosophy and see 
what happens. if we truly hate the sin , then the more we see it , the 
stronger our hatred of it will become .  . eventually this hate becomes so 
strong that we become disgusted with the sinner and eventually come to hate 
the sinner .  . in addition , our hatred of the sin often causes us to say and 
do things which are taken personally by the sinner  ( who often does not even 
believe what they are doing is a sin) .  . after enough of this , the sinner begins 
to hate us  ( they certainly do n't love us for our constant criticism of their 
behavior) .  . hate builds up and drives people away from god .  .  . this . certainly 
cannot be a good way to build love. 

i do n't agree , but i can only speak for myself. i have a good friend 
whose lifestyle is very sinful .  . do i hate the things she does to herself 
and others yes. do i hate her absolutely not. in fact , she tells me 
repeatedly that i am the best friend she has in the world. i care about 
her very much despite the fact that i hate how she lives her life. 

it 's very easy to fall into the progression you describe above. i 've 
felt it with my friend more than once. there is a very important 
part of christianity that you 've overlooked above and makes it possible 
to love the sin but hate the sinner .  . before i look at someone 
else 's life and sin , i look to myself and am as disgusted by what i see 
in me as i see in others , probably more. self righteousness is 
contradictory to christianity and is what makes the progression you 
describe happen. if a christian can truthfully quote paul and say , wretched 
man that i am ! romans 7 24  ( nasb ) , that christian will be able 
to love the sinner and hate the sin .  . if we have the attitude of the 
who said , i thank thee that i am not like other men .  .  .  . luke 18 11  ( nasb ) , 
we will hate both. 

scott at brandeis 

but god demonstrates his the lord bless you , and keep you 
own love for us , in that the lord make his face shine on you , 
while we were yet sinners , and be gracious to you 
christ died for us. the lord lift up his countenance on you , 
and give you peace. 
romans 5 8 nasb numbers 6 24 26 nasb 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
organization indiana university 
lines 28 

in article  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) wrote 
i have quite a problem with the idea that mary never committed a sin .  . 
was mary fully human if it is possible for god to miraculously make 
a person free of original sin , and free of committing sin their whole 
life , then what is the purpose of the incarnation of jesus why ca n't 
god just repeat the miracle done for mary to make all the rest of us 
sinless , without the need for repentance and salvation and all that 

yes , mary is fully human. however , that does not imply that she was 
just as subject to sin as we are. catholic doctrine says that man 's 
nature is good (gen 1 31) , but is damaged by original sin (rom 5 12 16) .  . 
in that case , being by original sin , mary is more fully human 
than any of the rest of us. 

you ask why god cannot repeat the miracle of mary 's preservation 
from original sin .  . a better way to phrase it would be why did he 
not do it that way , but you misunderstand how mary 's salvation was 
obtained .  . like ours , the blessed virgin mary 's salvation was obtained 
through the merits of the sacrifice of christ on the cross .  . however , as 
god is not bound by time , which is his creation , god is free to apply 
his sacrifice to anyone at any time , even if that person lived before 
christ came to earth , from our time bound perspective. therefore , 
christ 's death and resurrection still served a necessary purpose , and 
were necessary even for mary 's salvation .  . 


steve creps , indiana university 


from  ( william hargreaves ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization university of westminster 
lines 20 

 ( maxwell c muir ) writes 

in the nt , the clear references are all from paul 's letters. in rom 
1 , there is a passage that presupposes that homosexuality is an evil. 
note that the passage is n't about homosexuality it 's about 
idolatry .  . homosexuality is visited on people as a punishment , or at 
least result , of idolatry .  . there are a number of arguments over this 
passage .  . it does not use the word homosexuality , and it is referring 
to people who are by nature heterosexual practicing homosexuality .  . 
so it 's not what i 'd call an explicit teaching against all homosexuality .  . 

that 's like saying that murder is only wrong for those of us who are n't natural 
murders , and stealing is only wrong for those of us who are n't natural 
thieves .  . 

will 


dallas cowboys world champions 1992 93 


from  ( rich wales ) 
subject re mormons and eternal marriage  ( was re mormon temples ) 
reply to  ( rich wales ) 
organization mortice kern systems inc. , waterloo , ontario , canada 
lines 40 

david asked 

how do you  ( mormons ) reconcile the idea of eternal marriage 
with christ 's statement that in the resurrection people will 
neither marry nor be given in marriage  ( luke ,  . 20) 

several explanations for this seeming contradiction have been proposed , 
but most lds scholars whose opinions i have studied take more or less 
one of the following three positions 

(1) jesus was talking to a group of people  ( sadducees ) who were trying 
to trip him up with what they felt was a silly hypothetical 
tion that ridiculed the concept of a resurrection  ( something they 
did n't believe in) .  . these people and those associated with them 
( now there were with us seven brethren , matt .  . 22 25) would not 
be receptive to such higher blessings as eternal marriage. hence , 
the people in the story would likely not be married in the 
ties but that does n't mean other , more faithful people could not 
have this blessing .  . 

(2) jesus was making a distinction between the state or condition of 
being married , and the process of becoming married. the latter 
activity  ( marrying and giving in marriage) will not take place in 
the , because all eternal marriages will be taken care of 
before then. 

(3) the account as we have it  ( in all three of the synoptic gospels) is 
missing something that would make its real meaning clearer .  . note 
that we  ( lds ) do not believe in biblical inerrancy , so we do not in 
general feel obliged to reconcile each and every bible text with 
modern revelation through joseph smith and other latter day 
ets .  . nor are we particularly upset that the account in question 
was not significantly revised in the joseph smith translation or 
inspired version of the bible , since we do not believe this work 
was completed or that failure to revise a passage in the jst con 
divine approval of that passage as it stands in the kjv .  . 


rich wales mortice kern systems inc.  ( mks ) 
35 king st. n. waterloo , ontario , canada 1 (519) 884 2251 

from  ( mark ashley ) 
subject marian apparitions 1 
organization ft. lauderdale , fl 
lines 56 

the blessed virgin mary appeared to catherine , a nun of the 
sisters of charity on july 18 , 1830 at rue du , paris .  . 

sister catherine was awakened late that night by a small boy , age 5 
or 6 , who was literally glowing with some sort of interior light. 
the child led her to the sanctuary of the chapel where he promised 
the virgin mary was to be found awaiting her. our lady appeared to 
her and instructed her for two hours or more on matters pertaining 
to her life and to the future of france and the world. 

on november 27 our lady appeared again to catherine .  . she instructed 
her to have a medal struck .  . she told her that those who wore this 
medal would enjoy special protection from the mother of god and would 
receive great graces .  . in less than a year there were three more 
apparitions .  . in june of the medals were a reality. many reports 
were received by those who wore it. within two years of its issuing 
the medal was known as the miraculous medal . catherine died in 1876 .  . 
her body to this day is remarkably preserved  . she was 
on july 27 , 1947 .  . her body lies in the chapel at the 
on the rue du where she had her first meeting with 
our lady. 

the apparition on november 27 1830 was of average height and clothed 
in white with a veil that flowed over the head and fell to the floor. 
above the altar , a pyramid painted to represent god 's all knowing 
wisdom looked down on them. our lady 's feet rested on a white globe 
and there was also a green serpent with yellow spots that she was 
stepping on. in her hands was a golden ball that represented the world. 
great streams of light issued from her hands and she also showed 
catherine an image of two hearts , the sacred heart wrapped in 
piercing thorns and her own heart punctured by a sword .  . the sword 
represented her suffering with jesus .  . 

the apparitions announced the onset of the great battle and forewarned 
that a dark era lay in the immediate future. it was the apparition 
leading up to the recent ones. our lady began to dispense secrets .  . 
and with the globe she revealed herself in worldwide dispute 
with the forces of the dark. she told catherine the times are 
evil. will fall upon france .  . the throne will be 
overturned .  . the entire world will be overcome by evils of all 
kinds .  . 

refer to books on st. catherine for more of our lady 's messages. 
a copy of the medal is also available in catholic bookstores .  . 

i will post other marian events every few days or so including 
the ones happening today which are still under investigation .  . 
these postings serve only to introduce you to these events. 
please look more into them and understand the reason for 
the increasing number and urgency of these apparitions .  . 



mark ashley disclaimer my opinions. not harris' 

the lost los 

from (scott cokely ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization rockwell international 
lines 79 

in  ( vera shanti noyes ) writes 

in article  ( ann carlson ) writes 

bible verses ag .  . used ag .  . homosexuality deleted 

anyone who thinks being gay and christianity are not compatible should 
check out dignity , integrity , more light presbyterian churches , affirmation , 
mcc churches , etc. meet some gay christians , find out who they are , pray 
with them , discuss scripture with them , and only then form your opinion. 

also check out the episcopal church although by no means all 
are sympathetic to homosexual men and women , there 
certainly is a fairly large percentage  ( in my experience) who are. i 
am good friends with an episcopalian minister who is ordained and 
living in a monogamous homosexual relationship. this in no way 
diminishes his ability to minister in fact he has a very 
significant ministry with the gay and lesbian association of his 
community , as well as a very significant aids ministry .  . 

this may sound argumentative , but do the pro homosexual crowd give the 
same support to church members that are involved in incestuous relationships 
if we do a little substitution above , we get 

although by no means all are sympathetic to incestuous 
men and women , there certainly is a fairly percentage  ( in my 
experience) who are. i am good friends with an episcopalian minister 
who is ordained and living in a monogamous relationship. this 
in no way diminishes his ability to minister in fact he has a very 
significant ministry with the incest association of his community .  .  .  . 

do the same standards apply if not , why not and while we 're in the 
ballpark , what about i ca n't recall offhand if there are 
any direct statements in the bible regarding sex with animals does that 
activity have more or less a sanction 

please avoid responses such as you 're taking this to extremes . i would 
guess that a disproportionate percentage of the inerrant bible community 
views homosexual acts with in the same manner that society at 
large views incest .  . 



scott (714) 833 
they came for the davidians , but i did not speak up because 
i was not a davidian .  . then they came for me .  .  .  . opinions expressed 
are mine and do not represent those of rockwell .  . 



obviously you can replace homosexuality in the above statement by 
anything from murder to sleeping late. that does n't mean that the 
same people would accept those substitutions .  . the question is whether 
the relationships involved do in fact form an appropriate vehicle to 
represent christ 's relationship to humanity .  . this is at least 
partly an empirical question. 

in some cases types of human relationship have been rejected because 
over time they always seem to lead to trouble. i think that 's the 
case with slavery .  . one can argue that in theory , if you follow paul 's 
guidelines , it 's possible to have christian  . but in 
practice , over a period of time , most people came to the conclusion 
that nobody can really have that degree of control over another and 
not abuse it. 

the message you were responding to was asking you to look at the 
results from christian communities that endorse homosexuality .  .  ( note 
christian homosexuals , not people you see on the news advocating some 
extremist  . you may not want to base your decision completely 
on that kind of observation , but i would argue that it 's at least 
relevant .  . you ca n't answer the request by asking why you should n't 
look at the incest association , because in fact there is no such 
association .  . if there were , it might be reasonable for you to look at 
it too. of course that does n't mean that the results of all such 
examinations would necessarily come out the same way. part of why 
there are n't groups pushing all possible relaxed standards is that 
some of them do produce obviously bad results. 

clh 

from  ( alison j wyld ) 
subject re translations 
organization spider systems limited , edinburgh , uk .  . 
lines 22 

in article (michael covington ) writes 

i have a strong preference for editions that do not indent the beginning 
of each verse as if verses were paragraphs .  . the verse numbering is a 
relatively modern addition and should not be given undue prominence .  . 


does anyone know of an english language edition that does not show the 
verse  ( or even chapter) numbers. i have always thought that such an 
edition would be very useful although hard to navigate around. 

i have a scots nt that does n't show verse numbers , and it is great to 
read , particularly longer narrative passages , but my scots is n't quite 
up to doing proper study from this edition i tend to use it to get a 
feel for a story , particularly in the gospels , and then use an 
english edition to look for details. 

alison 

the original neb put verse numbers only in the margin .  . the 
jerusalem bible does the same , though they put a dot to mark the 
boundaries between verses .  . clh 

from !  ( gerry palo ) 
subject re christianity and repeated lives 
lines 48 

in article 
way . qub . ac . uk . writes  ( single angle brackets) 

jesus is talking with the 
apostles and they ask him why the pharisees say that before the messiah can 
come elijah must first come. jesus replies that elijah has come , but they did 
not recognize him. it then says that the apostles perceived that he was 
ng 
to john the baptist .  . this seems to me to clearly imply reincarnation .  . 

this was a popular belief in the judaism of time , that elijah 
would return again  ( as he had been taken in to heaven in a chariot and 
did not actually  . however jesus was referring to john the 
baptist not in the sense that elijah was as john 
 ( remember elijah didn`t die ) but that john was a similar prophet to 
elijah .  . 

there is no question of similarity in jesus indication about john .  . 
the passage in matthew is very direct .  . where luke (1 17) reports 
the angel gabriel prophesying that john will go before christ in the 
power and spirit of elias , in matthew 11 14 , jesus himself says of john , 

and if you care to accept it , he himself is elijah , who 
was to come . 

it is interesting that jesus prepended the words , if you care to accept 
it , as if to say that the implications of this truth , namely of rein 
, i will not force on you , but for those who can accept it , here it 
is. a jewish poster to other newsgroups on jewish esotericism and other 
topics has outlined the esoteric , jewish teaching of of 
reincarnation and karma , a teaching that is little known among jews 
today , but which is apparently widespread enough in israel that hannah 
( hinds feet on high places ) was told about it by a rabbi 
she was trying to convert back in the 1940s as a missionary in palestine .  . 
thus there may well have been a small number of jews who knew about this , 
whereas the large number of people did not. the statement of jesus about 
john , the greatest human personality in the new testament , is guarded 
but nevertheless quite direct .  . again , the subject of reincarnation , one 
way or another , is not a subject of the new testament , nor is the fate in general 
of the human being between death and the last judgement .  . but there are 
occasional indications that point to it. 

as for the popular belief that elijah would come again , it was more than 
a popular belief , as jesus confirms it in more than one place , and he never 
corrected those who were expecting elijah for example , those who thought 
that jesus himself be he. 

gerry palo 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re question about virgin mary 
organization indiana university 
lines 14 

in article  ( dave davis ) writes 
since mary was free from  original sin  she 
did not exactly die  at the end of her life  
 ( as the dogmatic says ) she 
was assumed into heaven. 

the dogma of the assumption does not state whether or not mary died a 
physical death before being taken into heaven. catholics are free to 
believe what they wish , whether it be that she was taken still alive , or 
after having died. i lean somewhat toward the latter myself. 


steve creps , indiana university 


from 
subject re incarnation .  .  . two . minds of christ .  .  . 
organization fnal ad net 
lines 99 

in article 
 ( ted kalivoda ) writes 
nabil wrote 
5. both families agree that he who wills and acts is always the one 

of the logos incarnate .  . 

nabil , 

if we posit two minds in christ , the mind of the logos and the mind of the 
human jesus , then we must admit two wills .  . a mind is not a mind without a 
will. i know this has been dealt with in past church , but there 
is a philosophical problem here that should examined .  . 

t. v. morris argued that the incarnation can be seen like this 


 ( mind of logos ) 
( ) 
( ( ) ) here , the mind of jesus is by god the 
( ( human ) ) son. god the son has complete access to the human 
( ( mind ) ) mind but the human mind only has access to the mind 
( ( ) ) of god the son when the son allows access. this 
( ( ) ) explains why jesus said even he did not know the 
( ) time of the kingdom .  . 

the ideas of a completely healthy version of split personality from 
the field of psychology , and the intriguing ideas of being in a dream , seeing 
yourself acting , knowing that is you , but also being omniscient .  . 


i 've explained it here before. if you want the full document , ask me by mail 
rex 


questions arise as we begin to think about logos and what his inner 
consciousness was composed of. we need to clarify the two natures of christ 
briefly .  . the divine nature , which has existed eternally , did not undertake any 
essential changes during the incarnation which would cause a conflict with the 
attributes of god , the foremost of these being his  . this would 
mean that it remained , that is , incapable of suffering and death , 
free from ignorance and to weakness and temptation .  . in the realm 
of the divine nature it is better to say that the son of god became that which 
was not absolute and in himself. the result of the incarnation was that the 
divine logos could be ignorant and weak , could be tempted and suffer and die , 
not in his divine nature , but by the derivation of his possession of a human 
nature. 
this would mean that both the properties of the divine nature and the 
human nature are properties of the person , and therefore ascribed to the 
person. by this reason we can say that the person can be omnipotent , 
omniscient , and omnipresent , yet at the same time be also a man of limited 
power , knowledge , a man of , subject to human wants and  . there 
is , however , no penetration of one nature into the other. deity can no more 
share the imperfections of humanity than humanity can share in the essential 
perfection of the godhead .  . 
we are not to assume that there is a double personality due to the 
possession of the double natures .  . christ 's human nature is impersonal , in that 
it attains self consciousness and self determination in the personality of the 
god man. we must now differentiate between the person and the nature of the 
man. nature is defined 

the distinguishing qualities or properties of something the fundamental 
character , disposition or temperament of a living being , innate and 
unchangeable .  . 

nature is then , in essence , the substance possessed in common , in as such 
the trinity have one nature. there is also a common nature of mankind .  . 
personality , on the other hand , is the separate subsistence of nature , with the 
power of consciousness and will. it is for this reason that the human nature 
of christ has not , nor ever had , a separate subsistence , that it is impersonal .  . 
logos , the god man , represents the principle of personality. it is equally 
important to see that self consciousness and self determination do not , as 
such , belong to the nature. it is for this reason that we can justifiably say 
that jesus did not have two consciousness or two wills , but rather one. it is 
, an activity of the one personality which unites in itself the 
human and the divine natures , being that neither the consciousness nor the will 
are simply human or simply divine .  . 


the quotation given above is not identified , and it 's not entirely 
clear to me what position loren is taking on it. just for clarity , 
let me note that the view expressed in it is one of the classic 
christological heresies  . that 's the position that 
christ 's two natures were not complete , in that there was only one 
will. in most cases (which i think includes this example) , it was the 
human will that was regarded as missing. 

normally people who talk about christ 's human nature as being 
impersonal mean it in a somewhat more abstract sense. that is , they 
are using person as , not in the usual english sense of 
personality. in this use , the doctrine is called . 
personally i think is just a more sophisticated way of 
denying that the logos took on humanity fully .  . however it has never 
been formally ruled a heresy , and in fact has been held by influential 
theologians both ancient and modern (e . g .  .  . but the 
quotation above appears to be going farther than even athanasius went , 
into the realm of the overtly heretical .  . 

clh 

from 
subject re question jesus alone , oneness 
organization sw engineering 
lines 40 

in article 
(james r. blankenship ) writes 


jesus only and oneness tend to refer to groups that do deny the 
trinity .  . ..... 
they explain matthew by saying that jesus is the name of the father , jesus 
is the name of the son , and jesus is the name of the name of the holy 
spirit , father , son , holy spirit referring to different roles , all 
filled by jesus .  . .... 

imho this are going from bad to worse. 3 in 1 , 1 in 3 was bad enough. 

i do not like a god who prays to himself. i refuse to believe jesus prayed 
to himself let 's get real , if the scriptures say he prayed to the 
father , then the father is someone different than the son. i have no 
problems with multiple gods .  . to me , the whole context of the scriptures 
says be perfect , even as your father who is in heaven that we can be 
co heirs with christ that we will be like him. 

co heirs share all things equally including knowledge , power , dominion etc. 
when i am like him  ( christ ) , i will be the same as he is and he is a god. 

if god cannot do this , the his is not all powerful and he is not god. 
if he will not , he is a liar and he is not god. 

but if he does , he is the greatest of all the gods .  . 


i do n't know of anyone who says that jesus prayed to himself. the 
whole point of the trinity is that there 's enough of a distinction 
within god that relationship is possible. this implies some sort of 
communication .  . i assume that in their native form , the father and 
son are directly enough connected that prayer in our sense is n't 
involved. but jesus is the incarnation of the son , i.e. the logos 
made flesh .  . when he 's in a human form , his human actions are limited 
to human capabilities .  . so communication with the father takes the 
form of prayer .  . i do n't see that there 's anything problematical about 
that. it seems to be implicit in the whole idea of incarnation .  . 
clh 

from  ( mohammad razi khan) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi 
lines 26 

 ( dave bernard ) writes 

i also do n't see the necessity of saying the holy parents were some 
how sanctified beyond normal humanity it sounds like our own inability 
to grasp the of god 's grace in being incarnated through an or 
human being. 


when elizabeth mary , elizabeth said something to the effect that 
mary , out of all women , was blessed .  . if so , it appears that this 
exactly places mary beyond 


whoa , dude i do n't see the jump you made. 
she was blessed , i 'll give you that much. 
what do you mean , she was placed beyond 





the sanctification of normal humanity .  . 

mohammad r. khan 
after july '93 , please send mail to 
if responses to this letter post bounce , e mail me at the nyx account. 

from  ( fil sapienza ) 
subject re why do people become atheists apology 
organization university of michigan hospitals 
lines 15 

in article maxwell c muir , 
writes 
instead , i'm still faced with the 
implication that atheism is some kind of aberration and that only 
broken 
people are atheist .  . 

again , as the original poster of the article , i apologize if it 
implied that atheism brokenness .  . such was not my intent and 
i apologize for any hurt feelings in the process. 

sapienza 
department of technology services 
university of michigan hospitals surgery 


from 
subject 's ontological proof 
lines 22 

fred gilham asks  ( may 11) whether it is true that kurt wrote 
a version of the ontological argument for the existence of god. 

yes , he did. he did not publish it , but it will be published by the 
oxford university press in german and with english translation in 
volume 3 , due to appear this fall , of his collected works. 

meanwhile , you can find a summary , or perhaps the whole thing , in an 
article by jordan howard sobel called 's ontological proof 
in the book on being and saying , edited by judith jarvis thompson 
(sp ) , published by the mit press in 1987 .  . 

professor c anthony anderson of the philosophy department of the 
university of minnesota has written an article , some of 
's ontological proof , which appeared in the magazine faith 
and philosophy , v. 7 (1990) 291 303 .  . it discusses some objections 
that various critics have raised against 's proof , and offers 
a revised version of the proof that is not vulnerable to these 
objections .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 9 

when elizabeth mary , elizabeth said something to the effect that 
mary , out of all women , was blessed .  . if so , it appears that this 
exactly places mary beyond the sanctification of normal humanity .  . 

i remember a couple of times when my ex girlfriend said that she thought she 
was blessed because of her son  ( whom she loved  . in fact , i 've heard 
people refer to someone as being blessed quite a few times. it 's a common 
figure of speech. considering that elizabeth was just another human , i think 
this passage offers nothing towards justifying the blessedness of mary .  . 

from (mike hahn ) 
subject translations 
lines 18 

alison j wrote to all 

does anyone know of an english language edition that does not show the 
verse  ( or even chapter) numbers. 

... 

clh the original neb put verse numbers only in the margin ... 

kenneth 's expanded translation of the new testament does the same it puts the range of verse numbers next to the top of each paragraph .  . being an expanded translation it is quite verbose though more suitable for detailed study than for quick reading. 

mike 

golded 2.41 

internet 
via the catalyst bbs in port elizabeth , south africa .  . 
(catpe . alt . za) . 27 41 34 2859 , v32bis hst .  . 

from (michael siemon ) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
organization public access internet unix , nyc 
lines 164 

in article  ( someone named mark) writes 

(michael siemon ) writes 

homosexual christians have indeed checked out these verses .  . some of 
them are used against us only through incredibly perverse interpretations .  . 
others simply do not address the issues. 

i can see that some of the above verses do not clearly address the issues , 

there are exactly zero verses that clearly address the issues. 

however , a couple of them seem as though they do not require incredibly 
perverse interpretations in order to be seen as condemning homosexuality .  . 

the kind of interpretation i see as incredibly perverse is that applied 
to the story of sodom as if it were a blanket equation of homosexual 
behavior and rape .  . since christians citing the bible in such a context 
should be presumed to have at least read the story , it amounts to slander 
a charge that homosexuality rape to use that against us. 

... do not be deceived neither , nor idolators , nor adulterers , 
nor , nor homosexuals , nor thieves , nor the , nor , 
nor , nor , shall inherit the kingdom of god. and such were 
some of you .  .  .  . i cor .  . 6 9 11. 

the moderator adequately discusses the of your use of 
in this. i think we can all agree  ( with paul) that there are some kinds of 
activity that could be named by fornication or theft or or 
or drunkenness which would well deserve condemnation .  . we may 
or may not agree to the bounds of those categories , however and the very 
fact that they are argued over suggests that not only is the matter not at 
all clear but that paul an excellent had no interest 
in making them clear , leaving matters rather to our spirit led decisions , 
with all the uncomfortable living with other readings that has dominated 
christian discussion of all these areas. 

homosexual behavior is no different. i  ( and the other gay christians i 
know) are in condemning rape heterosexual or homosexual and 
child molestation heterosexual or homosexual and even the possibly 
harmless but obsessive kinds of sex heterosexual or homosexual 
that would stand condemned by paul in the very continuation of the chapter 
you cite may i mildly suggest that what paul does in his letter that 
you want to use is perhaps a good guide to his meaning 

 i am free to do anything , ' you say. yes , but not everything 
is for my good. no doubt i am free to do anything , but i for one 
will not let anything make free with me. 1 cor .  . 6 12 

which is a that we must have no other god before god. a 
commandment neither i nor any other gay christian wishes to break. some 
people are indeed involved in obsessively driven modes of sexual behavior. 
it is just as wrong  ( though slightly less incendiary , so it 's a secondary 
argument from the  contingent ) to equate homosexuality with such 
behavior as to equate it with the rape of god 's messengers .  . 

i wo n't deal with the exegesis of leviticus , except very tangentially .  . 
fundamentally , you are exhibiting the same here as in your 
assumption that you know what means. there are plenty of 
laws prohibiting sexual behavior to be found in leviticus , most of 
which christians ignore completely. they never even bother to examine 
them. they just assume that they know which ones are moral and 
which ones are ritual .  . well , i have news for you. any anthropology 
course should sensitize you to ritual and clean vs. as categories 
in an awful lot of societies  ( we have them too , but buried pretty  . 
and i cannot see any ground for distinguishing these bits of leviticus 
from the ritual law which no christian i know feels applies to us. 

i'm dead serious here. when people start going on  ( as they do in this 
matter) about how repulsive and unnatural our acts are and what 
do they know about it , huh it is a solid clue to the same sort of 
arbitrary cultural as the american prejudice against eating 
insects .  . on what basis , other than assuming your conclusion , can you 
say that the law against male male intercourse in leviticus is not a part 
of the ritual law 

for those christians who do think that some parts of leviticus can 
be law for christians  ( while others are not even to be thought about) 
it is incumbent on you in every case , handled on its own merits to 
determine why you pick one and ignore another. i frankly think the 
whole effort misguided .  . reread paul no doubt i am free to do anything. 
but christians have a criterion to use for making our judgments on this , 
the great commandment of love for god and neighbor .  . if you cannot go 
through leviticus and decide each command there on that basis , then 
your own arbitrary selection from it is simply  . in this 
context , it is remarkably offensive to say 

i notice that the verse forbidding immediately follows the 
verse prohibiting what appears to be homosexual intercourse .  . 

well , la ti da .  . so what this is almost as slimey an argument as the 
one that homosexuality rape .  . i know of no one who argues seriously 
 ( though one can always find jokers ) in defense of  . it is 
absolutely irrelevant and incomparable to the issues gay christians do 
raise (which concern sexual activity within committed , consensual human 
adult realtionships ) , so that your bringing it up is no more relevant 
than the laws of  . if you cannot address the actual issues , you 
are being bloody dishonest in trailing this red herring in front of the 
world. if you want to address , that is your business , not 
mine. and attempting to torpedo a serious issue by using what is in 
our culture a ridiculous joke shows that you have no interest in hearing 
us as human beings .  . you want to dismiss us , and use the means 
you can think of to do so. 

jesus and paul both expound , very explictly and in considerable length , 
the central pin of christian moral thought we are required to 
love one another , and all else depends on that. gay and lesbian christ 
ians challenge you to address the issue on those terms and all we get 
in return are cheap debate tricks attempting to side track the issues. 

christians , no doubt very sincere ones , keep showing up here and in every 
corner of usenet and the world , and all they ever do is spout these same 
old verses (which they obviously have never thought about , maybe never 
even read) , in total ignorance of the issues raised , slandering us with 
the vilest charges of child abuse or whatever their minds can 
manage to conjure up , tossing out red herrings with  ( they suppose) great 
emotional force to cause readers to dismiss our witness without even 
taking the trouble to find out what it is. 

such behavior should shame anyone who claims to have seen truth in christ .  . 
why , for god 's precious sake , do you people quote irrelevant verses to 
condemn people you do n't know and wo n't even take the trouble to listen 
to before you start your condemnations is that loving your neighbor 
god forbid ! is that how you obey the repeated commands to not judge or 
condemn others christ and paul spend orders of magnitude more time in 
insisting on this than the half dozen obscure words in paul that you are 
so bloody ready to take as license to do what god tells you not to do. 

why , for god 's sake 

for god did not send the son into the world 
to condemn the world , 
but that the world might be saved through him. 
whoever believes in him is not condemned , 
but whoever does not believe has already been condemned 
for refusing to believe in the name of god 's only son. 
now the judgment is this 
the light has come into the world , 
but men have preferred darkness to light 
because their deeds were evil. 
for everyone who practices wickedness 
hates the light , 
and does not come near the light 
for fear his deeds will be exposed .  . 
but he who acts in truth 
comes into the light , 
so that it may be 
that his deeds are done in god. john 3 17 21 

for long ages , we  ( many of us) have been confused by evil counsel from 
evil men and told that if we came to the light we would be shamed and 
rejected .  . some of us and took to courses that probably do 
show a sinful of god 's light. blessed are those whose spirits 
have been crushed by the self righteous they shall be justified .  . 

however , we have seen the truth , and the truth is the light of humanity 
and we now know that it is not we who fear the light , but our enemies who 
fear the light of our witness and will do everything they can to shadow 
it with the darkness of false witness against us. 

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

from  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) 
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart .  .  .  . 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 86 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) writes 
deletia recovery programs , etc 

i do need you to show me that there is such a thing as 
a spiritual need to do that it may be necessary to show 
me that spirits  ( souls , whatnot ) exist god is not 
important to that as far as i can tell. 

i get the feeling that we are debating at cross purposes that we 
do not see the same fundamental assumptions , and this perhaps makes 
my answers orthogonal to your questions. i will try again. 

perhaps you believe that nothing exists aside from objectively 
observable and provable things. in that case , i cannot show you 
that there is such thing as a spirit or a spiritual need these 
things do not exist in the realm of the objective , but in the 
realm of the subjective .  . 

otoh , if you wish you can simply  ( but explicitly , please) 
assume spirits exist , and then show me that they would 
have needs , and that a.a. handles these needs in some way. 
you can assume god exists too if that will help. i 'll play along. 

(by a.a. , i assume you mean alcoholics anonymous , and not alt.atheism ) 
i would not say that aa handles spiritual needs. rather i would say 
that aa  ( and other 12 step programs) help people come to terms with their 
needs ie that aa is the recovery , and that as part of the 
recovery , they recognize their spiritual needs , and begin to rely on a higher 
power (12 step 's term) to fill them instead of whatever substance abuse 
they had been accustomed to. (sorry , there is no objective proof here 
either no way to take 2 identical alcoholics and try to have one recover 
by fulfilling spiritual needs , and one without and externally compare the 
difference we are talking about the virtually infinite complexity of 
people here . ) . 

but i should say , if god is a necessary component 
of your spiritual needs then i truely do not understand at 
all. it sounds to me like spirits have needs that should be 
fulfilled by god , but can be masked in other ways  ( drugs etc) .  . 
if this is the case , then you can leave out god just describe 
the problem , not the solution. 

spiritual needs could be defined as things that people need in addition to 
physical requirements like air , food , sleep , etc. these are things like 
the need for love and acceptance , and the need for meaning in life. if 
one denies the existence of spiritual things , one would presumably call 
these emotional needs . the reason christians call them spiritual needs 
is that they have aspects that are not except by spiritual 
means ie a person could be loved and accepted by many people , and do 
many meaningful things , but still have a need for love , which can only be 
satisfied by the love of god. now the problem is that there are people who 
accept the existence of these needs , and people who reject them. since i 
believe in absolute truth , some of these people are right , and the others 
are wrong. so here are the 2 possibilities 

1) if christians are right , then we all have spiritual needs ie 
we all need god. those who do not realize that they need god are 
deluded they just have n't recognized it yet. 

2) if christians are wrong , spiritual needs are an of our brain 
chemicals .  . well adjusted and properly integrated personalities do not 
have such things. christians are simply using the concept of god and 
spiritual needs to mask their own inadequacies .  . 

i hate to the point , but the existence of spirits and spiritual 
needs cannot be objectively demonstrated or proven , just like the existence 
of god cannot .  . and yes , this means that there is a risk that all my subjective 
evidence is manufactured by my brain chemicals .  . but on the other hand , i 
could venture into solipsism and say that there is a risk that everything that 
i appear to objectively know is really manufactured by my brain chemicals .  . 

i suspect this is an unsatisfactory answer to a request for evidence and 
demonstration of the existence of spirits and spiritual needs , but my assertion 
is that such things are not objectively demonstrable .  . as i have said before , 
i myself am on the christian side of agnosticism , having been pushed off the 
fence by subjective evidence.  ( and no , i was not raised a christian , so it 
is not a case of simply accepting what i was indoctrinated with . ) . 


seanna watson bell northern research , pray that at the end of living , 
ottawa , ontario , canada of philosophies and creeds , 
god will find his people busy 
opinion , what opinions oh these opinions. planting trees and sowing seeds .  . 
no , they 're not bnr 's , they 're mine. 
i knew i 'd left them somewhere. fred kaan 

from 
subject relevant subject lines 
lines 15 

a recent post bears the subject line 

re serbian genocide work of god 

the text contains 80 lines devoted to a defence of the doctrine of 
predestination as applied to the salvation of individuals .  . there is 
then a five line post script on the balkans .  . it is natural and easy 
to keep the subject line of the post that one is replying to , but 
when the focus shifts , keeping the same subject can cause confusion. 

this is intended as a general request. the post mentioned is just 
the example. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( christopher mussack ) 
subject re major views of the trinity 
lines 20 

ca n't someone describe someone 's trinity in simple declarative 
sentences with words that have common meaning 

when i need a kick butt god , or when i need assurance of the reality 
of truth , i pray to god the father. 

when i need a friend , someone to put his arm around me and 
cry with me , i pray to jesus .  . 

when i need strength or wisdom to get through a difficult situation , 
i pray for the holy spirit. 

i realize that the above will probably make some people cringe , 
but what can i say i think the doctrine of the trinity is 
an attempt to reconcile jesus being god and being distinct from 
god , as described in the bible .  . 

i wonder if jesus had been a hindu how different the wording would be. 

chris mussack 

from  ( ann carlson ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va usa 
lines 26 

in article , hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) writes 
any one who thinks that homosexuality and christianity are compatible should check 
out 
romans 1 27 
i corinthians 6 9 
i timothy 1 10 
jude 1 7 
ii peter 2 6 9 
gen. 19 
lev 18 22 
 ( to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality ) 

anyone who thinks being gay and christianity are not compatible should 
check out dignity , integrity , more light presbyterian churches , affirmation , 
mcc churches , etc. meet some gay christians , find out who they are , pray 
with them , discuss scripture with them , and only then form your opinion. 





dr. ann b. carlson o . 
ms 366 o 
nasa langley research center ` ) 
hampton , va 23681 0001 


from  ( dan , , , ) 
subject re war should christians fight 
reply to 
organization eastman kodak company 
lines 12 

in article , david (david a. sjoen ) writes 
personally , i think that christians should n't fight. 

2) as christians , we are not supposed to defend ourselves 
matt 5 38 48 , heb 10 33 34 
3) war is a result of sin .  . defense may be a necessary reaction to an 
attack , but i do n't think that we as christians should take part in 
this. 


what if you are trying to defend someone else. should you allow killing and 
oppression to , or is it our obligation to protect the innocent 

from 
subject 4 
organization fnal 
lines 258 

continuing part 4 (i think) used by permission , 

the source and nt meaning 
of , with implications 
for christian ethics and ministry 

james b. 

w. petersen 

more recently wright 's understanding has itself been questioned from a 
different direction. in a brief 1986 study william petersen found linguistic 
confusion in using the english word homosexuals as the meaning of 
 . 22 he faulted wright and english bible for 
rendering it by homosexuals in i cor 6 9 and i tim 1 10. 

in a sense petersen has bailey , boswell , and into a 
single assertion that reiterates , in effect , the position of bailey .  . he finds 
homosexuals unacceptable as a translation because it is anachronistic .  . a 
major exists between contemporary thought and terminology and the 
thought and in paul 's time  ( 187 88) .  . 

what is this he bases it on historical and linguistic 
facts. accordingly , ancient greek and roman society treated male sexuality as 
and characterized a person sexually only by his sexual acts .  . 
virtually all forms of behavior , except , were acceptable .  . 
christianity simply added the categories of natural and unnatural in 
describing these actions .  . ancient society know nothing of the categories of 
homosexuals and heterosexuals , and assumed that , in the words of dover 
quoted by petersen , everyone responds at different times to both 
homosexual and to heterosexual stimuli .  . . .  . 23 

in contrast to this , modern usage virtually limits the term homosexual 
to desire and propensity .  . k . m .  . , who in 1869 coined the german term 
equivalent to homosexual , used it as referring to orientation , or 
preference and having nothing to do with sexual acts  . 

petersen then proceeds to cite the supplement to the oxford english 
dictionary , which defines homosexual only as a propensity or desire with no 
mention of acts .  . petersen 's point is that by using homosexuals for 
, one reads a modern concept back into early history 
where no equivalent concept existed  . consequently the translation is 
inaccurate because it includes celibate , . . . . incorrectly 
heterosexuals who engage in homosexual acts . . . and incorrectly includes 
female homosexuals (19  . prior to 1869 there was no cognitive structure , 
either society or in antiquity , within which the modern bifurcation of 
humanity into  homosexuals  and   made sence  . 

the foregoing clarifies why petersen feels that the 
homosexual is mistaken .  . yet is it possible that petersen is the one 
mistaken , on both historical and linguistic or grounds the next 
phases of this paper will critically examine petersen 's position. 

the justification for translating 
by homosexuals 

historical grounds 

a refutation of the foregoing opposition to the traslation of 
by homosexuals begins with the historical and cultural evidence. since 
virtually everyone acknowledges that the word does not appear before paul 's 
usage , no historical settings earlier than his are available. yet much writing 
reveals that ancient understanding of homosexuality prior to and contemporary 
with paul .  . the goal is to discover the ancient s conceived of 
homosexuality , particularly homosexual orientation , in a way similar to 
present day concepts .  . 

peterson , bailey , boswell , and claim that the homosexual 
condition , desire , propensity , or inversion whatever it is called cannot be 
part of the definition of the term. they assert this either because the term 
is limited to acts of particular kind  ( boswell , active male prostitutes 
, pederasty ) or because the homosexual condition was unknown in ancient 
times  ( bailey  . the following discussion will show why neither of 
these positions is legitimate .  . attention will be devoted to the latter postion 
first with the former one being addressed below under linguistic grounds .  . 

in regard to the latter position , one may rightfully ask , did not the 
homosexual condition exist before 1869 is it only a modern phenomenon yet if 
it is universal , as alleged today , it must have existed always including 
ancient times , even though there is lack of sophistication in discussing it. 
indeed , evidence show that the ancients , pre christian and christian , not only 
knew about the total spectrum of sexual behavior , including all forms of 
same sex activity  ( transvestism included) , but also about same sex 
orientation or condition. petersen admits  ( 190 n. 10) that plato in 
symposium  ( 189d 192d ) may be a sole possible exception to ancient 
of this condition. he discounts this , however , believing that even 
here acts appear to be the deciding factor. however , this is a very 
significant exception , hardly worthy of being called an exception , because of 
the following additional evidence for a homosexual condition. 

the symposium of plato gives some of the strongest evidence for 
knowledge about the homosexual condition. 24 plato a third sex 
comprised of a female  ( androgynon ( man woman ) .  . hence original nature 
, consisted of three kinds of human beings .  . zeus sliced these 
human beings in half , to weaken them so that they would not be a threat to the 
gods .  . consequently each person seeks his or her other half , either one of the 
opposite sex or one of the same sex. plato then quotes 

each of us , then , is but a tally of a man , since every one shows like 
a the traces of having been sliced in two and each is ever 
searching for the tally that will fit him. all the men who are sections 
of that composite sex that at first was called man woman are 
woman our adulterers are mostly descended from that sex , 
whence likewise are derived our women and  . 
all the women who are sections of the woman have no great fancy for men 
they are rather to women , and of this stock are the she  . 
men who are sections of the male pursue the masculine , and so long as 
their boyhood lasts they show themselves to be sliced of the male by 
making with men and to lie with them and to be 
in men 's these are the finest boys and , 
for they have the most manly nature. some say they are shameless 
creatures , but falsely for their behavior is due not to 
but to daring , , and virility , since they are quick to welcome 
their like. sure evidence of this is the fact that on reaching maturity 
these alone prove in a public career to be men. so when they come 
to man 's estate they are boy lovers , and have no natural interest in 
and getting children but only do these things under stress of 
custom they are quite to live together all their days. 
a man of this sort is at any rate born to be a lover of boys or the 
willing mate of a man , eagerly greeting his own kind. well , when 
one of them whether he be a boy lover or a lover of any other sort 
happens on his own particular half , the two of them are 
thrilled with affection and and love , and are hardly to be 
induced to leave each other 's side for a single moment. these are 
they who continue together throughout life , though they could not 
even say what they would have of one another  ( 191d 192c ) 25 

should these two persons be offered the opportunity to be fused together for as 
long as they live , or even in hades , says that each would 
unreservedly deem that he had been offered just what he was yearning for all 
the time  . 

several observations about this text are in order. is 
contemplated , as will as male homosexuality  . natural interest  ( ton 
noun physei ) ,  ( 192b ) modern concepts of propensity or inclination .  . 
the words , born to be a lover of boys or the willing mate of a man 
 ( paiderastes te kai gignetai ) ,  ( 192b ) reflect the modern claims to 
be born this , i.e. , as homosexual .  . the idea of ( the two of them 
are thrilled with affection and and love , 192b ) is 
present. even speaks of mutual love ingrained in mankind 
our early estate  ( ho eros kai 
tes ,  . the concept of ( these are 
they who continue together throughout life , 102c ) is also present. further 
mention of and or allusion to , , gay pride , pederasty , 
homophobia , motive , desire , passion , and the nature of love and its works is 
recognizable .  . 

clearly the ancients thought of love  ( homosexual or other) apart from 
actions .  . the speakers in the symposium argue that motive in homosexuality is 
crucial money , office , influence , etc. . . bring reproach  ( 182e ,  . 
they mention the need to love the soul not the body  . there are tow 
kinds of love in the body  ( 186b ) and each has its desire and passion 
 ( 186b  . the speakers discuss the principles or matters of love  ( 187c ) , the 
desires of love  ( 192c ) and being males by nature  . noteworthy is the 
speech of socrates who devotes much attention to explaining how desire is 
related to love and its objects  ( 200a  . desire is felt for what is not 
provided or present for something they have not or are not or lack .  . this is 
the object of desire and love. socrates clearly distinguishes between what 
sort of being is love and the works of love  . this ancient 
philosopher could think of both realms acts as well as disposition of 
being or nature. his have significance for more than pederasty .  . 26 

in summary , virtually every element in the modern discussion of love and 
homosexuality is anticipated in the symposium of plato .  . petersen is in error 
when he claims that the ancients could only think of homosexual acts , not 
inclination or orientation .  . widespread evidence to the supports the 
latter .  . 27 

biblical support for homosexuality inclination in the contexts where 
homosexual acts are adds to the case for the ancient distinction .  . in 
rom 1 21 28 such phrases as reasoning , heart , becoming foolish , desires 
of the heart. and mind prove paul 's concern for disposition and 
inclination along with the doing or working of evil  ( also see vv .  . 29 32) .  . 
even the of vices are (i tim 1 8 10) or concluded (i cor 
6 9 11) by words describing what people are or were , not what they do. 
habits betray what people are within , as also the lord jesus taught (cf .  . matt .  . 
23 28) .  . the inner condition is as important as the outer act one gives rise 
to the other (cf .  . mt 5 27) .  . 

petersen errs regarding other particulars too. apparently 
was accepted by the ancients .  . it was practiced among , syrian , 
people of asia minor , as well as greeks , according to s.r. driver. 28 only a 
few and jewish writers are on record as condemning it. for example , 
seneca  ( moral epistles 47 . 7 . 8) condemns homosexual exploitation that forces an 
adult slave to dress , be , and behave as a woman. also goes to 
some length to describe the homosexuals of his day and their dressing as women 
(the special laws iii , 37 41 see also his on the virtues , 20 21 , where he 
justifies prohibition of cross  . even the ot forbade the interchange 
of clothing between the sexes  ( deut 22 5) .  . 

petersen is also wrong in attributing to christianity the creating of the 
new labels of natural and unnatural for sexual behavior. these did not 
begin with paul (rom 1 26 27) but go as far back as ancient greece and even 
non christian contemporaries used them. plato , the test .  . , , , 
, and others used these words or related concepts .  . 29 

linguistic grounds 

footnotes 

22 w . l .  . petersen , can be translated by  homosexuals  (i cor 
6 9 i tim 1 10) vc 40  ( 1986 ) 187 91 .  . 
23 k . j .  . dover , greek homosexuality  ( cambridge , harvard univ , 1978) 1 n. 1. 
24 we are conscious of the fact that plato 's writings may not reflect 
athenian society , or that the speakers in symposium may not reflect plato 's 
view. however , it is assumed that they do , and with this agrees dover 
 ( homosexuality 12) and other evidence cited below 
25 the translation is that of w . r . m .  . lamb , plato lcl  ( cambridge 
harvard univ , 1967) 141 143 .  . note the reference to  . if there is 
a homosexual condition derived from birth or the genes , logically there must 
also be an adulterous derived from birth. 
26 elsewhere in the symposium we are told that it is the heavenly love to love 
the male and young men  ( 181c ) but this must not be love for boys too young 
the latter should be outlawed  ( 181d e) .  . such love of youths is to be permanent 
 ( 181d ) , lifelong and abiding  . where homosexual love is considered a 
disgrace , such an attitude is due to of the rulers and to the 
cowardice of the ruled  ( 182d an early charge of homophobia ) .  . in athens it 
was more honorable to love openly than in secret  ( 182d an ancient expression 
of coming out of the closet ) .  . was present ( this compels lover and 
beloved alike to feel a zealous concern for their own virtue ,  . 
for petersen to label the symposium a possible exception to his position 
is inadequate and  . it is a significant witness to greek 
society hundreds of years before the time of christ .  . 
27 dover  ( homosexuality 12 , 60 68) finds homosexual desire and orientation in 
plato 's works  ( symposioum and phaedrus ) and elsewhere. writes of those 
who themselves to the practive of homosexual acts (the special laws 
3.37 42 cf. de 59 63) .  . josephus says that homosexuality 
had become a fixed habit for some  ( against 2 . 273 . 75) clement of 
alexandria on matt .  . 19 12 writes the some men , from birth , a natural 
aversion to a woman and indeed those who are naturally so do well 
not to marry  ( miscellanies 3 1) it is addressed in 141 of 's 
codex of laws (it to those who have been consumed by this disease as 
in need of renouncing there plague , as well as acts) .  . pseudo  ( erostes 
48 ) and  ( leucippe and ii . 38) . speak of it. finally 
thucydides 2 . 45 . 2 . has great is you glory if you fall not below the standard 
which nature has set for your sex. 
boswell  ( christianity 81 87 ) cites poets  ( juvenal , ovid ) , 
 ( martial ) , statesmen  ( cicero ) , and others who describe permanent , mutual 
homosexual relationships , even marriages .  . even could be either 
gay married  ( nero ) or gay  ( hadrian ) , boswell says. 
 ( homosexuality 28 , 32 34) admits that both inversion and perversion must have 
existed in the past. he discusses possible references to adult mutual 
homosexual and lesbian relationships , but them (130  . 
28 see specifics in s.r. driver a critical and exegetical commentary on 
deuteronomy  ( edinburgh 1895 ) 250 .  . he observes that the prohibition of 
cross dressing in deut .  . 22 5 is not a mere rule of conventional propriety .  . 
see also dover , homosexuality 73 76 , 144 .  . 
29 plato in his last work , in which he seeks to show how to have a virtuous 
citizen , condemned pederasty and marriage between men as against nature  ( para 
 ( phosin)(laws ) b c 838 e) .  . according to test . 
3 4 5 the changed the order of nature. the jewish writers , 
 ( on abraham 135 137 ) and josephus  . 1 . 322 . 3 . 261 . , 275 ag .  . ap .  . 2 . 199 . 
2 . 273 . , 275 ) label sexual deviation as against nature. finally , , first 
century such as  ( dianlogue on love e c) spoke of 
homosexuality as against nature. christians clearly did not invent the 
labels natural and unnatural . see j.b. de young , the meaning of  nature  
in romans 1 and its implications for biblical of homosexual 
behavior jets 31 4 (dec 1988) 429 41 .  . 

from  ( jonah lin ) 
subject re satanic tounges 
organization tulane university , new orleans , la 
lines 14 

in article  ( allen koberg ) writes 

hmmm .  .  . in . the old testament story about the tower of babel , we see how 
god punished by giving us different language. can we assume then that 
if angels have their own language at all , that they have the same one 
amongst other angels after all , they were not punished in any manner. 


maybe before babel , everyone including angels spoke the same language , so at 
babel , god punished us by giving us languages different from the original one. 
so if that 's the case , then angels now would be speaking in the tongue mankind 
spoke before babel .  . 

jonah 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re god , morality , and massacres 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 44 


() james kiefer writes 

 ( stuff deleted) 

first point. what they are doing is wrong , just as what 
joseph 's brothers did was wrong , just as what judas did was wrong. 
they intend it for evil. if god somehow brings good out of it , that 
does not make them any less subject to just condemnation and 
punishment .  . 
second point. of course , god will bring good out of it. but not 
the same good that he would have brought if the serbians had 
refrained from the sins of robbery and rape and murder .  . nor does the 
good he purposes excuse us from the duty of doing what is right. 


so what you 're saying then , is that god exercises direct control , or 
influence upon humanity .  . he does n't control our every thought or action , 
but takes what we do , whether it be intended for evil or not , and turns 
it into something good. it seems to me , that this idea conflicts with 
the belief that god gave humans free will. as far as i can determine , 
it is impossible to reconcile these two different ideas. if god were to 
exert his influence upon anyone or anything at anytime , he would be 
impeding upon someone 's free will. unless , of course , you believe that 
god did not give us complete and free will , but rather , some sort 
of conditional free will. something that allows us to make our own choices 
and control our own lives except when god wants to use us to fulfill some 
good purpose of his own by hardening our heart or controlling us in some 
other way. i hear alot of people who look at various events , mostly 
or things like the aids epidemic and make comments about 
god 's will. i have a very difficult time understanding why people believe 
that god controls anything that happens on this planet. except , possibly 
when being asked to through someone 's prayer .  . according to the bible , 
was going to let moses  people go after one or two plagues , but 
god kept hardening his heart so moses could cast all 7 plagues upon the 
egyptians , the last plague causing the death of many innocent children. 
so then , god upon 's free will and used him as a puppet .  . 
god did this not just to free the hebrews , but to free them in some sort 
of a grand fashion. i suppose from the hebrew 's point of view , this could 
be seen as turning something bad into good , but i'm sure the egyptians did n't 
see it this way. all of your examples of how god turned something bad into 
something good are based upon showing to one group of people over 
another. after all , it 's only good based upon your point of view. why does 
god , who is supposed to be the god of all of humanity , play favorites 

from (scott roleson ) 
subject who is ram das 
lines 50 

who is ram das 

according to his brochures , he is a.k.a. richard alpert , phd , and is 
somehow associated with the 

seva foundation 
8 n. san pedro road 
san rafael , ca 94903 

and the 
foundation 
524 san ave 203 
san , ca 

he speaks publically on such topics as consciousness current 
events , and has written some books and recorded some tapes on 
similar subjects .  . 

why do i care my wife wants to go to one of his lectures .  . when 
i asked why , she said ram das was the greatest spiritual leader 
of our time ! 

several years ago my wife got involved with a religious cult , and 
we went through 9 months of hell that almost ended our marriage 
before she quit. let 's just say i'm concerned about this ram das 
and her interest , especially so with the recent religious cult 
events from texas .  . i need information solid and real so i 
know what i'm dealing with. 

if you have any information about ram das or the organizations 
shown above , i would be very interested in your correspondence. 
please reply via e mail to me at scott 

thank you ! 

scott 

the dictionary of cults that i use classifies this as new age , with 
a basically hindu orientation .  . the headquarters is  ( or was when this 
was written ) at that lama foundation , which they identify as a new 
age in san , new mexico .  . for information you might 
read alpert 's books , which they list as be here now  ( an 
autobiography ) , the only dance there is , and for the mill . 
it is dealt with briefly in a citation given as larson , new book , pp 
339 41 . i assume this is bob larson , larson 's new book of cults . 
i 'd warn you however that the whole approach to the new age is 
controversial .  . sources such as the reference book i used , as well as 
bob larson , believe in a satanic new age conspiracy , which some regard 
as hysterical .  . however at the very least , it seems clear that this is 
not a christian group. clh 

from rick  ( rick granberry ) 
subject boston c of c 
reply to rick  ( rick granberry ) 
organization motorola paging and systems group 
lines 263 

note the following article is submitted on behalf of someone  ( frank 
daniels ) who has difficulty posting to s . r . c . , email replies to 


i am unable to post to the bitnet groups. 
here is a capsule history of the discipleship movement in 
the churches of christ (i . e .  . crossroads boston ) 

i could trace the movement back as far as 1800 , and indeed some of its 
roots go back that far , but these were really influences on the movement , 
and not the actual movement , per se .  . 
i will start in c . 1920 .  . 
in that day , there were  white  churches and  colored  churches in 
nearly every area  ( due to  . modern was developing 
as a predominantly  colored  phenomenon .  . here , there was great fanaticism , 
emphasis on emotional experiences , and belief in a personal guidance and 
indwelling of the holy spirit. 
many  white  protestant churches were growing into what became known 
as conservative fundamentalism .  . by the 1940s , the evangelical movement was 
in full swing , and many groups were becoming part of it. 
when the civil rights movement grew stronger  ( in the 1950 's and 
1960 's) , 
many  white  church groups began to be influenced by the  black  churches and 
by what was going on there. this spread started in the most liberal of groups 
and spread to the more conservative ones by the late '60 's .  . in 1969 , even the 
catholic church was displaying evidence of influence by the other 
groups .  .  . still . 
evident today. 

the churches of christ are  ( and were) a very conservative protestant 
group. when the influence from outside began to reach the in c . 1965 . , it 
was generally not appreciated. conservative groups are very strongly 
resistant 
to change , and the new movement was very different from the status quo .  . 
the magazines put out at that time by folks tell the story as it 
unfolds .  . new ideas came into the  . there was a big push to reach out to 
college students , young adults , and teens .  . some called this the campus 
evangel 
ism movement. emotions , generally not highly regarded in the at large , 
played a more important role in the new movement. in some places , people 
began 
to speak in tongues  ( as their pentecostal predecessors did) .  . 
this was met with extreme criticism from within the churches of 
christ .  . 
in some places , people were fired from their jobs for speaking in tongues or 
for 
advocating the holy spirit movement , another name for the new branch .  . the 
term underground church of christ also came into use because these people 
had 
to hide their differences  ( or they might be  . 
there were several congregations , however , whose were 
receptive to the new ideas (at least in part the tongues speaking never 
really 
caught on) .  . one of these was the 14th street church of christ in gainesville , 
fl. campus ministry had already been regarded as important at 14th street , 
and 
the new ideas seemed to be very helpful tools for evangelism .  . they also 
seemed 
to put vitality into the church , which many felt had been lacking .  . 
in october of 1967 , the 14th street congregation hired chuck lucas to 
be its campus minister .  . by 1970 , he would move to being the congregation 's 
 ( lead ) minister .  . in the late 60 's early 70 's , the congregation worked with 
many 
other groups. they held bible discussions at daytona beach during spring 
break. 
they organized talks in the on the university of florida campus .  . 
they also worked with uf sports people. 
in 1972 , the congregation ordered a larger building to be constructed .  . 
when it was finished , the group moved and changed its name  ( now no longer 
 . it became the crossroads church of christ from then on , a name 
that would become legendary .  . 

by this time , crossroads was basically the only whose programs 
were fully aligned to the new movement. while they did n't start it , they 
continued it and were responsible for where it wound up going. 
by 1975 , none of the other churches of christ in the area felt that 
they could cooperate with crossroads , due to what they recognized as doctrinal 
problems at crossroads .  . 
crossroads had begun to heavily emphasize , and later require 
attendance 
at all church functions. it was seen as a good thing for each member to have 
at least one close relationship , a person with whom you would share all of 
your problems , pray , and get help from. the concept was called prayer 
partners , 
which later became discipleship partners and also later became mandatory .  . the 
leadership was assigning prayer partners to people for a while. 
the book called the master plan of evangelism was a strong influence 
on chuck lucas .  . he  ( and the group ) believed that it was every person 's duty 
and life purpose to carry out the great commission .  . crossroads was growing 
in number , and numbers became very important (some would say all important) .  . 
a person who was evangelistic was spiritual . evangelism meant 
inviting people to crossroads events if you did this a lot and some of them 
converted , then you were spiritual . there were sermons about how if you 
bought groceries , the and bag boy ought to receive invitations to 
services. everyone at your job ought to receive invitations .  . since these 
people needed jesus , you should be aggressive do n't take 'no' for an 
answer. 
if you did not evangelize enough , you came to be called lazy or 
. 
by the end of the decade , the prayer partner system was integrated 
into 
a structure. the elders and ministers were on top  ( like a big  . then 
the group leaders , bible study leaders , and members. everyone who came in had 
someone placed over them. 
it is at this time , 1978 1980 , that the bad press about crossroads 
began to circulate .  . the problem with rape on the university of florida campus 
was tremendous , but crossroads was considered a bigger and more immediate 
problem. there were many complaints about the congregation and its 
evangelistic tactics .  . crossroads was considering the other churches of christ 
to be dead churches , which aggravated them it was aggressively recruiting 
out of the other church groups  ( denominations ) , which aggravated them. 

by this time , crossroads had grown numerically to the point  ( 1100 ) 
where not only did they believe that they would soon need a new building , but 
also they were sending out planting create a new church and 

reorganize an existing church teams to other cities .  . by this time , the 
crossroads movement was underway .  . 
a group was sent to the 30 member lexington church of christ in 
boston , 
ma .  . the team was headed up by kip , who had been converted out of a 
fraternity by crossroads  ( in  . kip held a still stronger view of 
church authority , which he believed was heavily vested in the  ( evangelist(s ) , 
and not so much in the elders .  . he had been fired in 1977 from the 
congregation 
that he had been working at when the elders there found numerous things wrong 
with his theology , including the practice of what came to be called one over 
one 
christianity .  . called this by critics 
in the first year , half of the 30 people felt that they did not want 
to 
be a part of the new congregation .  . they left. but others began coming into 
the new boston church of christ .  . 
ah , but i'm ahead of myself. 
at crossroads , the heavy handed system had begun to take its toll on 
the members. many have said that they felt that they were working hard , but 
they were not achieving the results that were so important. the numbers were 
dropping .  . from 1978 , crossroads membership declined steadily .  . the leadership 
began to tighten the reigns on the congregation , who was seen as being largely 
unproductive and . the fruit passages in the nt were 
interpreted 
as referring to new converts .  . if you were not bearing fruit , said john 15 , 
you 
would be cast into the fire ! boston still teaches this. 
if you love your neighbor , you 'll save his soul  ( invite him to church 
and convert him) .  . if you 're not doing that , you do n't love your neighbor .  . 
and if you do n't love , you 're in danger of  . the logical arguments 
continue in this vein .  . 
in 1985 , chuck lucas was fired from his job as minister , due to 
recurring 
sins in his life. these struggles were never revealed to the congregation at 
large , although many people outside the congregation had heard about them. 
for 
by now , there was very little contact  ( on a friendship level) between most 
crossroads members and those outside. if you have contact , your focus should 
be on converting them. bring them to a bible study. 
chuck 's replacement was joe woods , who was fully supportive of the 
boston system. as boston grew in number , they began to offer  training  
sessions 
for other ministers .  . joe went to boston to be trained and returned to cross 
roads ready to emphasize the total commitment to the church that boston and 
kip were now emphasizing .  . eventually , in fall of 1987 , the elders at 
crossroads  ( now 2 in number dick whitehead and bill hogle ) made a decision. 
boston was demanding that all of the other churches in the movement come under 
the direction of the church in boston .  . the elders refused , citing their 
belief 
that each church should be autonomous  ( something true in all non boston 
churches 
of christ) .  . perhaps there was also some degree of offense done here , since 
crossroads was no longer the  example  to the rest of the movement. the group 
now numbered about 800 , while boston was now larger  ( in  . 
the churches of christ generally teach that baptism is a necessary 
element of salvation .  . at crossroads , they taught what was called   
baptism you had to understand the commitment involved before you could be 
baptized .  . you had to  count the  . at boston , they took this a step 
further. if at some time you became unproductive , then your spirituality 
was suspect .  . people would begin to ask you if you really understood what you 
were getting into. anyone who said 'no' had their baptism deemed invalid 
they 
had n't counted the cost properly. they still had to be baptized .  . others 
called 
this , and crossroads did n't approve of this practice. 
when crossroads announced that it would not follow boston , many of its 
members left crossroads and went to movement related ministries , which were 
now called discipling ministries .  . you were either discipling  ( evangelizing ) 
or 
you were dead . they also used the nickname movement of god for a while. 
by summer of 1988 , crossroads was withdrawn from the movement and now 
stood alone. they had few to no allies in the mainstream churches of christ , 
and now none in the movement. 

boston , however , continued to chart its course in the direction that 
they had been following. they sent reconstruction teams to many cities , 
which 
usually meant that they split the church there. they stopped acknowledging 
other 
churches of christ as christians and began to call themselves the remnant . 
the remnant of the jews in the ot are those who are saved by god. it was 
felt that the remnant today represents all the christians .  . sometimes they 
would simply call their movement the church . 
they usually took the name of the city for their name , implying to the 
other churches of christ that boston did not recognize their existence .  . many 
campuses have now formally forbidden boston ministries from recruiting there 
due to the number of complaints .  . in some cases , it has been documented that 
boston ministries have lied to university officials in order to continue to 
have 
access to the campus .  . any resistance that they experience is termed 
, which all true christians are expected to experience. are you really 
a christian if you 're not being persecuted 
the numbers at boston peaked at c . 3000 . in 1989. since then , they have 
fought to remain steady .  . i have heard a tape of kip shouting at the 
leaders for failing to fulfill the great commission  ( their life 's purpose) as 
god commanded them. their christianity is highly centered on commands and 
obedience .  . 

crossroads once was called a cult .  . boston is now recognized by the 
cult awareness network and other national and international groups as a cult , 
under a formal definition , because of the techniques which they employ .  . the 
term cult is usually differentiated from sect by the practice of those 
techniques. the techniques which they employ are recognized by many as being 
techniques of destructive , also used by other 
discipleship groups. robert jay , margaret singer , and many 
others have written about the topic. these techniques include guilt 
motivation , 
emotional manipulation , loaded language , the aura of sacred science (a sort 
of mystic element seen in everyday events ) , and others. 

i have no particular axe to grind against the movement. i have 
friends who are still part of the movement. i have never had a  falling 
out  with anyone in the movement. i disagree with many things which they 
teach .  . 
i recognize the psychological damage done by being involved in such a system. 
i hold no loyalty to the mainstream churches of christ and do not defend their 
mistakes either. 
i want to point out , though , that unlike in many other systems which 
are in other ways similar , the leadership of the boston movement are as much 
victims of the system as the members. we do not have a leader who enjoys 
manipulating his people. the leaders believe what they teach , and they feel 
accountable for the activites  ( and spiritual welfare ) of the members. when 
members do not evangelize to their expectations , for example , the leaders feel 
personally responsible as well. the leaders are not out for money or power. 
they want to evangelize the world in their lifetime. 

i have said too much , but there is much more to say. there are many 
examples i could give and quotes from other sources  ( including boston 
bulletins ) 
that i could include .  . but this is too long already. you may post this if 
you so desire .  . 
frank d. 



answer not a fool according to his folly , lest thou also be like unto him. 
answer a fool according to his folly , lest he be wise in his own conceit .  . 
 ( proverbs 26 4 5) 


believe it or not , questions about the boston church of christ are 
among the most commonly asked. in order to avoid having s . r . c .  . 
dealing with this on a continuous basis , i allow discussion only 
periodically .  . by now i 've got a 150k faq file (which has both sides , 
by the way) .  . this gives enough addition information on history that 
it seems worth posting and adding to the faq .  . clh 

from  ( christopher mussack ) 
subject what do we feel 
lines 35 

i see a parallel between what i will stupidly call the homosexual 
issue and the atheist issue. please take no offense at these 
comparisons .  . 

the homosexual feels things that i admit i do not feel . 
he learns that these feelings are classified as homosexual feelings 
and learns of a model of sexuality that seems to apply to 
his feelings , which he then can fit with his experiences. 
that is , this model gives him a sense of understanding his 
situation. models that do not match up with what he knows he 
feels will be discarded .  . however , one wonders if once accepting 
the idea of his being gay and deciding what exactly that 
means he will analyze all his feelings and experiences based on 
the definition he has already accepted , which of course 
his model. 

if that was hard to understand now listen to my parallel .  . 

the christian feels things that an atheist claims he does not 
feel. the christian accepts the christian theology as the true 
description of what his feelings mean. once accepting this 
model he interprets his experiences with regards to this model 
which of course his christianity .  . 

as a reminder , i am a christian , a catholic , i do n't hate 
homosexuals or atheists , but am just trying to understand 
them. i only compare them because they are both so foreign 
to me. am i as blind to the homosexual as the atheist seems 
blind to me or am i as prejudiced against atheistic denial of 
religious experience as the homosexual is prejudiced against 
attempts by society to deny his sexuality 

or am i just out to lunch , again 

chris mussack 

from  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 12 

in article writes 

who is the atheist 's prayer being said to 


my roommate , the atheist , says to anyone out there who might be 
listening. 


randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 


from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re dreams and out of body incidents 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 44 

in article (david e. goggin ) writes 
i 'd like to get your comments on a question that has been on my mind a 
lot what morals ethics apply to dreams and out of body incidents 
in normal dreams , you ca n't control anything , so obviously 
you are n't morally responsible for your actions .  . but if you can 
to control the action in dreams or do an , it seems like a morality applies .  . 

i think that if someone often has immoral dreams , like dreams , 
or dreams where you commit acts of violence , etc. etc. it may be a sign 
that he has something sinful in his heart. it may be the holy spirit 's 
way of allowing the sinfulness that is in us to come to light so that 
we can pray about it and have it removed. generally , if one has a 
pure heart , and sets his mind on things that are holy , he will be holy 
even when he dreams. 

dreams also can be from the lord .  . joseph and are two examples 
of people in the bible who received dreams from the lord .  . 

regarding out of body experiences , this is something that we have to be 
careful with. what is called an can be spiritual in nature , especially 
if what one saw is the same as an experience witnessed by someone else. 
christians should certainly avoid any occult activity that would generate 
an out of body experience. some things that might be called an 
might actually be from the lord .  . paul wrote of what might of been an  . 
in ii corinthians 12 , he wrote of a spiritual experience of being caught 
up into the third heaven. is an truely an does one really 
leave his body , or is he just seeing an image being shown to him by a 
spirit , be it a demon or the holy spirit i do n't think it matters 
that much. paul could not tell. 

be that as it may , we should be careful not to open ourselves up to satan 
to experience 's .  . we should not meditate and pretend we are in a 
place until our spirits apparently float there. this is dangerous. if 
god wants to us what seems like an , then he can do that of his 
own sovereign will. in the bible , most often it seems that prophets are 
just taken up by god 's sovereign will , and not because they are seeking 
an  . john was in the spirit praying on the lord 's day when he was 
caught up in the visions he received. was talking with some 
jewish leaders when he was caught up into the visions of god one 
time. if god wants to take one of us up into a vision , he can do it. 
people should be careful not to open themselves up to evil spirits 
for the sake of a few  . 

link hudson .  . 

from !  ( gerry palo ) 
subject re christianity and repeated lives 
lines 100 

in article  ( sc 
ott a mayo) writes 
gerry palo writes 
 .  .  . there . is nothing in christianity that precludes the idea of 
repeated lives on earth. 

does n't it say somewhere it is appointed to man once to die , 
and then judgement i do n't have a concordance here but i have 
some dim memory that this appears somewhere in the bible .  . 
given a fairly specific context for what judgement is , i 'd say 
that more or less decides the issue. 

heb 9 27 clh 

indeed , the immediate context nasb is 

26 otherwise , he would have needed to suffer often 
since the foundation of the world but now once at 
the he has been manifested to put away 
sin by the sacrifice of himself. 

27 and inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die 
once , and after this comes judgement 

28 so christ also , having been offered once to bear 
the sins of many , shall appear a second time , not to 
bear sin , tro those who eagerly await him. 


the first point is that this verse is part of an even larger 
context , the subject of which is not the destiny of the 
individual human soul but rather the singular nature of christ 's 
sacrifice , once , and the fulfillment of the law for all of fallen 
mankind .  . rudolf this in detail in his 
christianity and reincarnation . the thrust of the passage 
in its context is to liken the one time incarnation and 
sacrifice of christ for all mankind to the individual 
experience of the human being after death. the once 
is repeated and emphasized , and it highlights the singularity 
of christ 's deed .  . one thing for certain it does is to 
refute the claims of some that christ more than 
once. but the comparison to the human experience die 
once , then judgement  ( note not the judgement , but just 
judgement . the word for judgement is . 

hebrews 9 27 is the one passage most often quoted in defense 
of the doctrine that the bible denies reincarnation .  . at this 
point , i would just emphasize again that the passages 
that  ( arguably ) speak against it are few , and that invariably 
they are talking about something , and the apparent denial 
of reincarnation is either inferred , or , as in the case of 
hebrews , taken literally and deposited into an implied context , 
namely a doctrine of the destiny of the human being after 
death. 

what should be considered seriously is that the bible is essentially 
silent about the fate of the individual human being between death 
and the last day. if you take the few passages that could possibly 
be interpreted to mean a single earth life , they are arguable .  . and 
there are other passages that point , arguably , in the other 
tion .  . such as matthew 11 14 and john 9 2. 

we can continue to debate the individual scraps of scripture that 
might have a on this , and indeed we should discuss them. 
but what i wanted to introduce into the discussion was an approach 
to the idea of repeated earth lives that , unlike hindu , buddhist 
and new age teachings , takes full of the divinity , singular 
incarnation , death , burial , resurrection , and second coming of christ 
as the savior of mankind the accountability of each individual for 
his deeds and the reality of the fall and of sin and its consequences 
the redemption of man from sin through christ the resurrection of 
the body , and the last judgement .  . 

taken in this larger sense , many serious questions take on an entirely 
different perspective. e.g. the destiny of those who died in their 
sins before christ came. the relationship of faith and grace to 
works , the meaning of deathbed conversion , the meaning of the 
sacraments , and many other things. not that i propose to answer all 
those questions by a simple doctrine of convenience , but only that 
the discussion takes on a different dimension , and in my opinion 
one that is truly worthy of both man , the earth , and their creator and 
redeemer .  . there are many deep questions that continue to be deep , such 
as the meaning of the second death , and how the whole of christian 
doctrine would apply to this larger perspective of human existence .  . 

there are those who deeply believe that the things of which the bible 
does not speak are not things we should be concerned with. but christ 
also indicated that there were other things that we would come to know 
in the future , including things that his disciples  ( and therefore others) 
could not bear yet. this idea that the human capacity for growth in 
knowledge , not only of the individual in one lifetime , but of the whole 
of humanity , also takes on great meaning when we realize that our growth 
in the spirit is a long term process. the bible was not meant to codify 
all spiritual knowledge in one place forever , but to proclaim the gospel 
of the incarnation and redeeming deed of christ taking the gospel in the 
greater context , from genesis to revelation .  . now , salvation  ( healing ) becomes , 
not the end of man 's but its beginning. and the last judgement and 
the new heaven and earth that follow it become its  . 

gerry palo 

from 
subject and the ontological argument 
lines 16 

fred gilham asks whether it is true that wrote a version of 
the ontological argument for the existence of god. 

yes , it is true. someone has published a rebuttal pointing out 
certain flaws in the argument , and recently professor c anthony 
anderson , of the philosophy department of the university of 
minnesota , has written a revised version of the argument , perhaps 
free of flaws , and at any rate free of the flaws complained of in 
the original version. he has sent me a copy , which i still have (i 
saw it last week when i was looking for something else) , and when it 
surfaces again i can supply particulars .  . my guess is that it is 
being published  ( or already has been ) in the journal of symbolic 
logic .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re faq essay on homosexuality 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 201 

in article writes 

this came from. here 's his response kinsey  ( see below) is the source 
of the figure 10 percent. 

there was an article in usa today a few months ago showing the results 
of a study that actually only about 1 were homosexual .  . i saw another 
figure that listed 2 as the figure. of course , even if it were 99 
that would have little bearing on whether or not it is a sinful behavior. 
how many people have commited other acts of fornication how many 
people have lied or sinned in other ways 

but in all fairness , the shameless nature of their acts is a 
reflection of the general spiritual state of the people , and not a 
specific feature of homosexuality .  . 

why is n't it a specific feature of homosexuality paul describes 
men with men working that which is unseemly to describe the acts .  . 
sure , there nature was depraved also , and like the other 
sins , the idolatry , the other sexual , and the other sins 
sprang from their depraved spiritual state which was a result of 
man 's not glorifying god as god and being thankful .  . still , their 
acts were shameless .  . 

homosexuality or even considered it acceptable in some cases. on the 
other hand , none of these passages contains explicit teachings on the 
subject. rom 1 is really about idolatry .  . it refers to homosexuality 
in passing .  . 

is everything sinful specifically elaborated on in the new testament 
scripture does not condemn being a drug dealer .  . being ruled by the 
spirit rather than the letter not only frees from , it also 
protects us from sins that are against the spirit. the word is a 
two edged sword that cuts both ways. 

i think we must be careful before we totally throw out leviticus .  . 
if the law is reflection of god 's character and true holy nature , then 
those who say that god endorses homosexuality run into a problem. 
if homosexuality were natural  ( whatever that means) wholesome , 
endorsed by god , and those who oppose sexual behavior are narrow minded 
, as some would have us believe , why is there a condemnation of 
it in leviticus .  . this condemnation is in the midst of all the other 
sex sin condemnations , and there is nothing in the text to say that this 
law was limited to temple prostitution , and no good reason to believe that 
this was the case. furthermore , male homosexual sex was a death penalty 
crime ! 

is every sin elaborated on in the new testament take a look at 
i corinthians 5. paul said that one of the corinthians had broken a 
law not even heard of among the gentiles , that one should have his father 's 
wife. there is a prohibition against having your father 's wife in 
leviticus .  . no other new testament verse clearly condemns it  ( besides 
this one . ) . notice that paul did not say that the sin was in commiting 
adultery , etc. he spoke against having one 's father 's wife. 

notice also that this sexual condemnation in leviticus is not mentioned 
in the specific context of paganism either. and there was no pagan 
mentioned in i corinthians either. as a matter of fact 
taking one 's father 's wife was n't even done among the gentiles .  . it was 
just a plain sin , whether worshipping idols was involved or 
not. 

one commonly made claim is that paul had simply never faced the kinds 
of questions we are trying to deal with. he encountered homosexuality 
only in contexts where most people would probably agree that it was 
wrong. he had never faced the experience of christians who try to act 
straight and fail , and he had never faced christians who are trying 
to define a christian homosexuality , which fits with general christian 
ideals of fidelity and of seeing sexuality as a mirror of the 
relationship between god and man. it is unfair to take paul 's 
judgement on homosexuality among idolaters and use it to make 
judgements on these questions. 

one of the reasons that some of us do not accept that common argument 
is because paul probably did face this and other problems. sin can 
be tough to over come , especially without supernatural power. is 
homosexual sin any more difficult to overcome that heterosexual sin , 
like after a married woman , or sleeping around with people of 
the opposite sex i doubt it , and even if it is , that is no excuse. 
god is greater than all of it. 

another reason we reject it is because it ignores the supernatural 
power of god to intervene in this kind of situation. how many 
people have been set free from sin by the power of god sure there 
may be any groups that have tried to change homosexuals and failed. 
that is a reflection on the people involved in the program , and not 
god 's willingness and ability to change a sinner .  . any program that 
uses formulas may fail. what people need is the power of god to 
change them , whether they are involved in homosexual sin , or any other 
sin .  . 

i claim that the question of how to counsel homosexual christians is 
not entirely a theological issue , but also a pastoral one. paul 's 
tendency , as we can see in issues such as eating meat and celebrating 
holidays , is to be uncompromising on principle but in pastoral issues 
to look very carefully at the good of the people involved , and to 
avoid insisting on perfection when it would be personally damaging .  . 
for example , while paul clearly believed that it was acceptable to eat 
meat , he wanted us to avoid pushing people into doing an action about 
which they had personal qualms .  . 

i do n't see how you come to that conclusion .  . paul 's dealings with 
issues encouraged people to give up their liberties in order 
to spare others not to allow people to continue in sin because it 
was just too difficult. take the example of eating meat offered to idols .  . 
paul felt that there was nothing wrong , in an abstract sense , with 
eating the meat. yet he advised believers to sacrifice their liberty 
to eat meat in order to spare others. 

but paul never allowed people to sin because living holy was just to 
tough. paul wrote to make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lusts 
thereof .  .  ( romans 13 14) then he goes in to a discourse on how we 
should sacrifice our own liberty in order to spare the consciences of others. 

suppose it were not a sin for people to practice homosexual acts .  . 
since others consider it to be a sin , then using paul 's approach 
on issues , those who would otherwise be homosexuals should 
sacrifice their liberty and be or married to a 
member of the opposite sex. paul never offers a lesser sin  ( homosexual 
marriage ) to prevent people from engaging in what may be considered 
a more damaging sin .  . 

for another example , paul obviously 
would have preferred to see people (at least in some circumstances) 
remain unmarried .  . yet if they were unable to do so , he certainly 
would rather see them married than in a state where they might be 
tempted to fornication .  . 

yet marriage itself is not a sin .  . marriage is holy in all and something 
that god , and paul recognizes this. 

note that in the 
creation story work enters human life as a result of sin .  . this 
does n't mean that christians can stop working when we are saved .  . 

actually , adam was put in the garden to tend to it before he fell .  . 
after he fell he would have to toil over the ground. 

the dangers of trying to cure it are that the attempt most often 
fails , and when it does , you end up with damage ranging from 
psychological damage to suicide , as well as broken marriages when 
attempts at living as a heterosexual fail. 

that is why we are dependent totally on god what a vunerable and glorious 
position to be it. we all must be transformed by the renewing of our 
minds and that is the only way homosexuals can walk in freedom , just 
like anyone else. 

but i can well imagine paul 
preferring to see people in long term , committed christian 
relationships than promiscuity .  . as with work which genesis 
suggests was n't part of god 's original ideal either i think such 
relationships can still be a vehicle for people sharing god 's love 
with each other. 

i'm sure you can see how people with the opposing view see this 
conclusion .  . it 's like saying , how should i kill myself , with gun or 
what about the person who just is overcome with a desire to 
sleep with goats would it be better for him to sleep with one goat , 
or all of them what about the person who wants to sleep with his 
would it be better for him to sleep with one aunt or all of them 

in all these cases , the more people or animals one sleeps with , the higher 
the chance that they will get a disease. but this only deals with 
physical aspects of the question. whichever sin is commited , it all 
leads to spiritual death. 

cent. actions are the same. when christian homosexuals say that their 
relationships are different than the greek homosexuality that paul 
would have been familiar with , this is exactly the same kind of 
argument that is being made about judicial oaths and tax collectors .  . 

the issue that is most often addressed in scripture seems to be the 
actual act. second , is n't it historical to say that 
only homosexuals of this century are capable of having loving 
relationships there are ancient writings glorifying homosexual love. 
 ( btw , i am one who believes in refraining from making  . also , 
where do you get that tax collectors are sinners .  . that 's certainly not 
explicit .  . jesus did n't tell to quit his job . ) . 

link hudson .  . 


i'm reluctant to comment in this in detail. our basic concepts of 
the intention of jesus and paul are greatly different. as i indicated 
in the article , whatever the of various words  ( and i still 
think they are significant ) , it does seem clear that paul considered 
the homosexuality he saw around him wrong. what you do with this fact 
depends upon your basic approach to the bible .  . i'm afraid that 
communication between and anti christians is even 
harder than between protestants and catholics in the 16th cent. since 
you disagree with my starting point , obviously you 're going to 
disagree with all of the intermediate discussion and conclusions .  . 
sometimes discussion is still useful. i 've seen some very interesting 
work on paul done by jews .  . obviously they do n't agree with him , but 
they sometimes have helpful insight into what he meant. but i do n't 
see much sign for hope here. in talk . religion . misc . there 's an axiom 
that by the time hitler 's name is invoked , all hope for sensible 
discussion is gone. on this subject , when sleeping with goats is 
invoked , i do n't think there 's enough basis for understanding to be 
worth pursuing .  . clh 

from (david l. hanson ) 
subject re sj mercury 's reference to fundamentalist christian parents 
organization these are my opinions. 
lines 66 

in article  ( dave bernard ) writes 
from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re sj mercury 's reference to fundamentalist christian parents 
date 14 may 93 06 10 10 gmt 
in article , (a rose arose ) writes 

raised in oakland and san lorenzo by strict fundamentalist 
christian parents , mason was beaten as a child. he once was 

were the san jose mercury news to come out with an article starting with 
raised in oakland by mexican parents , mason was beaten .  .  .  . , my face would 
be red with anger over the injustice done to my mexican family members and 


although i'm neither fundamentalist nor evangelical , i have often noticed 
this trend in the media. in short , it is permissable to bash fundamentalists .  . 
no need to a nationality such as mexican .  .  .  . try simply to 
substitute a different religion  .  .  . raised . by muslim parents , or  .  .  . raised . 
by jewish parents .  .  .  . the paper simply would not do this. 

i have noticed that newspapers do n't even know what a fundamentalist is 
at the least , they confuse new evangelicals and fundamentalists .  . in this 
news group , the liberals do n't even know what a fundamentalist is  ( crying 
out at anyone who believes and obeys god 's word) .  . a fundamentalist 
would train their children in the way god , not in the way that 
man  . this would not include life threatening beatings but would 
include corporal punishment .  . 

to the liberals , i cry out infidel at anyone who does not believe god 's word. 

signature follows 
your statutes are wonderful therefore i obey them. psalm 119 129 

david l. hanson 
any opinions expressed are my own ! 

as most people here know , i believe fundamentalist is sufficiently 
ill defined that i advise using some more specific term. i think many 
people use it to cover people who believe in inerrancy and a number of 
related concepts (e . g .  . denial of  . while the original 
fundamentals movement was somewhat more specific , i would think most 
people who accept inerrancy would actually support the whole original 
agenda .  . (it included a list of key traditional doctrines , e.g. the 
virgin birth . ) . the term is now being used by the press to describe 
aggressive conservative religions in general , most typically those who 
are attempting to legislate religion. 

is yet another ill defined term. however there is some 
reason for its use in this context. in fact the common theological 
definition is the believe that salvation is through the law. i hope 
no one here believes that our conservative contributors hold this 
view. however there is a basic difference in approach over what we 
expect to get out of the bible .  . the conservative approach expects to 
find specific behavioral rules. generally the posters advocating this 
approach talk about the relevant passages from paul 's letter as god 's 
law. the liberal approach expects to find general principles , but it 
regards specific behavioral rules subject to change depending upon the 
culture and other things. it 's easy to see why a liberal would regard 
the conservative approach as  . it 's hard to know quite what 
other term to use. the issue in this case is not inerrancy , because 
no one is saying that paul made a factual error. rather , the question 
is whether his statements are to be taken as law. calling the 
positive answer seems obvious enough terminology .  . i have n't 
seen any good alternative .  . 

clh 

from  ( ann carlson ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va usa 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( dan , , , ) writes 
in article ,  ( ann carlson ) writes 
anyone who thinks being gay and christianity are not compatible should 
check out dignity , integrity , more light presbyterian churches , affirmation , 
mcc churches , etc. meet some gay christians , find out who they are , pray 
with them , discuss scripture with them , and only then form your opinion. 

if you were to start your own religion , this would be fine. but there 
is no scriptural basis for your statement , 

how about acts 11 15 18 , 22 23 
or , i john 4 1 8 
which says to try the spirits to see if they be of god. 

in fact it really gets to the heart of the problem. 
you think you know more than scripture .  . 
your faith is driven by feel and not by the word of god. 

how do you know when have you tried to learn anything about me 





dr. ann b. carlson o . 
ms 366 o 
nasa langley research center ` ) 
hampton , va 23681 0001 


from  ( mark wuest ) 
subject re boston c of c 
organization at t 
lines 27 

aside to the moderator 

in article rick  ( rick granberry ) writes 

see below .  .  .  . 

i wo n't quote any of it , but there are several errors in the article. 
not things that are just differences of opinion , but the writer just 
plain has his facts confused. 

for example , kip was asked to come to the lexington church 
by the leaders there. he brought no team. he actually had been in 
charleston , il up to that point. he had many friends , even leaders in 
gainesville , telling him not to go , because people in the northeast 
were n't open and he 'd be wasting his time and talents .  . really ! ! 
 ( this fact was a kind of inside joke at one point after the church 
in boston took off so well .  .  .  . not open , indeed ! ) ) 

i could take it on point by point , but i am not in a position to know 
one way or the other about some things in the article. i just wanted 
to point out that it contains misinformation .  . 

mark 

mark my opinions , not at t 's ! ! 
 ( sun ok) 
 ( next mail) 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 9 


(stephen a. creps ) writes 

anyway , your argument seems to be saying , if i were 
god , i certainly would n't do things that way therefore , god does n't do 
things that way. 

i would never have the audacity to say such a thing. my argument says 
only that i do not understand. 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 28 

darin johnson wrote 
ok , what 's more important to gay christians sex , or christianity 
christianity i would hope. would they be willing to sex 
completely , in order to avoid being a stumbling block to others , 
to avoid the chance that their interpretation might be wrong , 
etc if not , why not heterosexuals abstain all the time. 
(it would be nice if protestant churches had celibate orders 
to show the world that sex is not the important thing in life) 

the difference is that straight members are given the choice of 
abstaining or not , and is recognized as a gift , given only 
to some. gays are told that , as a condition of acceptance , they 
must be celibate .  . i do n't believe that god gives me a forced choice 
between having a relationship with god and expressing my heterosexuality 
 ( within the context of a faithful relationship) .  . nor do i believe 
that god gives that forced choice to gays .  . sex or christianity is a 
false dichotomy .  . 

to tell the truth , gay churches remind me a lot of henry the viii 
starting the church of england in order to get a divorce  ( or is 
this a  . note that i am not denying that gay christians are 
christian .  . 

for my part , gay churches remind me of blacks starting their own churches 
either because they were not allowed at all in the white churches , or , at 
best , only with special restrictions that did not apply to white members. 



from (paul pg ) 
subject praying for justice 
organization university of natal  ( durban ) 
lines 650 

i recently came across this article which i found interesting. i have 
posted it to hear what other people feel about the issue. 

i realise it is rather long (12 pages in wordperfect ) by may well be worth 
the read. 

except for the first page (which i typed ) the rest was scanned 
omnipage .  . some of the f 's have come out as t 's and visa versa .  . i have tried 
to correct as much as possible. 


about the author 

peter hammond is the founder of frontline fellowship , a 
missionary organisation witnessing to the communist countries in 
southern africa .  . he has also made several visits to many east 
european countries. 

frontline fellowship news issn 1018 

praying for justice 
(by peter hammond ) 

to those involved in to christians suffering 
persecution the psalms are a tremendous source of 
comfort. and those of us who are fighting for the right to life 
of the , or battling social evils such as pornography or 
crime , are beginning to appreciate what an important weapon god 
has entrusted to us in the psalms .  . 


the psalms 

early in my christian walk i encountered the prayers for 
judgement in the psalms and was quite at loss to know how to 
respond to them. prayers such as 
break the arm of the wicked and evil men call him to account for 
his wickedness ... psalm 10 15 did not seem consistent with the 
gospel of love which i had accepted. yet psalm 10 15 was clearly 
motivated by love for god ( the lord is king for ever and ever 
the nation will perish from his land 10 16 , and why does the 
wicked man revile god 10 13) , and by love for the innocent who 
suffer ( you hear , o lord , the desire of the afflicted you 
encourage them , and you listen to their cry , defending the 
fatherless and oppressed , in order that man , who is of the earth , 
may terrify no more. 10 17 18) 

nevertheless , i grew increasingly uncomfortable reading such 
graphic prayers for god to judge the wicked as pour out your 
wrath on them let your fierce anger overtake them 64 24 o 
lord , the god , o god who , shine forth. rise up , o 
judge of the earth , pay back to the proud what they deserve .  . 
95 1 2 break the teeth in their mouths , o god  .  .  . let . them 
vanish like water  .  .  . let their arrows be blunted ... the 
righteous will be glad when they are , when they bathe 
their feet in the blood of the wicked .  . then men will way , surely 
the righteous still are rewarded surely there is a god who 
judges the earth . ' . 58 6 11 

certainly i wanted god to be honoured and yes i was deeply 
by the prevalence of evil but could i actually pray 
for god to pour out his wrath on the wicked 

the scripture make it clear that these prayers are not to be 
prayed for own selfish motives , nor against our personal enemies .  . 
rather they are to be prayed in christ , for his glory and against 
his enemies .  . the psalmist describes the targets of these 
as those who devise injustice in their heart and 
whose hands mete out violence  ( 58 2) those who boast of evil 
and are a disgrace in the eyes of god. your tongue plots 
destruction , it is like a sharpened razor , and you who practise 
deceit .  . you love evil rather than good , falsehood rather than 
speaking the truth. 52 1 3 they crush your people ... they 
slay the widow and the alien they murder the fatherless .  . 94 5 
6 with cunning they against your people they plot 
against those you cherish .  . 83 3 you hate all who do wrong. you 
destroy those who tell lies bloodthirsty and deceitful men the 
lord  . 5 5 6. 

to those unrepentant enemies of god the psalmist declares 
surely god will bring you down to everlasting ruin 52 5 
surely god will crush the heads of his enemies ... of those who 
go on in their sins 68 21. 

and the purpose of these prayers for justice is declared then 
it will be known to the ends of the earth that god rules ... 
59 13 to proclaim the powers of god 68 34 all kings will bow 
down to him and all nations will serve him 72 11 who knows 
the power of your anger for your wrath is as great as the fear 
that is due you. 90 11 

yet despite the fact that 90 of the 150 psalms include 
 ( prayers invoking god 's righteous judgement upon the 
wicked ) such prayers are rare in the average western church. 
however , amongst the persecuted churches these prayers are much 
more common. 


praying against the persecutors 

amidst the burnt out churches and devastation of marxist angola i 
found the survivors of communist persecution including the 
crippled and maimed , and widows and orphans praying for god to 
strike down the wicked and remove the persecutors of the church. 
i was shocked yet it was biblical  ( even the martyrs in heaven 
pray how long , sovereign lord , holy and true , until you judge 
the inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood revelation 
6 10) .  . 

the initiator of the communist persecution in angola was 
neto .  . described as a drunken , psychotic , marxist poet , neto had 
been installed by troops as the first dictator of angola .  . 
he boasted that within 20 years there wo n't be a bible or a 
church left in angola .  . i will have christianity .  . yet 
despite the vicious wave of church burning and massacres it is 
not christianity that was in angola but neto .  . 
neto died in mysterious circumstances on an operating table in 
moscow .  . 

in romania i learnt of a series of remarkable incidents recorded 
of god judging the persecutors of the church in answer to prayer 
a communist official ordered a certain pastor to be 
arrested .  . the next day the official died of a heart attack. 
another communist party official ordered that all the bibles 
in his district were to be collected and , to be 
turned into toilet paper. this blasphemous project was in 
fact carried out. but the next day when the official was 
medically examined , he was informed that he had terminal 
cancer. he died shortly afterwards. 
on another occasion , a communist official who had ordered a 
baptist church to be demolished by bulldozers died in a car 
crash the very next day. 
when an order was given to dismantle a place of worship on 
the in a forest , the flatly refused to 
carry out the order. at gunpoint a group of 
gypsies also refused to touch the church. in desperation , 
the communist police forced prisoners at bayonet point to 
dismantle the structure. yet the officer in charge pleaded 
with the local christians to pray for him , that god would 
not judge him. he emphasised that he had nothing against 
christians and was only obeying strict orders. the building 
was in fact reconstructed later , and again used for worship .  . 
they were all seized with sear and the name of the lord 
jesus was held in high honour .  .  .  . in this way the word of the 
lord spread widely and grew in power. acts 19 17 , 20 

the dictator who ordered much of the 
persecution in romania was overthrown by his own army and 
executed on christmas day , 1989 , to joyous shouts of the 
antichrist is dead in the streets. many testified that this was 
in answer to the fervent prayers of the long suffering people of 
romania .  . 

another of the church who challenged god was 
, the first dictator of marxist  . 
was a cannibal who ate human flesh in witchcraft ceremonies in 
the 1960 's .  . he pledged his soul to satan and vowed that he would 
destroy the church and turn into the first truly 
marxist leninist state in africa .  . thousands of churches in 
were closed confiscated , chained and 
, burnt down or boarded up. missionaries were expelled , 
some being imprisoned first. evangelism was forbidden .  . bibles 
were burnt and tens of thousands of christians , 
including many pastors and elders , were shipped off to 
concentration camps most were never seen again. 

a month before his sudden death cursed god publicly 
and challenged him to prove his existence by striking him 
 ( machel ) dead. on 19 october 1986 , while several churches were 
specifically praying for god to stop the persecution in 
, 's soviet aircraft crashed in a violent 
 . the plane crashed 200 metres within south africa 's 
boundary with  . amidst the wreckage the marxist plans 
for overthrowing the government of were discovered and 
published .  . not only had god judged a blasphemer and a , 
but he had also saved a country from persecution .  . 

in the months leading up to the first multi party elections in 
many churches and prayed tor god to remove the 27 
year socialist dictatorship of kenneth  . this was done on 
31st october 1991 when (a man converted to 
christ whilst imprisoned for opposing kaunda ) was elected 
president of and to make a christian 
country. 

it is recorded in history that the wicked mary , queen of scots , 
declared and in tears i am more afraid of john knox 's 
prayers than of an army of ten thousand . 

on 3 april 1993 the secretary general of the south african 
communist party chris hani was shot dead. from the unprecedented 
international wave of condolences and adulation reported one 
could be forgiven for assuming that this man was a saint and a 
martyr .  . certainly it was not the death and resurrection of christ 
jesus which dominated the thoughts and headlines of south africa 
this easter , but the assassination of chris hani .  . 

the stunning hypocrisy of the situation is that 20 135 people 
were murdered in south africa in 1992 , yet more collective 
concern and anguish were reported over the death of the head of 
the sa communist party than for all the thousands of other 
victims .  . indeed the sa government , the international community 
and the mass media have apparently had greater sorrow reported 
over this one death than for all the 50 000 south 
murdered since 2nd february 1990 when the anc , and were 
! 

yet as a member of the anc revolutionary council since 1973 , 
deputy commander of we  ( mk ) the anc 's military 
wing from 1982 , and chief of staff of mk from 1987 , chris hani 
had approved and ordered bombings and assassinations of many 
unarmed civilians .  . as jesus warned all who live by the sword 
will die by the sword matt 26 52 .  . 

after personally confronting hani about his terrorist activities 
at a press conference in washington dc (where he publicly 
declared his support for castro , col. , yasser 
arafat and saddam hussein and defended the placing of car bombs 
and mines in public places during the struggle ) i told 
him that i was a christian and , while i did n't hate him , i did 
hate communism and i was praying for him that god would either 
bring him to repentance and salvation in christ , or that god 
would remove him. he responded by swearing and declaring that he 
was an atheist .  . 

several other people also prayed that god would either bring hani 
to repentance or remove him. similarly several churches in 
america have begun to pray the psalms against 
unrepentant abortionists .  . in one town 8 abortionists were struck 
down , with heart attacks , strokes , car accidents and cancer , 
within months of these public prayers for god to stop these 
killers of babies. 

some praised god for his righteous acts of judgement and quoted 
when justice is done , it brings joy to the righteous and terror 
to evildoers proverbs 21 15. others were shocked that any 
christian could express satisfaction at the misfortune of any 
even of the blatantly wicked .  . yet the apostles prayed 
prayers  ( acts 13 8 12 galatians 1 8 9 2 tim 4 14 15) and so did 
our lord (matt 11 20 24) .  . 

what then should our attitude towards the psalms be 
should we be praying the psalms to tackle these thorny issues i 
would like to present a short summary of an excellent book , war 
psalms of the prince of peace lessons from the 
psalms by james e adams ,  ( published by the presbyterian and 
reformed publishing company) 

our lord jesus christ his apostles used the psalms constantly 
in teaching men to know god. the new testament  ( nt ) quotes the 
old testament  ( ot ) over 283 times. 41 of all ot quotes in the nt 
are from the psalms .  . christ himself alluded to the psalms over 50 
times. the psalms are the prayer book of the bible .  . 


1. are the psalms the oracles of god 

some christian commentators theologians reject these psalms as 
devilish , diabolical , to the church , and not god 
's pronouncements of his wrath on the wicked but the prayers of 
a man for vengeance on his enemies , just the opposite of jesus  
teaching that we should love our enemies .  . 

yet 2 tim 3 16 17 declares 
all scripture is god breathed and is useful for teaching , 
rebuking , correcting and training in righteousness , so that the 
man of god may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. 
 ( see also 2 peter 3 15 16) .  . 

the fact that something in the word of god is beyond our 
comprehension is not grounds to denying or even questioning its 
inspiration. to make ourselves the judge of what is good or evil 
is to take the place of god. 

do we imagine ourselves to be holier than god wrong ideas of god 
have led many to become plastic surgeons who have made 
it their job to clean up god 's word according to their own 
ideas of what is proper .  . they have forgotten that it is god alone 
who must determine what christianity is and what is suitable for 
his church. the essence of what many have done is to question the 
authority of god 's word  ( like eve 's original sin of listening to 
satan 's question yes , hath god said .  .  .  . ) .  . 

the psalms are part of god 's revelation of himself and his 
attributes , and they are reaffirmed by the nt as the 
authoritative word of god. those psalms which these 
evangelical plastic surgeons reject as and unworthy 
for the church are the very psalms christ used to testify about 
himself (eg mark 12 36 matt 22 43 44 ) and which the apostles 
used as authoritative scripture (eg acts 1 16 20 acts 4 25 heb 
4 7) .  . see also 2 samuel 23 1 2. 

ch said concerning the psalms ,  ( especially 
ps 109) 
truly this is one of the hard places of scripture , a passage 
which the soul to read , yet it is not ours to sit in 
judgement upon it , but to bow our ear to what the lord would 
speak to us therein .  . 

the rejection of any part of god 's word is a rejection of the 
giver of that word , god himself. 


2. who is praying these psalms 

christ quoted the psalms not merely as prophesy he actually 
spoke the psalms as his own words. the psalms occupied an 
enormous place in the life of our lord .  . he used it as his prayer 
book and song book from the synagogue to the and at 
the last supper .  . 

on the cross christ quoted from the psalms not as some ancient 
authority that he adapted for his own use , but as his very own 
words the words of the lord 's anointed which as david 's son 
he truly was. 
father , into your hands i commit my spirit ps 31 5 
my god , my god , why have you forsaken me ps 22 1 

in his ministry christ what he will say as the judge on 
the day of judgement , and he quotes the psalms in doing so ! 
matt 7 23 then i will tell them plainly ,  i never knew you. away 
from me , you  . ps 6 8 

in heb 10 5 the apostle attributes ps 40 6 8 directly to christ 
although nowhere in the gospels is christ recorded as having said 
these words. similarly hebrews 2 12 attributes ps 22 22 
directly to christ despite there being no record of his having 
spoken these words while on earth. clearly the apostles believed 
christ is speaking in the psalms .  . 

christ came to establish his kingdom and to extend his mercy in 
all the earth. but let us never forget that jesus will come again 
to execute judgement on the wicked .  . 
david as the anointed king of the chosen people of god was a 
prototype of jesus christ .  . acts 2 30 
being therefore a prophet , ... he foresaw and spoke of the 
resurrection of christ .  . 
david was a witness to christ in his office , in his lite , and in 
his words. the same words which david spoke , the future messiah 
spoke through him. the prayers of david were prayed also by 
christ .  . or better christ himself prayed these psalms through his 
forerunner david .  . 

the psalms are expressions of the infinite justice of 
god , of his indignation against wrong doing , and his compassion 
for the  . 


3. but what about the psalms of repentance 

christ is also the lamb of god , the sacrifice for 
our sins .  . christ in the day of his crucifixion was charged with 
the sin of his people. he appropriated to himself those debts for 
which he had made himself responsible .  . our lord was the 
substitution for the sinner .  . he took the sinners place  ( isaiah 
 . 

god made him who had no sin to be sin for us , so that in him we 
might become the righteousness of god. 2 cor 5 21 

in history the psalms , especially the psalms , have 
been understood to have been the prayers of christ by st 
augustine , jerome , ambrose , , luther and many others. 
all the psalms are the voice of christ .  . christ is praying the 
psalms ! all the psalms are messianic .  . it is the lord 
jesus christ who is praying these prayers of vengeance .  . it is 
only right for the righteous king of peace to ask god to destroy 
his enemies .  . 

these prayers signal an alarm to all who are still enemies of 
king jesus .  . his prayers will be answered ! god 's word is revealed 
upon all who oppose christ .  . anyone who rejects god 's way of 
forgiveness in the cross of christ will bear the dreadful curses 
of god. 

he who prays psalm 69 23 28 will one day make this prayer a 
reality when he declares to those on his left 
depart from me you who are cursed into the eternal fire prepared 
for the devil and his angels .  . matt 25 41 

all the enemies of the lord need to hear these psalms .  . god 's 
kingdom is at war. the powers of evil will tall and god alone 
will reign forever ! 
with justice he judges and makes war .  .  . out . of his mouth comes a 
sharp sword with which to strike down the nations .  . he will rule 
them with an iron sceptre he the of the fury of 
the wrath of god almighty .  .  . king . of kings and lord of lords .  . 
rev 19 15 


4. are jesus  prayers contradictory 

what about jesus  command to love our enemies and to bless those 
who curse us (matt 5 44 ) 

christ is of course the loving and merciful saviour who forgives 
sin but he is also the awesome judge who is coming in judgement 
on those who disobey his gospel .  . 

god is just .  . he will pay back trouble to those who trouble you 
and give relief to you who are troubled .  .  . this . will happen when 
the lord jesus is revealed from heaven in blazing fire with his 
powerful angels .  . he will punish those who do not obey the gospel 
of our lord jesus .  . they will be punished with everlasting 
destruction and shut out from the presence of the lord and from 
the majesty of his power on the day he comes to be glorified in 
his holy people and to be at among au those who have 
believed .  . 2 thess 1 6 10 

jesus has power on earth to forgive sins , and he has power on 
earth to execute judgement upon his enemies .  . in the psalms we see 
both the vengeance and the love ot god. 

even in the n.t. in the gospels we see  . 
woe to you ,  .  .  . hypocrites .  .  . blind . guides .  .  . blind . fools .  .  . full . of 
greed and self indulgence .  .  . whitewashed . tombs .  .  . you . snakes ! you 
brood of ! how will you escape being condemned to hell 
matt 23 

in matt 26 23 24 christ quotes from ps 69 and 109 to refer to his 
betrayal by judas .  . 

we also need to acknowledge that christ 's prayers of blessing are 
not for all. in john 17 6 9 it is clear that christ is only 
praying to the elect of god those who have 
obeyed your word ... accepted god 's word ... and have 
believed .  ( see luke 10 8 16 those who reject the 
message of god 's kingdom will be judged . ) . 


5. may we pray the psalms 

martin luther pointed out that when one prays hallowed be thy 
name , thy kingdom come , thy will be done then he must put all 
the opposition to this in one pile and say  curses , 
and disgrace upon every other name and every other kingdom .  . may 
they be ruined and torn apart and may all their schemes and 
wisdom and plans run  . 

to pray tor the extension of god 's kingdom is to solicit the 
destruction of all other kingdoms , eg dan 2 44 the god of 
heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed ... it 
will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end , but it 
will itself endure forever. 

advance and victory for the church means defeat and retreat for 
the kingdom of darkness .  . 

there is a life death struggle between two kingdoms .  . the church 
cannot exclude hatred tor satan 's kingdom from its love for god 's 
kingdom .  . god 's kingdom cannot come without satan 's kingdom being 
destroyed .  . god 's will cannot be done on earth without the 
destruction of evil. the glory of god demands the destruction of 
evil. instead of being influenced by a 
which insists upon the assumed , but really non existent , rights 
of man we should focus instead upon the rights of god. 

note psalm 83 where the psalmist prays against those who plot 
together against god and his people 
cover their faces with shame so that men will seek your name o 
lord .  .  .  . do to them as you did to , as you did to and 
at the river , who perished at and became like 
refuse on the ground. 

the story of in the book of judges  ( chapter 4 and 5) 
provides a vivid example of god 's judgement on the wicked .  . 
cruelly oppressed the israelites for twenty years and they 
cried to the lord for help judges 4 3. in response to those 
prayers the lord routed and all his chariots and army by 
the sword , and abandoned his chariot and fled on foot .  .  .  . 
all the troops of fell by the sword not a man was left. 
judges 4 15 16 

the account then goes on to describe how escaped to the 
tent of where she lulled him into a false sense of safety 
and then drove a tent peg through his temple with a hammer .  . the 
song of victory by deborah and barak celebrated the crushing of 
the head of in graphic detail  ( judges 5 25 27) .  . and it is 
this that psalm 83 god to again do to his enemies .  .  . as 
you did to ... 


6. the blessings of obedience and the curse of disobedience 

the psalms are fully consistent with the law of god 
if you do not carefully follow all the words of this law , 
which are written in this book , and do not revere this 
glorious and awesome name the lord your god the lord 
will send fearful plagues on you and your descendants .  . he 
will bring upon you all the diseases of egypt that you 
dreaded , and they will cling to you. the lord will also 
bring on you every kind of sickness and disaster not 
recorded in this book of the law until you are 
destroyed .  .  . because . you did not obey the lord your god ... 
so it will please him to ruin and destroy you. you will be 
uprooted from the land you are entering to possess .  . 
deuteronomy 28 58 63 

the covenant god made with his people included curses for 
disobedience as well as blessings for obedience .  . deuteronomy 27 
records the formal giving and receiving of the covenant terms in 
an awesome account 
the shall recite to all the people of israel in a loud 
voice 
cursed is the man who carves an image or casts an idol a thing 
to the lord , the work of the craftsman 's hands and 
sets it up in secret. 
then all the people shall say , amen ! 
cursed is the man who his father or his mother .  .  .  . 
cursed is the man who moves his neighbour 's boundary stone .  .  .  . 
cursed is the man who leads the blind astray on the roads .  .  .  . 
cursed is the man who justice from the alien , the 
fatherless or the widow .  .  .  . 
cursed is the man who kills his neighbour secretly .  .  .  . 
cursed is the man who accepts a bribe to kill an innocent 
person. 
cursed is the man who does not uphold the words of the law by 
carrying them out. 
then all the people shall say , amen ! deut 27 14 26 

the new testament confirms that the inevitable consequence of 
rejecting christ is the curse .  . if anyone does not love the 
lord a curse be on him. 1 corinthians 16 22 

 ( see also romans 12 19 21 hebrews 1 1 3 3 7 12 3 10 26 
31 12 14 29 . ) . 


7. how can we preach these prayers 

the church of jesus christ is an army under orders. 
scripture constitutes the official dispatch from the commander 
in chief .  . but we have a problem those who are called to pass on 
those orders to others are refusing to do so. how then can we 
expect to be a united , effective army is it any wonder that the 
troops have lost sight of their commission to demolish the 
of the kingdom of darkness if the church does not 
hear the battle cries of her captain , how will she follow him 
onto the battlefield 

pastors are commissioned to pass on the orders of the church 's 
commander , never withholding or changing his words. one whose job 
is to carry to troops in wartime would face certain 
and severe punishment if he dared to amend the general 's orders. 
the pastor 's charge is of greater importance than that of a 
courier in any earthly army .  . there 's no place tor the dispatcher 
to decide he does n't agree with his commander 's strategy .  . 

when jesus christ sent seventy two disciples on a preaching 
mission , he told them to proclaim the coming of god 's kingdom  ( lk 
10 9) that is , to announce that people must submit to god 's 
rule in their lives. jesus instructed them to pray for peace on 
any house they approach , assuring them that if anyone rejected 
it , the peace would return on the disciples  ( verse 5) .  . but we 
must consider what he said they should do if their message were 
rejected that is , if the hearers persisted in rebellion against 
god 's rule but when you enter a town and are not welcomed , go 
into its  streets and say ,  even the dust of your town that 
sticks to our feet we wipe off against you. yet be sure of this 
the kingdom of god is near ' luke 10 11. 

what would be the result of that denunciation i tell you , it 
will be more bearable on that day for sodom on which god sent 
fire from heaven in judgement for its wickedness than for that 
town  ( verse 12) .  . immediately jesus added curses on , 
, and tor their rejection of his message 
 ( verses 13 15) .  . he then explained to the disciples the great 
authority he had given them he who listens to you listens to 
me he who rejects you rejects me but he who rejects me rejects 
him who sent me  ( verse 16) .  . this is the fundamental basis tor 
calling down god 's curses on anyone his persistent rebellion 
against god 's authority expressed in his law and the ministry of 
his servants .  . 

we need to clearly and forcefully proclaim the war cries of the 
prince of peace. only then will the church awake from its 
lethargy and once again enter the battle. if we tail to pass on 
the battle cry then a lack of urgency and confusion in the ranks 
will be inevitable .  . 

like psalm 1 our preaching needs to clearly show the blessings of 
obedience and the curse of disobedience .  . the eternal truth is 
that god cannot be mocked .  . whatever a man that shall he 
reap  ( galatians 6 7) .  . the curses pronounced on disobedience in 
deut 28 47 53 were fulfilled in detail in samaria (2 kings 
6 2 29) and in judea  ( ad 70) .  . the wrath of god upon covenant 
breakers is real. 

the i of the psalms is jesus christ .  . the we of the psalms 
includes those of us in the lord jesus .  . the enemies are not our 
own , individually , but those of the lord and of his church. the 
psalms are ot christ as prophet , priest , and king .  . they record 
christ 's march in victory against the kingdom of darkness .  . as 
christ is the author of the psalms , so , too , is he the final 
of the covenant on which they are based .  . god will 
answer the psalmist 's prayers completely in jesus christ on the 
final day of judgment .  . while on earth jesus foretold the day when 
he will say but those enemies of mine who did not want me to be 
king over them bring them here and kill them in front of me 
luke 19 27. 

a fatal end awaits everyone who refuses to acknowledge and to 
obey jesus as king and lord .  . hearing of these war 
psalms of the prince of peace will remind his people that god 's 
kingdom is at war ! the kingdom of darkness is being overcome by 
the kingdom of jesus christ , a war in which each local 
congregation of believers plays a vital part. you must rally your 
battalion to put on the whole armour of god , including the sword 
of the spirit , which is the word of god eph 6 17. that battle 
readiness also involves  ( pray(ing ) in the spirit on all occasions 
with all kinds of prayers and requests n eph 6 18. 

christ teaches his army to pray for the utter destruction of the 
enemies of god as the psalmist did pour out your wrath on the 
nations that do not acknowledge you , on the kingdoms that do not 
call on your name ps 79 6. 

to deal with the very real hurts and injustices in this world it 
is necessary for us to pray for god 's justice. those who are 
persecuted need the comfort of these prayers. 

let the saints rejoice in his honour and sing for joy .  .  . may . the 
praise of god be in their mouths and a double edged sword in 
their hands , to inflict vengeance on the nations and punishment 
on the peoples , to bind their kings with fetters , their nobles 
with shackles of iron , to carry out the sentences written against 
them. this is the glory of all his saints .  . praise the lord .  . ps 
149 5 9 

prayer is , in fact , spiritual warfare .  . one weapon is prayer for 
conversion of spiritual enemies another is prayer for judgement 
on those who finally refuse to be converted .  . we handicap the army 
of god when we refuse to use both of these great weapons that he 
has given us. it is at all times a part of the task of the people 
nf god to destroy evil. 

if you have been guilty of your sword , by neglecting or 
undermining these psalms , repent of that sin , sharpen your sword 
anew , and go forth to do battle in the name and for the glory of 
jesus until the knowledge of the lord will cover the earth as 
the waters cover the sea hab 2 14. 

the full book war psalms of the prince of peace is available , 
at , from frontline fellowship , po box 74 , rsa .  . 


permission to reproduce 
those wishing to reproduce or quote from any edition of ff news 
are encouraged to do so. we only request that due acknowledgement 
of the source be mentioned and that a copy be sent to us. 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 38 

dan , , , wrote 
in article ,  ( lois christiansen ) writes 

you might visit some congregations of christians , who happen to be homosexuals , 
that are spirit filled believers , not mcc rs before you go lumping us all 
together with troy perry .  . 


gee , i think there are some real criminals  ( robbers , , drug 
addicts ) who appear to be fun loving caring people too. so what 's 
your point is it ok. just because the people are nice 

the point is not about being nice. nice is not a christian virtue .  . the 
point is that the gifts and fruits of the spirit (by their fruits you shall 
know them mt 7 20) are manifested by and among , spirit filled 
gay christians .  . it was the manifestation of the spirit among the gentiles 
that convinced peter  ( acts 10) that his prejudice against them  ( based on 
scripture , i might add ) was not in accordance with god 's intentions .  . 

i think the old saying hate the sin and not the sinner is 
appropriate here. many who belive homosexuality is wrong probably 
do n't hate the people. i do n't .  . i do n't hate my kids when they do 
wrong either. but i tell them what is right , and if they lie or do n't 
admit they are wrong , or just do n't make an effort to improve or 
repent , they get punished .  . i think this is quite appropriate. you 
may want to be careful about how you think satan is working here. 
maybe he is trying to destroy our sense of right and wrong through 
feel  . maybe he is trying to convince you that you know more 
than god. kind of like the adam and eve story. read it and compare 
it to today 's mentality .  . you may be suprised .  . 

of course the whole issue is one of  . it may be that satan 
is trying to convince us that we know more than god. or it may be that 
god is trying  ( as god did with peter ) to teach us something we do n't 
know that god shows no , but in every nation anyone who fears 
him and does what is right is acceptable to him.  ( acts 10 34  . 



from (paul robinson ) 
subject homosexuality is immoral  ( non religious argument ) 
organization a. company , silver spring , md usa 
lines 43 

this was crossposted to a zillion groups. i do n't intend to 
carry an entire discussion crossposted from alt.sex , particularly 
one whose motivation seems to be having a fun argument. however 
i thought readers might be interested to know about the 
discussion there. clh 

i intend to endeavor to make the argument that homosexuality is an 
immoral practice or lifestyle or whatever you call it. i intend to 
show that there is a basis for a rational declaration of this 
statement. i intend to also show that such a declaration can be 
made without there being a religious justification for morality , 
in fact to show that such a standard can be made if one is an atheist .  . 

anyone who wants to join in on the fun in taking the other side , 
i.e. that they can make the claim that homosexuality is not immoral , 
or that , , it is a morally valid practice , is free to do 
so. i think there are a lot of people who do n't believe one can have 
a rational based morality without having a religion attached to it. 

this should be fun to try and figure this out , and i want to try and 
expose (no pun intended) my ideas and see other people 's and see where 
their ideas are standing .  . as i'm not sure what groups would be interested 
in this discussion , i will be posting an announcement of it to several , 
and if someone thinks of appropriate groups , let me know. 

if someone on here does n't receive alt.sex , let me know and i 'll make 
an exception to my usual policy and set up a mailing list to automatically 
distribute it in digest format to anyone who wants to receive it as i 'll 
use that as the main forum for this. by exception to usual policy is 
that i normally charge for this , but for the duration the service will be 
available at no charge to anyone who has an address reachable on internet 
or bitnet .  . 

i decided to start this dialog when i realized there was a much larger 
audience on usenet internet than on the smaller bbs networks .  . 

to give the other side time to work up to a screaming anger , this will 
begin on monday , may 24 , to give people who want to make the response 
time to identify themselves. anonymous postings are acceptable , since 
some people may not wish to identify themselves. also , if someone else 
wants to get in on my side , they are free to do so. 

this should be much more interesting than abortion debates ! 

from 
subject faq essay on homosexuality 
lines 452 

someone referred to my faq essay on homosexuality .  . since it has n't 
been posted for some time  ( and i 've modified it somewhat since the 
last time) , i'm taking this opportunity to post it. there is another 
entry in the faq containing comments by some other contributors .  . they 
can be retrieved from ftp . rutgers . edu . as 
pub soc . religion . christian . others homosexuality .  . it contains far 
more detail on the exegetical issues than i give here , though 
primarily from a conservative point of view. 



this posting summarizes several issues involving homosexuality and 
christians .  . this is a frequently asked question , so i do not post the 
question each time it occurs .  . rather this is an attempt to summarize 
the postings we get when we have a discussion. it summarizes 
arguments for allowing christian homosexuality , since most people 
asking the question already know the arguments against it. the most 
common but not the only question dealt with herein is how can a 
christian justify being a homosexual , given what the bible says about 
it 

first , on the definition of  . many groups believe that 
there is a homosexual orientation , i.e. a sexual attraction to 
members of the same sex. this is distinguished from actual homosexual 
sexual activity. homosexuals who abstain from sex are considered by 
most groups to be acceptable .  . however in a lot of discussion , the 
term  homosexual  means someone actually engaging in homosexual sex. 
this is generally not accepted outside the most  liberal  groups. in 
this paper i'm going to use  homosexual  as meaning a person engaging 
in sexual acts with another of the same sex. i have n't heard of any 
biblical argument against a person with homosexual orientation who 
remains celebate .  . 

i think most people now admit that there is a predisposition to be 
homosexual .  . this is often called a  homosexual  . it is 
not known whether it is genetic or environmental .  . there is evidence 
suggesting each. the best evidence i 've seen is that homosexuality is 
not a single phenomenon , but has a number of different causes .  . one of 
them is probably genetic .  . there are several groups that try to help 
people move from being homosexual to heterosexual .  . the best known is 
exodus international . the reports i 've seen  ( and i have n't read the 
detailed literature , just the summary in the minority opinion to the 
presbyterian church 's infamous report on human sexuality ) suggest that 
these programs have very low success rates , and that there are 
questions about how real even the successes are. but there certainly 
are people who say they have converted .  . however this issue is not as 
important as it sounds. those who believe homosexuality is wrong 
believe it is intrinsically wrong , defined as such by god. the fact 
that it 's hard to get out of being a homosexual is no more relevant 
than the fact that it 's hard to escape from being a drug addict .  . if 
it 's wrong , it 's wrong. it may affect how we deal with people though. 
if it 's very difficult to change , this may tend to make us more 
willing to forgive it. 

one more general background issue it 's common to quote a figure that 
10 of the population is homosexual .  . i asked one of our experts where 
this came from. here 's his response kinsey  ( see below) is the source 
of the figure 10 percent. he defines sexuality by behavior , not by 
orientation , and ranked all persons on a scale from zero  ( completely 
heterosexual ) to 6  ( completely  . according to kinsey , 
one third of all male adults have had at least one experience of 
orgasm post  . ten percent of all adult males have 
most of their experiences of  . that was in 1948 .  . the 
percentages held true in a followup study done by the kinsey 
institute , based on data in the early seventies but not published 
until the early 80s or so , by bell and weinberg , i believe. i ca n't 
put my hand on this latter reference , but here is the online 
information for kinsey 's own study as it appears in iris , the catalog 
at rutgers 
author kinsey , alfred charles , 1894 1956 .  . 
title sexual behavior in the human male by alfred c. kinsey .  . b. 
pomeroy and clyde e. martin .  . 
publisher philadelphia , w. b. saunders co. , 1948 .  . 
xv , 804 p.  . 24 cm. 
notes based on surveys made by members of the staff of indiana 
university , and supported by the national research council 's 
committee for research on problems of sex by means of funds 
contributed by the medical division of the rockefeller foundation .  . 
bibliography p. 766 787 .  . 
other pomeroy , baxter , joint author. martin , clyde eugene , 
joint author. 
subjects sex. u. s. moral conditions. 
lc card 
this figure is widely used in all scholarly discussions and has even 
been found to hold true in several other cultures , as noted in the 
recent newsweek is this child gay (feb .  . 24 , 1992) .  . a 
journalist is running the rounds of talk shows this season promoting 
her book that allegedly refutes kinsey 's study , but the scholarly 
world seems to take her for a kook .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i 've seen some objections to the kinsey 's study , but not in enough 
detail to include here.  ( if someone would like to contribute another 
view , i 'd be willing to include it . ) . 

most christians believe homosexuality (at least sex ) is wrong. 
not all , however. a few denominations accept it. the metropolitan 
community churches is the best known it was formed specifically to 
accept homosexuals .  . however the united church of christ also allows 
it , and i think a couple of other groups may as well. the episcopal 
church seems to accept it some areas but not others. in churches that 
have congregational government , you 'll find a few congregations that 
accept it  ( even among southern baptists , though the number is probably 
only one or two  . but these are unusual few churches 
permit homosexual church leaders .  . how carefully they enforce this is 
another issue. i do n't have any doubt that there are homosexual 
pastors of just about every denomination , some more open than others. 

as to the arguments over the biblical and other issues , here 's an 
attempt to summarize the issues 

the most commonly cited reference by those favoring acceptance of 
homosexuality in previous discussions has been john boswell 
christianity , social tolerance , and homosexuality , u chicago press , 
1980 .  . 

the argument against is pretty clear. there are several explicit laws 
in the ot , e.g. leviticus 20 13 , and in rom 1 paul seems pretty negative on 
homosexuality .  . beyond these references , there are some debates .  . some 
passages often cited on the subject probably are not relevant .  . e.g. 
the sin which the inhabitants of sodom proposed to carry out was 
homosexual rape , not homosexual activity between consenting adults. 
 ( there 's even some question whether it was homosexual , since the 
entities involved were angels . ) . it was particularly horrifying 
because it involved guests , and the responsibility towards guests in 
that culture was very strong.  ( this is probably the reason lot 
offered his daughter it was better to give up his daughter than to 
allow his guests to be attacked . ) . if you look through a concordance 
for references to sodom elsewhere in the bible , you 'll see that few 
seem to imply that homosexuality was their sin .  . there 's a jewish 
interpretive tradition that the major sin was abuse of guests. at any 
rate , there 's no debate that homosexual rape is wrong. 

i do not discuss leviticus because the law there is part of a set 
of laws that most christians do not consider binding .  . so unless nt 
justification can be found , lev .  . alone would not settle the issue. 

the nt references are all in paul 's letters. a number of the 
references from paul are lists of sins in which the words are fairly 
vague .  . boswell argues that the words occuring in these lists do not 
mean homosexual .  . here 's what he says the two greek words that appear 
in the lists (i . e .  . i cor 6 9 and i tim 1 10) are and 
. unfortunately it is not entirely clear what the words 
actually mean. , with a basic meaning of soft , has a variety 
of metaphorical meanings in ethical writing. boswell suggests 
wanton as a likely equivalent .  . he also reports that the unanimous 
interpretation of the church , including greek speaking christians , was 
that in this passage it referred to masturbation , a meaning that has 
vanished only in the 20th cent. , as that practice has come to be less 
frowned upon .  .  ( he cites references as late as the 1967 edition of the 
catholic encyclopedia that identify it as masturbation . ) . he 
translates as male prostitute , giving evidence that none 
of the church fathers understood the term as referring to 
homosexuality in general. a more technical meaning , suggested by the 
early latin translations , would be active mode homosexual male 
prostitute , but in his view paul did not intend it so technically .  . 

for a more conservative view , i consulted gordon fee 's commentary on i 
cor .  . he cites evidence that often meant  . 
however boswell warns us that in greek culture is not 
necessarily synonymous with homosexual , though it may be associated 
with some kinds of homosexual behavior. given what boswell and fee 
say taken together , i suspect that the term is simply not very 
definite , and that while it applies to homosexuals in some cases , it 
is n't a general term for homosexuality .  . while fee argues against 
boswell with as well , he ends up suggesting a 
translation that seems essentially the same. the big problem with it 
is that the word is almost never used. paul 's writing is the first 
occurence .  . the fact that the word is clearly composed of male and 
f k unfortunately does n't quite tell us the meaning , since it 
does n't tell us whether the male is the subject or object of the 
action. examples of compound words formed either way can be given. 
in theory it could refer to rapists , etc. it 's dangerous to base 
meaning purely on etymology , or you 'll conclude that goodbye is a 
religious expression because it 's based on god by with ye . however 
since boswell , fee , and niv seem to agree on homosexual male 
prostitute , that seems as good a guess as any. note that this 
translation misses the strong vulgarity of the term however  ( something 
which fee and boswell agree on , but do not attempt to reproduce in 
their  . 

in my opinion , the strongest nt reference to homosexuality is romans 
1. boswell points out that rom 1 speaks of homosexuality as something 
that happened to people who were naturally heterosexual , as a result 
of their corruption due to worshipping false gods .  . one could argue 
that this is simply an example that if a homosexual worshipped false 
gods , he would also fall into degradation and perhaps become 
heterosexual .  . however i find this argument somewhat forced , and in 
fact our homosexual readers have not seriously proposed that this is 
what paul meant. 

however i am not convinced that rom 1 is sufficient to create a law 
against homosexuality for christians .  . what paul is describing in rom 
1 is not homosexuality among christians it 's homosexuality that 
appeared among idolaters as one part of a whole package of wickedness .  . 
despite the impression left by his rhetoric , i'm sure paul 
does not believe that pagans completely abandoned heterosexual sex. 
given his description of their situation , i rather assume that their 
heterosexual sex would also be and shameless .  . so yes , i do 
believe that this passage indicates a negative view of homosexuality .  . 
but in all fairness , the shameless nature of their acts is a 
reflection of the general spiritual state of the people , and not a 
specific feature of homosexuality .  . 

my overall view of the situation is the following i think we have 
enough evidence to be confident that paul disapproved of 
homosexuality .  . rom 1 seems clear. while i cor 6 9 and i tim 1 10 are 
not unambiguous and general condemnations of homosexuality , they do 
not seem like wording that would come from someone who approved of 
homosexuality or even considered it acceptable in some cases. on the 
other hand , none of these passages contains explicit teachings on the 
subject. rom 1 is really about idolatry .  . it refers to homosexuality 
in passing .  . 

the result of this situation is that people interpret these passages 
in light of their general approach to scripture .  . for those who look 
to scripture for laws about issues such as this , it not surprising 
that they would consider these passages to be nt endorsement of the ot 
prohibition .  . for those whose approach to the bible is more liberal , 
it is not surprising that they regard paul 's negative view of 
homosexuality as something that he took from his jewish upbringing 
without any serious in the light of the gospel .  . as 
readers of this group know by now , the assumptions behind these 
approaches are so radically different that people tend to foam at the 
mouth when they see the opposing view described .  . there 's not a lot i 
can do as moderator about such a situation. 

a number of discussions in the past centered around the sort of 
detailed exegesis of texts that is described above. however in fact 
i'm not convinced that defenders of homosexuality actually base their 
own beliefs on such analyses .  . the real issue seems to rest on the 
question of whether paul 's judgement should apply to modern 
homosexuality .  . 

one commonly made claim is that paul had simply never faced the kinds 
of questions we are trying to deal with. he encountered homosexuality 
only in contexts where most people would probably agree that it was 
wrong. he had never faced the experience of christians who try to act 
straight and fail , and he had never faced christians who are trying 
to define a christian homosexuality , which fits with general christian 
ideals of fidelity and of seeing sexuality as a mirror of the 
relationship between god and man. it is unfair to take paul 's 
judgement on homosexuality among idolaters and use it to make 
judgements on these questions. 

another is the following in paul 's time homosexuality was associated 
with a number of things that christians would not find acceptable .  . it 
was part of temple prostitution .  . among private citizens , it often 
occured between adults and children or free people and slaves .  . i'm 
not in a position to say that it always did , but there are some 
reasons to think so. the ancients distinguished between the active 
and passive partner. it was considered disgraceful for a free adult 
to act as the passive partner.  ( this is the reason that an active 
mode homosexual prostitute would be considered disgraceful .  . his 
customers would all be people who enjoyed the passive role . ) . this 
supports the idea that it would tend not to be engaged in between two 
free adult males , at least not without some degree of scandal .  . 
clearly christian homosexuals would not condone sex with children , 
slaves , or others who are not in a position to be fully responsible 
partners .  .  ( however fee 's commentary on i cor cites some examples from 
ancient literature of homosexual relationships that do seem to involve 
free adults in a reasonably symmetrical way. thus the considerations 
in this paragraph should n't be pushed too far. homosexuality may have 
been discredited for jews by some of these associations , but there 
surely must be been cases that were not prostitutes and did not 
involve slaves or children . ) . 

some people have argued that aids is a judgement against 
homosexuality .  . i 'd like to point out that aids is transmitted by 
promiscuous sex , both homosexual and heterosexual .  . someone who has a 
homosexual relationship that meets christian criteria for marriage is 
not at risk for aids .  . 

note that there is good reason from paul 's general approach to doubt 
that he would concede homosexuality as a fully equal alternative , 
apart from any specific statements on homosexuality .  . i believe his 
use of the genesis story would lead him to regard heterosexual 
marriage as what god ordained .  . 

however the way paul deals with pastoral questions provides a warning 
against being too quick to deal with this issue legally .  . 

i claim that the question of how to counsel homosexual christians is 
not entirely a theological issue , but also a pastoral one. paul 's 
tendency , as we can see in issues such as eating meat and celebrating 
holidays , is to be uncompromising on principle but in pastoral issues 
to look very carefully at the good of the people involved , and to 
avoid insisting on perfection when it would be personally damaging .  . 
for example , while paul clearly believed that it was acceptable to eat 
meat , he wanted us to avoid pushing people into doing an action about 
which they had personal qualms .  . for another example , paul obviously 
would have preferred to see people (at least in some circumstances) 
remain unmarried .  . yet if they were unable to do so , he certainly 
would rather see them married than in a state where they might be 
tempted to fornication .  . 

i believe one could take a view like this even while accepting the 
views paul expressed in rom 1. one may believe that homosexuality is 
not what god intended , that it occured as a result of sin , but still 
conclude that at times we have to live with it. note that in the 
creation story work enters human life as a result of sin .  . this 
does n't mean that christians can stop working when we are saved .  . the 
question is whether you believe that homosexuality is in itself sinful 
or whether you believe that it 's a misfortune that is in a broad sense 
due to human sinfulness .  . if you 're willing to consider the latter 
approach , then it becomes a pastoral judgement whether there is more 
damage caused by finding a way to live with it or trying to cure it. 
the dangers of trying to cure it are that the attempt most often 
fails , and when it does , you end up with damage ranging from 
psychological damage to suicide , as well as broken marriages when 
attempts at living as a heterosexual fail. 

this is going to depend upon one 's assessment of the inherent nature 
of homosexuality .  . if you believe it is a very serious wrong , then you 
may be willing to run high risks of serious damage to get rid of it. 
clearly we do not generally suggest that people live with a tendency 
to steal or with drug addiction , even though attempts to cure these 
conditions are also very difficult. however these conditions are 
intrinsically damaging in a way that is not so obvious for 
homosexuality .  .  ( many problems associated with homosexuality are 
actually problems of promiscuity , not homosexuality .  . this includes 
aids .  . i take for granted that the only sort of homosexual 
relationships a christian would consider allowing would be equivalent 
to christian heterosexual relationships . ) . 

in the course of discussing this over the last decade or so , we 've 
heard a lot of personal testimony from fellow christians who are in 
this situation. i 've also seen summaries of various research and the 
results of various efforts for conversion .  ( aside from the 
presbyterian report mentioned above , there 's an faq that summarizes 
our readers  reports on this question . ) . the evidence is that 
long term success in changing orientation is rare enough to be on a 
par with healing miracles .  . the danger in advising christians to 
depend upon such a change is clear when conversion does n't happen , 
which is almost always , the people are often left in despair , feeling 
excluded from a church that has nothing more to say but a requirement 
of life long  . paul recognized  ( though in a different 
context) that such a demand is not practical for most people , and i 
think the history of clerical has strongly reinforced that 
judgement .  . the practical result is that homosexuals end up in the gay 
sex clubs and the rest of the sordid side of homosexuality .  . maybe 
homosexuality is n't god 's original ideal , but i can well imagine paul 
preferring to see people in long term , committed christian 
relationships than promiscuity .  . as with work which genesis 
suggests was n't part of god 's original ideal either i think such 
relationships can still be a vehicle for people sharing god 's love 
with each other. 

there 's an issue of biblical interpretation underlying this 
discussion. the issue is that of cultural relativism . that is , 
when paul says that something is wrong , should this be taken as an 
eternal statement , or are things wrong because of specific situations 
in the culture of the time conservative christians generally insist 
on taking prohibitions as absolute , since otherwise the bible becomes 
subjective what is to stop us from considering everything in it as 
relative 

when looking at this issue , it 's worth noting that no one completely 
rejects the concept of cultural relativism .  . there are a number of 
judgements in the new testament that even conservative christians 
consider to be relative .  . the following judgements are at least as 
clear in the bible as anything said on homosexuality 

prohibition against charging interest  ( this occurs 18 times in 
the ot it 's not in the nt , but i mention it here because 
until relatively recently the church did consider it binding 
on christians) 
prohibition against swearing oaths 
endorsement of slavery as an institution 
judgement of tax collectors as sinner 

we do not regard these items as binding .  . in most cases , i believe the 
argument is essentially one of cultural relativism .  . briefly 

prohibition of interest is appropriate to a specific 
society that the bible was trying to build , 
but not to our market economy. 
few people believe that american judicial oaths have the 
same characteristics as the kind of oaths jesus was 
concerned about 
most people believe that paul was simply telling people 
how to live within slavery , but not endorsing it as 
an institution 
for people believe that the irs is morally equivalent to 
roman tax farming 

the point i'm trying to make is that before applying biblical 
prohibitions to the 20th cent. , we need to look at whether the 20th 
cent. actions are the same. when christian homosexuals say that their 
relationships are different than the greek homosexuality that paul 
would have been familiar with , this is exactly the same kind of 
argument that is being made about judicial oaths and tax collectors .  . 
until fairly recently christians prohibited taking of interest , and 
many christians regarded slavery as divinely endorsed .  .  ( indeed , 
slavery is one of the more common metaphors for the relationship 
between god and human beings christians are often called servants 
or slaves of god . ) . 

i am not trying to say that everything in the bible is culturally 
relative .  . rather , i'm trying to say that some things are , and 
therefore it is not enough to say that because something appears in 
the bible , that ends the discussion. we need to look at whether the 
action we 're talking about now has the same moral implications as the 
one that the bible was talking about. if christians want to argue 
that there are reasons to think that the prohibitions against 
homosexuality are still binding , i'm willing to listen. those who 
claim that the question does n't need to be looked at are kidding 
themselves  ( unless they are part of the small minority who really obey 
all the rules listed above) .  . 

one thing that worries me is the great emotions that this issue 
creates .  . when you consider the weakness of the biblical evidence 
some laws in leviticus , a passage in rom whose subject matter is 
really idolatry rather than homosexuality , and a couple of lists whose 
words are ambiguous the amount of concern this is raising among 
christians seems rather out of proportion .  . this should suggest to 
people that there are reasons other than simply biblical involved. 
this is true on both sides clearly homosexual christians are as 
strongly motivated to find ways of discrediting the biblical arguments 
as conservative christians are to find biblical arguments .  . but i 
ca n't help feeling that the bible is being used by both sides as a way 
of justifying attitudes which come from other sources. this is a 
dangerous situation for christians .  . 

on the other side of the issue , i would like to note some problems i 
have with the pro homosexual position as it is commonly presented .  . 
one of the most common arguments is that homosexuality is biologically 
determined .  . i.e. god made me homosexual , and i have no choice. i 
think god made me homosexual is a fine view for people who already 
believe on other grounds that homosexuality is acceptable .  . but i 
do n't see it as an argument for acceptability .  . 

many people think that is largely biological , and drug 
addiction may turn out to be as well. that does n't mean it 's ok. 
most of us have particular things we tend to do wrong. some people 
get angry easily. others tend to be arrogant .  . others tend to be 
to women who are married to someone else. homosexuality  ( if 
we view it as wrong) would n't be different than any of these other 
things. if we are going to follow god , we all end up at one time or 
another having to work to overcome bad habits and particular 
temptations that cause us problems. none of us can sit back and say 
that because god made us the way we are we can just relax. as jesus 
said , we all have to take up our cross daily. this concept of dying 
to self (which also appears throughout paul 's letters) seems to 
suggest that there are going to be things about ourselves that we we 
are called on not to accept .  . paul 's letters and the experience of 
christians throughout history show us that sin is ingrained in us , and 
the battle against it is lifelong and difficult. the fact that 
homosexuality is difficult to fight does n't necessarily say it 's ok. 
maybe this is n't the place where we have to die to self. but i 'd like 
to make sure that those who think it is n't are fighting the battle 
somewhere else , and not rejecting the concept that all christians have 
to fight against the deeply habits of sin .  . 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 3 

and do not set your heart on what you will eat or drink do not worry about it. 

luke 12 29 

from  ( frank decenso , jr . ) . 
subject christianity in crisis by hank 
organization youngstown state youngstown free net 
lines 6 

has anyone read this important book if so , what are your feelings about it 

frank 

if one wished to contend with him , he could not answer him one time out 
of a thousand .  . job 9 3 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 37 

in article writes 
i believe that the one 
important thing that those who wrote the old and new testament 
passages cited above did not know was that there is scientific 
evidence to support that homosexuality is at least partly inherent 
rather than completely learned .  . 

note that scientific evidence in this area does not prove any conclusions .  . 
there has been evidence to suggest that a certain part of homosexual 's 
brains are different from heterosexuals but that proves very little. 

also notice that the apostles did not have with them the scientific 
evidence linking certain genes with alcoholism , or stealing with certain 
genetic problems. even if they did have scientific evidence , i doubt it 
would have stopped them from communicating the teaching from the holy 
spirit that these things are sinful .  . 

this reminds me of a conversation with a professor of mine. he said 
something very true. christianity teaches that we should not give in 
to our every inclination .  . most people do give in to their leanings .  . 
in christianity , we have the concept of struggling with the flesh , 
and bringing it into submission .  . one person may have a problem with 
his temper , and having a murderous heart , another may have a problem 
with homosexuality , another may be inclined to greed .  . but god offers 
us the opportunity to be more than  . 

sources where you can find this information , there is homosexual 
behavior recorded among monkeys and other animals , which is in itself 
suggestive that it is inherent rather than learned , or at least that 
the word unnatural should n't really apply .  .  .  .  . 

the preying mantis bites the head off of her mate after she mates 
with him. is it natural for a woman to do the same thing to her husband 
the bible is concerned with human morality , and only touches on animal 
morality as it relates to humans. 

link hudson .  . 

from  ( stan friesen ) 
subject re major views of the trinity 
reply to 
lines 40 

in article , you write 

i fear orthodox theologians have been overly in love with paradox , to 
the extent that well meaning people think they 've just flat out 
confused. there 's no problem with things being both 3 and 1 , e.g. if 
the 3 are different parts of the 1. ... 
but they 're in some way 
different aspects , modes , or whatever , of one god. if you accept 
economic trinitarianism , it 's possible that you do n't have any 
substantive difference with the standard view. is it possible that 
you just do n't find the neo platonic explanation illuminating 
clh 

i would put it stronger than that. i consider it nonsense. 

simply put , i do not see any way that a platonic essence could have 
any real existance .  . essence in the platonic sense does not have 
any referent as far as i can tell it is just an imaginary concept 
invented to provide an explanation for things better explained in 
other ways. 

so , to attribute an  essence  to god is to attribute to him something that 
does not exist ! ! thus the orthodox platonic formulation seems to leave 
the unity of god in limbo , since it is based on a non existant  essence  , 
thus failing to avoid the very problem it was supposed to address. 

thus , to me , the unity of god must be primary , and the must be 
secondary , must be modal or  ( relating to roles , or to modes 
of interaction ) , since otherwise there is no meaning to saying god is one. 


 ( formerly ! sarima ) 
or 


i think one can read augustine as saying something consistent with 
your comments. his de which has been very influential 
in the west defines the distinction among the persons  . 
you 're probably at one extreme of orthodox views , but i'm not sure 
your views are necessary incompatible with the trinity .  . clh 

from  ( steve hayes ) 
subject re question about virgin mary 
organization university of south africa 
lines 25 

in article (d .  . andrew byler ) writes 

and it should be noted that the monophysite chruches of egypt and syria 
also hold to this belief as part of divine revelation , even though they 
broke away from the unity of the chruch in 451 ad by rejecting the 
council of chalcedon .  . it might be argued by some protestants that the 
catholics and orthodox made this belief up , but the , put a 
big hole in that notion , as they also hold the belief , and they split 
from the chruch before the belief was first annunciated in writing  ( as 
far as is known , much has been lost from the time of the fathers) .  . 

the belief that the churches of egypt and syria were  ( or are) monophysite is 
false , as is the belief that they often held that the council of chalcedon 
was nestorian .  . 

these misunderstandings were exacerbated by political factors , and thus led 
to schism a schism that is on its way to being healed .  . 


steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department 
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa 
internet fidonet 5 7101 20 

faq missiology is the study of christian mission and is part of 
the faculty of theology at unisa 

from  ( leisa diel ) 
subject info needed 
organization new mexico state university , las cruces , nm 
lines 58 


ok , let me see if i can get all this out concisely .  . i am on an 
information gathering venture regarding the various expressions of 
christianity churches there are. 
my husband and i come from very different , but completely 
christian backgrounds .  . i was a lutheran when i met him and he was a 
born and raised church of christ member. at first i agreed with a lot 
of what the c of c was about , i wanted to move from the liturgical 
based lutheran church to something a little more biblical based .  . 
however over the last year , i 've been changing to the 
church of christ for a number of reasons for one thing i am not a 
fundamentalist and believe that a few things in the bible are 
socio cultural in nature and do n't relate to the christian doctrine .  . 
one of my spots is the role of women. i believe that through 
mary and other women , chris validated women as worthy disciples but 
in the c of c the writings of paul are taken without exception and i 
am told that i am not an equal partner in my marriage but the lesser 
member , i am to submit to my husband in all things  ( if i hear that 
verse one more time .  .  .  . ) . and i am not to take an active role in 
anything which might be construed as putting me in authority over men 
(ie leading prayers , conducting bible studies etc) .  . the last straw 
was when the elders at our church came down on one of our college 
groups because it was all women and they wanted a man to lead the 
study. 
also my husband and i really resent the way everyone at our church 
feels that if you are n't a conservative republican you are n't a real 
christian (i got told that nobody who voted for clinton should call 
themselves a christian) .  . hence we are subjected during the service to 
long prayers calling for things we flatly dont agree with. we are 
also do n't agree with the c of c 's dread of any new movement being 
led by the young people. 

so , we have been church hunting with no success. i want a reasonably 
biblical based church where women are viewed as whole people no matter 
what their calling ( c of c really looked down on career  . 
christopher is looking for a church with deeply rooted religious 
convictions , with adult baptism and a church where the members still 
bring their bibles to service. 

we are so confused here and we 're drifting around trying to find a 
place where we both feel loved and can express our faith honestly and 
without reservation .  . if anyone can point us in a direction we 'd be 
thrilled ! 
i'm afraid that it will be very hard for me to go back to c of c and 
even harder for me to stay for long. 

any responses would be welcome 


the family 

i would think somewhere in the baptist spectrum you might find what 
you 're looking for. however the issue is probably more one of the 
flavor of the specific local churches in your area than the 
denomination baptists cover quite a spectrum .  . adult baptism sort 
of your choices on the more liberal end of the spectrum .  . 
historically that 's been associated with movements that have the 
character you 're trying to avoid .  . clh 

from !  ( larry l. overacker ) 
subject re if there were no hell 
organization shell oil 
lines 38 

ofm comments 

the only problem with this is that jesus does use hell as a threat .  . 
he does n't sound like some of the more extreme fire and brimstone 
preachers , and i do n't think he wants people to live in fear. 
but he talks a lot about people being found unworthy , and mentions 
hell a number of times. i agree that it might be more pleasant to 
think that it does n't exist. i certainly do n't agree that god is some 
sort of sadist who tortures people forever. but i am very much afraid 
that there really is a life and death spiritual struggle going on , and 
that it is possible for people to lose in a serious way. clh 

no disagreement at all that there is a very serious struggle going on. 
but jesus more typically uses consequences as a threat .  . that 's quite 
different from hell classic (tm) .  . ) jesus does n't sound like the 
usual hell fire type of preacher .  . he attracts people through what he 
does. and the example in jesus preaching is in the parable of 
lazarus and dives , which is a parable ! in any case , my point is that 
a fear based response to christ is not a freeing , life affirming choice 
and is n't good news in a meaningful sense. there are plenty of good 
reasons to follow jesus that have nothing to do with fear or a literal 
hell , that still pertain to overcoming in the present struggle between 
god and the opposition .  . a faith based in fear is not built 
on rock , as we should found our faith , but on ice. if the fear were 
removed , there would be no foundation .  . 

that 's basically why it matters to me. i think we have many christians 
that don't have a solid basis for relating to the living incarnate god. 
i cannot be fully open to the working of god in and through my life if 
my response to god is motivated on fear. 

larry overacker 



lawrence overacker 
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965 


from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject to everyone in dialog with tony rose please read this ! 
reply to () 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 17 

hello everyone. i just wanted to let everyone know that i have just 
been selected as part of the reduction in force here at amdahl .  . for all 
that are currently in a dialog with me , or are waiting letters from me , 
i have saved your letters on floppy and will continue when i get back 
on the net from another account in the future. 

for those who are on the genie network , my email address there is 

t . 

god bless and goodbye until then. if you want to continue dialogs with 
me via us mail , i can be contacted at 

tony rose 
c o jude 3 missions 
p.o. box 1035 
, ca 

from  ( nichael cramer ) 
subject re variants in the nt text (cont . ) . 
reply to 
organization bbn , interzone office 
lines 75 

from (d .  . andrew byler ) 
does anyone now where an english translation of the long recension of 
the acts of the apostles can be found 

1 an english translation of this can be found in 
the acts of the apostles , translated from the codex , with an 
introduction on its origin and importance , j. m. wilson 
 ( london , 1923) .  . 

2 another work that might be useful is 
the acts of the apostles , a critical edition with introduction and 
notes on selected passages , albert c. clark  ( oxford , 1933 
reprinted 1970) .  . 

 ( this is an edition of text of acts that makes the assumption that the 
text in codex is the more authentic .  . i do n't know if it 
actually contains an english translation or not . ) . 

3 another useful that discusses many of the variants in detail is 
the theological tendency of the codex in 
acts , eldon j epp  ( cambridge ,  . 

4 the most recent reference i found was an edition in french from the 
early '80s .  . (i can supply the reference if anyone 's interested . ) . 

5 now , many of the works are going to be difficult to find. so if 
you 're interested in examining the differences in the long recension 
an excellent  ( and easily obtainable ) discussion can be found in 
a textual commentary on the greek nt , bruce metzger  ( united bible 
society ,  . 

metzger 's book serves as a companion volume to the 3rd edition of 
the greek nt .  . it contains a discussion on the reasoning that went 
behind the decisions on each of the 1440 variant readings included in 
the  . furthermore , notes on an addition 600 readings are 
included in (the majority of these occur in acts) .  . 

in particular in the introduction to the section on acts metzger writes 
an attempt was made to set before the reader a more or less full 
report  ( with an english translation ) of the several additions and 
other modifications that are attested by western witnesses ... 
since many of these have no corresponding apparatus in the 
text volume , care was taken to supply an adequate of the 
evidence that supports the divergent readings .  . (p  . 

i understand that one of the early codexes , and has 
this version of acts .  . it would be interesting to know what the 
differences are between the long and the short forms. 

6 most of the copies of the text of acts that we have  ( including the 
ones in and siniaticus ) pretty closely to the shorter 
 ( or alexandrian ) version. the longer version to which you refer is 
usually called the western version and its main witness is the codex 
 ( althought there are a few other rather fragmentary sources) .  . 

7 as far as size , the difference is that in clark 's edition 
 ( mentioned above) the book of acts contains 19 , 983 words whereas the 
text edited by westcott and (a typical text) contains 
18 , 401 words i.e. a difference of about 8 1 2 . 

8 to answer the obvious questions , no , there are no major revelations 
in the longer text nor major omissions in the shorter text. the main 
difference seems to expansion of detail in the western text  ( or , if 
you prefer in the  . the western text seems 
to be given to more detail. there are some interesting specific 
cases , but this probably not the place to go into it in detail. 

9 the discussion over the years as to which of these versions is the 
more authentic has been hot and heavy .  . if there is anything 
approaching a modern consensus it is  ( i ) that neither text represents 
purely the authentic version ,  ( ii ) each variant reading has to be 
examined on its own merits however ,  ( iii ) the variant in the 
text is the better more often than not. 

n 

from 
subject re bernadette dates 
lines 58 


writes 
joe moore writes 

mary at that time appeared to a girl named bernadette at 
lourdes .  . she referred to herself as the immaculate conception .  . 
since a nine year old would have no way of knowing about the 
doctrine , the apparition was deemed to be true and it sealed 
the case for the doctrine .  . 
bernadette was 14 years old when she had her visions , in , 
four years after the dogma had been officially proclaimed by the 
pope .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

i forgot exactly what her age was but i remember clearly 
that she was born in a family of poverty and she did not 
have any education , whatsoever , at the age of the apparitions .  . 
she suffered from asthma at that age and she and her family were 
living in a prison cell of some sort .  . 

she had to ask the  lady  several times in her apparitions about 
what her name was since her confessor priest asked her to do so. 
for several instances , the priest did not get an answer since 
bernadette did not receive any. one time , after several apparitions 
passed , the lady finally said , i am the immaculate conception . 
so , bernadette , was so happy and repeated these words over and 
over in her mind so as not to forget it before she told the 
priest who was asking. so , when she told the priest , the 
priest was shocked and asked bernadette , do you know what 
you are talking about . bernadette did not know what exactly 
it meant but she was just too happy to have the answer for 
the priest .  . the priest continued with , how did you remember 
this if you do not know . bernadette answered honestly that 
she had to repeat it over and over in her mind while on her 
way to the priest .  .  .  . 

the priest knew about the dogma being four years old then. 
but bernadette did not know and yet she had the answer which 
the priest finally observed and took as proof of an authentic 
personal revelation of our lady to bernadette .  . 

 ( note this lady of lourdes shrine has a spring of water which 
our lady requested bernadette to dig up herself with her 
bare hands in front of pilgrims .  . at the start little 
water flowed but after several years there is more water 
flowing . ) . 

marida 
 .  .  . spreading . god 's words through actions .  .  .  . 
mother teresa 





marida 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re serbian genocide work of god 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 15 

you might want to re think your attitude about the holocaust after 
reading deuteronomy chapter 28. 

on the contrary , after the holocaust , i would be very cautious about my 
of deuteronomy 28. not everything that happens is in 
accordance with god 's will.  ( you might guess which side of the 
predestination issue i am on . ) . i will never assume that evil is 
punishment by god , especially when i am speaking of the evil that falls on 
someone else . for my own life , i will work to discern the hand of god 
in the evil that befalls me . 

see the discussion earlier on luke 13. 


 ( unreconstructed arminian ) 

from (e alan idler ) 
subject re new thought on 
organization university of victoria 
lines 26 

(michael d. walker ) writes 

often times  ( most recently on this list in the last few days) i 've 
heard the passage from revelation 

 .  .  . whoever . adds to the sacred words of this book .  .  . whoever . removes 
words from this book .  .  .  . 

i feel this is ridiculous for two reasons 

2 good reasons deleted. ai 

if one takes the translation of this book in rev 18 22  ( or somewhere 
around there) to mean all of scripture , then all of us are likely 
holding something that is in violation of this command. 

it 's even worse than that 

ye shall not add unto the word which i 
command you , neither shall ye diminish 
from it  . 4 2) .  . 
shall we rip out every page from our 
bibles beginning from joshua through 
revelation 

a idler 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization indiana university 
lines 44 

in article writes 
as st. augustine said , i did not invent original sin , which the 
catholic faith holds from ancient time but you , who deny it , without a 
doubt are a follower of a new heresy .  .  ( de , lib .  . 11 . c . 12) . 

why is it fair to punish you , me and the rest of humanity because of 
what adam and eve did suppose your parents committed some crime before 
you were born and one day the cops come to your door and throw you in 
jail for it. would you really think that is fair i know i would n't .  . 

you may not think that it is fair , but how many sins do you know of 
that affect only the sinner is it fair for us even to be able to get 
into heaven do we have a right to heaven , even if we were to lead 
sinless lives anyway , your argument seems to be saying , if i were 
god , i certainly would n't do things that way therefore , god does n't do 
things that way. 

isaiah 55 8 9 

for my thoughts are not your thoughts , neither are your ways my 
ways , saith the lord .  . for as the heavens are higher than the 
earth , so are my ways higher than your ways , and my thoughts 
than your thoughts. 

original sin is biblical 

romans 5 12 14 

wherefore , as by one man sin entered into the world , and death 
by sin and so death passed upon all men , for that all have 
sinned  ( for until the law sin was in the world but sin is not 
imputed when there is no law. nevertheless death reigned from 
adam to moses , even over them that had not sinned after the 
similitude of adam 's transgression , who is the figure of him 
that was to come. 

1 corinthians 15 22 

for as in adam all die , even so in christ shall all be made 
alive. 


steve creps , indiana university 


from !  ( gerry palo ) 
subject re portland earthquake 
lines 68 

austin c archer wrote 

i am interested in views about the non event of may 3. seriously , how can a 
christian discriminate between messages from god which are to be taken 
seriously , and those which are spurious is there a useful heuristic which 
would help us avoid embracing messages which , by their non fulfillment are 
proven to be false , thus causing the name of christ to be placed in 
disrepute is this a problem at all 

it is possible that the individual saw a true prophetic vision , but that he 
interpreted the scale of time and space according to his material con 
, translating the perceptions of a plane above 
that of time and space into an immediate worldly context and getting it 
wrong. not that he did it rationally , but rather that unconsciously the 
perceptions became clothed in material images , instead of remaining in the 
realm of the potential and not yet time space bound .  . this difficulty of 
translating prophetic vision into a concrete when and where has always been 
difficult , even for the prophets of old. that is why their prophecies are 
so often subject to multiple interpretations .  . likewise , the apostles seemed 
to feel that the return of the lord was to be very soon in the sense of 
perhaps the same generation. yet the meaning of very soon has proven to 
be different than they could grasp .  . prophetic vision tends to telescope 
time , so that things that are far off appear to be very close. 

another possibility is that the vision was one of a real event preparing to 
happen , again in the realm of the potential but not yet manifest and which 
was thwarted by other forces , including possibly an act of divine mercy .  . 

there are many concrete prophecies being made these days by devout and 
sincere and sober christians  ( and others too) .  . it seems that great coming 
events are really casting their shadow before their arrival in these 
apocalyptic times. the various predictions  ( i'm talking about those that 
appear to be sincere and sober ) are hard to accept , yet hard to ignore com 
 . one has the feeling something is about to start to get ready to 
begin to commence to happen . we are living , as the chinese saying goes , 
in interesting times. 

as for how to discriminate , the bible does n't help much. there is an old 
testament passage (i forget where it is) that says you will know whether 
a prophet is true by whether or not his prophecy comes to pass. that 
helps eliminate the failures after the fact , but in the case of an earth 
quake it is small comfort. it seems to me that all prophecies that give 
specific times and places and events should be suspect , not in that they 
are necessarily false , but in the sense stated above , that all such visions 
are subject to mistranslation from the plane of prophetic vision to the 
plane of earthly time and space. 

for what it is worth , rudolf steiner once was asked whether a modern initiate 
could see into the future and predict coming events. his answer was that 
it would be possible but then he would have to withdraw from active 
in them , including proclaiming what he saw. if this is in fact 
a spiritual law , then the answer to your question about how to discriminate 
is that the one who makes such prophecies is probably violating that law , 
knowingly or unknowingly , and as such his message should be considered 
a priori to be dubious .  . i.e. i would expect that those capable of making 
true predictions and giving accurate expression to them would not do so in 
the way that the prophet of the oregon earthquake did. however , i can 
sympathize with the person who published the prophecy .  . given the same 
overwhelming experience that he apparently had , i too might feel impelled , 
and even commissioned by god to tell my fellow human beings about what 
i had seen. 

gerry palo 


do any of our church historian readers know whether there 's any 
more prophecy now than there has been in the past i do n't get 
that impression .  . clh 

from (d .  . andrew byler ) 
subject re serbian genocide work of god 
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 91 

vera shanti noyes writes 

really you may be right , but i 'd like proof. as far as i know  ( and 

we however , shall be innocent of this sin , and will pray with earnest 
entreaty and supplication that the creator of all may keep unharmed the 
numbers of his elect .  . 
st. clement , bishop of rome , letter to the corinthians , 59.2 , (c .  . 90 ad ) 

also called , to the church at ephesus in asia , 
which is worthy of all , blessed as it is with greatness by 
the of god the father , predestined from all eternity for a 
glory that is lasting and unchanging , united and chosen in true 
suffering by the will of the father in jesus christ our god .  .  .  . 
st. , bishop of antioch , letter to the ephesians , address , 
(c 110 ad ) 

we say therefore , that in substance , in concept , in orgin and in 
, the ancient and catholic church is alone , gathering as it does 
into the unity of the one faith which results from the familiar 
covenants .... those already chosen , those predestined by god who knew 
before the foundation of the world that they would be just .  . 
st. clement , patriarch and archbishop of alexandria , , 
7 . 17 . 107 . 3 . , (c 205 ad ) 

of course the doctrine was explained more fully later on by sts .  . 
augustine , aquinas , etc. , but the seeds were ther from the beginning. 

this is really confusing to me , especially since i still believe that 
christ jesus died for all of us. of obstinacy seems 
like an awfully convoluted way to account for a couple of verses .  . but 

i think you are reading it wrong. i say those who are not saved are not 
saved on account of their own sins .  . it is not because god did not give 
them sufficient grace , for he does do so , in his desire that all men 
might be saved .  . however , as only some are saved and those who are 
saved are saved by the grace of god , not by works , lest any man should 
boast the others are damned because of their obstinacy in refusing to 
heed the call of god. they are damned by their own free will and 
chosing , a choice by god in his causing them to be not 
predestined , but instead. 

so god uses grace like he only spreads it where it 's needed 
and not where it is n't and so there are the saved and the not saved , 
and nothing in between. hmmmm .  . 

certainly god does not distribute grace evenly .  . if he did , no one could 
have their heart hardened  ( or rather , harden their heart , thus causing 
god to withdraw his  . but , you are correct the world is divided 
into those who god knows to be saved , and those god knows to be on the 
road to perdition .  . the key is that god knows it and we do not. thus , 
no one can boast in complete assurance that they are one of the elect 
and predestined .  . but no one who is a christian in good should 
doubt their salvation either  ( that shows a lack of trust in god) .  . 

be punished after we die. you 're saying what we get after we die has 
a direct bearing on how we live now strange .  .  .  .  . 

you must admit it is possible. anyway , why would you want something in 
the hear and know , when you can recieve 100 fold in heaven better to 
lay up your treasure in heaven is what jesus said. 
this is not to condemn the rich , but simply to point out that those who 
are rich are frequently very evil or immoral , so god must give them 
their blessing know , as they have chosen .  . remeber , jesus promised 
tribulation in this world , and hatred of others because we are 
christians .  . he did not promise heaven on earth. he promised heaven. 

so sin is either punished now or later and not both what if it 's 
sort of half punished are there any grey areas in this doctrine 

not really. unless you do penance here on earth , you will have to do it 
in purgatory , as paul pointed out (1 corinthians 3 . 15) .  . those with 
poorer works , though still done with good intentions , will only be saved 
through fire (the damned will of course go into fire immeadiately , for 
whatever good they did was not for god but for self  ( dead  . of 
course , the church gives , has confession , and of 
the sick to remove sin and the the vestiges of sin , so there is really 
little excuse for ending up in purgatory it is a last hope for the 
somewhat lazy and careless as i said above in referring to paul .  . 

and no comments were taken as flames .  . you are one of the more polite 
people i have talked to over the net. 

andy byler 

ps. as for balkan military adventures , the old saw about that area is 
that it produces more history then can be consumed locally alexander 
the great , wwi the ottoman empire , the byzantine empire (by which i 
refer to and foreign adventures of them in general) , the balkans 
wars of 1913 , the latin greek wars of the 1200 's , etc. not a good place 
to hop into. 

from 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
reply to 
organization gte govt. systems , electronics def. div. 
lines 18 

in article , (d .  . andrew kille ) writes 
of course the whole issue is one of  . it may be that satan 
is trying to convince us that we know more than god. or it may be that 
god is trying  ( as god did with peter ) to teach us something we do n't 
know that god shows no , but in every nation anyone who fears 
him and does what is right is acceptable to him.  ( acts 10 34  . 



fine , but one of the points of this entire discussion is that we 
 ( conservative , reformed christians this could start an argument .  .  .  . 
but is n't this idea that homosexuality is ok fairly new this 
century is there any support for this being a viable viewpoint 
before this century i do n't know . ) . do n't believe that homosexuality 
is acceptable to him . so your scripture quotation does n't work for 
us . 

jeff adams 

from  ( vera shanti noyes ) 
subject re serbian genocide work of god 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 114 

in article (d .  . andrew byler ) writes 
does he believe in predestination 
of course i believe in predestination .  . it 's a very biblical doctrine as 
romans 8.28 30 shows  ( among other passages) .  . furthermore , the church 
has always taught predestination , from the very beginning. 

really you may be right , but i 'd like proof. as far as i know  ( and 
i am not a div school student ! ) the catholic church does not seem to 
accept predestination .  . my chaplain told me beware of greeks bearing 
gifts with reference to this doctrine it seems to have the curious 
result that human beings are not held responsible for their own 
actions ! i 'll answer how you deal with this in a minute. 

but to say 
that i believe in predestination does not mean i do not believe in free 
will. men freely choose the course of their life , which is also 
affected by the grace of god. however , unlike the calvinists and 
, i hold that grace is resistable , otherwise you end up with 
the idiocy of denying the universal saving will of god (1 timothy 2 . 4) .  . 

right. that does n't really seem like predestination to me , but i 'll 
continue with what you 're saying .  .  .  .  . 

for god must give enough grace to all to be saved .  . but only the elect , 
who he foreknew , are predestined and receive the grace of final 
perserverance , which guarantees heaven. this does not mean that those 
without that grace ca n't be saved , it just means that god foreknew their 
obstinacy and chose not to give it to them , knowing they would not need 
it , as they had freely chosen hell. 

this is really confusing to me , especially since i still believe that 
christ jesus died for all of us. of obstinacy seems 
like an awfully convoluted way to account for a couple of verses .  . but 
then , i am not really biblically supported in this opinion or am i 
others 

people who are saved are saved by the grace of god , and not by their own 
effort , for it was god who disposed them to himself , and predestined 
them to become saints .  . but those who perish in everlasting fire perish 
because they hardened their heart and chose to perish .  . thus , they were 
deserving of god s punishment , as they had rejected their creator , and 
sinned against the working of the holy spirit. 

so god uses grace like he only spreads it where it 's needed 
and not where it is n't and so there are the saved and the not saved , 
and nothing in between. hmmmm .  . 

yes , it is up to god to judge. but he will only mete out that 
punishment at the last judgement .  . 

well , i would hold that as god most certainly gives everybody some 
blessing for what good they have done  ( even if it was only a little) , 
for those he ca n't bless in the next life , he blesses in this one. 

although i realize this doctrine was not originally intended to cause 
social problems , it ends up doing just that if there is supposed to 
be some sort of sign that someone is elect , like lots of children or 
success at work , then those who have a good life on earth will go 
around thinking that those who do n't are doomed to hell. 

in a way , though , this sounds like the opposite idea those doomed 
to hell will have a great life on earth. that 's almost like the 
converse of what i believe responsibility for what we do now will 
be punished after we die. you 're saying what we get after we die has 
a direct bearing on how we live now strange .  .  .  .  . 

and 
those he will not punish in the next life , will be chastised in this one 
or in purgatory for their sins .  . every sin incurs some temporal 
punishment , thus , god will punish it unless satisfaction is made for it 
(cf .  . 2 samuel 12.13 14 , david 's sin of adultery and murder were 
forgiven , but he was still punished with the death of his child . ) . and i 
need not point out the idea of punishment because of god 's judgement is 
quite prevelant in the bible .  . sodom and , moses barred from 
the holy land , the slaughter of the cannanites , and saphira , 
jerusalem in 70 ad , etc. 

so sin is either punished now or later and not both what if it 's 
sort of half punished are there any grey areas in this doctrine 

my stuff deleted 
we should stop the slaughter of the innocent (cf proverbs 24.11 12) , but 
does that mean that christians should support a war in bosnia with the 
u.s. or even the u.n. involved i do not think so , but i am an 
isolationist , and disagree with foreign adventures in general. but in 
the case of bosnia , i frankly see no excuse for us getting militarily 
involved , it would not be a just war. blessed after all , are the 
peacemakers was what our lord said , not the interventionists .  . our 
actions in bosnia must be for peace , and not for a war which is 
unrelated to anything to justify it for us. 

the idea  ( well , my idea) would be that you would intervene to 
establish peace and stop the atrocities .  . i'm not suggesting  . i 
do n't really understand what you mean by a just war . of course i am 
not an isolationist , although i see some merit in not jumping in at 
the first opportunity  ( can you say kuwait ) .  . we happen to be a big 
country with a lot of resources  ( as well as a lot of debt ) , and this 
gives us some responsibility in the world , whether we like it or not. 
of wwii , as well as vietnam , should be haunting us. 

yet another difference of opinion. so be it. 

andy byler 

thank you for answering i hope you do n't take any of my comments as 
flames , but instead as expressions of interest. 

vera 

i am your clock ! i bind unto myself today vera noyes 
i am your religion ! the strong name of the 
i own you ! trinity .  .  .  .  . no disclaimer what 
lard st. patrick 's breastplate is there to disclaim 


from  ( justin lee ) 
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical 
organization health sciences center , university of oklahoma 
lines 13 

someone asked about biblical support for the image of satan as 
a fallen angel. rev 12 7 9 and enoch have been cited .  . clh 

there is also a verse in  ( luke ) that says he jesus saw satan fall 
from heaven. it 's something like that. i do n't have my bible in 
front of me or i would quote it directly , but it 's a pretty obvious 
reference to satan 's expulsion .  . 

justin 

i believe the reference is to luke 10 18. the context of the passage 
makes it possible that jesus is referring to satan being defeated by 
jesus  mission , rather than a previous fall from heaven. clh 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse king james .  . compare this with previous version from niv .  . 
lines 4 

but unto me shall dwell safely , and shall be quiet 
from fear of evil. 

proverbs 1 33 

from (peter trei ) 
subject re athiests and hell 
organization the mitre corporation 
lines 106 

in article writes 
in article 
(peter trei ) writes 
in article 
writes 
much deleted 
point today might be the masons .  .  ( just a note , that they too worshipped 
osiris in egypt .  .  . ) . 
much deleted 

it bugs me when i see this kind of nonsense. 

first , there is no reasonable evidence linking masonry to ancient 
egypt , or even that it existed prior to the late 14th century  ( and 
there 's nothing definitive before the  . 

i'm going to cut rex 's ramblings down a bit. 

... 
you must not be past your 20th level. you should read wilkinson 's 
egyptians and how he shows this egyptian religion his own british 
masonry .  . there is a man here at this laboratory who is a 33 degree black 
mason .  . i 've talked with him , ... 
there is the public side with mania and 
childrens hospitals and then there is the side that only the highest 
degree mason every learns of. 

rex , there are literally hundreds of thousands of 32nd degree 
masons in this country , and thousands of  . if nasty stuff was 
really going on , do n't you think you 'd have more than a couple of 
disgruntled members exposing it heck , if what you say is true , then 
rev. norman vincent is an osiris worshiper .  . 

... 
long quote from someone named  ( source not given ) deleted. i'm 
attempting to extract from it the relevent points 

osiris is actually nimrod , a babylonian deity .  . 

it is admitted that the secret system of free masonry was originally 
founded on the mysteries of the egyptian isis , the goddess mother , or 
wife of osiris .  . 

the babylonian nimrod and osiris are both connected with the building 
trade , ie , with masonry .  . 

nimrod , as the son of cush , was a negro .  . is n't this refering to a 
biblical nimrod , rather than the babylonian god 

 .  .  . there . was a tradition in egypt , recorded by , that  osiris 
was  . 
... 

there is a long tradition in masonry of claiming ancient lineage 
for the order , on the of grounds .  . this dates right back to 
the constitutions of 1738 , which cite adam as the first mason .  . i 've 
seen other claims which place masonry among the romans , greeks , and 
egyptians , and  . i even have a book which claims to prove 
that stonehenge was originally a masonic temple .  . 

claims prove nothing. where 's the beef , rex 

 .  .  . claims . ex mason showed him leopard skin he wore in lodge 
any representation of osiris usually show the wearing of some leopard .  . 

i 'd have to check this. the tomb paintings i remember do n't show 
this. 

it is interesting that the druids of britian also show , or should i say 
hide , this representation .  . they , however , worshipped the spotted cow . 

can you give ancient citations for this the druids were suppressed 
over 2000 years ago. what 's your point 

this whole leopard skin business sounds bizarre .  . i have not yet 
gone through the scottish rite (which contains all of those higher 
degrees anti masons get so excited about , and which was invented in 
the 1750 's) , but i know enough people who have  ( and who are good 
christians) , that i reject your claim .  . 

i 'll stand by my statements .  . masonry is of the mystery religions 
that all find their source in babylon , the great  . sorry peter , 
i do not mean to be a cold slap to the face but there is to much 

not so much a  slap in the face  as  a weary feeling of deja  . i'm 
going through a very similar argument over on soc . culture . african . american .  . 

evidence to the contrary that masonry does n't find its origins in 
egypt .  . of the masons i have personally talked to , all refered to 
egypt as their origin .  . 

why do n't you try reading some serious books on masonic history , such 
as 's the craft 

why are you now separating yourself from this which not many years ago , 
was freely admitted 

because we got honest. if you can come up with actual evidence that 
masonry existed prior to 1390 , i 'd be very impressed  ( actually , 
anything earlier than would be pretty good . ) . 

rex 
peter trei 


disclaimer i do not speak for my employer .  . 

from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems 
lines 9 

i also do n't see the necessity of saying the holy parents were some 
how sanctified beyond normal humanity it sounds like our own inability 
to grasp the of god 's grace in being incarnated through an or 
human being. 


when elizabeth mary , elizabeth said something to the effect that 
mary , out of all women , was blessed .  . if so , it appears that this 
exactly places mary beyond the sanctification of normal humanity .  . 

from  ( lynn svedin ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization nasa 
lines 6 

on secrecy in lds ceremonies .  . clh 

i think christ summed it up quite nicely when he said something about 
casting pearls before swine .  . why tell people things that are most 
sacred to you when all they will do with it is belittle it. you have 
to be little to belittle .  . 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 21 

eugene bigelow writes 

does n't the bible say that god is a fair god sic if this is true , 
how can this possibly be fair to the infants 

andrew byler writes 

what do you mean fair god is just , giving to everyone what they 
deserve .  . as all infants are in sin from the time of conception (cf 
romans 5.12 , psalm 1 . 7) . , they cannot possibly merit heaven , and as 
purgatory is for the purging of temporal punishment and venial sins , it 
is impossible that origianl sin can be forgiven .  .  .  .  . 

as st. augustine said , i did not invent original sin , which the 
catholic faith holds from ancient time but you , who deny it , without a 
doubt are a follower of a new heresy .  .  ( de , lib .  . 11 . c . 12) . 

why is it fair to punish you , me and the rest of humanity because of 
what adam and eve did suppose your parents committed some crime before 
you were born and one day the cops come to your door and throw you in 
jail for it. would you really think that is fair i know i would n't .  . 

from  ( mail server) 
subject re mormon temples 
lines 20 

 ( jay windley ) writes 
material deleted 
some object to the idea that christianity should involve secrets of 
any kind. mormon scholars have provided historical evidence of early 
christian practices which parallel mormon temple ceremonies .  . 
obviously one can choose whether or not to subscribe to such a 
historical interpretation , but mormon practice is not without 
precedent in christianity .  . 
deletions 


i do n't necessarily object to the secrecy but i do question it , since i see no 
biblical reason why any aspect of christian worship should involve secrecy .  . 
but i am interested in your claim that early christian practices parallel 
mormon temple ceremonies .  . could you give an example also , why do they only 
parallel mormon ceremonies why do n't mormon ceremonies restore the original 
christian practices was n't that the whole point of joseph smith 's stated 
mission 

mark 

from  ( pou lee the fellow ) 
subject more catchy sayings 
reply to 
organization university of houston 
lines 297 

quotes from our daily bread 

our daily bread is a devotional help for spiritual growth .  . one can spend some 
ten to fifteen minutes at most reading the daily portion of scriptures and a 
related short article that brings the scriptures alive in applying in today 's 
society. it ends with a saying at the bottom. this article is a collection 
of these sayings .  . 

our daily bread is one of the many ministries services provided by resources for 
biblical communication .  . it is free. to receive the literature , just write and 
ask for it. the contact addresses are listed below. write to radio bible class. 

copyright 1989 radio bible class , grand rapids , michigan 0001 

canada box 1622 , windsor , ontario 
australia box 365 , ryde , 2112 nsw 
europe box 1 , , lancs .  . , england 
africa box 1652 , , 
africa 2010 , jos , 
philippines box 288 , , metro 

sayings with related scriptures in december january february 89 90 issue of our daily bread 

when god saves us , all our sins are forgiven , forgotten , forever ! 
romans 5 1 11 

life with christ is difficult without him it 's hopeless .  . 
ecclesiastes 4 1 6 

it 's the sin we cover up that eventually brings us down. 
psalm 19 7 14 

you 're not ready to live until you 're ready to die. 
acts 21 1 14 

trusting in god 's power prevents panic .  . 
isaiah 40 6 17 

the bible is a record of man 's compete ruin in sin and god 's remedy in christ .  . 
2 timothy 3 10 17 

jesus can change the sinners into the finest saints .  . 
ephesians 2 1 10 

they witness best who witness with their lives. 
acts 4 23 33 

god came to dwell with man that man might dwell with god. 
philippians 2 5 11 

a hurting person needs a helping hand , not an accusing finger. 
psalm 109 1 , 2 , 14 31 

what you decide about jesus determines your destiny .  . 
john 20 24 29 

we must go to sinners if we expect sinners to come to the savior .  . 
romans 1 8 15 

knowing that god sees us brings both conviction and  . 
job 34 21 28 

god 's is not cruel but corrective .  . 
hebrews 12 4 17 

when you think of all that 's good , give thanks to god. 
psalm 44 1 8 

man 's greatest goal give glory to god. 
1 peter 5 5 7 

god loves every one of us as if there were but one of us to love. 
romans 8 31 39 

only the bread of life can satisfy man 's spiritual hunger .  . 
john 6 28 41 

conscience can be our compass if the word of god is our chart .  . 
1 timothy 4 1 5 

salvation is free , but you must receive it. 
isaiah 55 1 5 

if we 're not as spiritual as we could be , we 're not as spiritual as we should be. 
2 1 1 7 

circumstances do not make a man , they reveal what he 's made of. 
matthew 1 18 25 

make room for jesus in your heart , and he will make room for you in heaven. 
matthew 2 1 18 

heaven 's choir came down to sing when heaven 's king came down to save .  . 
luke 2 1 20 

god 's highest gift man 's deepest gratitude .  . 
luke 2 21 38 

serving the lord is an investment that pays eternal dividends .  . 
1 peter 4 12 19 

time is not lived but lost. 
psalm 39 4 13 

the measure of our love is the measure of our sacrifice .  . 
1 peter 4 7 11 

god requires faithfulness god rewards with fruitfulness .  . 
luke 19 11 27 

how you spend time determines how you spend eternity .  . 
psalm 90 1 12 

if you aim for nothing , you 're sure to hit it. 
daniel 1 1 8 

the christian 's future is as bright as the promises of god. 
psalm 23 

christ as savior brings us peace with god christ as lord brings the peace of god. 
colossians 1 13 20 

they who only sample the word of god never acquire much of a for it. 
psalm 119 97 104 

unless one drinks now of the water of life , he will thirst forever ! 
revelation 22 12 17 

a is a person who is not himself on sunday .  . 
daniel 6 1 10 

be life long or short , its completeness depends on what it is lived for. 
9 1 12 

god loves you and me let 's love each other. 
2 corinthians 13 

it 's always too soon to quit. 
genesis 37 12 28 

the character we build in this world we carry into the next. 
matthew 7 24 29 

god sends trials not to impair us but to improves us. 
2 corinthians 4 8 18 

marriage is either a holy wedlock or an unholy deadlock .  . 
2 corinthians 5 11 18 

we are adopted through god 's grace to be adapted to god 's use. 
galatians 6 1 10 

our children are watching what we are speak louder than what we say. 
proverbs 31 10 31 

union with christ is the basis for unity among believers .  . 
psalm 133 

keep out of your life all that would crowd christ out of your heart. 
romans 6 1 14 

do n't try to bear tomorrow 's burdens with today 's grace .  . 
matthew 6 25 34 

pray as if everything depends on god work as if everything depends on you. 
2 kings 20 1 7 

some convictions are nothing more than prejudices .  . 
galatians 3 26 29 

unless you , you will not understand. augustine 
hebrews 11 1 6 

christ is the only way to heaven all other paths are to doom .  . 
2 corinthians 4 1 7 

many christians are doing nothing , but no christians have nothing to do ! 
john 4 31 38 

we bury the seed god brings the harvest .  . 
isaiah 55 8 13 

the texture of eternity is woven on the looms of time. 
ecclesiastes 7 1 6 

it 's not just what we know about god but how we use what we know. 
1 corinthians 8 

the best way to avoid lying is to do nothing that needs to be concealed .  . 
acts 5 1 11 

god transforms trials into blessing by surrounding them with his love and grace .  . 
2 chronicles 20 1 4 , 20 30 

confessing your sins is no substitute for forsaking them. 
psalm 51 1 10 

if you shoot arrows of envy at others , you would yourself. 
philippians 1 12 18 

he who has no vision of eternity does n't know the value of time. 
ephesians 5 8 17 

he who abandons himself to god will never be abandoned by god. 
psalm 123 

no danger can come so near the christian that god is not nearer .  . 
psalm 121 

many a man lays down his life trying to lay up a fortune .  . 
matthew 6 19 24 

god 's grace is infinite love expressing itself through infinite goodness. 
philippians 1 1 11 

one way to do great things for christ is to do little things for others. 
romans 16 1 16 

you rob yourself of being you when you try to do what others are meant to do. 
romans 12 1 8 

do n't pretend to be what you do n't intend to be. 
matthew 23 1 15 

meeting god in our trials is better than getting out of them. 
psalm 42 

if sinners are to escape god 's judgement , god 's people must point the way. 
matthew 24 15 27 

it 's not a sin to get angry when you get angry at sin .  . 
john 2 13 22 

we prepare for the darkness by learning to pray in the light. 
1 samuel 2 1 10 

christianity is not a way of doing certain things but a certain way of doing all things. 
ephesians 5 1 7 

better to know the truth and beware than to believe a lie and not care. 
jeremiah 28 

a true servant does not live to himself , for himself , or by himself. 
genesis 13 

those who do the most earthly good are those who are mined .  . 
philippians 1 19 26 

a good marriage requires a determination to be married for good. 
genesis 2 18 24 

if you 're looking for something to give your life to , look to the one who gave his life for you. 
1 corinthians 3 1 11 

when we have nothing left but god , we discover that god is enough. 
psalm 46 

god is with us inthe darkness as surely as he is with us in the light. 
1 peter 1 1 9 

some people spend most of their life at the complaint counter .  . 
1 thessalonians 5 12 22 

of all creation , only man can say yes or no to god. 
genesis 9 8 17 

the most rewarding end in life is to know the life that never ends. 
8 10 15 

one of the marks of a well fed soul is a well read bible .  . 
1 9 

because god gives us all we need , we should give to those in need. 
proverbs 14 20 31 

it 's never too early to receive christ , but at any moment it could be too late. 
luke 16 19 31 

god 's grace keeps pace with whatever we face. 
2 corinthians 12 7 10 

coming together is a beginning keeping together is progress working together is success. 
1 corinthians 12 12 27 

when we give god our burdens , he gives us a song. 
psalm 57 

do the thing you fear , and the death of fear is certain .  . emerson 
1 corinthians 2 1 8 

the best way to conquer an enemy is by the strategy of love. 
matthew 5 38 48 

is being unaware of the one who is with us everywhere. 

when the christian stays his mind on christ , he develops a wonderful  . 


from  ( ted kalivoda ) 
subject re major views of the trinity 
organization university of georgia 
lines 30 

in article , 
 ( stan friesen ) wrote 

simply put , i do not see any way that a platonic essence could have 
any real existance .  . essence in the platonic sense does not have 
any referent as far as i can tell it is just an imaginary concept 
invented to provide an explanation for things better explained in 
other ways. 

you are quite confident that do not exist. how do propose to 
define beings can a thing can be one without definition can a being 
have a definition and know essence 

what about properties do beings have properties does god have 
properties 

does numbers exist in reality as abstract entities or do we invent them 

thus , to me , the unity of god must be primary , and the must be 
secondary , must be modal or  ( relating to roles , or to modes 
of interaction ) , since otherwise there is no meaning to saying god is one. 

see my post in alt . messianic . about the possibilities of tri theism from a 
point of view. 


ted kalivoda 
institute of higher education 
university of georgia 
athens , ga 

from  ( len howard ) 
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical 
organization pegasus , honolulu 
lines 14 

in article writes 
hello all , 
i have a question about satan .  . i was taught a long time ago 
that satan was really an angel of god and was kicked out of heaven 
because he challenged god 's authority .  . the problem is , i cannot 
find this in the bible .  . is it in the bible if not , where did it 
originate 
wondering , 
eddie 

hi eddie , many people believe the battle described in rev 12 7 12 
describes the casting out of satan from heaven and his fall to the 
earth. 
shalom , len howard 

from  ( steve hayes ) 
subject re and the two 
organization university of south africa 
lines 52 

in article  ( charley wingate ) writes 

seeing as how the two has been brought up again , it is time for 
me to respond , once again , and say that this book is junk .  . it is nothing 
more that an anti catholic tract of the sort published ever since the there 
were protestants .  . its scholarship is phony and its assertions spurious .  . 


i have not seen this book , though i have had several people quote it in 
support of some tendentious assertions they were making , so i have become 
curious about it. 

i do n't want to this fellow , whoever he may be , as i have only 
heard the arguments at second hand , but both of the arguments seemed to turn 
on false etymology that seemed to be derived from  . 

i would be interested in knowing more about these things. 

the first one claimed that the word church was derived from the greek 
, and that it was therefore related to the worship of . 

i do n't know if is the source of this assertion , but it does seem to 
be based on false etymology .  . 

the second claimed an etymological relationship between ishtar and 
easter , which seemed to be even more fanciful and far fetched than some 
of the wilder notions of the british israelites .  . 

regarding the latter , as far as i have been able to find out , easter is 
derived from the old english name for april . the venerable 
bede mentioned that this was associated with a goddess called , but 
apart from that reference i have not been able to find out anything more 
about her. it also seems that the term easter is only used by the english 
and those they  . the germans , for example , also use the term 
, but germany was by english missionaries .  . 

so i would be interested in any evidence of easter being used for 
by people who do not have any kind of connection with the ancient anglo 
saxons and their offshoots .  . such evidence might support the claims of those 
who appear to derive the theory from  . 






steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department 
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa 
internet fidonet 5 7101 20 

faq missiology is the study of christian mission and is part of 
the faculty of theology at unisa 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re portland earthquake 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 19 

in article  ( bill rea ) writes 
in history seems to imply some pretty serious sin .  . the one of the 
pastors in the church i attend , christchurch city , considers 
that a prophesy of a natural disaster as a judgement from the lord 
is a clear sign that the prophesy is not from the lord .  . 

i would like to see his reasoning behind this. you may have gotten 
burned by natural disaster prophecies down there , but that 
does not mean that every natural disaster judgement prophecy is 
false .  . take a quick look at the book of jeremiah and it is obvious 
that judgement prophecies can be valid .  . here in the us , it seems like 
we might have more of a problem with positive prophecies , though i 
am sure there may be a few people who are too into judgement .  . 

sometimes god does give words that are difficult to swallow .  . the 
relative of a prophecy is not necesarily grounds to 
dismiss it. much of the ot is not happy stuff. 

link hudson .  . 

from (richard a chonak ) 
subject boston church 
organization 
lines 14 

 ( dear moderator would you add this to the bcc faq ) 

in case there are any ex members of the boston church of christ 
looking for a support organization , here 's the number of in 
burlington , ma 617 272 1955 .  . 



s . r . c . readers in new england may be interested in seeing a series of 
news reports about the bcc in the 6 pm nightly news on channel 5 
 ( wcvb , boston ) , for the next few days  ( starting wed , 5 19) .  . 

for viewers outside the boston area , the same telecasts will also be 
aired on the new england cable news channel at 8 pm. 

from  ( charles dike ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization intel corporation , beaverton , or 
lines 44 


from (david hammerslag ) 

how do you  ( mormons ) reconcile the idea of eternal marriage with 
christ 's statement that in the resurrection people will neither 
marry nor be given in marriage  ( luke ,  . 20) 

footnotes in some bibles reference this verse to the book of tobit .  . 
tobit is in the septuagint .  . goodspeed published it in a book called 
the apocrypha . most any bookstore will have this. at any rate , the jews 
of christ 's day had this book. it is a story mostly centered around the 
son of tobit who was named tobias .  . there was a young lady , sarah , who had 
entered the chamber with seven brothers in succession .  . the brothers 
all died in the chamber before the marriage. 

tobias was entitled to have sarah for his wife (3 17) because tobias was 
her only relative and  .  .  . she . was destined for tobias from the beginning 
(6 17) .  . 

tobias took her to wife and was able to consumate the marriage. the 
seven husbands would not have her as a partner in heaven. that does not 
eliminate tobias , her eighth husband. tobit is a fun and interesting 
story to read. it 's kind of a mythical romance .  . it 's a little shorter 
than esther .  . 

the lds also have scriptures that parallel and amplify luke 20. most 
notably doctrines and covenants 132 15 16. 

therefore , if a man marry him a wife in the world , and he marry 
her not by me nor by my word , and he covenant with her so long as 
he is in the world and she with him , their covenant and marriage 
are not of force when they are dead , and when they are out of 
the world therefore , they are not bound by any law when they 
are out of the world. 

therefore , when they are out of the world they neither marry nor 
are given in marriage but are appointed angels in heaven , which 
angels are servants , to minister for those who are 
worthy of a far more , and an exceeding , and an eternal weight of 
glory. 


cordially , 
charles 

from (james sledd ) 
subject re dreams and out of body incidents 
organization social science computing 
lines 6 

in article  ( alison j wyld ) writes 
from  ( alison j wyld ) 
ps. just to make it clear , i do n't do ( and have never tried )  . 
i tend to think they are off limits for christians .  . 

why 

from (scott holt ) 
subject hate the sin .  .  .  . 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 33 

hate the sin but love the sinner  .  .  . i . 've heard that quite a bit recently , 
often in the context of discussions about christianity and homosexuality .  .  .  . 
but the context really is n't that important. my question is whether that 
statement is consistent with christianity .  . i would think not. 

hate more hate , never love. consider some sin .  . i 'll leave it unnamed 
since i do n't want this to digress into an argument as to whether or not 
something is a sin .  . now lets apply our hate the sin .  .  .  . philosophy and see 
what happens. if we truly hate the sin , then the more we see it , the 
stronger our hatred of it will become .  . eventually this hate becomes so 
strong that we become disgusted with the sinner and eventually come to hate 
the sinner .  . in addition , our hatred of the sin often causes us to say and 
do things which are taken personally by the sinner  ( who often does not even 
believe what they are doing is a sin) .  . after enough of this , the sinner begins 
to hate us  ( they certainly do n't love us for our constant criticism of their 
behavior) .  . hate builds up and drives people away from god .  .  . this . certainly 
cannot be a good way to build love. 

in the summary of the law , christ commands us to love god and to love our 
neighbors. he does n't say anything about hate. in fact , if anything , he 
commands us to save our criticisms for ourselves. so , how are christians 
supposed to deal with the sin of others i suppose that there is only one 
way to deal with sin  ( either in others or ourselves) .  .  . through . prayer .  . we 
need to ask god to help us with our own sin , and to help those we love 
with theirs. only love can conquer sin .  .  . hatred . has no place. the best way to 
love someone is to pray for them. 

scott 

this is my signature. there are many like it , but this one is mine. 
scott holt internet 
georgia tech uucp  .  .  . ! gatech ! prism ! scott 
office of information technology , technical services 

from  ( christopher mussack ) 
subject re dreams and out of body incidents 
lines 26 

ever since i was a kid and learned to tell when i was in a 
dream i have used my dreams for fantasies or working out problems. 
in my dreams i have done everything from yell at my mom 
to machine gunning zombies , not to mention myriad sexual 
fantasies .  . i have deliberately done things that i would never 
do in real life. i understand the need to control ones 
thoughts , but i always felt that dreams were format free , 
no morals , no ethics , no physical laws ,  ( though sometimes i would 
have to wake myself up to go to the bathroom . ) . 

is this an incorrect attitude rather than weakening my , 
i could argue that i got certain things out of my system by 
experiencing them in dreams. by analyzing a dream i can determine 
if i have a problem with a certain situation , i.e. in a dream 
something will be that i can then contemplate and 
see if it really bothers me or not. 

i ca n't believe that other people do n't do the same. it seems 
silly to attach moral significance to dreams. 

i think that this is entirely different from out of body 
experiences , which i have never had. 

contradictions welcome. 

chris mussack 

from  ( mark wuest ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization at t 
lines 53 

in article writes 

eugene bigelow writes 

does n't the bible say that god is a fair god sic if this is true , 
how can this possibly be fair to the infants 

andrew byler writes 

what do you mean fair god is just , giving to everyone what they 
deserve .  . as all infants are in sin from the time of conception (cf 
romans 5.12 , psalm 1 . 7) . , they cannot possibly merit heaven , and as 
purgatory is for the purging of temporal punishment and venial sins , it 
is impossible that origianl sin can be forgiven .  .  .  .  . 

why is it fair to punish you , me and the rest of humanity because of 
what adam and eve did suppose your parents committed some crime before 
you were born and one day the cops come to your door and throw you in 
jail for it. would you really think that is fair i know i would n't .  . 

well , suppose your mother was a crack addict and crack user abuser while 
she was pregnant suppose your husband gave you some  ( this recently 
happened to a close friend of my wife and mine) 

often , the consequences of our sin are at least partially inflicted on 
innocent people. several times in the ot , this is pointed out , even 
saying that descendants would suffer consequences for a person 's sin 
for several generations .  . even today , we see multi  ( to 
coin a phrase) effects from alcoholism , child abuse , and 
abuse just to name three. 

so , god 's definition of fair and ours differ .  . 

some points of perspective 

though the predisposition towards sinning is now inbred  ( see webster 's 
first definition of inbred ) thanks to adam , it is arrogant and foolish 
for any of us to think we would have done any different if we were in 
their shoes. i know myself pretty well , and i'm just not that good. take 
god 's word for it , neither are you. there is no one righteous .  .  .  . 

more important , when a person decides to be a disciple of jesus , god 
promises supernatural help in overcoming our physical self 's sinful 
tendency .  . we can , of course , choose to ignore this help. (rom 7 , 8) 

 .  .  . god . made mankind upright , but men have gone in search of many 
schemes .  . 

mark 

mark my opinions , not at t 's ! ! 
 ( sun ok) 
 ( next mail) 

from anthony lest 
subject 2nd cfv soc . religion . islam . ahmadiyya . moderated 
organization colorado . edu . 
lines 249 

nntp posting host rodan . uu . net . 

call for votes 

this is the official 2nd call for votes for this newsgroup .  . 

name of proposed newsgroup 


soc . religion . islam . ahmadiyya . 


charter 


a religious newsgroup , which would mainly be devoted to 
fostering an understanding and appraisal of the ahmadiyya muslim 
community , its beliefs , ideology and philosophy .  . it will also 
discuss the distinction between ahmadiyya muslim community and 
other branches of islam .  . 

in addition this newsgroup will also discuss the beliefs , 
teachings , and philosophy of all the other major religions to pro 
universal religious appreciation , awareness , and tolerance .  . 

the newsgroup may also be used to post important religious 
events within the world wide ahmadiyya islamic community. 


voting instructions 


voting is being held since the first call for votes appeared  ( may 4 , 1993) , 
and will continue untill may 25 , 1993 (23 59 59 gmt ) 

all votes should be received within this period. it gives a total 
of 21 days for all to vote. 

all votes in favor of creation of the proposed newsgroup should 
be sent in a form of a e mail message to 





with a clear statement in the body of the message like 

i vote yes for soc . religion . islam . ahmadiyya . 
i vote in favor of s . r . i . a .  . 
etc. 

similarly all votes against the proposed newsgroup should be 
sent in a form of a e mail message to 





with a clear statement in the body of the message like 

i vote no for soc . religion . islam . ahmadiyya . 
i vote against the creation of s . r . i . a .  . 
etc. 


you may also include your vote in the subject header of your mail. 

please make sure to include your full name , if your mailer does 
not do that for you. 

one person may only vote once. no matter how many e mail accounts 
s he has. only one vote per person shall be considered valid .  . 

any ambiguous votes like i vote yes for s . r . i . a .  . , if .... shall 
only be considered comments and would not be counted as votes. 

votes received after 23 59 59 gmt , on may 25 , 1993 , will not 
be valid and not counted .  . 

in the event of multiple votes being received from the same 
person , only the last one will be counted .  . if you change your 
mind regarding the way you have voted , send your new vote again , 
your previous vote shall be discarded .  . 

posting to usenet will not be counted a vote. 

please do not send any votes to the e mail address of the per 
son who has posted this  . those votes shall not be counted 
either. 


note an acknowledgement shall be sent to everyone who votes . two . 
additional cfv 's will be posted during the course of the vote. 
 ( number(s ) of yes or no votes will not be disclosed during the 
the voting period , at the end of which all votes shall be made 
public. 


purpose of the newsgroup 


the following are the main purposes this group shall achieve 

i) to highlight the common beliefs of all major religions 
and philosophical traditions as they relate to ahmadiyya 
muslim community. 

ii ) to discuss the doctrines , origin and teachings the ahmad 
muslim community , a dynamic world wide movement. 

iii) to expound islamic teachings and beliefs in the holy 
quran and islamic traditions from the ahmadiyya islamic 
perspective. 

iv ) to emphasize and discuss the similarities between ahmadi 
muslims and followers of other religions of the world and 
to explore how understanding and respect for each other 's 
faith can be brought about to eliminate religious 
and among people of all religious and phil 
traditions .  . 

v ) to look into the origin and teachings of all religions in 
general and of islam and ahmadiyya muslim movement in par 
, and to use the commonality of origin to foster 
better understanding among ahmadi muslims and other people 
and to promote an acceptance of of fundamental 
rights to the freedom of conscience .  . 

vi ) to point out current world problems and suggest solutions 
to these problems , as offered by different religions and 
systems of ethical philosophies .  . 

vii ) to investigate the implications of science on religion 
with particular emphasis on the ahmadi muslim perspective , 
but with openness to dialogue with people of all religions 
and philosophical traditions with reasoned positions as to 
the relationship between religion and empirical science , 
logic , and scientific ethics .  . 

viii ) to exchange important news and views about the ahmadiyya 
muslim community and of other religions .  . 

ix ) to add diversity to the existing religious newsgroups pre 
sent on usenet in the interest of promoting a forum for 
dialogue .  . 

x) to inquire why religious persecution is on the rise in the 
world and suggest solutions to remedy the ever 
situation in the world in general and in the islamic 
world in particular .  . 

xi ) to commemorate the contributions to humanity , society and 
world peace made by the founders and followers of all 
religions in general and by the international ahmadiyya 
muslim community in particular .  . 


type 


the group will be moderated for orderly and free religious 
gue .  . the moderation will not prevent disagreement , dissent , or 
controversy based on a difference of beliefs or doctrine rather , 
the moderators will seek mainly to discourage gratuitously 
tory , abusive , or squalid language , and the introduction of issues 
which are irrelevant based on the provisions of this charter .  . 

the moderators have been chosen through personal e mail and through 
a general consensus among the proponents by discussion in news . groups .  . 
the following moderators have been proposed and agreed upon 

moderator nabeel a. rana 
co moderator dr. tahir ijaz 



a brief description about ahmadiyya islam 



the ahmadiyya movement in islam , an international organi 
sation , was found in in , india .  . the founder of this 
movement , hazrat mirza ghulam ahmad  ( 1835 1908 ) , was proclaimed to 
be the promised reformer of this age as foretold in the scriptures 
of almost all major religions of the world. he claimed to be the 
fulfillment of the long awaited second comming of jesus christ 
 ( metaphorically ) , the muslim mahdi , and the promised messiah .  . 

the claims of hazrat ahmad raised storms of hostility and 
extreme opposition , which are often witnessed in the history of 
divine reformers .  . even today this sect is being persecuted especial 
ly in some of the muslim regimes .  . the right of ahmadi muslims to 
openly practice their religion and to define themselves as muslims 
has been severely restricted in many muslim countries. the united 
nations , human rights organizations such as amnesty international 
and top of some countries have voiced their concerns 
against this denial of basic human and civil to the 
members of this movement , but so far to no avail. 

despite the opposition and persecution , the movement cont 
to grow with a current membership of millions from around the 
world in over 130 countries , who come from diverse ethnic and cul 
backgrounds .  . 

the movement is devoted to world peace and strives towards 
developing a better understanding of all religions .  . ahmadi muslims 
have always been opposed to all forms of violence , bigotry , reli 
intolerance and fundamentalism .  . 

among its many philanthropic activities , the sect has es 
tablished a network of hundreds of schools , hospitals , and clinics 
in many third world countries. these institutions are staffed by 
volunteer professionals and are fully financed by the movement 's 
internal resources. the movement stresses the importance of 
tion and leadership .  . its members have included a high number of 
professionals as well as world class individuals .  . 

the ahmadiyya mission is to bring about a universal moral 
reform , establish peace and justice , and to unite mankind under 
one universal brotherhood .  . 


newsgroup creation 


the discussion for this proposed newsgroup has now 
cially ended. voting will be held for three weeks. if the news 
group gets 2 3rd majority and 100 more yes create votes than 
no do n't create votes the newsgroup shall be created. 


about the vote taker 


mr. anthony lest has been asked by the proponents of 
this newsgroup to act as an official impartial vote taker for the 
proposed newsgroup .  . he has no objection to use his workstation 
for the purpose of vote taking .  . neither the university of 
do , nor anthony lest has anything to do with the proposal of the 
newsgroup .  . they are just collecting the votes as a neutral third 
party. 

questions or comments 


any questions or comments about the proposed newsgroup 
may be sent to 
nabeel a. rana 

any questions or problems in voting should be sent to 
anthony lest 

from  ( allen koberg ) 
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 18 

in article (michael d. walker ) writes 
writes 

i have a question about satan .  . i was taught a long time ago 
that satan was really an angel of god and was kicked out of heaven 
because he challenged god 's authority .  . the problem is , i cannot 
find this in the bible .  . is it in the bible if not , where did it 
originate 

the quick answer revelation 12 7 9 


and as someone mentioned earlier , from the apocryphal book of enoch , 
satan was apparently kicked out for three times asserting his own will , 
i will . hmmm .  .  . pro . choice looks kinda creepy here. 

then there are the references around the bible about taking a third 
of the angels , getting a third of the heavens or something. 

from (seth w mcman ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 26 

in article  ( darin johnson ) writes 
ok , what 's more important to gay christians sex , or christianity 
christianity i would hope. would they be willing to sex 
completely , in order to avoid being a stumbling block to others , 
to avoid the chance that their interpretation might be wrong , 
etc if not , why not heterosexuals abstain all the time. 
(it would be nice if protestant churches had celibate orders 
to show the world that sex is not the important thing in life) 

the biblical arguments against homosexuality are weak at best , yet 
christ is quite clear about our obligations to the poor. how as 
christians can we demand from homosexuals when we walk 
by homeless people and ignore the pleas for help 
christ is quite clear on our obligations to the poor. 

thought for the day 

mat 7 3 and why thou the that is in thy brother 's eye , but 
not the beam that is in thine own eye or how wilt thou say to 
thy brother , let me pull out the out of thine eye and , behold , a beam 
is in thine own eye 

the love of christ is contagious .  . 
mat 23 27 woe unto you , scribes and pharisees , hypocrites ! for ye are 
like unto , which indeed appear beautiful outward , 
but are within full of dead men 's bones , and of all  . 

from 
subject the crowd before pilate 
lines 24 

in a post of 29 april ( ) , considering disasters as instances of the 
judgements of god in history , andy byler spoke of 

the desire of the jerusalem mob who crucified the lord that 
his blood be upon us. 

vera noyes replied  ( 02 may ) , 

i will not comment here for fear of being heavily flamed .  . 

i invite them both  ( and other interested parties as well) to read my 
comments on this verse of scripture .  . to obtain them , send the 
message get choosing to or to 
putting it briefly , i think that the 
significance of the demands of the jerusalem crowd has usually been 
greatly misunderstood , both by christian and by anti christian 
readers. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

you should send email to that address , with the contents of the 
message being a single line containing the get command. the 
subject line is apparently ignored , at least by  . clh 

from (d .  . andrew byler ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 16 

bigelow writes 

it is also noteworthy to consider jesus  attitude. he had no 
argument with the pharisees over any of the ot canon (john 
10 . 31 . 6) , and explained to his followers on the road to emmaus 
that in the law , prophets and psalms which referred to him the 
ot division of scripture  ( luke 24 . , as well as in luke 11 . 51 . 
taking genesis to chronicles (the jewish order we would say 
genesis to malachi ) as scripture .  . 

you should remember that in adam 's transgression , all men and women 
sinned , as paul wrote. all of humanity against 
god in 's sin , thus , all are subject to it , and the sin is 
transmitted from generation to generation. 

andy byler 

from  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) 
subject re soc . religion . christian . 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 26 

in article  ( sheila patterson ) writes 

as for the atheists agnostics who read this list if you are n't 
christian and if you have no intention of ever becoming one why on 
earth do you waste your time and mine by participating on a christian 
discussion list 

i find this remark to be awfully arrogant .  . i would venture to 
say that there are many people who are christians now , who at one 
point in their lives had no intention of ever becoming a christian .  . 
i was certainly one such person. i am quite thankful that there 
were christians who were willing to continue to talk to me , despite 
the appearance that it might have been a waste of their time and 
mine. (i even married one of them . ) . 

 .  .  . always . be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks 
you to give a reason for the hope that you have. but do this 
with and respect .  .  .  . 
(1 peter 3 15) 

seanna watson bell northern research , pray that at the end of living , 
ottawa , ontario , canada of philosophies and creeds , 
god will find his people busy 
opinion , what opinions oh these opinions. planting trees and sowing seeds .  . 
no , they 're not bnr 's , they 're mine. 
i knew i 'd left them somewhere. fred kaan 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 4 

but you will receive power when the holy spirit comes on you and you will be 
my witnesses in jerusalem , and in all judea and samaria , and to the ends of the 
earth. 
acts 1 8 

from  ( antonio l. balsamo  ( save the wails ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( antonio l. balsamo  ( save the wails ) 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 84 


from (scott holt ) 
subject hate the sin .  .  .  . 
date 12 may 93 08 27 08 gmt 

hate the sin but love the sinner  .  .  . i . 've heard that quite a bit recently , 
my question is whether that statement is consistent with christianity .  . i 
would think not. hate more hate , never love. 

if you are questioning whether or not hating sin is consistent with 
christianity i ask you to consider the following scripture 

romans 12 9 let love be without hypocrisy .  . hate what is evil , cling 
to what is good. 

what is it that paul , through the inspiration of the holy spirit is 
calling us to hate would god call us to do something that would 
eventually lead to hating our fellow man especially when he commands us to 
do the opposite , to love your fellow man 

consider some sin .  . now lets apply our hate the sin .  .  .  . philosophy and see 
what happens. if we truly hate the sin , then the more we see it , the 
stronger our hatred of it will become .  . eventually this hate becomes so 
strong that we become disgusted with the sinner and eventually come to 
hate the sinner .  . 

that has not been my experience. i 've not found myself hating anybody 
as a result of hating the sin that may be in their life. as a sinner 
myself , i find myself having more compassion for the person. jesus too , 
since the bible teaches that he was tempted in every way that we are , is 
able to have compassion on us when we our tempted and fall. jesus is our 
very example of how to hate the sin but love the sinner .  . in the account of 
the woman caught in adultery (john 8) , jesus had compassion on the woman 
but he also called her to leave her life of sin .  . this is what it means to 
love sinners but hate their sin it means loving them unconditionally , 
while at the same time calling them to leave their sin .  . 

in addition , our hatred of the sin often causes us to say and do things 
which are taken personally by the sinner  ( who often does not even believe 
what they are doing is a sin) .  . 

the blame for this can not always be laid at the feet of the 
christian .  . i have seen and been guilty of taking offense by someone merely 
pointing out my sin and calling me to repent of it. it was not unloving 
for the christian to call me out of sin in fact , i believe it was the most 
loving thing that that person could have done. he loved me enough to want 
to spare me the consequence of remaining in my sin .  . 

after enough of this , the sinner begins to hate us  ( they certainly do n't 
love us for our constant criticism of their behavior) .  . hate builds up and 
drives people away from god .  .  . this . certainly cannot be a good way to build 
love. 

again , i do n't think that you can lay the blame for this at the feet of 
the christian .  . if we have loved them as jesus loved sinners  ( exemplified 
in john 8) and the sinner hates us for it , then we have done the best we 
can. we will have extended to them the most perfect expression of love and 
they will have rejected it. 

now it we hate the sin but forget to love the sinner , then indeed , we 
will , ourselves , be in sin .  . 

in the summary of the law , christ commands us to love god and to love our 
neighbors. he does n't say anything about hate. 

i would like to encourage you to do a word study on hate in the new 
testament .  . i really think that you will be surprised. 

in fact , if anything , he commands us to save our criticisms for ourselves. 

criticism is very different from calling a sinner to repent .  . 

hope this helps , 
in christ , 
tony balsamo 



name antonio l. balsamo 
company digital equipment corp. 
shrewsbury , mass. 
work (508) 841 2039 
e mail 


from (scott dittman ) 
subject definition of christianity 
organization washington lee university 
lines 12 

although simplistic i have always liked the fact that a christian is one 
who not only believes in god , but believes god. after all the name was 
first given externally to identify those who preached christ and him 
crucified to pay the price of their and shortcomings before 
god. god said this was his son i belive him. 

scott dittman email 
university registrar talk  ( 703)463 ) 8455 fax  ( 703)463 ) 8024 
washington and lee university snail mail lexington virginia 24450 

it 's certainly a good things for christians to follow. but as 
a definition it may be a bit hard to apply. clh 

from pages !  ( bruce f. webster ) 
subject re mormon beliefs about bastards 
reply to pages ! 
organization pages software inc. 
lines 63 

in article 
writes 

could anyone enlighten me on how the mormon church views 
children born out of wedlock in particular i'm interested to know if any 
stigma is attached to the children as opposed to the parents. i'm especially 
keen to learn if there is or is not any prohibition in the mormon faith on 
bastards entering heaven or having their names entered in the big 
genealogical 
book the mormons keep in salt lake city. if this is an issue on which the 
official position has changed over time , i'm interested in learning both 
old 
and new beliefs .  . e mail or posting is fine. all information or pointers are 
appreciated. 


well , since my wife is  ( in your gentle term) a bastard , i can 
probably speak with a bit of authority on this. any stigma 
associated with children conceived and or born out of wedlock rests 
solely upon the parents they 've committed a sexual transgression for 
which they should repent .  . the child itself has no a priori limitations 
on him or her indeed , the concept of blaming the child for the 
parents  sins is one most mormons would find appalling note that lds 
theology rejects original sin , as the term is usually defined , and the 
subsequent need for infant baptism (cf .  . 8 in the book of 
 . indeed , lds doctrine goes one step further and in some cases 
holds parents responsible for their children 's sins if they have 
failed to bring them up properly (cf .  . d c 68 25 28 note that this 
passage applies it only to members of the lds church) .  . 

also note that there is no big genealogical book in salt lake city . 
the lds church has a massive storage facility in the nearby mountains 
containing  ( on microfilm ) vital statistic records  ( birth , , 
baptism , marriage , death) gathered from all over the entire world. i 
may be , but i believe they have records for some 2 
billion people in that vault .  . at the same time , the lds church is 
building up an on line genealogical database. in neither case is there 
some kind of worthiness screening as to whether someone can be 
entered in. the only potential issue is that of establishing who the 
parents were , and that would apply only in the case of the database. 
 .  . bruce .  .  . 


bruce f. webster i love the constitution of this land , 
cto , pages software inc but i hate the damned that 
administer it. 
import pages disclaimer . h . attributed to brigham young 


the following arrived as a separate posting clh 

a follow up to my own follow up lest anyone misunderstand , the term 
bastard is one which i have never in 25 years of lds church 
membership heard applied , formally or , to a child born out 
of wedlock , and indeed would  ( rightly ) be considered a vulgar , 
offensive term. i would not have echoed the expression in my reply , 
except in hopes that the poster would recognize the offensive nature 
of the word in the given context. unfortunately , after posting my 
reply , i remembered that subtle points are often lost on the  net , and 
figured i 'd better spell it out.  .  . bruce .  .  . 

bruce f. webster 


from 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization university of louisville 
lines 19 

 ( bruce stephens ) suggests different levels of acceptance of 
homosexuality 

1) regard homosexual orientation as a sin  ( or evil , whatever) 
2) regard homosexual behaviour as a sin , but accept orientation 
 ( though presumably orientation is unfortunate ) and dislike people who 
indulge 
3) as 2 , but love the sinner 
4) accept homosexuality altogether. 

i would add 4  our churches should accept homosexual orientation but hold all 
people to certain standards of sexual behavior. promiscuity , abuse of power 
relationships , harrassment , are equally out of place in the lives 
of homosexual as of heterosexual people. 

of course , this would bring up the dread of homosexual marriage , 
and we could n't have that ! ) 



from  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 21 

in response to alleged circular reasoning concerning the morality of 
homosexuality , clh poses the following challenge 

in order to break the circle there 's got to be some other 
reason to think homosexuality is wrong. 

i answer , 

the circle is simple to break. the church teaches that homosexual 
behavior is immoral .  . this teaching is raw , , unassailable 
dogma .  . that closes the argument for me. 



randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 


right. i understand that people have other reasons for not 
accepting homosexuality .  . the point i was making was that the 
specific argument given would n't stand on its own. clh 

from  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) 
subject on capital punishment 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 51 

in article 
 ( matthew huntbach ) writes 

i would say only to the extent that the roman catholic church 
neither approves nor disapproves of capital punishment , as 
confirmed in the recent catechism , though there are many rcs 
who were rather surprised and upset that capital punishment was 
not explicitly condemned .  . 

i quote from the journal , 30 days in the church and in the world , 
1992 , no. 8 9 , p. 29. 

regarding the new draft of the universal catechism 

in procuring the common good of society the need could arise 
that the aggressor be placed in the position where he cannot 
cause harm .  . by virtue of this , the right and obligation of 
public authorities to punish with penalties , 
including the death penalty , is acknowledged .  . for similar 
reasons , authorities have the right to impede 
aggressors in society with the use of arms. the church 's 
traditional teaching has always been expressed and will 
continue to be expressed in the 
consideration of the real conditions of common good and the 
effective means for preserving public order and personal 
safety. to the degree that means other than the death 
penalty and military operations are sufficient to keep the 
peace , then these non violent provisions are to be preferred 
because they are more in proportion and in keeping with the 
final goal of protection of peace and human dignity .  . 

as is clearly shown by this excerpt , the church 's teaching on capital 
punishment remains today as it has always been in the past in total 
accord with my sentiment that i do not disagree with the use of deadly 
force in those cases for which this option is justifiable .  . 

i do not think your biblical quote can automatically be taken 
as support for capital punishment .  . i take it that as a roman 
catholic you are opposed to abortion , and would still 
it wrong , and something to be objected to even if by 
authority . 

i seek to conform my will to the will of god as expounded by his 
instrument of the visible church here on earth whenever the question 
of faith or morals arises .  . 



randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 


from  ( rodger b. zeisler ) 
subject 05 28 93 
organization rodger b. , plano , tx usa 
lines 97 




a weekly dialogue with a local pastor on the news of the day 

by carl  ( gene ) wilkes 


compuserve , 600 
internet 

this week s thoughts 

last week the supreme court refused without comment to hear an 
appeal by rensselaer , in , school officials desiring the 
distribution of bibles in their public schools  ( rel65 , 5 21) .  . a 
lower court had banned the local , an international bible 
distribution group , from passing out bibles to fifth graders .  . the 
aclu 's barry lynn was quoted as saying that the court 's action 
protected the religious of our public schools. he also 
said that schools must serve students of all faiths and none. 
schools were not to be a bazaar where rival religious groups 
compete for converts , according to lynn .  . 

several , men who are responsible for putting bibles in 
hospitals and hotels , are members of our church. they tell of 
similar stories where they are only allowed to distribute bibles on 
sidewalks around the schools , but cannot go inside the schools. 
they tell of mild harassment by parents who do not want their 
children receiving a bible from a stranger .  . they are willing to 
continue their work at a distance , but find the school 's position 
somewhat disheartening .  . 

i understand rationally and logically the court 's position. and , i 
can see the sense of fairness for all groups. but , on the other 
hand , when does become when does plurality 
turn into no position at all 

i see a couple of here. one is that we can pass out condoms 
but not bibles in our schools. think on that one for a moment. 

the other is that while we are seeking religious in 
our schools , countries like russia who , by the way , practiced 
religious for the past seventy years are making the 
bible part of their public school curriculum .  . when i was in st. 
petersburg in march , the church we worked with had trained over 100 
public school teachers to teach the bible , and the government had 
requested hundreds more ! i recently heard a medical doctor who is 
president of the gideon chapter in moscow tell how they are eagerly 
invited to the university of moscow to distribute bibles to the 
students and are given class time to explain its contents .  . i 
remember seeing a photograph of this doctor holding a bible and 
speaking to the university students standing under a statue of 
lenin .  . now , that 's ironic ! 

i admit two things 1) we are a pluralistic society , and all faiths 
have equal footing .  . this is what our country was founded on. 2) to 
allow every group on school grounds could create a bazaar like 
atmosphere. each city must work to be inclusive of all religions 
and provide a hearing for them. 3) i know i said two the vitality 
of religious faith is not dependent upon whether or not the public 
arena acknowledges it as valid .  . 

however and you knew this was coming i believe , disallowing the 
distribution of the bible by law abiding , caring adults in our 
schools only signals once again our culture 's movement away from a 
singular base from which we as individuals and as a nation can make 
moral and ethical decisions. 

what do you think 

mail box 
 ( let me know if you do not want me to print your letter or your 
name . ) . 

good column re time about teen sexuality i agree 
with moral education from home , but some homes do n't have the kinds 
of morals i want taught .  . one family i worked with smoked dope as 
their primary family activity. another acted like incest was ok. 
families , no matter where they are , are often a lot sicker than 
we 'd like to believe. 

from john , mc 

john , 

i agree that the home ai n't what it used to be , and some homes 
are not the place to learn value based sexuality .  . i still believe 
that this is where the church can come into play. i know , those 
families you speak of may not come to a church to seek information , 
but the help does not need to be in a church building .  .  . i . believe 
that the youth from the families you mentioned will probably 
disregard the value free information at school , too. 

( ) writer s note the views of this column do not necessarily 
reflect the views of members of or the church , legacy drive baptist 
church , plano , tx .  . 

from  ( allen koberg ) 
subject re the bible available in every language  ( was re satanic tounges ) 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 23 

in article writes 
in article 
 ( allen koberg ) writes 

the concept of tongues as used at pentecost seems an outdated concept 
now. with the bible available in nearly every language , and missionaries 
who are out there in all languages , why does the church need tongues 

i guess there are at least some people who are not able to support 
this claim .  . there are still a lot of languages without the bible , or a 
part of the bible .  . there are still many languages which we are not 
able to write , simply because the written version of the language has 
not yet been defined ! 

yes , i suppose that 's true. of course , notice i qualified with nearly 
every language ) .  . and there are missionaries out there who can 
speak every imaginable language and dialect .  . but then , the fact that 
not all languages have a written gospel lends no credence to the 
concept of pentecost type since most tongues occur not 
in these places of un written language , but rather in churches full 
of people who do have a written language and a bible in that language. 

but i nitpick .  . 

from  ( steve hayes ) 
subject kingdom theology 
organization university of south africa 
lines 25 

until recently i always understood the term kingdom theology to mean the 
theology of the kingdom of god , but now i have discovered that there is a 
new and more specialized meaning. i gather that it is also called dominion 
theology , and that it has to do with a belief that christians must create a 
form of government on earth before christ will come again. 

i have not come across anyone who believes or advocates this , but i am told 
that it is a very widespread belief in the usa .  . 

can anyone give me any more information about it 

here are some of my questions 

1. is it the teaching of any particular denomination if so , which 
2. where and when does it start 
3. are there any particular publications that propagate it 
4. are there any organizations that propagate it 


steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department 
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa 
internet fidonet 5 7101 20 

faq missiology is the study of christian mission and is part of 
the faculty of theology at unisa 

from (nabil ayoub ) 
subject re and mike walker 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 83 

in article (d .  . andrew byler ) writes 
nabil ayoub writes 

as a final note , the oriental orthodox and orthodox did sign a 
common statement of christology , in which the of monophysitism 
was condemned .  . so the coptic orthodox church does not believe in 
monophysitism .  . 

sorry ! 

what does the coptic church believe about the will and energy of christ 
were there one or were there two (i . e .  . human and divine ) wills and 
energies in him. 

also , what is the objection ot the copts with the pope of rome (i . e .  . why 
is there a coptic catholic church) do you reject the supreme 
jurisdiction of the 263rd sucessor of st. peter  ( who blessed st. john 
mark , bishop of alexandria was translator for) and his predecessors or 
his infallibility or what other things perhaps 

for your first set of questions  ( regarding the energy and will of christ) 
i quote to you the relevant part of the statement signed by both eastern 
 ( chalcedonian ) and oriental  ( non chalcedonian ) orthodox scholars a few 
years ago  ( both families both orthodox churches ) 

1. both families agreed in condemning the heresy .  . both families 
confess that the logos , the second person of the holy trinity , only begotten 
of the father before the ages and consubstantial with him , was incarnate and 
was born from the virgin mary theotokos fully consubstantial with us , perfect 
man with soul , body and mind ( nu o zeta ) he was crucified , 
died , was buried and rose from the dead on the third day , ascended to the 
heavenly father , where he sits on the right hand of the father as lord of all 
creation. at pentecost , by the coming of the holy spirit he manifested the 
church as his body. we look forward to his coming again in the of his 
glory , according to the scriptures .  . 

2. both families condemn the nestorian heresy and the crypto of 
of cyrus .  . they agree that it is not sufficient merely to say that 
christ is consubstantial both with his father and with us , by nature god and 
by nature man it is necessary to affirm also that the logos , who is by nature 
god , became by nature man , by his incarnation in the of time. 

3. both families agree that the of the logos became composite by 
uniting to his divine uncreated nature with its natural will and energy , which 
he has in common with the father and the holy spirit , created human nature , 
which he assumed at the incarnation and made his own , with its natural will 
and energy. 

4. both families agree that the natures with their proper energies and wills 

are united and naturally without confusion , without change , 

without division and without separation , and that they are distinguished in 

thought alone. 


5. both families agree that he who wills and acts is always the one 
of the logos incarnate .  . 

... 

i guess that adresses your question adequately .  . 

as for your second set of questions , i am afraid they are irrelevant to the 
discussion (at least from my point of view) of monophysitism .  . i do not see 
how they relate to the topic we are discussing  ( other than to start an 
endless orthodox rc debate which i do not plan to engage into) .  . as a brief 
answer to your questions , the position of the coptic orthodox church 
regarding the roman pontiff , his jurisdiction , his , etc. 
is exactly the same as all the other orthodox churches. 

peace , 

nabil 

. . 
nabil ayoub 
engine research center 
dept. of mechanical engineering 
university of wisconsin madison 
email 
' ' 

from  ( mserv ) 
subject ten commandments or ten 
lines 135 

in the course of discussing the sabbath with some folks , 
i came across something that was completely new to me , 
and i thought i 'd offer it for comment. 

to keep this as brief as possible , let me state my 
observation as a declarative statement , and then whoever 
wants to can comment on it. basically , what i think 
i 've observed is that the phrase the ten commandments , 
as used by moses , is not a reference to ex. 20 1 17 , but 
rather a reference to ten distinct from ex. 
20 1 through ex. 31 18. that is , the phrase the ten 
commandments should more accurately be translated the 
ten , of which the passage we call the ten 
commandments is really only the first. 

i'm not completely convinced that the above is true , but 
for purposes of discussion , let me argue it as though i 
was sure. 

arguments supporting the above idea 

1) there are n't really ten commandments in ex. 20 1 17. 
in order to get 10 commandments , you have to get two of 
them out of verses 3 6 , and the verses themselves do not 
support such a division because they are all about not 
worshipping other gods .  . that is , verse 3 commands to 
have no other gods , and verse 5 commands to not worship 
the idols mentioned in verse 4. you ca n't violate 
verses 5 6 without violating verse 3 , indicating that 
the whole passage is one command , and leaving us with 
only nine commandments . i could go on at length about 
this , but for now i 'll just stop with this summary .  . 

2) there are ten speeches between ex 20 1 (the beginning 
of the traditional ten commandments ) and ex 31 18 
(where god actually gives moses the two tablets with the 
ten commandments written on them) .  . i break 
these ten down as follows 20 1 17 20 22 26 21 1 23 33 
25 1 30 10 30 11 16 30 17 21 30 22 33 30 34 38 
31 1 11 and 31 12 18. in most cases , each of these 
passages begins with some variation of the phrase , and 
the lord spoke to moses , saying .  .  .  . the exception is 
ex. 21 1 , which begins now these are the ordinances 
which you are to set before them .  .  .  . 

3) the word translated commandments in the phrase 
the ten commandments is n't really the word for 
commandment , its the word for a speech , or an 
utterance .  . it 's a word often used for longer 
rather than individual statements for instance , when 
combined with the word  yom   ( day ) , this word is 
translated chronicles in such phrases as now the rest 
of the acts of so and so , are they not written in the 
chronicles of x ... the word for commandment is 
freely used throughout the books of moses , and perhaps 
it is significant that when moses spoke of the ten x 's , 
he appears to have avoided the word for commandment and 
chosen instead a word associated with longer 
than just a single command. 

4) god tells moses that he is going to give him the 
stone tablets with the law and the commandments (ex 
24 12) , yet he does not give moses the tablets until he 
has finished all ten on mount sinai .  . if the 
ten commandments were only ex. 20 1 17 , it is not 
immediately clear why god would wait several days and 
nine more before giving these tablets to 
moses .  . on the other hand , if we have the ten 
written on the tablets , then it makes perfect sense that 
god would not give moses the tablets until he had 
finished delivering all ten  . 

5) when moses did get the tablets , he found that both 
tablets were written on both sides (ex .  . 32 15) .  . if 
these ten commandments were only the first 17 verses 
of ex. 20 , god would have had to have written in large 
letters ! not that he could n't have , of course , but it 
does seem more likely to me that this is a reference to 
two tablets containing ten written in normal 
sized letters. 

6) in ii cor .  . 3 , paul seems to specifically single out 
the commandments written on stone as being the 
ministry of death , that which is fading away , and 
the ministry of condemnation .  . with the possible 
exception of the commandment about the sabbath , it is 
difficult to see why paul would refer to the commands in 
ex. 20 1 17 as being temporary , fading away type 
commandments .  . this is less of a problem if the stone 
tablets should happen to have included all of the 
commandments from ex 20 through ex 31. 

arguments against this idea 

the main argument against this idea , aside from the fact 
that it contradicts a long standing tradition , is that 
in dt 5 22 , moses says , after quoting the commands in 
ex. 20 1 17 , these words the lord spoke .  .  . and . he added 
no more. and he wrote them on two tablets of stone and 
gave them to me. this appears to identify the words 
just quoted as being the only contents of the two stone 
tablets .  . 

that was my first impression , anyway. however , after 
some thought , i noted that a great deal hinges on how 
you understand the phrase these words. if moses meant 
these words which i have just related to you were 
spoken by god etc. , then that would mean that only the 
traditional ten commandments were on the stone 
tablets .  . if , however , moses was making a parenthetical 
comment these words which i am now telling you were 
spoken by god etc. then that 's quite different. 

i did note that in the dt 5 account , moses tells of 
being given the stone tablets before telling of the 
people asking moses to represent them before god , 
whereas in the exodus account , the people asked this of 
moses between the first and second , several 
days before god gave moses the stone tablets .  . this 
the idea that moses  remarks in dt 5 
were intended as a parenthetical remark , rather than a 
strictly chronological account of when god wrote what , 
and at what point he stopped adding to what was on the 
tablets .  . 

summary all things considered , i find it somewhat more 
likely that the nine commands in ex 20 are really only 
the first of what moses regarded as the ten 
of god. i do n't know if anybody has ever espoused this 
idea before it 's brand new to me. so , while i lean 
towards accepting it , i would be very interested in 
hearing any comments and criticisms anyone may care to 
offer. 

mark 

from  ( vera shanti noyes ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 108 

in article writes 
in article writes 
my stuff about dealing with deleted 

this is not at all comparable .  . christianity is the main stream in 
western culture. you are the experiences of others. 

i am sorry i did not mean to. i think i understand how your 
experiences were much worse than the small bit of ridicule i have had 
to put up with. i guess i did n't really understand before now i do. 

i remember what it was like being different as a christian .  . we 
were told all the time that we were different , and in fact that 
only members of the our church were really christians  ( though others 
who believed in god were n't as bad as atheists ) , so we were a small 
minority .  . that was nothing compared to being an atheist .  . 

wow , pretty conservative church. (please excuse me if this seems like 
a ridiculous understatement to you . ) . 

the only thing comparable would be a young child being christian 
being surrounded by staunch atheists , including parents , who 
actively persecute any religious both actual punishments 
and , even worse , emotional blackmail .  . they would also have 
to have the whole mainstream society on their side. maybe these 
conditions could have occured in the old soviet union not in a 
country with under god in its pledge of allegiance .  . 

 ( on a side note , that under god was n't in there until recently i 
believe my father , who is in his sixties , remembers saying the pledge 
of allegiance without that in there. i do n't know the history behind 
that though . ) . 

emotional blackmail ouch .  . thank goodness (i 'll be neutral in my 
thanks here ) ) i was raised in a completely tolerant household , so 
that i could make my own decisions ! 

i doubt it even then , because children have to be taught to be 
christians and hence must have support somewhere. 

so atheism does n't have to be taught , but christianity does. i guess 
i can see that , although i can see a child believing in some sort of 
god without anything other than his her own imagination as a basis. 
(sorry , i guess this is sort of minor ) 

my query about parallel between lack of choice for homosexuals and 
lack of choice for him as an atheist deleted 
yes. my atheism was born of necessity .  . for an intellectually honest 
person belief is mostly a response to evidence. 

hmm , i wonder why i am a christian then this is n't a flame , this is 
a real wonder. does anyone else have opinions to offer on why you 
believe in something that has n't necessarily been proven to you 

will or wishes have 
nothing to do with it. i could choose to lie , or to be silent about 
my true beliefs .  . i could no more choose to believe in the god of 
christianity than i could decide that the ordinary sky looks red to 
me. 

sounds like you are an atheist by nature , then. or is it possible 
that at least part of it is due to the apparently repressive nature of 
the christianity of your childhood if this is getting too personal 
perhaps you should ignore it , or we can take it to email. 

still i should be clear that i'm not equating what i went through 
with what gays go through. however it is a mistake to assume that 
everyone who goes through painful experiences are broken by them. 
happily some are made stronger , once we get past it. 

this may have been a general remark you do not sound broken to me , 
but indeed stronger .  . 

i must say that i 
was n't hurt by my experiences in church any more than some of my friends 
who did n't become atheists .  . i was just hurt differently. 

i'm not sure i understand this sentence could you explain 

not without going to details and violating the of some of my 
childhood friends. suffice it say to that religion does not guarantee 
that a person will be happy and strong emotionally , and a repressive 
upbringing can leave its scars even , or especially , on those who do n't 
get free of it. i doubt that any sane and sincere person doubts that and 
i feel no need to defend it. 

yes , i agree with that. i 've seen some of the damage repressive 
religion can do , and as a result i intend to raise my own children as 
much as i can to look around before accepting one religious stand 
 ( atheism is included in this) and to question everything this is 
very important. 

by the way i am much happier and stronger being out of the closet. in 
the end it has been , as someone eloquently put it in private email , an 
experience of liberation rather than  . 

i can see that. 

bill mayne 

cheers , 
vera 

je cherche une ame , qui of course i do n't agree with 
pourra m mylene farmer 's religious views 
je suis i just think they 're interesting. 
d'une generation  ( vera noyes ) 
mylene farmer 

from (david cruz uribe ) 
subject re st. maria 
organization u . c .  . berkeley math. department. 
lines 14 

after reading this story about st. maria  ( posted two weeks 
ago) , i am a bit confused. while it is clear that her daily 
life is one of and sanctity , i am afraid i do n't quite 
understand the final episode of her life. i am reading it 
correctly , she  ( and the church apparently ) felt that being raped 
was a sin on her part , one so perfidious that she would rather 
die than commit it. if this is the case i'm afraid that i 
disagree rather strongly .  . 

can anyone out there explain this one to me 

yours in christ , 

david cruz uribe , sfo 

from (michael d. walker ) 
subject new thought on 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 40 


often times  ( most recently on this list in the last few days) i 've 
heard the passage from revelation 

 .  .  . whoever . adds to the sacred words of this book .  .  . whoever . removes 
words from this book .  .  .  . 

used as an arguement against the books. 

i feel this is ridiculous for two reasons 

1. they were n't added later by the catholic church they were 
always part of what was considered inspired scripture .  . 
 ( this has been dealt with in previous postings .  .  . no . reason 
to repeat the info . ) . 

2. it is more likely than not that when st. john  ( or whomever ) wrote 
the book of revelation what was then considered scripture was 
not the same thing you and i are holding in our hands ! 

if one takes the translation of this book in rev 18 22  ( or somewhere 
around there) to mean all of scripture , then all of us are likely 
holding something that is in violation of this command. 

it is impossible to exactly date the scriptures , even the n.t. ones 
 ( they did n't like to date their letters , i guess) .  . i really wish i 
had my bible with me right now to get the facts straight , but i believe 
that several of the n.t. letters , chief among them 2 peter , have their 
most likely date of composition in the early second century a.d. 
revelation was almost certainly written the reign of 
(sp ) , a.d. 80 96 .  . thus it could be argues that we are all 
in sin if we accept 2 peter as scripture , since it was added to the 
book after the composition of revelation , when we are told to add 
nothing more. 

if you want to get the exact dates , get a copy of the new american 
bible .  . i 'll try to follow this up tomorrow if i remember. 
mike walker 

(univ .  . of illinois) 

from  ( larry autry ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
organization silicon graphics , st. louis , mo 
lines 26 

in article  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) writes 
in article lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) writes 
referring to mary 
she was immaculately conceived , and so never subject to original sin , 
but also never committed a personal sin in her whole life. this was 
possible because of the special degree of grace granted to her by god. 
skipping .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
i do n't particularly object to the idea of the assumption , or the 
perpetual virginity  ( both of which i regard as catholic dogma about 
which i will agree to disagree with my catholic brothers and sisters 
in christ) , and i even believe in the virgin birth of jesus , but 
this concept of mary 's sinlessness seems to me to be at odds with 
the rest of christian doctrine as i understand it. 

the catholic church has an entirely different view of mary than do 
most other christian churches  ( those with parallel beliefs 
 . christ , by most accounts , is the only sinless 
person to ever live. i too , have trouble with a sinless mary 
concept just .  . 
as for the related issue of the original sin only adam and 
eve will answer for that one. my children do not answer for my sins , 
certainly i only answer for mine. 

larry 
silicon graphics , st. louis 


from  ( marxhausen paul) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 34 

 ( dave bernard ) writes 

when elizabeth mary , elizabeth said something to the effect that 
mary , out of all women , was blessed .  . if so , it appears that this 
exactly places mary beyond the sanctification of normal humanity .  . 

i do n't see how this logically follows .  . true enough , mary received a blessing 
beyond any granted in all the history of humanity by being privileged to be 
the mother of the savior .  . it says nothing about mary needing to be a blessed 
person first in order that she might thereby be worthy to bear the son of 
god. again , i think the problem is that as humans we ca n't comprehend how the 
sinless incarnation could spring from sinful human flesh and god 's spirit. 
rather than simply accept the gracious miracle of god , we must needs try 
to dope out a mechanism or rationale as to how this could be. mary 's own 
words , 

 .  .  . my . spirit rejoices in god my savior , for he has regarded the low 
estate of his , ... 

sound like the words of a human aware of her own humanity , in need of a 
savior , similar to what david proclaimed in his psalms .  .  . not . the words 
of a holy being with no further need for god 's grace .  . 

i really apologize for harping on this , i do n't suppose it 's important. 
it 's just that i see mary and joseph and the baby reduced to , 
i feel we lose the wonder in the fact that god chose 
to come down to you and i , to be born of people like you and i , to share 
our existence and redeem us from it 's by his holy incarnation .  . 


paul marxhausen ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . . . . . . university of nebraska lincoln . . .  .  .  . . .  .  .  . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . grace . . . . 
. . . . . . . . happens . 

from  ( allen koberg ) 
subject re satanic tounges 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 72 

in article (paul hudson jr) writes 
in article  ( allen koberg ) writes 
hmmm .  .  . in . the old testament story about the tower of babel , we see how 
god punished by giving us different language. can we assume then that 
if angels have their own language at all , that they have the same one 
amongst other angels after all , they were not punished in any manner. 

if the languages we are the result of babel , then it stands to 
reason that angels would speak a different language from us. you do 
have a valid point about multiple angelic languages. but angelic 
beings maybe of different species so to speak. maybe different species 
communicate differently. 

i do n't know either. truth be known , so little is known of angels 
to even guess. all we really know is that angels always speak in 
the tongue of the person they 're talking to , so perhaps they 
do n't have any language of their own. 

trouble is , while such stories abound , any and all attempts at 
verification  ( and we are to test the spirit .  .  . ) . either show that 
the witness had no real idea of the circumstances , or that outright 
fabrication was involved. the brother puka story in a previous post 
seems like a friend of a friend thing. and linguistically , a two 
syllable word hardly qualifies as language , inflection or no. 

i have heard an eyewitness account , myself. such things are hard to prove .  . 
they do n't lend themselves to a laboratory thing very well. i don  t 
know if it is a very holy thing to take gifts into a laboratory anyway. 

well , we are told to test the spirits .  . while you could do this 
, to see if someones claims are backed by the bible , 
i see nothing wrong with making sure that that guy lazarus really 
was dead and now he 's alive. 

much as many faith healers have trouble proving their victories  ( since 
most ailments cured are just plain unprovable ) and modern day 
have never been validated , so is it true that no 
modern day has been proved by clergy or lay .  . 

that 's an unprovable statement. how can you prove if somethings been proved 
there is no way to know that you 've seen all the evidence. once i 
saw an records complete with photographs showing how one of 
his patients severe was cured by constant prayer .  . 

it 's a common fallacy you commit .  . the non trick. how 
can i prove it when not all the evidence may be seen answer i 
ca n't .  . the fallacy is in assuming that it is up to me to prove 
anything. 

when i say it has never been proven , i'm talking about the ones 
making the claims , not the skeptics , who are doing the proving .  . 

the burden of proof rest with the  . unfortunately , 
 ( pontification warning) our legal system seems to be headed in 
the dangerous realm of making people prove their innocence  ( end 
 . 

but truthfully , corinthians was so poorly written  ( or maybe just 
so poorly translated into english) that much remains unknown 
about just what paul really intended  ( despite claims of hard 
proof one way or another) .  . some will see his writings in 
1 cor 12 14 as saying do n't do this do n't do this and using 
sarcasm , metaphor , etc. while yet others take what he says literally 
and metaphors notwithstanding .  . 

me when i read 1 cor 14 about praying speaking in tongues regarding 
building oneself the church , i see him using compare contrast , 
saying do this because it build the church , while doing this 
builds  ( implying do n't do that) .  . it 's a common usage 
of writing that we all employ , and it is easily seen how it 
could be interpreted this way. why some do and some do n't is 
a mystery .  . 

from 
subject 2 bailey boswell 
organization fnal ad net 
lines 184 

continuing with dr. 's article 

survey of new interpretations of 

d . s .  . bailey 

d . s .  . bailey was perhaps the trailblazer of new assessments of the meaning 
of  . he takes the term in i cor 6 9 as males who actively 
engage in homosexual acts , in contrast to ( ) , those who 
engage passively in such acts .  . 4 however , he insists that paul knew nothing 
of inversion as an inherited trait , or an inherent condition due to 
psychological or glandular causes , and consequently regards all homosexual 
practice as evidence of perversion (38) .  . hence bailey limits the term 's 
reference in paul 's works to acts alone and modern translations of the 
term as homosexuals .  . bailey wants to distinguish between the homosexual 
condition (which is morally neutral) and homosexual practices italics in 
source . paul is precise in his terminology and moffatt 's translation 
best represents paul 's meaning in bailey 's judgment (39) .  . bailey 
clearly denies that the homosexual condition was known by biblical writers .  . 

j. boswell 

the most influential study of among contemporary authors is 
that of john boswell .  . 5 whereas the usual translation 6 of this term gives 
it either explicitly or implicitly an active sense , boswell gives it a passive 
sense. 

in an extended discussion of the term  ( 341 53 ) , he cites linguistic 
evidence and common sense to support his conclusion that the word means male 
sexual agents , i.e. active male prostitutes .  . his argument is that the 
part of the word is , not the object of the which refers to 
base sexual activity. hence the term , according to boswell , designates a male 
sexual person or male prostitute .  . he acknowledges , however , that most 
interpret the composite term as active , meaning those who sleep with , make 
their bed with , men. boswell bases his interpretation on linguistics and the 
historical setting. he argues that in some compounds , such as 
( child ) , the is the subject of , and in others , such 
as ( through which a child passes ) , the is neither subject 
nor object but simply a modifier without verbal significance .  . his point is 
that each compound must be individually analyzed for its meaning. more 
directly , he maintains that compounds with the attic form employ it 
objectively while those with the hellenistic use it as an adjective 
 . yet he admits exceptions to this distinction regarding . 

boswell next appeals to the latin of the time , namely or  . 
these were male prostitutes having men or women as their objects .  . the greek 
is the equivalent of the latin the corresponding passive 
would be ( one who lies beside ) , boswell affirms .  . he claims that 
was the most explicit word available to paul for a male 
prostitute , since by paul 's time the attic words ( ) and 
( one committing fornication ) , found also in the , had been 
adopted to refer to men who resorted to female prostitutes or simply committed 
fornication .  . 7 

in the absence of the term from pagan writers such as herodotus , plato , 
aristotle , and , and from the jewish writers and josephus , 
boswell finds even more convincing evidence for his affirmation that 
did not  homosexual  or even   in the time of 
paul  . 8 he also demonstrates its absence in pseudo , 
, and  . he subsequently finds it lacking in all discussions 
of homosexual relation  ( 346 ) 9 among christian sources in greek , including 
the , , justin martyr , eusebius , 10 clement of alexandria , 
gregory of nyssa , and john  . is singled out for his 
omission as final proof that the word could not mean homosexuality .  . 11 

boswell next appeals to the omission of the texts of i cor and i tim from 
discussions of homosexuality among latin church fathers  . 12 cited are 
, , , and augustine .  . the last named uses 
 . other latin writers include , cyprian , and 
felix .  . the term is also lacking in state and in church legislation .  . by the 
sixth century the term became confused and was applied to a variety of sexual 
activities from child molesting to anal intercourse between a husband and wife 
 . 

having surveyed the sources , boswell concludes , 

there is no reason to believe that either or 
homosexuality in the time of paul or for centuries thereafter , and every 
reason 
to suppose that , whatever they came to mean , they were not of 
christian opinion on the morality of homosexual acts  . 

it is clear throughout that boswell defines to refer to male 
prostitutes .  . he even goes so far as to conclude that paul would probably not 
disapprove of gay inclination , gay relationships , enduring love between 
persons of the same gender , or same sex  ( 112 , 166 17) .  . 



4. d . s .  . bailey , homosexuality and the western christian tradition .  .  ( london 
1975) 38 .  . 
5. j. boswell , christianity , social tolerance and homosexuality  ( chicago 
1980) .  . 
6. several of i tim 1 10 are kjv , them that themselves 
with mankind , abusers of themselves with men nasb , homosexuals 
rsv , nkjv , , neb , niv , perverts , sexual perverts in 
i cor 6 9 these occur kjv , abusers of themselves with mankind , 
abusers of themselves with men nasb , rsv , homosexuals nkjv , 
neb , homosexual  . the rsv and neb derive their translation from 
two greek words , and which has as homosexual 
perverts .  . has the two words as male prostitutes in the text , and 
in the footnote .  . the active idea among the 
commentators as well it is the primary assumption .  . 
7. boswell , christianity 344 .  . yet this was no a word available to paul for a 
male prostitute , for it does not occur at all in any literature prior to paul 
 ( as a serach in the thesaurus using  . if paul 
coined the term , it would have no prior history , and all such discussion about 
its lack of usage in contemporary non christian and christian literature is 
meaningless .  . 
8. again this would be expected if paul coined the word. 
9. the key phrase here apparently is , for boswell admits later 
 ( 350 n . 42) . that it occurs in quotes of paul but there is no discussion in the 
context. hence the implication is that we cannot tell what these writer 
 ( polycarp to the 5 3 theophilus ad 1.2 , 2 . 14 . 
2 . 282 . cyril of alexandria 
14 2.13 ) meant. yet , who was a of 
the apostle and died about a.d. 155 , argues in the context that young men 
should be pure .  . he uses only the three terms , , and 
from paul 's list. this at least makes boswell 's use of all subjective .  . 
apparently clement of alexandria 3.11 3 . 18 . also belong 
here. 

10 .  .  . yet eusebius uses it in 1. 
11. either boswell is misrepresenting the facts about 's use of 
and its form  ( about 20) in the vice lists of i cor 6 or i tim 1 , 
or he is begging the question by denying that the word can mean homosexual when 
uses it. yet the meaning of is the goal of his and our 
study , whether in the lists or other discussions .  . boswell later admits  ( 351 ) 
that uses the almost form in his commentary on 
i cor .  . although boswell suggests that the passage is strange , it may be that 
paul is seeking to make a refinement in  . 
12. apparently jerome is a significant omission here , since he renders 
as , corresponding almost exactly to the 
greek  ( 348 n . 36) .  . 

footnotes 

5. d . s .  . bailey , homosexuality and the western christian tradition .  .  ( london 
1975) 38 .  . 
6. j. boswell , christianity , social tolerance and homosexuality  ( chicago 
1980) .  . 
several of i tim 1 10 are kjv , them that themselves 
with mankind , abusers of themselves with men nasb , homosexuals 
rsv , nkjv , , neb , niv , perverts , sexual perverts in 
i cor 6 9 these occur kjv , abusers of themselves with mankind , 
abusers of themselves with men nasb , rsv , homosexuals nkjv , 
neb , homosexual  . the rsv and neb derive their translation from 
two greek words , and which has as homosexual 
perverts .  . has the two words as male prostitutes in the text , and 
in the footnote .  . the active idea among the 
commentators as well it is the primary assumption .  . 
7. boswell , christianity 344 .  . yet this was no a word available to paul for 
a male prostitute , for it does not occur at all in any literature prior to 
paul  ( as a serach in the thesaurus using  . if 
paul coined the term , it would have no prior history , and all such discussion 
about its lack of usage in contemporary non christian and christian literature 
is meaningless .  . 
8. again this would be expected if paul coined the word. 
9. the key phrase here apparently is , for boswell admits later 
 ( 350 n . 42) . that it occurs in quotes of paul but there is no discussion in the 
context. hence the implication is that we cannot tell what these writer 
 ( polycarp to the 5 3 theophilus ad 1.2 , 2 . 14 . 
2 . 282 . cyril of alexandria 
14 2.13 ) meant. yet , who was a of 
the apostle and died about a.d. 155 , argues in the context that young men 
should be pure .  . he uses only the three terms , , and 
from paul 's list. this at least makes boswell 's use of all subjective .  . 
apparently clement of alexandria 3.11 3 . 18 . also belong 
here. 

10. yet eusebius uses it in 1. 
11. either boswell is misrepresenting the facts about 's use of 
and its form  ( about 20) in the vice lists of i cor 6 or i tim 1 , 
or he is begging the question by denying that the word can mean homosexual when 
uses it. yet the meaning of is the goal of his and our 
study , whether in the lists or other discussions .  . boswell later admits  ( 351 ) 
that uses the almost form in his commentary on 
i cor .  . although boswell suggests that the passage is strange , it may be that 
paul is seeking to make a refinement in  . 
12. apparently jerome is a significant omission here , since he renders 
as , corresponding almost exactly to the 
greek  ( 348 n . 36) .  . 
next 
r. 

from  ( bill irwin ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
reply to  ( bill irwin ) 
organization the group  ( twg ) 
lines 53 

 ( randy a. graca ) writes 

consequently , 
this verse indicates that she was without sin .  . also , as was observed at 
the very top of this post , mary had to be free from sin in order to be the 
mother of jesus , who was definitely without sin .  . 

if the mother of jesus had to be without sin in order to give 
birth to god , then why did n't mary 's mother have to be without 
sin in order to give birth to the perfect vessel for jesus for 
that matter , why did n't mary 's grandmother have to be without sin 
either seems to me that with all the original sin flowing 
through each person , the need for the last one  ( mary ) to have 
none puts god in a box , where we say that he could n't have 
incarnated himself through a normal human being. 

my god is an all powerful god , who can do whatever suits his 
purpose. this includes creating a solar system and planet earth 
with the appearance of great age providing a path through the 
red sea for the children of israel that does not depend on the 
existence of a ridge of high ground and a wind blowing at the 
right speed and direction and the birth of himself from a normal 
sinful person without being tainted by her original sin .  . 

i see far too much focus on the objects of religion and not 
nearly enough on the personal relationship that is available to 
all believers with the author of our existence , without the 
necessity of having this relationship channeled through conduits 
to god in the form of mary , apostles and a pope .  . 

note that the idea of mary being conceived without original sin , i.e. the 
immaculate conception , is distinct from the idea of mary not having sinned 
during her lifetime , which is a separate doctrine and , i believe , also 
held by the catholic church. 

if mary was born without original sin , and did n't sin during her 
lifetime , how is she any different from jesus this means the 
world has had two perfect humans one died to take away the sins 
of the world the other gave birth to him i would certainly 
want to see some scriptural support for this before i would start 
praying to anyone other than god. everything i have ever read 
from the bible teaches me that jesus was and is the only sinless 
lamb of god , not his mother , grandmother .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

hope this is useful to you. 

very useful in helping me understand some of the rc beliefs .  . 
thank you. 

bill irwin the group vancouver , bc , canada 

uunet ! twg ! bill (604) 431 9600  ( voice ) your computer 
(604) 430 4329 (fax) systems partner 

from 
subject re homosexuality issues in 
organization laurentian university 
lines 13 

hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) writes , 

i see no other way of interpreting them other than 
being wrong. please tell me how these verses can be interpreted in 
any other way. i read them and the surrounding text. 

but that is exactly what i was asking. if the homosexual community  ( is that 
the proper term ) has decided that christianity is not against homosexual 
behaviour but rather it then how do they interpret these verses .  . i 
guess what i am really looking for is a homosexual response. 

todd .  .  .  . 


from  ( marxhausen paul) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 31 

i hate to sound , having shot off my mouth badly on the net 
before , but i'm afraid that much of this material only adds to my 
feeling that the assumption of mary would be better phrased our 
assumptions about mary .  . in all the time i 've been reading about 
mary on this group , i can not recall reading much about mary that 
did not sound like wishful with scant , if any , scriptural 
foundation .  . 

i find in the new testament a very real portrait of christ 's parents 
as human persons to be honored and admired for their 
humility and submission to god 's working , beyond doubt. but the 
of theories and dogma that has accreted around them gives me 
an image of alien and inhuman creatures , untouched by sin or human 
desire .  . only christ himself was so truly sanctified , and even he knew 
temptation , albeit without submitting to it. 

i also do n't see the necessity of saying the holy parents were some 
how sanctified beyond normal humanity it sounds like our own inability 
to grasp the of god 's grace in being incarnated through an or 
human being. 

i wo n't start yelling about how people are worshipping mary , etc. , 
since folks have told me otherwise about that , but i do think we 
lose part of the wonder of god 's incarnation in christ when we make 
his parents out to be sinless , sexless , deathless , beings .  . 


paul marxhausen ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . . . . . . university of nebraska lincoln . . .  .  .  . . .  .  .  . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . grace . . . . 
. . . . . . . . happens . 

from  ( matthew huntbach ) 
subject re satanic tounges 
organization computer science dept , , university of london , uk .  . 
lines 23 

in article writes 
we chose to believe we want , but we are not allowed to define 
our own christianity .  . we see in parts. if you see something that i do 
not see , or vice versa , it does not give me the right to play jokes on 
your belief ! 

it is important if christianity is being damaged by it. if 
people who speak in tongues make claims that they are 
miraculously speaking a foreign language through the power of 
the holy spirit , when it can easily be shown that they are simply 
making noises , it damages all christians , since many who are 
not christians do not distinguish between the various sects .  . 

the more modest claim for tongues that it is simply 
uncontrolled praise in which words fail you is surely the one 
that should be used by those who make use of this practice. 

i agree with the point that charismatic practices like this 
can lead to forms of worship which are more about the 
worshipper showing off than genuine praise for god one of the 
things jesus warned us about. 

matthew huntbach 

from  ( maxwell c muir ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization university of arizona , tucson 
lines 161 

in article  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) writes 
in article  ( maxwell c muir ) writes 

in all candor , i would be happy to be proven wrong about believing 
in atheism . problem is , i will have to be proven wrong. 

in mentioning some nonsense about psychology ) and atheism , bob muir asks 
the following question. 

no smiley on the part about atheism , i see. do you realize that your 
statement says that i was mentioning nonsense about atheism this is 
hard for me to defend against if this is the claim you are making , as you 
have only included the last two sentences of my post and mentioned the 
first. please address the substance of my post rather than rejecting it 
out of hand. 
but , because of the sometimes ambiguous nature of english , i may be 
misinterpreting your wording here. please clarify did you or did you not 
mean to call my statements about atheism nonsense if so , care to back 
up that claim 

do i sound broken to you 

i answer in the affirmative .  . 

ok , then. start up the amatuer psycology again. how am i broken 

is it politically correct for christians to be the only besieged group 
permitted the luxury of arrogance 

yawn excuse me , i do n't recall any portion of my post in which i called 
christians arrogant quote me , if i did. i do remember calling christianity 
silly and then following that up with information that i was nine years 
old when i thought that. i also said that i find faith to be intellectually 
dishonest and i would like to see some sort of proof of your god 's 
existence .  . i define faith as belief in the absense of any proof , btw. 

also , i subscribe to a.a as i mentioned and we see fundies of all types 
there , so in answer to your question no. 

finally , i 'd hardly call christianity in this country. i seldom 
see christians ridiculed for merely practising their religion or wearing 
crosses or having christian bumper stickers .  . i do n't know for sure , of 
course , i only say i have n't seen it happening. what i have seen happening 
is my homosexual and or friends being beat up , or preached at by people 
who claim to be christ 's followers. i know that this sort of thing is n't 
practiced by the majority of christians , but it is a very vocal minority 
who are doing it and i do n't see comperable victimization of christians .  . 

now i have a question for bob .  . why in the world would any self respecting 
atheist want to subscribe to a christian news group 

the implication being that i am not self respecting , of course. i'm not a 
student of psychology , btw , but i am a student of creative writing and 
linguistics , so literary analysis is my forte .  . also , if the implications 
i see are improper , please let me know. 
i'm here because i'm not in my own little atheist as 
you seem to think atheists should be. did it occur to you that i do n't 
think i know everything and that maybe someone will say something that 
will change my life have you read my other posts here or did you see 
atheist and decide it was time to poke at someone who does n't deserve 
your respect 
aw , geez .  . i'm sorry , i probably am getting my back up a little too high , 
here. it 's just that the nonsense thing really annoys me. i figure you 
should see my first reactions , though , since they are my true reactions to 
your question. 
now , the smoothed feather version 
i seek all sorts of knowledge. that 's why i came to my university .  . yes , i 
am looking at your religion  ( well , sorta , i have no idea what kind of 
christian you are) from the outside , and hopefully with an objective view. 
i 've been trying to ask reasoned questions here , because i genuinely do n't 
know the answers to them , but when i saw the question directed at atheists 
i figured i would answer. after all , you can speculate about atheist 
motives here all you want  ( hence the amatuer psychology crack ) , but 
without an atheist , you ca n't be sure of even one atheist 's motive .  . 
i'm hoping people really 
want to know and i was trying to show that i actually checked out several 
religions and i actually read all the pamphlets people have to offer and i 
actually think about these things. instead , i'm still faced with the 
implication that atheism is some kind of aberration and that only broken 
people are atheist .  . 
try it from the flip side i posit that atheism is the natural 
state and only broken people are theists .  . i offer as proof that so many 
people witness from horrible lives which picked up as soon as they 
discovered their religion , that religion is regional  ( if people did n't 
follow the religion of their areas , there would be a more 
mix ) , so many terrorists claim theistic motives , and that theists tend 
to be so and angry when challenged on alt . atheism .  . why are religions 
so successful because there is so much suffering in the world , which 
breaks people. 
it 's an uncomfortable situation whichever way you look at it , which is another 
reason i'm here , to try to see the flip side of my thinking  ( and also as 
a watchdog for logical fallacies ) .  . 
i have a 
difficult enough time keeping up with it , and i think i know something 

about the subject. 

the implication here being that atheists ca n't possibly know anything 
about christianity .  . probably jumping at shadows again , but i think my 
reaction is somewhat justified .  . after all , the first post suggested that 
atheists are broken , hostile people. this post confirms that someone 
else believes it. 


bob reminds me of my roommate .  . in order to disbelieve atheism , he says 

he will need to be proven wrong about it. 

well , he got me there. i am a strong atheist , because i feel that lack of 
evidence , especially about something like an omnipotent being , implies 
lack of existence .  . however , i have n't met the strong atheist yet who said 
that nothing could ever persuade him. call me a seeker if you like , i 
do n't .  . 
weak atheism is being ignore here , though. some atheists simply say i 
do n't believe in any god rather than my position i believe that no 
 ( god(s ) exist. for the weak atheist , the is no atheism to disbelieve , 
because they do n't actively believe in atheism .  .  ( if you think this is 
confusing , try figuring out the difference between protestants and 
methodists from an atheist point of view ) .  . 
this is another fallacy many theists seem to have , that everyone believes in 
something  ( followed up by everyone has faith in something ) .  . guess what 
my atheism ends the moment i'm shown a proof of some god 's existence .  . is 
that really too much to ask 


well , i do n't even waste my time trying. 

well , i guess you wo n't succeed in converting him or me. why the 
supposition that you will fail to convince him  ( amatuer psycology on) is 
it because you yourself are unconvinced ) 

i tell him that he 'll just have to take my word for it. 
and i told you that i find faith to be intellectually dishonest .  . note that 
i can only speak for myself. if you find faith to be honest , show me how. 
i have been unable to reconcile it so far. maybe that 's how i'm broken 
i tell you that i have invisible living in my garden and that 
you should just take my word for it. if you accept that , you are of a 
fundamentally different mind than i and i really would like to know how you 
think. all i ask for is proof of the assertion god exists . logical or 
physical proofs only , please. then we 'll discuss the nature of god . 

in response , he tells me he will say an atheist 's prayer for me. 
prayer ! uh , oh , we 'll have to revoke his atheist club card and ! ) 

good luck , bob .  . and , best regards .  . 

good luck to you , as well. and , again , i apologize if the inferences i 
made were inaccurate .  . 


randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 


and garlic toast forever , 
max  ( bob ) muir 


note that abbreviation of quoted is not always the fault 
of the poster. i sometimes do it in order to get a posting by 
the 50 rule in inews .  . clh 

from  ( grant wyatt ) 
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical 
organization computer science department , university of cape town 
lines 18 

in  ( len howard ) writes 
i have a question about satan .  . i was taught a long time ago 
that satan was really an angel of god and was kicked out of heaven 
because he challenged god 's authority .  . the problem is , i cannot 
find this in the bible .  . is it in the bible if not , where did it 
originate 

ref to rev 12 7 12 deleted 

also read ezek 28 13 19. this is a of lucifer  ( later satan ) 
and how beautiful he was , etc , etc 

grant 

o o for god has not given us a spirit of fear , 
, ` , but a spirit of love , of power and a sound 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) mind. 2 tim 1 7 phone 27 21 650 


from (michael siemon ) 
subject re , esp. 
organization public access unix , nyc 
lines 56 

in (michael d. walker ) writes 

that last paragraph just about killed me. the have 
always been accepted as inspired scripture by the catholic church , 
which has existed much longer than any protestant church out there. 
it was martin luther who began hacking up the bible and deciding to 
remove certain books not the fact that the catholic church decided 
to add some much later that is the reason for the difference between 
catholic and protestant bibles .  . 

this is misleading , at best. the question , really , has to do with the 
status of the greek septuagint versus hebrew scripture .  . and the issue 
predates the reformation by quite a bit jerome was negative about the 
and in fact , even though he them , he put 
them after the hebrew canon  ( reordered from the greek ordering to the 
hebrew one . ) . his translations of them were quick and dirty , also  ( he 
reports having done one of them in one day , and another overnight , just 
dictating his translation to an  . 

that is to say , it is the vulgate , and all of its massive importance in 
western christianity , along with the of jerome , which took the 
first steps in reducing these books from the status they had  ( and have) 
among the greeks .  . 

furthermore , it is inaccurate to say that the reformers threw out these 
books. basically , they just placed them in a secondary status  ( as jerome 
had already done) , but with the additional warning that doctrine should 
not be based on citations from these alone. 

i think that the emphasis on the hebrew originals is sound , though it 
seems somewhat arbitrary to on the face of it a translation as 
part of a collection whose principles of selection  ( in hebrew or greek ) 
are confused or unknown and likely fraught with accident. it also seems 
to play into a tendentious notion of the original languages being somehow 
more inspired as if magical , and conveying a message 
than a translation , as if we could not hear god 's word to the jews in 
greek  ( or german , or english ,  .  .  . ) .  . this tendency seems to have got a 
big boost in sola scriptura protestantism , even to the point of current 
inerrancy , despite the more basic , underlying tendency of 
the reformers to see that the texts should and could be translated .  . if 
we can profit from an english rendering of hebrew and greek , there is 
surely little reason to keep , at least , out of our bibles  ( and of 
course , do n't do so )) .  . for texts originally in greek , it 
would seem more to be anti greek prejudice  ( notably , by the time the 
hebrew canon is fully attested , including anti christian prejudice which 
led to the jewish abandonment of the septuagint) which is operative .  . 

btw readers may enjoy some lectures of bruce metzger on the issues of 
translation of the bible  ( including some of what i said about jerome , 
above) in the current numbers of the journal two 
of four have been published so far. 

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

from  ( matthew r ) 
subject urbana 93 mission conference 
organization university of technology , sydney 
lines 16 

i would like to hear from people who are thinking of going to the urbana 93 
conference in december this year. i have recently received info from 
 ( international fellowship of evangelical students ) and am thinking about 
attending although i am still not sure whether i can afford it. 

i would also like to hear from people involved in or ivf groups just to 
hear how things are going on your campus .  . 
are there any news groups or groups of people who already do this. 

i am involved in the christian fellowship at the university of technology 
sydney in australia .  . if you are interested to find out how we are going 
mail me to find out. 

matt reimer 
email 


from  ( aaron bryce cardenas ) 
subject re ethnicity in worship 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 160 

payne writes 
to a culture for the sake of what you perceive as unity seems 
antithetical to the very message of inclusion that you preach .  . 

i agree , with the exception that i do n't preach ignoring our cultures .  . 

the body as a whole must be unified .  . the question is , shall we be a 
melting pot , boiling ourselves down to one legitimate expression , or 
shall we be more like a stew , maintaining the textural integrity of the 
expressed diversity while upholding the unity of thought it released 
all churches from the use of the latin mass  ( unity ) to allow them to 
speak to the people in the common language  . 

in revelation 2 3 , we see that in the first century church , there was one 
congregation in each major city. so there was one unified church. now in 
each city , there were people of different cultures .  . naturally , they 
formed something of a stew , with different members having different 
 . nevertheless , they were one body. they met together , 
sometimes as smaller groups in their homes and sometimes in bigger groups 
in places such as the temple courts .  . 

now in a particular city , then and now , you will find that there is a 
common language associated with that region. for instance , in rome , latin 
was spoken .  . in the united states today , english is spoken .  . so it would 
make sense that congregations in different cities would speak the common 
language and not necessarily latin .  . 

naturally , you would expect the lead evangelist to preach in the common 
language. in the first century church , there were probably many people 
in the congregation who could speak a given tongue to translate the 
message for people of foreign ethnic groups. today , however , you do n't 
see people speaking in tongues to translate sermons , even in so called 
pentacostal churches. we do have a modern day equivalent though 
bi lingual speakers. now in the unified church of which i am a member 
sometimes called the international churches of christ , when we all meet 
together on sundays , there are headphones on people who do n't speak 
english from which they hear an ongoing translation of the sermon in their 
native tongue. neat idea , huh 

now , we meet in different size groups in a random sort of way on sundays , 
so sometimes there will be a meeting of only haitians or of spanish 
speaking people , for example , who will hear an evangelist preach in their 
native language. in addition , we meet in small groups a couple of times 
during the week for bible discussion groups and  . so someone 
who speaks a different language will almost always be with people who also 
speak his language  ( assuming the congregation is large enough) for those 
meetings .  . 

as for the people who speak the common language , they can keep in touch 
with their culture , if they want , but they will also have equally deep 
friendships among their church relationships with people of many various 
nationalities .  . 

has the purpose of the church been thwarted by this action 

the action of letting catholics worship in a native language instead of 
latin indeed not ! see my second paragraph in response to the second 
clipping of your article. 

however , if you mean the action of forming denominations based on a 
culture , then the purpose of the church has been indeed thwarted .  . 

i 'll assume the second possiblility when answering your next clipping .  . 

rather i believe it has been enhanced , for paul us to become as 
one of them that we might reach them. thus , if a person or group of 
people feel more comfortable among their own , shall we not give them a 
place where they can feel comfortable with their heritage and still 
l ove god my guess aaron 

you have met some needs of people , certainly , by helping them to be proud 
of their cultural when most denominations did n't .  . yet you have 
largely isolated yourselves from having quality christian friendships 
outside your nationality  ( and your  . 

we shall certainly give people a place to feel comfortable with their 
heritage .  . however , we will do this in a way that does not destroy church 
unity , but rather encourages friendships among all disciples .  . 

this is the approach of some of the groups that you cite .  . 

it sounds like these groups have wonderful intentions , but they are going 
about things in the wrong way. and names like the african 
episcopal church still make me cringe , although not as much as before. 

i understand that there was more racism in the past that caused such 
groups to be formed , but now we should try to unite .  . i know that it 's 
hard for many people on this newsgroup to imagine there being only one 
body of people on earth , but it is quite possible , and i am working to 
make it happen. however , what might be a smaller step towards unity , 
would be taking the word african out of your denomination 's name. then 
perhaps someday a long time off , you can also remove the 
episcopal part also , and simply be part of the church . 

with regard to , i note tht your  . sig . emits from mit .  . as you 
know , the  is religiously and culturally , and not 
everyone who comes there is immediately comfortable with english , much 
less american culture. what shall be the conduct of the campus churches 
then shall there be one church , for the sake of unity or shall the 
organizations like be useful in helping students new to america make 
the transition in culture , language , and thought 

there shall be one church , for the sake of unity , and it shall be useful 
in helping students new to america make the transition in culture , 
language , and thought. we should n't make a new denomination to try to 
solve problems. the whole denominational mindset only causes more 
problems , sadly .  . 

in the ame church , we retain african at the root of our 
expression , but we are by no means exclusive .  . since you live in 
cambridge , i invite you to visit the local assembly there 

thank you for the invitation .  . that shows me that you indeed have the 
heart to spread the gospel of jesus as well as take part in your cultural 
heritage .  . thank you also for responding to my post. i know  ( all too well) 
how they can be very time consuming .  . 

the whole idea of celebrating your culture is paved with good intentions , 
but i still feel that you must restore and preserve unity at the same 
time. my own church , the boston church , has the singing that you 
mentioned in your post , yet does n't limit expression of my mexican 
culture , even though i am in the mit campus ministry and not the spanish 
 ( speaking ) zone. i have made a commitment to god that i will go to the 
sunday services of my church , because i know that my brothers and sisters 
here are fully devoted in love for god as his disciples .  . 

i do n't believe in tongues , as you may have already picked up on , because 
of my understanding of biblical christianity .  . however , i am certainly 
willing to visit your congregation provided that it does n't interfere with 
my normal worship .  . since you also live in cambridge , i also extend an 
invitation to you to visit our services as often as you like. you can 
meet the mit students at the student center  ( across from 77 mass. ave . ) . at 
9am on sundays to leave for worship or simply call me after wednesday 
night to find out where the service will be held on a particular day. 
my number is 225 , but will be 354 1357 in a few weeks from now and 
for the rest of the summer. our service normally last from to noon , 
but occasionally are later or earlier (1 3 times per year) .  . 

let us always strive to reach all with the gospel by any means necessary. 
as we move from milk to meat , the petty things of the world that 
separate us will dissolve away , and we shall stand with our 
naked that god has shed his grace on all of us , his 
delightful creation. 

definitely ! 

let 's also strive to grow in obedience to the lord through being men and 
women after god 's own heart. 


aaron bryce cardenas net net (617) 225 
mit undergraduate student u.s. aaron b. cardenas 
environmental engineering ie snail 290 mass. ave. 242 
mail cambridge , ma 02139 
 ( good for two weeks) 
speak to one another with psalms , hymns and spiritual songs. 
sing and make music in your heart to the lord , always giving 
thanks to god the father for everything , in the name of our 
lord jesus christ .  . ephesians 5 19 20 


from 
subject re revelations babylon 
organization department of computer science , university of york , england 
lines 37 

woo ! so far , we 've had the following interpretations of the figure of 
the of babylon  in rev 17 18 

a) the united states of america 
b) mho db ) which was as a figure of the fallen spiritual powers who 
corrupt and oppress human society 
c) historical jerusalem 
d ) historical rome 

dare i suggest that the passage might be many layered in meaning how 
about the prophecy reveals god 's judgement on the corrupt idolatrous 
state oppressing his chosen people  ( d ) that god 's judgement extends 
especially to his once chosen city (c) because , despite that city 's 
special call , it still rejected god 's grace at the decisive time (rev 
11 8 also is n't 24 equally suggestive of rome as jerusalem ) 
that the is guilty of many of the crimes of rome babylon (a) and 
is equally subject to god 's judgement that the good  ( book(tm ) actually 
encompasses all these viewpoints by revealing the corrupting spiritual 
powers warring against mankind through the very society that we 've 
created. (b) 

clever , huh ( flame here ! ) no need to argue at all ! 

i think mary 's view has a lot of sense because there seems to be a 
deliberate contrast between rev 17 18 and rev 21 22 the mortal 
jerusalem chosen by god but never  ( historically ) fulfilling its 
and the new jerusalem perfected  ( outside of history ) purely by god 's 
grace .  . eg details like rev 17 1 ` .  .  . who sits on many waters  cf rev 22 
the single stream in the new jersualem river of life flowing from 
the throne of god and of the lamb . ' . 

rex did n't understand your post what 's the relevance of babylonian 
mystery religions to all this please elaborate your ideas about ot 
the book of rev why do you freak at the idea of a primarily  
interpretation of rev i 'd mail , but i ca n't get thru 
unknown or illegal user 
something you 're not telling us 

from rick  ( rick granberry ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to rick  ( rick granberry ) 
lines 40 

in article , 
writes 
therefore , until someone is capable of comprehending 
god 's laws they are not accountable for living them. 
they are in the book of life and are not removed until 
they can make a conscious decision to disobey god. 

a idler 

if babies are not supposed to be baptised then why does n't the bible 
ever say so. it never comes right and says only people that know 
right from wrong or who are taught can be baptised .  . 
what christ did say was 

i solemly assure you , no one can enter god 's kingdom without 
being born of water and spirit ... do not be surprised that i 
tell you you must all be begotten from above. 

could this be because everyone is born with original sin 

mike 

do we attach some meaning of the israelites entering the promised land to 
christianity 

i submit god did not hold the children responsible when the adults chose 
to follow the bad report of the 10 spies over joshua and caleb .  . this is 
recorded for us in deuteronomy 1 39 moreover your little ones , which ye said 
should be a prey , and your children , which in that day had no knowledge 
between good and evil , they shall go in , and unto them will i give 
it , and they shall possess it. 

at least to me it seems there was is an age , or point in maturity where 
they were are held responsible , and could not enter the promised land , 
younger ones were not held to the same rules , at least not by god. 


answer not a fool according to his folly , lest thou also be like unto him. 
answer a fool according to his folly , lest he be wise in his own conceit .  . 
 ( proverbs 26 4 5) 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 15 

in article writes 
paul repeatedly talks about the 
thorn in his side , some think it refers to lust , others pride , but 
who knows. whatever the thorn was , apparently it was not compatible 
with christianity , yet does that make his epistles any less 

there is no reason to believe that paul 's thorn in the flesh was 
a sin in his life. that makes little sense in the light of paul  
writings taken in totality .  . he writes of how he presses for the 
mark , and keeps his body submitted .  . no doubt paul had to struggle 
with the flesh just like every christian .  . paul does associate his 
thorn with a satanic messenger , and with physical infirmities and tribulation , 
but not with a sin in his life. 

link hudson .  . 

from  ( judith eubank ) 
subject re a few questions 
organization university of pennsylvania , school of arts and sciences 
lines 7 

arthur clarke may have quoted the comment about knowing you 're to be 
hanged in the morning concentrating a man 's mind wonderfully , but the 
source of the comment is samuel johnson .  . 

 ( pardon me if you already knew that . ) . 

je 

from (david hammerslag ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization u  . organization . 
lines 21 

in article  ( brooks haderlie ) writes 

searching out our deceased ancestors so that we can perform the 
ordinances such as baptism , confirmation , and marriage for time and 
eternity that are required for a person to obtain salvation through 
christ and to live with him through the  . these are people 
who may have not had the opportunity to know christ in their lifetime , 
so we are making it possible for christ 's saving grace (i know there 
are thousands of interpretations of that phrase) to become fully 
effective for them if they allow it to do so on the other side. 


this paragraph brought to mind a question. how do you  ( mormons ) reconcile 
the idea of eternal marriage with christ 's statement that in the ressurection 
people will neither marry nor be given in marriage  ( luke ,  . 20) 


david 
 .  .  . there . ai n't nobody so bad that the lord ca n't save 'em ai n't 
nobody so good they do n't need god 's love .  .  .  . mullins 


from hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) 
subject re satan and tv 
reply to hulman . edu . 
organization news service at rose hulman 
lines 14 

in article 
 ( rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrabbits ) writes 
mtv controls what bands are popular , no matter how bad they are. in fact , it is 
better to be politically correct like u2 , madonna than to have any musical 
talent. 
steven c. salaris 

interesting idea. 
regular seems to do this sort of thing too with politically correct 
shows. 


in christ 's love 
bryan 

from !  ( larry l. overacker ) 
subject re if there were no hell 
organization shell oil 
lines 21 

in article (scott a mayo) writes 

granting that , i think christianity , as a relationship with jesus and 
a love for god and one 's own soul , stands just fine without hell. i 
do n't believe , or see any evidence in scripture , that hell is presented 
as a stick with which to beat people towards heaven. 

i certainly agree with the last paragraph .  . also , jesus s statements on 
hell can be treated as totally symbolic , or as parables , as 
was much of his other teaching .  . there 's more than enough hell here on earth 
that we are freed from by following jesus that the rest just does n't 
to me. and the fact that we can be free of the hell here is the best gift 
god offers .  . eternal life begins for us now and we do not wait to start 
of the divine nature and journeying on the path to deification .  . 

larry overacker 


lawrence overacker 
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965 


from 
subject who prays speaks in tongues 
organization western kentucky university , bowling green , ky 
lines 8 

for those who pray in tongues , 

when is it appropriate for you to pray speak in tongues 
and why i just would like to gain more knowledge about this subject. 

o western kentucky 
) ) ) university 
( ( ( ( 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re earthquake prediction 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 20 

in article (a rose arose ) writes 

4 were god to call me to be a prophet and i were to misrepresent god 's word , 
my calling would be lost forever. god 's word would command the people 
never to listen to or fear my words as i would be a false prophet .  . my 
bridges would be burnt forever. perhaps i could repent and be saved , but 
i could never again be a prophet of god. 

though there is a command in the law not to heed to one who prophecies 
falsely , it is still possible for the one who has prophecied falsely 
to prophecy truely again. take , for example the story in kings about the 
man of god from judah who came to israel and prophecied against a king .  . 
the lord had commanded him to not eat or drink till he returned home. 
another prophet wanted this man of god to stay in his house , so he 
prophecied falsely that the lord wanted the man of god to stay in his 
house. while they ate and drank in his house , the lord gave the prophet 
who lied a word that the man of god would die from breaking the word of 
the lord .  . it came to pass. 

link hudson .  . 

from  ( aaron bryce cardenas ) 
subject re mormon beliefs about children born out of wedlock 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 32 

bruce webster writes 
indeed , lds doctrine goes one step further and in some cases 
holds parents responsible for their children 's sins if they have 
failed to bring them up properly (cf .  . d c 68 25 28 note that this 
passage applies it only to members of the lds church) .  . 

hi bruce .  . how do you reconcile this practice with ezekiel 18 
ezekiel 18 20 the soul who sins is the one who will die. the son will not 
share the guilt of the father , nor will the father share the guilt of the 
son. the righteousness of the righteous man will be credited to him , and 
the wickedness of the wicked will be charged against him. 

is ezekiel 18 not translated correctly in your eyes perhaps 

sincerely , 

aaron cardenas 

p.s. i too am bothered to see offensive words being posted on this 
newsgroup .  . obscenity is out of place for anyone who wants to live by the 
bible (eph 5 4) .  . 

moderator i would appreciate your not letting posts with foul language 
through , which has happened at least twice lately. thank you. 

i try to avoid foul language. bastard is certainly foul language 
when shouted at someone as an insult .  . but in this case it was being 
used in its original technical sense. similarly , hell is an obscenity 
in some contexts , but not when referring to the afterlife .  . it is not 
clear to me that bastard is foul language when it 's being used in its 
proper meaning. one of today 's postings quotes deut 23 2. am i 
to prohibit that clh 

from (michael covington ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens 
lines 26 

interesting point. the bible does n't say hate the sin . 
it tells to avoid sin , resist sin , even , when necessary , denounce sin .  . 
but not hate. 



michael a. covington , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358 
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio 

the following passages all talk about god or people god approves of 
hating sin or some other action. ps 119 113 also talks about hating 
the sinner .  . i believe there are other passages that would talk about 
hating someone who is evil , but i did n't turn them up in this search 
(which was on the word hate in the kjv , though i 've 
each passage in the  . 

ps 97 10 , 101 3 , 105 25 , 119 104 , 113 , 128 , 163 , , 139 21 22 
6 16 , 8 13 
isa 61 8 
amos 5 15 
8 17 
rev 2 6 

clh 

from  ( maxwell c muir ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization university of arizona , tucson 
lines 88 

in article  ( fil sapienza ) writes 
in article maxwell c muir , 
writes 
of faith  ( if you want to know , i feel that faith is intellectually 
 . 

i 'd appreciate some support for this statement. i'm not sure 
it really makes sense to me. 

i define faith as belief , in the  ( abscense(sp ) of evidence . i also 
include in evidence past experiences. because i have no past experience 
in a god actually having an effect on my life and because i have never 
seen evidence for any god beyond what can be explained without the 
neccessity of a god or which is more convincing than the many fictional 
works i have read  ( and other reasons) , i do not believe in any  . 
from what i have seen , some people reconcile this lack of evidence by 
using faith. 
it is faith in that sense (the only way i currently understand the word 
faith ) that i find intellectually dishonest .  . 

the ambiguity of religious beliefs , an unwillingness to take 
pascal 's wager , 

i 've heard this frequently what exactly is pascal 's wager 

pascal 's wager goes something like this 
premise 1 either there is or there is n't a god. 
premise 2 if god exists , he wants us to believe and will damn us for not 
believing .  . 
premise 3 if god does not exist , then belief in god does n't matter 
because death is death , anyway. 
conclusion belief in god is superior to non belief because 
non belief us to eternal punishment if we are wrong , while belief in 
god only wastes a little time in life if we are wrong. 

sound pretty straightforward and is logically sound. the problem is , 
premise 1 presupposes 1 1 odds between belief and non belief .  . this is 
flat out wrong , because of the sheer number of religions out there and the 
fact that , for the most part , the religions are mutually exclusive .  . i have 
heard theists referred to as 99 atheists because they believe in their 
god  ( or gods ) to be the one god  ( or set of  . the consequence of 
this is what if i pick the wrong god suddenly , the odds do n't look so 
good because picking the wrong god or wrong doctrines of a god still 
leaves you with the possibility of being wrong and being damned to another 
god 's version of hell. 

do i sound broken to you 

i do n't know. you point out that your mother 's treatment upset you , 
and see inconsistencies in various religions .  . i'm not sure if that 
constitutes broken ness or not. it certainly 
disillusionment .  . 

i do n't see how disillusionment enters into it. you see , i presented my 
mother 's treatment of me to show the cause of my questioning my atheism , a 
questioning which continues to this day. i had already been an atheist for 
five years before having any contact with my mother 's version of 
christianity .  . if anything , i had become somewhat disillusioned with 
atheism  ( uh , oh , i thought , what if there is a god ) .  . yes , in a way , i 
have also become disillusioned by many religions , simply because i had 
thought at one time that they had all the answers , if i only found the 
right one. 
i'm still looking , but each time i look in a different place , i become a 
little stronger in my attitude  ( belief , if you will , no faith , though , 
it 's based on the evidence of past experience) that i 'll never find a 
religion which has all the answers. 
sorta like looking for easter eggs. the more time it takes you to find the 
next one , the more convinced you become that you may already have found 
all the eggs you 're going to find. 
someone else mentioned that is n't going to make me think any 
more highly of christians .  . i have a contrary position constructive 
will likely improve my attitude towards christians .  . abusive 
will turn me off. 
no accusations to you , mr. sapienza .  . i merely slipped that into this post 
because i forgot to reply to that one. 

sapienza 
department of technology services 
university of michigan hospitals surgery 


and garlic toast forever. 

max  ( bob ) muir 

ps i'm leaving for home on thursday at 1 30 , so this is likely my last 
post here for the summer ! in the meantime , thank you all for helping me 
see a few more things i might have missed in my through the world ! 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject defending the faith iv conference 
organization indiana university 
lines 121 


enclosed is an advertisement for the defending the faith iv 
conference to be held at franciscan university of  ( ohio ) 
june 25 27. i attended iii last year , and plan to go again this 
year. i would recommend it highly to catholic interested in 
apologetics .  . there will be lots of music , well known catholic speakers , 
fellowship , as well as eucharistic liturgies friday and sunday .  . 

registration is 85 per person , but i believe financial aid is 
available if you need it. housing in residence halls  ( each of which has 
its own blessed sacrament chapel ) , if desired , is 30 person for double 
occupancy for two nights ( 30  . reservations can also be made for 
you at the very nearby holiday inn .  . i think it was 47 a night there 
for my single room. meals are available at the cafeteria  ( friday dinner 
through sunday lunch) for 38 or 32 , with or without breakfast , 
respectively .  . 

franciscan university of is located in eastern ohio on 
us route 22 , 1 2 mile west of the ohio river and ohio route 7. greater 
pittsburgh international airport is less than one hour (35 miles) from 
campus .  . 

feel free to e mail me if you have any question i can answer. 

here is the agenda , as typed in by a friend of mine 

friday afternoon special 

reflections on c.s. lewis , a preliminary session with walter hooper .  . 
walter hooper is one of the foremost international experts on the 
writings of c.s. lewis .  . in 1963 , he served as secretary to c.s. lewis , 
and he has since edited 18 of lewis  literary works for publication .  . 
walter was ordained a priest in the church of england in 1965 , serving 
in oxford , england , until he entered the catholic church in 1988. 


friday evening , opening session 
in search of the truth finding the of faith 
bishop fabian  . 

know your rites 
hahn .  . 

saturday morning 
apologetics means never having to say you 're sorry 
karl 

c.s. lewis my to the catholic church 
walter hooper 

mass 
bishop , 
fr. ray , 


saturday afternoon 

the mystery of why it excludes the priesthood 
dr. alice von hildebrand 

men make better fathers and the male priesthood 
dr. peter 


saturday evening 

when do catholics hear the gospel 
dr. thomas howard 

the catholic gospel not just saving sinners 
scott hahn 


sunday morning 

there 's no place like rome the pilgrimage of two protestant pastors 
panel. 

mass 
fr. ray , 
fr. michael scanlan , tor , 




here is the ad that appeared in the catholic answer 

defending the faith iv conference 

catholic church teaching 

know why you believe june 25 27 , 1993 

times have changed. major catholic doctrines are misunderstood and 
attacked .  . like never before , believers need to know the reasons behind 
the catholic church 's teaching .  . as our first pope urged always be 
ready to give a defense for the hope that is within you (i peter 3 15) .  . 

grab your notebooks and get ready for an spiritual and 
intellectual weekend. this year 's conference will candidly confront the 
hardest questions and objections about the catholic faith. your 
understanding of church teaching with scott and hahn , dr. 
thomas howard , karl , dr. alice von hildebrand , dr. peter 
, and fr. ray . 

cut throught the confusion and doubt , and be better equipped to give 
a defense for the hope that is within you. 

join us at defending the faith iv , the fourth in a series of annual 
conferences designed to strengthen the life of catholics and others 
interested in the catholic faith. it can help you know why you 
believe. 


call toll free today franciscan university 
800 437 tent of 
or 614 283 , ohio 


steve creps , indiana university 


from  ( duncan eric smith) 
subject verse divisions 
organization princeton university 
lines 5 

i'm wondering if anyone knows the answer to a rather trivial question which 
i 've been thinking about what was the process used to divide the bible into 
verses .  . i believe jerome divided the new testament , but i 've never seen any 
discussion of how he did this. it seems rather arbitrary , as opposed to , for 
example , making each sentence a verse .  . 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 3 

but whoever listens to me will live in safety and be at ease , without fear of 
harm .  . 
proverbs 1 33 

from 
subject james and 
lines 31 

on thursday 6 may 1993 , dave davis writes 

i'm leaning .  .  .  .  .  .  . is more directly referenced by james 
than job or ruth is .  .  .  . in any nt verse i 've seen. 

it would help if you mentioned chapter and verse from and 
from james .  . 

job 5 13 ( he taketh the wise in their ) seems to be 
quoted in 1 corinthians 3 19. 

james 5 11 ( you have heard of the patience of job ) , while not a 
quote , implies that james and his listeners are familiar with a 
story of a man named job who exhibited exemplary patience. it is 
possible that the story they know is not that found in the hebrew 
bible , but rather another similar and related story.  ( one has the 
same problem with direct quotes . ) . 

again , matthew 1 5 ( begat of ruth ) tells us that matthew 
knew a story about a woman named ruth who married a man called 
and became the ancestor of david .  . since ruth is not mentioned in 
the ot outside the book of ruth , it seems likely that matthew was 
familiar with the book and respected it , and thought ruth important 
enough to be one of the few women mentioned in the genealogy .  . 

references like this do not prove that the nt writer considered his 
ot source inspired or inerrant or canonical .  . but neither do direct 
quotes. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( jcj ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization huh 
lines 15 

in article  ( maxwell c muir ) writes 

i think you should give up the amatuer ) .  . 
... 
in all candor , i would be happy to be proven wrong. problem is , 
i will have to be proven wrong. 
do i sound broken to you 

absolutely not. i went through a journey of lukewarm christianity , 
agnosticism , atheism , agnosticism , and now  ( although i know my faith 
is less than what it should be) christianity again. i think it 's a path 
many of us take. 

jeff johnson 


from (e alan idler ) 
subject re mormon beliefs about bastards 
organization university of victoria 
lines 75 

writes 

could anyone enlighten me on how the mormon church views 
children born out of wedlock in particular i'm interested to know if any 
stigma is attached to the children as opposed to the parents. 

all children are born pure , i.e. , without sin .  . 
however , most saints would view a pregnancy 
outside of marriage as an occasion of mourning .  . 
(some church members would be much more 
judgmental , but that is their problem . ) . 

in situations where welfare assistance is 
provided through our church , bishops usually 
require that the family be making some effort to 
live the gospel standards and provide for 
themselves. 

however , there are occasions when assistance is 
provided because of the children in the home. 
as a former bishop of mine said , children are 
always worthy before god. 

i'm especially 
keen to learn if there is or is not any prohibition in the mormon faith on 
bastards entering heaven or having their names entered in the big genealogical 
book the mormons keep in salt lake city. 

i am not sure what you mean by the term bastards 
in this context. 

latter day saints believe that through the 
temple ordinances the family unit may be 
preserved in eternity .  . 

if you use genealogical material or software 
produced by the church , you may notice a section 
for temple ordinances .  . within that section 
there should be a spot for signifying 
which stands for born in the covenant .  . 

the children born to couple sealed  ( married ) 
within the temple are born in the covenant 
and are eligible to be part of that eternal 
family unit. 
children born to other couples  ( whether in a 
civil marriage or not) would have to be 
sealed to their parents after their marriage 
is for eternity .  . 

supposing a child were born to a woman out of 
wedlock , he or she could be sealed to his or 
her parents at a later date or adopted into 
any eternal family unit (which may include one 
of the birth  . 

if this is an issue on which the 
official position has changed over time , i'm interested in learning both old 
and new beliefs .  . e mail or posting is fine. all information or pointers are 
appreciated. 

i ca n't say if this principle of adoption 
was revealed at the same time as the sealing 
ordinances , but it has been accepted for the 
15 years i have been in the church. 

i would tend to discount any admonitions from 
the church authorities against having children 
out of wedlock because even though there are 
provisions within the lord 's plan to recover 
what we have done wrong the church does not 
want to give anyone the impression we can sin 
and repent at our leisure .  . 

a idler 

from  ( vera shanti noyes ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 88 

in article  ( maxwell c muir ) writes 

a lot of stuff deleted i'm focusing on just one point 
well , he got me there. i am a strong atheist , because i feel that lack of 
evidence , especially about something like an omnipotent being , implies 
lack of existence .  . however , i have n't met the strong atheist yet who said 
that nothing could ever persuade him. call me a seeker if you like , i 
do n't .  . 
weak atheism is being ignore here , though. some atheists simply say i 
do n't believe in any god rather than my position i believe that no 
 ( god(s ) exist. for the weak atheist , the is no atheism to disbelieve , 
because they do n't actively believe in atheism .  .  ( if you think this is 
confusing , try figuring out the difference between protestants and 
methodists from an atheist point of view ) .  . 

i'm a little confused about the difference between this weak atheism , 
as you put it , and agnosticism .  . is agnosticism not believing or 
necessarily disbelieving in anything , or what is it i used to be 
agnostic (by this definition) but if weak atheism includes not 
necessarily believing in god , then i guess i was one of those. 

actually what i have a hard time understanding is people who do not 
ever decide what they believe. i am constantly in a state of 
self examination , as it would appear many others are as well  ( including the 
atheists , of course i 'd assume that 's why they 're here ! ) .  . i guess 
some people do n't really consider it important to think about the 
answers to life , the universe and everything any comment just 
wondering .  .  .  .  . 

this is another fallacy many theists seem to have , that everyone believes in 
something  ( followed up by everyone has faith in something ) .  . guess what 
my atheism ends the moment i'm shown a proof of some god 's existence .  . is 
that really too much to ask 

tough call , as these things seem to be based on faith wish i could 
help you , but i already tried once with someone who was a 
self professed agnostic thinking of becoming a christian , and it 
did n't work too well ! especially tough as i'm still over 
whether or not i believe in miracles  ( looks like another email to my 
chaplain is coming up .  .  .  . ) .  . all i can do is wish you the best of 
luck , and please do post what you find. 

and i told you that i find faith to be intellectually dishonest .  . note that 
i can only speak for myself. if you find faith to be honest , show me how. 

hmm , how so i guess i really do n't understand. there are times , of 
course , when i say to myself of course i have absolutely no way of 
knowing that what i believe in is true except the satisfaction and 
sense of peace i get from it which of course could just be 
psychological . somehow i live with this anyway is this what you 
mean 

the only proof i have is that i believe god spoke to me once 
which could of course be my own imagination. the odd thing is , 
though , that if you do n't at some point start believing in something , 
after a while it all gets sort of ridiculous. maybe it 's just a 
question of where you draw the line. 

i have been unable to reconcile it so far. maybe that 's how i'm broken 
i tell you that i have invisible living in my garden and that 
you should just take my word for it. if you accept that , you are of a 
fundamentally different mind than i and i really would like to know how you 
think. all i ask for is proof of the assertion god exists . logical or 
physical proofs only , please. then we 'll discuss the nature of god . 

i 'll only add one question have you read pascal what did you 
think of him if you did 

also you may  ( or may not) be interested by surprised by 
joy . i 'd be interested in knowing what you think of him , no sarcasm 
at all intended. (i just say this because one can never know how 
one 's written words will be interpreted .  . i am not interested in 
converting you , since i do n't seem to have whatever it would take 
proof to do so. i'm just interested in learning . ) . 

and garlic toast forever , 

i like this. 

max  ( bob ) muir 

cheers , 
vera 

i give you everything disclaimer of course i do n't agree with 
my sweet everything trent 's  ( nin 's) theology .  . i think 
nine inch nails it 's interesting nonetheless. 
 ( vera noyes ) 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject contradiction in mormonism 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 9 

there is a contradiction related to the moral issue of polygamy in the 
mormon writings .  . in the book in the book of mormon called the book of 
jacob , joseph smith wrote that it was an abomination to god for 
david and solomon to have many wives .  . later , when joseph smith wrote 
the doctrines and covenants  ( possibly when polygamy was becoming an 
issue in his personal life) he wrote that it was not an abomination for 
david to have many wives .  . how do mormons answer this contradiction 

link hudson .  . 

from  ( kevin l rens ) 
subject re christian reformed 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 7 

does anyone belong to or know any facts about the 
christian reformed church 

it 's one of two major heirs to the dutch reformed tradition in the 
u.s. the other is the reformed church in america .  . the crc is 
more or less a spinoff from the rca .  . it was unclear to me from 
my reference exactly the differences between them are. clh 

from !  ( larry l. overacker ) 
subject re , esp. 
organization shell oil 
lines 23 

 ( dave davis ) 

the canonical books were added much later in the church 's 
history. they do not have the same spiritual quality as the 
rest of scripture .  . i do not believe the church that added these 
books was guided by the spirit in so doing. and that is where 
this sort of discussion ultimately ends. 

the apocryphal books that are in the septuagint were part of the canon 
used by the greek speaking churches from the inception of the church. 
they were not added later  ( or much later) .  . this is a common misconception .  . 

the preference of the hebrew canon over the greek canon is a later 
innovation .  . the church did not need to be guided to add the books 
since they were part of the faith once received by the apostles and 
passed to the church. 

larry overacker 


lawrence overacker 
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965 


from  ( ann carlson ) 
subject re faq essay on homosexuality 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va usa 
lines 20 

i have some articles available on the church and gay people , from 
a pro gay viewpoint , which might interest some of the people 
participating in this thread. please email me if you would like 
to have me send them to you (warning , about 70k worth of material. 
make sure you have mailbox and or disk space available . ) . 

there are no short answers to the questions we 've been seeing here 
( how do you explain these verses , how do you justify your actions ) 
if you 've been asking and you really want an idea of the other people 's 
thinking , i encourage you to do some serious reading. 





dr. ann b. carlson o . 
ms 366 o 
nasa langley research center ` ) 
hampton , va 23681 0001 


from  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) 
subject hail mary , full of grace 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 62 

in article  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) writes 
in article lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) writes 
referring to mary 
she was immaculately conceived , and so never subject to original sin , 
but also never committed a personal sin in her whole life. this was 
possible because of the special degree of grace granted to her by god. 

i have quite a problem with the idea that mary never committed a sin .  . 
was mary fully human if it is possible for god to miraculously make 
a person free of original sin , and free of committing sin their whole 
life , then what is the purpose of the incarnation of jesus why ca n't 
god just repeat the miracle done for mary to make all the rest of us 
sinless , without the need for repentance and salvation and all that 

i do n't particularly object to the idea of the assumption , or the 
perpetual virginity  ( both of which i regard as catholic dogma about which 
i will agree to disagree with my catholic brothers and sisters in 
christ) , and i even believe in the virgin birth of jesus , but this 
concept of mary 's sinlessness seems to me to be at odds with the 
rest of christian doctrine as i understand it. 


if you do n't agree with joseph 's accurate statement of the catholic dogma 
of mary 's perpetual sinlessness , then how do you interpret luke 1 28 , 

and when the angel had come to her , he said , hail , full of 
grace , the lord is with thee .  . blessed art thou among women. 

and luke 1 48 

 .  .  . for . , behold , all generations shall call me blessed .  . 

i suppose that these verses might be interpreted to mean that mary was 
possessed of some limited quantity or quality of grace , just as some of 
us are , but it seems to me that full of grace means just what it says 
filled to the , incapable of containing more. the only other people we 
know of who have an abundance of grace are those souls existing in heaven now 
 ( another catholic dogma , based on the communion of saints , as i explained in 
an earlier post) .  . full of grace to me means sinless , and anyone who has 
ever sinned in his life cannot be without sin in the same sense as mary 
was sinless .  . 

as a catholic , i too find certain of the dogmas tough to embrace .  . but 
that 's where the catholic faith and prayer come into play. i pray god 
to strengthen my will to accept the faith given the bride of christ , 
which in turn usually strengthens my community faith in his church. and , 
as you probably know , faith in christ 's church is tantamount to faith in 
christ inasmuch as the church is christ 's mystical body. a catholic by 
nature must have two aspects to his faith in christ (1) a personal faith in 
christ as his own personal redeemer and (2) a community faith in the church 
as the body of christ .  . 



randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 


you might want to check the greek .  . full of grace translates a 
single word that simply means favored , or perhaps more literally , 
graced . the full is a vestige of the specific translation you 're 
using. clh 

from  ( matthew huntbach ) 
subject re when are two people married in god 's e 
organization computer science dept , , university of london , uk .  . 
lines 43 

in article  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) writes 
i am not against capital punishment .  . i feel this way because god is not 
only a god of love , but a god of justice. as we christians are the 
instruments of his will here on earth , we are expected to be true to the 
mandate given us by the lord to judge the actions of our fellow man. 

my favorite scriptural reference in this regard is romans 13 1 7. 

let every person be subordinate to the higher authorities , for 
there is no authority except from god , and those that exist have 
been established by god. therefore , whoever resists authority 
opposes what god has appointed , and those who oppose it will 
bring judgment upon themselves. 

my views reflect the teaching of the roman catholic church. 

i would say only to the extent that the roman catholic church 
neither approves nor disapproves of capital punishment , as 
confirmed in the recent catechism , though there are many rcs 
who were rather surprised and upset that capital punishment was 
not explicitly condemned .  . 

for myself , as a catholic , i see my own opposition to capital 
punishment as much the same as my opposition to abortion a 
reverence for life. here in the uk , the anti abortion case is 
often let down by the explicit link which those on the 
political left make with anti abortionists and 
pro  . there is a tendency to condemn people who 
hold both views as hypocrites .  . i feel that if there were many 
more anti abortionists who were also vocal in their opposition 
to capital punishment on a pro life line , it would end this 
association of anti abortion as a right wing thing , 
and get many to think seriously about the issue  ( there are 
plenty who are pro abortion equally for a left wing 
 . 

i do not think your biblical quote can automatically be taken 
as support for capital punishment .  . i take it that as a roman 
catholic you are opposed to abortion , and would still 
it wrong , and something to be objected to even if by 
authority . 

matthew huntbach 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 12 

let the word of christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish one 
another with all wisdom , and as you sing psalms , hymns and spiritual songs with 
gratitude in your hearts to god. 
colossians 3 16 

a reminder these verses are from the new international version. as with any 
translation , faithfulness to the original hebrew and greek may vary from time 
to time. if a verse sounds a little off occasionally , compare it with another 
translation or with the original texts , if you are able to do so. 

god bless you , 
chuck petch 

from  ( christopher mussack ) 
subject re atheists and hell 
lines 41 

to summarize 
while questioning the of someone who said they would 
rather spend an eternity in hell than be beside god in heaven 
knowing even one man would spend his eternal life being 
scorched for his wrongdoings .  .  .  . i described how horrible hell 
is and compared the above statement with jesus  
suffering on the cross in order to prevent people going to hell. 

which kenneth engel challenges 
did this happen to jesus i do n't think so , not from what i heard. 
he lived one day of suffering and died. if the wages of sin is 
the above paragraph , then jesus didn't pay for our sins , did he 

i will wimp out and admit that i never liked the metaphor of 
jesus paying for our sins in the sense that many christians 
accept as literal .  . the point is that god understands the suffering 
we go through , not just intellectually like when we watch 
the on tv , but really understands , he can feel 
our pain. this fact is manifested by jesus  life. we can argue 
that someone in history might have suffered more than jesus , 
we can think of more horrible torture than crucifixion , we can 
think of cases of betrayal and fruitless effort leading to 
worse despair , but the main point is that jesus is in the 
trenches with us , he is in everyone , whatever i do to the least 
of humanity i do to him , and whatever i do for the least of 
humanity i do for him. 

now , to reconcile this with the existence of hell is beyond my 
capabilities , but that was n't my goal. 

i 'd be surprised to see the moderator let this one through , 

thankfully our moderator is surprising .  . 

but i seriously want a reasonable explanation for this. 

as i re read this i must admit that this is more of a description 
of my faith than an explanation , but perhaps that 's all 
i can do , hopefully that 's all i have to do. 

chris mussack 

from  ( dan , , , ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
reply to 
organization eastman kodak company 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( lois christiansen ) writes 

you might visit some congregations of christians , who happen to be homosexuals , 
that are spirit filled believers , not mcc rs before you go lumping us all 
together with troy perry .  . 


gee , i think there are some real criminals  ( robbers , , drug 
addicts ) who appear to be fun loving caring people too. so what 's 
your point is it ok. just because the people are nice 

is n't satan having a hayday pitting christian against christian over any issue 
he can , especially homosexuality .  . let 's reach the homosexuals for christ .  . 
let 's not try to change them , just need to bring them to christ .  . if he 
does n't want them to be gay , he can change that. if they are living a moral 
life , committed to someone of the same sex , and god is moving in their lives , 
who are we to tell them they have to change 


i think the old saying hate the sin and not the sinner is 
appropriate here. many who belive homosexuality is wrong probably 
do n't hate the people. i do n't .  . i do n't hate my kids when they do 
wrong either. but i tell them what is right , and if they lie or do n't 
admit they are wrong , or just do n't make an effort to improve or 
repent , they get punished .  . i think this is quite appropriate. you 
may want to be careful about how you think satan is working here. 
maybe he is trying to destroy our sense of right and wrong through 
feel  . maybe he is trying to convince you that you know more 
than god. kind of like the adam and eve story. read it and compare 
it to today 's mentality .  . you may be suprised .  . 

from  ( lois christiansen ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization microsoft corp. 
lines 20 

in article wrote 
in article ,  ( lois christiansen ) writes 

you might visit some congregations of christians , who happen to be homosexuals , 
that are spirit filled believers , not mcc rs before you go lumping us all 
together with troy perry .  . 

gee , i think there are some real criminals  ( robbers , , drug 
addicts ) who appear to be fun loving caring people too. so what 's 
your point is it ok. just because the people are nice 

i did n't say to visit some nice homosexuals .  . i said visit some congregations 
of christians .  . spirit . filled believers .  .  . 


praise the lord that we are all members of the same body. let us agree to 
disagree. 

god bless you and see you in heaven 


from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 3 

you will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast , because he trusts 
in you. 
isaiah 26 3 

from  ( hal f lillywhite ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 24 

in article  ( mail server) writes 

but i am interested in your claim that early christian practices parallel 
mormon temple ceremonies .  . could you give an example also , why do they only 
parallel mormon ceremonies why do n't mormon ceremonies restore the original 
christian practices was n't that the whole point of joseph smith 's stated 
mission 

if you want parallels the best source is probably the book temple 
and cosmos by hugh nibley .  . it is not light reading however. 

as to why these early practices only parallel and do not exactly 
duplicate the modern lds ceremony , there are a couple of reasons 

1. quite likely we do not have the exact original from ancient 
times. this stuff was not commonly known but bits and pieces 
undoubtedly spread .  .  ( much as bits and pieces of the modern ceremony 
get known . ) . what we have in the 40 day literature , the egyptian 
ceremonies , and certain native american ceremonies is almost 
certainly not exactly what jesus taught .  . 

2. certain aspects of the ceremony are normally modified to fit the 
situation , much as the modern ceremony has been modified to fit the 
audio visual tools now available. 

from 
subject david 's hebrew quiz software 
organization university of kansas academic computing services 
lines 8 

is anybody using david 's hebrew quiz software and can tell 
me how to space when typing in the hebrew  ( space bar does n't work , 
for me anyway .  .  . ) . email please thanks. 

ken 


opinions are my own 

from (matt kressel ) 
subject a few questions 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 64 


i am writing a paper on religion and how it reflects 
and or affects modern music. this brief questionaire is summary of 
the questions i would like answered. a response is requested and 
can be mailed to me directly at 



please mail do not post 

thanks in advance , 
matt 




1 . ) . how do you feel about groups like , , and who 
freely admit to practicing satanism and preach it in their songs 


2 . ) . how do you feel about groups like , old stryper , , 
and holy soldier who promote and sing about 


3 . ) . how do you feel about groups like front 242 , xtc , revolting cocks , 
minor threat , and ministry who condone and sing about atheism 


4 . ) . how do you feel about bands like shelter who preach the hare 
krishna religion and other  ( minority(but not unheard of) religions 


5 . a) . do you feel there is any difference between promoting music that 
supports and music that satanism 

b) why do you feel this way 


6 . ) . what types of music do you listen to 


7 . a) . how often do you purchase music 

b) how often does that music contain lyrics with in 
religion 


8 . a) . do you feel that music one listens to affects the way one views 
a particular religion religion in general 

b) how does it affect the way you view your religion all religions 


9 . ) . feel free to add any comments here 







matthew owen 
 .  .  . nothing . settles a man 's mind more wonderfully than the knowledge that he 
will be hanged in the morning. arthur c. clarke 

from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject christianity in crisis by hank 
reply to 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 45 


christianity in crisis 
by hank 



controversy for the sake of controversy is a sin .  . 
controversy for the sake of truth is a divine command. 
dr. walter martin 


dr. walter martin personally selected hank to succeed him 
as president of the christian research institute the largest 
evangelical counter cult organization in the world. in this skillful , 
careful treatment of an explosive subject , documents and 
examines how the beliefs of the word of faith movement clearly 
compromises and confuse the essentials of the historic christian 
faith. for the first time ever , this large and influential movement 
is legitimately labeled as cultic .  . 

in this book , discusses such leaders of the word of faith 
movement as e . w .  . kenyon and the twelve apostles of another gospel 
 ( gal 1 6 9) (kenneth e. , kenneth copeland , benny hinn , frederick 
k.c. price , john , robert tilton , marilyn , paul  ( david ) 
cho , charles , jerry , morris , and paul and 
jan  . 

the book is now available through harvest house publishers and should 
be in most christian book stores soon. you can order a hard back copy 
through cri for 14 . 99 . by calling 1 800 443 and avoid retail 
mark ups .  . 

the christian research journal , which is a quarterly publication by cri 
has an article in it 's most recent issue just released called , what 's 
wrong with the word faith movement this is a good article that will 
inform you of each of the teachers above , and tide you over until your 
book arrives .  . if you are interested in receiving the journal yourself , 
you can order it from cri at the number above for 14 a year. it is the 
best source of the most accurate and well researched info in 
today. 


if we 're going to have a discussion of book here  ( and this is the 
third posting so far) , i 'd like people to say enough about its 
contents for people to decide whether it 's worth reading. clh 

from hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
reply to hulman . edu . 
organization news service at rose hulman 
lines 18 

in article 
 ( ann carlson ) writes 
in article , anyone who thinks 
being gay and christianity are not compatible should 
check out dignity , integrity , more light presbyterian churches , affirmation , 
mcc churches , etc. meet some gay christians , find out who they are , pray 
with them , discuss scripture with them , and only then form your opinion. 


i would love to have the time and energy to do so. the 
problem is to be totally fair i would have to go throught this type of 
search on every issue i belive in. i do n't have the time , resources , 
or ability to do what you ask. maybe you should pray that god gives 
me the opportunity instead of simply discrediting me because i have 
not been able to talk to every gay christian .  . 

in christ 's love , 
bryan 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 13 

dave bernard wrote 

when elizabeth mary , elizabeth said something to the effect that 
mary , out of all women , was blessed .  . if so , it appears that this 
exactly places mary beyond the sanctification of normal humanity .  . 

the phrase is su en blessed are you among women. 
there is nothing to indicate that this is an exceptional or unique status , 
only that as a woman mary was blessed .  . adding the word all is not 
a fair reading of the text. there are some good reasons for the church 's 
of mary , but they cannot depend on this verse .  . 



from  ( sherman cox ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
organization nasa msfc 
lines 52 

(scott holt ) writes 

hate the sin but love the sinner  .  .  . i . 've heard that quite a bit recently , 
often in the context of discussions about christianity and homosexuality .  .  .  . 
but the context really is n't that important. my question is whether that 
statement is consistent with christianity .  . i would think not. 

hate more hate , never love. consider some sin .  . i 'll leave it unnamed 
since i do n't want this to digress into an argument as to whether or not 
something is a sin .  . now lets apply our hate the sin .  .  .  . philosophy and see 
what happens. if we truly hate the sin , then the more we see it , the 
stronger our hatred of it will become .  . eventually this hate becomes so 
strong that we become disgusted with the sinner and eventually come to hate 
the sinner .  . in addition , our hatred of the sin often causes us to say and 

that is an assumption on your part. where is your proof that one always will 
degenerate into hating the sinner , because he hates the sin .  . 

i am reminded of the civil rights movement in america .  . it is true that many 
individuals hated the proponents of racism .  . it is also true that many 
individuals hated segregation and discrimination with their whole heart and 
never degenerated into hating the individuals who practiced it. dr. king 's 
message was this. love the individual , the loving of the individual would 
transform him into a friend. however , this did not take away his hatred for 
segregation .  . his hatred for injustice .  . 


in the summary of the law , christ commands us to love god and to love our 
neighbors. he does n't say anything about hate. in fact , if anything , he 
commands us to save our criticisms for ourselves. so , how are christians 
supposed to deal with the sin of others i suppose that there is only one 
way to deal with sin  ( either in others or ourselves) .  .  . through . prayer .  . we 
need to ask god to help us with our own sin , and to help those we love 
with theirs. only love can conquer sin .  .  . hatred . has no place. the best way to 
love someone is to pray for them. 

i would ask , did john the baptist practice love when he criticized the jewish 
leaders of his day did jesus practice love when he threw the 
out of the temple 

we must have at least a for sin .  . we must in order to fight it in 
ourselves. also we must be ready for the call from god to call sin by its 
right name. jesus loved everyone , but he called sin by its right name. 

it is true that love for others is to guide every step of our walk , but it is 
also true that sometimes the love for god calls us to stand up for truth. 


competition is the law of the jungle .  . 
cooperation is the law of civilization .  . eldridge cleaver 

sherman cox , ii 

from  ( aaron bryce cardenas ) 
subject baptism requires faith 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 144 

it troubles me that there have been so many posts recently trying to support 
the doctrine of original sin .  . this is primarily a catholic doctrine , with no 
other purpose than to defend the idea of infant baptism .  . even among , its 
supporters , however , people will stop short of saying that infants 
will go to hell. 

it 's very easy for just about anyone to come up with a partial list of 
scripture to support any sort of wrong doctrine .  . however , if we have the 
heart to persevere in our beliefs to make sure that they are biblically 
based , then we can come to an understanding of the truth. let 's now take a 
more complete look at scripture .  . 

colossians 2 11 12 in him you were also circumcised , in the putting off of 
the sinful nature , not with a circumcision done by christ , having been 
buried with him in baptism and raised with him through your faith in the 
power of god , who raised him from the dead. 

in baptism , we are raised to a new life in christ  ( romans 6 4) through a 
personal faith in the power of god. our parent 's faith cannot do this. do 
infants have faith let 's look at what the bible has to say about it. 

romans 10 16 17 but not all the israelites accepted the good news. for 
isaiah says ,  lord , who has believed our message ' consequently , faith 
comes from hearing the message , and the message is heard through the word 
of christ .  . 

so then we receive god 's gift of faith to us as we hear the message of the 
gospel .  . faith is a possible response to hearing god 's word preached .  . kids 
are not yet spiritually , intellectually , or emotionally mature enough to 
respond to god 's word. hence they cannot have faith and therefore cannot 
be raised in baptism to a new life. 

ezekiel 18 20 the soul who sins will die. the son will not share the 
guilt of the father , nor will the father share the guilt of the son. the 
righteousness of the righteous man will be credited to him , and the 
wickedness of the wicked will be charged against him. 

if you read all of ezekiel 18 , you will see that god does n't hold us guilty 
for anyone else 's sins .  . so we can have no original guilt from adam .  . 

ezekiel 18 31 32 rid yourselves of all the offenses you have , 
and get a new heart and a new spirit. why will you die , o house of israel 
for i take no pleasure in the death of anyone , declares the sovereign lord .  . 
repent and live ! 

the way to please god is to repent and get a new heart and spirit. kids 
cannot do this. acts 2 38 39 says that when we repent and are baptized , we 
will then receive a new spirit , the holy spirit. then we shall live. 

now then that we have a little more background as to why original sin is 
not biblical , let 's look at some of the scriptures used to support it. 

romans 5 12 therefore , just as sin entered the world through one man , and 
death through sin , and in this way death came to all men , because all 
sinned 

sin and death entered the world when the first man sinned .  . death came to 
each man because each man sinned .  . note that it 's good to read through all 
of romans 5 12 21. some of the verses are easier to misunderstand than 
others , but if we read them in context we will see that they are all 
saying basically the same thing. let 's look at one such. 

romans 5 19 for just as through the disobedience of the one man the many 
were made sinners , so also through the obedience of the one man the many 
will be made righteous .  . 

through the disobedience of each individual , each was made a sinner .  . in 
the same way , through the obedience of jesus , each will be made righteous .  . 
we must remember when reading through this passage that death came to each 
man only because each man sinned , not because of guilt from adam .  . 
otherwise the bible would contradict itself. i encourage you to read 
through this whole passage on your own , looking at it from this point of 
view to see if it does n't all fit together. 

psalm 51 5 surely i was sinful at birth , sinful from the time my mother 
conceived me. 

this whole psalm is a wonderful example of how we should humble ourselves 
before god in repentance for sinning .  . david himself was a man after god 's 
own heart and wrote the psalm after committing adultry with and 
murdering her husband. all that david is saying here is that he ca n't 
remember a time when he was n't sinful .  . he is humbling himself before god 
by confessing his sinfulness .  . his saying that he was sinful at birth is 
a hyperbole .  . the bible , being inspired by god , is n't limited to a literal 
interpetation , but also uses figures of speech as did jesus (john 16 25) .  . 
for another example of hyperbole , see luke 14 26. 

now then , even though people see that baptism requires faith and that 
original sin is not biblical , they will still argue that infant baptism is 
necessary because children sin by being selfish not sharing toys with 
other children , by being mean hitting others and fighting , etc. 

certainly we have observed children doing wrong things , but my gut feeling 
is always that they do n't know any better. let 's look to see if the bible 
agrees with my gut feelings. 

isaiah 7 14 15 therefore the lord himself will give you a sign the 
virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son , and will call him 
immanuel .  . he will eat curds and honey when he knows enough to reject the 
wrong and choose the right. 

now just about any church leader will tell you that this is a prophecy 
about jesus .  . if they do n't , then point them to matthew 1 23 and find a new 
leader. jesus certainly could n't have had less knowledge than normal human 
babies. yet this passage says that he had to mature to a certain extent 
before he would know the difference between right and wrong. we see that 
he did grow and become wiser in luke 2 40 and 2 52 .  . the implication is 
that jesus did wrong things as a child before he knew to choose right over 
wrong. since we know that jesus was perfect without sin , we have rather 
conclusive proof that babies cannot sin because they do n't know to choose 
the right instead of the wrong. 

jesus himself was baptized , albeit with john 's baptism , not as an infant , 
but as a thirty year old man  ( luke 3 21 23) and started his ministry as 
soon as he was baptized  ( luke 3 23) .  . immediately afterwards , he was 
tempted by the devil  ( luke 4 1 13 matthew 4 1 11 mark 1 12 13) .  . 

thank you for your attention. 

moderator this should finish up the subject for a while. perhaps you 
would like to make a faq out of this response so that you can repost it 
from time to time when the topic comes up. feel free to rearrange the 
contents if you would like to , but please send me a copy of the final faq .  . 

sincerely , 

aaron cardenas 


i think you 're overly optimistic about the authoritative quality of 
your response. first , original sin is not a catholic only doctrine .  . 
it was held by luther and calvin as well , and is still present in one 
form or another in the lutheran and reformed traditions .  . second , 
saying that it has no other purpose than defending infant baptism is 
an ad hominem argument , which has considerable evidence against it. 
the original baptist theology included original sin , and some baptists 
still hold it. and there are certainly groups that baptize infants 
without believing in original sin .  . among protestants , the sacraments 
tend to be a bit more symbolic than among catholics .  . protestants who 
baptize infants see baptism as a sign of god 's acceptance of us , 
rather than our acceptance of god. in traditional protestant 
theology , god 's grace our response , and is applicable to 
children. there are a number of passages one can cite to indicate 
that god accepts even children. clh 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re sj mercury 's reference to 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 18 

in article , (a rose arose ) writes 
raised in oakland and san lorenzo by strict fundamentalist 
christian parents , mason was beaten as a child. ... 

were the san jose mercury news to come out with an article starting with 
raised in oakland by mexican parents , mason was beaten .  .  .  . , my face would 

perhaps because there is a connection here that is not there in the mexican 
variant you bring up. 

this is true. the statement did n't say anything about christians in general. 
it specifically said strict fundamentalist christians .  . it reflects a 
common perception that people have about fundamentalists being strict 
 . whether or not this perception is justified is another issue. 


the other reading is that they are distinguishing between strict 
and relaxed fundamentalists .  . clh 

from  ( christopher mussack ) 
subject re atheists and hell 
lines 74 

in article , (stephen mcintyre ) writes 
in article 
edu . (stephen mcintyre ) writes 

... besides , i would 
rather spend an eternity in hell than be beside god in heaven 
knowing even one man would spend his eternal life being 
scorched for his wrongdoings .  .  .  . 
this display of is no bluff .  . i 've no fear any god or 
his punishment .  . ... 

that was my point. if i play poker with monopoly money i can bet 
anything i want. 

... 
but i sha n't go to heaven it would be against my sense of 
humanity and compassion for my fellow man. 

this is exactly why christianity is missionary in nature , 
not just out of a need to irritate .  . 8 ) 

... 
the god of both testaments are one and the same , and in 
neither is there evidence god is strictly love. 

to the people who wrote the bible and to whom the bible is written , 
there is evidence of love , but that is a cultural bias .  . this is 
a poor answer which you need n't rebut .  . 

i will now pull the old bait and switch. 

i think you should use the bible to judge man , not god. 
by that i mean , if your moral intuition does n't like what 
is described in the bible , realize that such things are going on 
now. i will avoid the semantic arguments about the cause of evil 
and ask what are you doing to fight it not you specifically , 
but everyone , including myself. if i do n't like the genocide 
in the bible , what about the genocide that goes on right now 
to move beyond the question of a hell , realize that many people 
right now are suffering .  . if you think hell is n't fair and are 
willing to sacrifice everything just to deny its existence , 
what about how life is n't fair right now there is a young mother 
with three little kids who does n't know how she will get through 
the day. right now there is a sixth grader who is a  . 
right now there is an old man with no friends and no money to 
fix his tv. instead of why does n't god help them ask why do n't 
we help them. i think you are correct to challenge any christian 
who does n't live his life with the compassion you seem to possess .  . 

you want evidence of god. find someone who is making a difference , 
someone you admire , someone who has been through some tough times 
and has come out with his head up. ask the person how he does it. ask 
the vietnam vet who was battle how he kept his mind. ask the 
woman who was pregnant at 15 , kept the baby and now is a successful 
business woman. ask the doctor who has operated on a 1 1 2 pound 
baby. they wo n't all be christians , or even what you might 
call religious , but there will be something in common. 

god is not defined in the bible , god is defined by what is 
in those people 's hearts. it does n't matter if you ca n't give 
intellectual assent to any description you 've heard , they 're 
all wrong anyway. the compassion you already feel in your heart 
is a step in the right direction. follow that instead. 
then come back and read the bible and you 'll see that same 
thing described there. 

if nothing else makes sense , hang on to that idea , that god is love. 

i would say something similar , but in reverse order love 
is god. 

good , i guess we only have to work on your grammar .  . 8 ) 

chris mussack 

from  ( matthew huntbach ) 
subject re definition of christianity 
organization computer science dept , , university of london , uk .  . 
lines 29 

in article  ( larry autry ) writes 
i have enrolled in the history of christianity at a college here in 
st. louis .  . the teacher of the class is what i consider to be 
closed minded and on the subject of what the definition of 
christianity is. his definition is tied directly to that of the 
trinity and the catholic church 's definition of it and belief in 
jesus christ is not sufficient to call one 's self a christian .  . 

what you call the trinity and the catholic church 's definition 
of it is precisely the result of the first christians getting 
together and trying to find an acceptable answer to your 
question what is a christian . i ca n't see what you are 
objecting to someone is saying what historians of all beliefs 
would agree on , and you are calling him a closed minded bigot 

you really ought to say what you mean by belief in jesus 
christ . it is not a wording that is sufficient to describe a 
christian .  . muslims believe in jesus christ although they 
believe he was a prophet and not the incarnated son of god. but 
followers of eastern religions might be quite happy to say that 
jesus was the incarnation of god along with large numbers of 
other historical and mythical figures. 

so perhaps you ought to rephrase your question and say 
precisely what it is in the traditional definitions of what it 
is to be a christian , as handed down by the universal church , 
you object to but regard as unnecessary for being a christian .  . 

matthew huntbach 

from  ( dave bisignano ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
reply to 
organization princeton university 
lines 10 

ken , 
then what happens when you die 
why are you here 
what is the purpose of your life , do you think it 's 
just by chance you 're in the family you are in and have the 
friends you have 
why do you think your searching to fill the void that 
exists in your life. who do you think can fill that void 

dave 

from  ( stan friesen ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
reply to 
lines 28 

someone quoted the following. i 've removed the name because it 's not 
clear which name goes with which level of quote. clh 

... and to holy mary , virgin is invariably added , for that holy woman 
remains  . 
st. of salamis , panacea against all heresies , 
between a.d. 374 377 .  . 

... for the lord jesus would not have chosen 
to be born of a virgin if he had judged that she would be so 
as to the birthplace of the body of the lord , home of the eternal 
king , with the seed of human intercourse .  . ... 
pope st. , letter to , bishop of 
, a.d. 392 

on the basis of these examples i would say that joe moore was only wrong 
in claiming augustine as a prime mover of the sin sex view. these quotes 
clearly equate sexuality with and , even within 
the marriage relationship  ( else they would not apply to mary after her marriage 
to  . 

so joe 's assignment of the reasoning behind the concept of the perpetual 
virginity of mary does seem to be supported by these quotes. 


 ( formerly ! sarima ) 
or 


from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 11 

in article (d .  . andrew kille ) writes 
it was the manifestation of the spirit among the gentiles 
that convinced peter  ( acts 10) that his prejudice against them  ( based on 
scripture , i might add ) was not in accordance with god 's intentions .  . 

i would just like to point out that the particular command not to eat 
or fellowship with gentiles is not found in the old testament .  . this 
was part of the built around the law. it was a part of peter 's 
tradition , and not the scripture .  . 

link hudson .  . 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 19 

if babies are not supposed to be baptised then why does n't the bible 
ever say so. it never comes right and says only people that know 
right from wrong or who are taught can be baptised .  . 

this is not a very sound argument for babies. it assumes that 
if the bible does n't say specifically that you do n't need to do something , 
then that must mean that you do need to do it. i know there 's a specific 
term for this form of logic , but it escapes me right now. however , if it 
were sound , then you should be able to apply it this way if the bible 
does n't specifically say that something is wrong , then it must be ok , 
which , coincidentally , leads perfectly into a question i 've often pondered .  . 
if slavery is immoral (which i believe it is , can i assume that everyone 
else in this group does too ) , why does n't jesus or any of the apostles 
speak out against it owning slaves was common practice back then. paul 
speaks about everything else that is immoral .  . he apparently thought it 
was important enough to talk about things like not being a  . why 
does n't anyone mention slavery if god 's morals are eternal and do n't 
change like the morals of society , then it must have been just as immoral then 
as it is today. 

from 
subject should teenagers pick a church parents do n't attend 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 13 

q. should teenagers have the freedom to choose what church they go to 

my friends teenage kids do not like to go to church. 
if left up to them they would sleep , but that 's not an option. 
they complain that they have no friends that go there , yet do n't 
attempt to make friends. they mention not respecting their sunday 
school teacher , and usually find a way to miss sunday school but 
do make it to the church service ,  ( after their parents are thoroughly 
disgusted ) i might add. a never ending battle it can just ruin your 
whole day if you let it. 

has anyone had this problem and how did it get resolved 
f. 

from lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) 
subject re baptism requires faith 
organization none 
lines 43 

 ( aaron bryce cardenas ) writes 

romans 10 16 17 but not all the israelites accepted the good news. for 
isaiah says ,  lord , who has believed our message ' consequently , faith 
comes from hearing the message , and the message is heard through the word 
of christ .  . 

so then we receive god 's gift of faith to us as we hear the message of the 
gospel .  . faith is a possible response to hearing god 's word preached .  . kids 
are not yet spiritually , intellectually , or emotionally mature enough to 
respond to god 's word. hence they cannot have faith and therefore cannot 
be raised in baptism to a new life. 

catholics view the effects of baptism slightly differently , and that 's 
one primary reason why they baptize babies. they believe that baptism 
produces a change in the soul of the baby , quite independently of any 
act on the part of the baby. this change in the baby 's 
soul gives the infant certain capabilities that he would not have 
without baptism .  . since the infant does not have the use of his 
intellect and will yet , these new faculties are  . but as the 
child gets older , the gifts of baptism come more and more into play. 

ezekiel 18 20 the soul who sins will die. the son will not share the 
guilt of the father , nor will the father share the guilt of the son. the 
righteousness of the righteous man will be credited to him , and the 
wickedness of the wicked will be charged against him. 

if you read all of ezekiel 18 , you will see that god does n't hold us guilty 
for anyone else 's sins .  . so we can have no original guilt from adam .  . 

adam was given a number of gifts by god. the chief among them was 
what catholics call sanctifying grace .  ( in the new testament , the 
word used for this is charity  . ) . by his sin , adam lost this grace .  . 
he did n't lose it just for himself , however , he lost it for the whole 
human race. because once he lost it , he could n't pass it on to his 
descendents .  . 

that 's why catholics baptize babies. through his original sin , adam 
lost sanctifying grace for all his descendents .  . christ instituted 
baptism to give it back to everyone. 

babies are not being punished for anything they personally did they 
are simply lacking in something they need , in order to enter heaven. 

from !  ( larry l. overacker ) 
subject re major views of the trinity  ( and filioque ) 
organization shell oil 
lines 25 

in article writes 
04 may 93 , d. andrew byler writes to all 

on the creed 
... 
do you have any evidence that it is used by the orthodox churches 

as far as i know it is purely western , like the apostles  creed . the 
orthodox churches use the symbol of faith , commonly called the 
nicene creed . 

i have seen it used in an orthodox church once , although i ca n't recall why. 
i found it odd , to say the least. also , i object to the statement that the 
orthodox delete the filioque from the original form of the creed .  . 

the creed originally did not contain that phrase , and it is not present 
in the greek original , which hangs by my desk. not intending to start a 
flame war. we did n't need to delete what was n't there. 

larry overacker 


lawrence overacker 
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965 


from (e alan idler ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization university of victoria 
lines 91 

(david hammerslag ) writes 

this paragraph brought to mind a question. how do you  ( mormons ) reconcile 
the idea of eternal marriage with christ 's statement that in the ressurection 
people will neither marry nor be given in marriage  ( luke ,  . 20) 

here is the short answer because only 
certain marriages are recorded in heaven. 

now for the long answer 

in doctrine and covenants section 132 , the 
chapter discussing eternal marriage  ( and , yes , 
plural marriage) , the distinction between 
under the priesthood and other 
marriages is revealed .  . 

when the children of this world marry , or are 
given in marriage when they receive the 
resurrection from the dead , neither marry , nor are 
given in marriage  ( luke 20 34  . 
jesus was simply teaching that marriages until 
death do you part are not in force after death. 

however , the doctrine and covenants continues 
describing eternal marriage. 

d c 132 19 
and again , verily i say unto you , if a 
man marry a wife by my word , which is my law , and 
by the new and everlasting covenant , and it is 
sealed unto them by the holy spirit of promise , 
by him who is anointed this power and the keys 
of this priesthood ... shortened for brevity ai 
and shall be of full force when they are out of 
the world and they shall pass by the angels , 
and the gods , which are set there , to their 
and glory in all things , as hath been 
sealed upon their heads , which glory shall be a 
and a continuation of the seeds forever 
and ever. 

the lord told peter whatsoever thou shalt bind 
on earth shall be bound in heaven (matt 16 19) .  . 
do you doubt that peter was given the power to 
perform 
peter thought so because he taught that husbands 
and wives were heirs together of the grace of 
life (1 peter 3 7) .  . 

in order to obtain the highest  ( degree of 
celestial glory ) , a man must enter into this 
order of the priesthood (d c 131 2) .  . 
when a man and wife are sealed they truly become 
one flesh because their eternal increase 
 ( destinies ) are completely. 

our father has an eternal companion  ( and maybe 
more because of the plural marriage conditions 
of the law) who participated in our creation 
and is equally concerned with our progress here. 

there is no scriptural basis for this doctrine .  . 
if fact , the only mention of our mother is in 
one verse of a hymn written early in the history 
of the church 

o my father 

i had learned to call thee father , 
through thy spirit from on high , 
but , until the key of knowledge 
was restored , i knew not why. 
in the ns are parents single 
no , the thought makes reason stare ! 
truth is reason truth eternal 
tells me i 've a mother there. 

why do n't we hear more about our mother 

1. because our father under priesthood 
authority (which is not a calling for her) 

2. because we do n't all  ( necessarily ) have the 
same mother it would be confusing for worship 

3. because our father wishes to withhold her 
name and titles because of how some people 
degrade sacred things. 

a idler 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re question about virgin mary 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 39 

d. andrew byler  ( db7n wrote 
however greatly we extoll mary , it is quite obvious that she is in no 
way god or even part of god or equal to god. the assumption of our 
blessed mother , meant that because of her close identification with the 
redemptive work of christ , she was assumed  ( note that she did not 
ascend ) body and soul into heaven , and is thus one of the few , along 
with elijah , enoch , moses  ( maybe ) who are already perfected in 
heaven. obviously , the virgin mary is far superior in glorification to 
any of the previously mentioned personages .  . 


as i said , it is a provocative thought. 

from answer to job 

the logical consistency of the papal declaration cannot be surpassed 
and it leaves protestantism with the of being nothing but a 
man 's religion which allows no metaphysical representation of woman. 
 .  .  . protestantism . has obviously not given sufficient attention to the 
signs of the times which point to the equality of women. but this 
equality requires to be metaphysically anchored in the figure of a 
divine woman , the bride of christ .  . just as the person of christ 
cannot be replaced by an organization , so the bride cannot be re 
placed by the church. the feminine , like the masculine , demands an 
equally personal representation .  . 
the of the assumption does not , however , according 
to the dogmatic view , mean that mary has attained the status of a 
goddess , although , as mistress of heaven .  .  . and . , she is 
functionally on a par with christ , the king and mediator .  . at any 
rate , her position satisfies the need of the archetype .  . par. 753 4 


jung should stick to psychology rather than getting into theology .  . 

jung made it clear that he was talking about psychology , not theology .  . his 
comments had to do with the psychological image of god and its function 
in the human , not about the actual existence or nature of god. 



from lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) 
subject the ancient canon of the roman rite 
organization none 
lines 132 

the following is a juxtaposition of part of an ancient text known as 
de , usually attributed to st. ambrose of milan , and the 
canon of the traditional catholic mass of the roman rite .  . the 
conclusion from this comparison is that the central part of the 
traditional roman canon was already fairly well in place by sometime 
in the late 4th century. 

taken from the mass of the western rites , by the right reverend dom 
, abbot of , 1934 , without permission. 
excerpted from chapter vi the mass at rome , from the fifth to the 
seventh centuries .  . the paragraph at the end is from the book , not me. 

sorry about the long lines. 

joe buehler 



text of de roman canon roman canon 
 ( about 400 ad )  ( 1962 ad )  ( english translation ) 

te ...  ( omitted here) 
... 
... 
... 

fac  ( inquit sacerdos ) , quam tu deus , in do thou , o god , deign to 
, omnibus , , bless what we offer , and 
, , , , make it approved , 
, , , effective , right , and 
est et wholly pleasing in every 
christi .  . ut corpus et way , that it may become 
fiat for our good , the body 
domini and blood of thy dearly 
christi .  . beloved son , jesus christ 
our lord .  . 

qui quam , qui quam , who , the day before he 
in suis in ac suffered , took bread into 
, in et his holy and venerable 
ad te , in , hands , and having raised 
, deus , ad te deum his eyes to heaven , unto 
, , , thee , o god , his almighty 
, quae , , , father , giving thanks to 
suis et suis thee , he blessed it , broke 
suis et it , and gave it to his 
et ex hoc ex hoc hoc disciples , saying take ye 
hoc est corpus est corpus  . all and eat of this 
, pro for this is my body. 
 . 

modo in like manner , when the 
est , est , et supper was done , taking 
quam , in also this goodly 
, in ac into his holy and 
ad te , item venerable hands , again 
, deus , , giving thanks to thee , 
, , suis , he blessed it , and gave it 
suis et et ex eo to his disciples , saying 
suis , hic est take ye all , and drink of 
et ex hoc mei , et this for this is the 
hic est of my blood of the 
 . qui pro new and eternal covenant 
et pro the mystery of faith , 
in which shall be shed for 
 . you and for many unto the 
forgiveness of sins .  . 

as often as you shall do 
in mei memoriam  . these things , in memory of 
me shall you do them. 

ergo et , , nos mindful , therefore , o 
et ab , sed et lord , not only of the 
, in , christi blessed passion of the 
, domini , tam same christ , thy son , our 
, et lord , but also of his 
sanctum et ab , resurrection from the 
sed et in dead , and finally his 
glorious ascension into 
de heaven , we , thy ministers , 
ac , as also thy holy people , 
, , offer unto thy supreme 
, majesty , of the gifts 
sanctum , et bestowed upon us , the 
 . pure victim , the holy 
victim , the all perfect 
victim the holy bread of 
life eternal and the 
of 
salvation .  . 

et et , ut supra quae ac and this do thou deign to 
in regard with gracious and 
per et , kindly attention and hold 
, acceptable , as thou 
es es deign to accept the 
abel et abel , et offerings of abel , thy 
, just servant , and the 
et et sacrifice of abraham our 
patriarch , and that which 
 . sanctum , thy chief priest 
 . offered unto 
thee , a holy sacrifice and 
a spotless victim .  . 

te , most humbly we implore 
deus thee , almighty god , bid 
per these offerings to be 
in sublime altare brought by the hands of 
in thy holy angel unto thy 
etc. altar above before the 
face of thy divine 
majesty etc. 

there is no doubt that we have here two editions of the same 
text and as that of de is in upper italy 
and dated about the year 400 , it is the most ancient witness we 
possess as to the principal parts of the roman canon , which only 
appear in the some time after the seventh 
century. the question as to whether the roman canon is not older 
even than that of de is discussed by 
 . mgr .  . is of this opinion , but we , on 
the contrary , think that the former bears traces of closer 
composition , of a more carefully guarded orthodoxy , and that 
consequently it is a text corrected from de  . we 
shall see , in studying the list of names in the of the 
living and that of the dead , that mgr .  . argues with good 
reason that he can date these fragments from the of 
 ( 498  . we thus have the state of the roman mass , 
or at least of the chief parts of the canon , at the beginning of 
the fourth century. 

from  ( dave bisignano ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
reply to 
organization princeton university 
lines 11 

in article ,  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) writes 
bob reminds me of my roommate .  . in order to disbelieve atheism , he says 
he will need to be proven wrong about it. well , i do n't even waste 
my time trying. i tell him that he 'll just have to take my word for it. 
in response , he tells me he will say an atheist 's prayer for me. 



who is the atheist 's prayer being said to 



from  ( vera shanti noyes ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 53 

in article  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) writes 

much stuff deleted 
now i have a question for bob .  . why in the world would any self respecting 
atheist want to subscribe to a christian news group i have a 
difficult enough time keeping up with it , and i think i know something 
about the subject. 

excuse me , but what makes you think that just because he 's atheist he 
does n't know anything about christianity in my  ( albeit limited) 
experience atheists are often the ones who know more about the 
bible , having searched it from end to end for answers. i myself am a 
christian , but that does n't mean i consider myself more of an 
authority on my religion i just have a different perspective on it 
 ( more biased in favor , naturally ) ) .  . 

it seems quite obvious why he is subscribed , if i may infer from what 
he says he is looking for an explanation. who are we to question his 
motives anyway at the very least  ( although i dislike this kind of 
logic ) , one could hope that he will see the light . will , i 
fear , not give him a very positive picture of christians .  .  .  .  . 

bob reminds me of my roommate .  . in order to disbelieve atheism , he says 
he will need to be proven wrong about it. well , i do n't even waste 
my time trying. i tell him that he 'll just have to take my word for it. 
in response , he tells me he will say an atheist 's prayer for me. 

with regard to this , i guess i do n't really feel sentiments of this 
order can be proven faith has a lot to do with it. this is why 
those who search the bible from cover to cover for answers wo n't 
necessarily get what they 're looking for. of course that does n't help 
anyone who does n't already have faith what a big catch 22. i 
discovered this quite recently when i ran into an agnostic looking for an 
explanation of my faith and i quickly discovered that i could give him 
nothing more than my life story and a description of my nature. faith 
is a very personal thing any attempt to prove the facts behind 
it must be questioned .  . 

good luck , bob .  . and , best regards .  . 

likewise no matter what you believe. 


randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 



i am your clock ! i bind unto myself today vera noyes 
i am your religion ! the strong name of the 
i own you ! trinity .  .  .  .  . no disclaimer what 
lard st. patrick 's breastplate is there to disclaim 


from  ( fred gilham ) 
subject ontological argument 
organization computer science lab , sri international , menlo park , ca. 
lines 12 

i read somewhere that kurt argued that the ontological argument 
for god 's existence was logically reasonable  ( or something to that 
effect) .  . 

does anyone know if this is true , and have a citation 

thanks. 

fred gilham 
peace is only better than war when it 's not hell too. war being hell 
makes sense. 
walker percy , the second coming 

from (mike hahn ) 
subject the doctrine of original sin 
lines 32 

stephen a. creps writes to all 

... 

sac also , we know that 
sac the bible says that everyone must be baptized to enter heaven. 

where exactly does it say that 

sac everyone includes infants , unless there is other scripture to the 
sac contrary , i.e. an exception. since there is no exception listed in the 
sac bible , we must assume  ( to be on the safe side) that the bible means what 
sac it says , that everyone must be baptized to enter heaven. 

i think we do see an exception in the case of cornelius and his 
household , mentioned in acts .  . of course , they were baptised , but only 
after god showed that he accepted them by giving them the holy 
spirit . this means they were already acceptable to god before their 
baptism , and had they suddenly died they would have gone to heaven. 

in case that seems far fetched an ancestor of mine was a missionary 
who worked among the in  . some of the were 
jealous of christianity , and they poisoned the first convert before he 
could be baptised .  . surely he still went to heaven i'm inclined to 
agree with a comment recorded at the time it is not the neglect of 
baptism , but its contempt , that condemns .  . 

mike 

internet 
via the catalyst bbs in port elizabeth , south africa .  . 
(catpe . alt . za) . 27 41 34 2859 , v32bis hst .  . 

from (michael d. walker ) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 69 

 ( marxhausen paul) writes 

i hate to sound , having shot off my mouth badly on the net 
before , but i'm afraid that much of this material only adds to my 
feeling that the assumption of mary would be better phrased our 
assumptions about mary .  . in all the time i 've been reading about 
mary on this group , i can not recall reading much about mary that 
did not sound like wishful with scant , if any , scriptural 
foundation .  . 

i find in the new testament a very real portrait of christ 's parents 
as human persons to be honored and admired for their 
humility and submission to god 's working , beyond doubt. but the 
of theories and dogma that has accreted around them gives me 
an image of alien and inhuman creatures , untouched by sin or human 
desire .  . only christ himself was so truly sanctified , and even he knew 
temptation , albeit without submitting to it. 

i also do n't see the necessity of saying the holy parents were some 
how sanctified beyond normal humanity it sounds like our own inability 
to grasp the of god 's grace in being incarnated through an or 
human being. 

i wo n't start yelling about how people are worshipping mary , etc. , 
since folks have told me otherwise about that , but i do think we 
lose part of the wonder of god 's incarnation in christ when we make 
his parents out to be sinless , sexless , deathless , beings .  . 


paul marxhausen ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

paul 

you did a wonderful job of not doing anything possible to 
offend us catholics hopefully i can be just as careful in my wording as you 
were. 
i also do n't want to extend this topic into an entire major issue of 
debate  ( anymore than it already is) , but just a note or two 

1. please do n't talk about jesus  parents the doctrinal positions 
of the church an unequivocally different regarding mary and 
joseph .  . i  ( personally ) have never heard of anything being 
attributed to st. joseph other than his that is , 
no reference ever to him being sinless , assumed into heaven , 
immaculately conceived , etc. all these ideas apply only to 
mary .  . 

2. i would agree there is very little scriptural evidence for our 
doctrines about mary .  . needless to say , that presents a 
significant problem to those who accept the bible as the only 
source of doctrine .  . if , however , one turns to the sacred 
traditions of the undivided christian church , there is no 
problem finding of evidence that it was basically a 
unanimous belief among the apostles and all the early 
generation that mary was assumed into heaven , body and soul , 
etc. etc. it was n't until the reformation that these doctrines 
were called into question. as far as i am concerned  ( again , my 
personaly feelings ) if it 's a choice between the apostles or 
luther , i 'll choose the apostles every time , whether or not 
it is recorded within the writings that the traditions of men 
have determined to be the bible . 

like a said , just a couple of notes. as is often said , i believe that 
we must agree to  ( politely ) disagree. 
may god 's peace and blessings be with you always in your search to 
discover his absolute truth. 
mike walker 

(univ .  . of illinois) 

from  ( louie crew ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 66 

 ( bill , student) writes 

(scott holt ) writes 
hate the sin but love the sinner  .  .  . i . 've heard that quite a bit recently , 
often in the context of discussions about christianity and homosexuality .  .  .  . 
but the context really is n't that important. my question is whether that 
statement is consistent with christianity .  . i would think not. 

i'm very grateful for scott 's reflections on this oft quoted phrase .  . could 
someone please remind me of the scriptural source for it (rom .  . 12 . 9 . does n't 
count , kids . ) . the manner in which this little piece of conventional wisdom is 

applied has , in my experience , been uniformly hateful and destructive .  . 



underlining mine 


yes , those who apply it would be better served if they if 
they could alter the bible to reflect their views 

scene 1 a well in samaria 

woman but i have no husband. 
jesus yo ! everybody ! listen up ! get your rocks ready ! we 'll have 
some good biblical fun. here she is whispering to me that 
she does n't have a husband , yet i know by my secret powers that 
she has had five of them !  ( you know how these samaritans are ! 
and worse , she 's living with a guy now that she 's not even married 
to. now i believe in loving her , and if you 'll just raise up 
those rocks like the bible allows and threaten her with a good 
stoning , she 'll understand how much we hate the sin but love 
the sinner .  . we must keep our priorities strait , lest folks 
2 , 000 years from now misunderstand me and believe i canceled 
all sin ! 

scene 2 

2nd thief you got a raw deal , man. they did n't catch you doing anything 
wrong like they caught me. 

bleeding jesus now , son. let me be real clear. you say you did something 
wrong , but are you repenting i need to be absolutely certain 
cause if you repent , i have a nice room for you in heaven , 
but if you think you might go again , i have to 
cancel your reservation .  . it is nice of you to have pity on 
me while i'm hanging here , but you must understand , this is 
all an act i'm not really hurting .  . i'm god , you see. and 
the point of all this is to teach you to be perfect like me. 
if you think a simple kind remark to me in suffering is going 
to get you any favors , you 'd better think twice ! but if you 
will just repent , you will become a in good 
standing .  . 

from all such bad news , you have delivered us , good god ! thank you ! 
thank you ! thank you ! 

louie 




louie crew , academic foundations department , rutgers university , 07102 
201 485 4503 
if by snail , i prefer p. o. box 30 , newark , nj 

from william 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma .  . 
lines 13 

we are all still human. we do n't know it all , but homosexual or heterosexual , 
we all strive to follow jesus .  . the world is dying and needs to hear about 
jesus christ .  . 
gaining entry into heaven cannot be done without first being cleansed by 
the blood of jesus .  . 
sin cannot dwell in heaven. it is against the natural laws of god. 
being converted to christianity means being baptized by the holy spirit. 
you cannot get to heaven by good works only. 
because of the union with the holy spirit , the man 's behavior will change. 
if there is true union he will not desire to be homosexual .  . fornication 
and homosexuality will leave your life if you are truly baptized by the 
holy spirit. it 's not to say that we do n't stumble now and then. 


from (michael siemon ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization public access unix , nyc 
lines 97 

in 
 ( darin johnson ) writes 

ok , what 's more important to gay christians sex , or christianity 

i'm afraid i see that question as very tendentious .  . try it 

what 's more important to christians love of god or love 
of other human beings 

to which of course the only conceivable answer is that the one is like 
the other. i am deeply suspicious of any flavor of christianity 
which would elevate one clause of the great commandment to a priority 
over the other such as to claim a conflict .  . true , we are told to let 
the dead bury the dead , to hate family rather than let it keep us from 
following christ .  . but the dichotomy here is not one between love of our 
fellows and love of god , but of allowing social constructs to blind us 
to the presense of god. it is particularly satanic to twist love of god 
in such a manner as to become an excuse to treat others as on a different 
level than the one who is so caught up in love of god. 

the trouble comes in the relation of human love and human sex. yes , it 
has sometimes been the case that the church has taught that all sex 
was nasty , evil , sinful stuff. but when man and wife leave their parental 
homes to become , living in one flesh , it is the sex that is the 
vehicle of becoming one flesh  ( if you doubt me , read st. paul on what 
is wrong with prostitutes )) .  . less provocatively , what i 
mean is just this sexual bonding is a deeply founded aspect of our social 
interaction , and in particular is the foundation of the institution of 
marriage , so that unlike with many mammals , human males remain with and 
foster the children they and support their children 's mothers .  . 
this is the behind genesis 2 18 24  ( and behind jesus  citation of 
that passage . ) . 

i observe , by the way , that not all human males in fact do as 
i have just described but another thing that characterizes 
human societies is our raising of non begotten children , not 
only orphans and and the like , but products of the 
quite common of humans to their spouses .  . we are 
in this not unique in the animal world , but the full extent of 
social consequences and implications is most intricate for us. 

yes , of course it sometimes goes wrong like all else we do , it is 
infected with sin , and you find married couples where there is no bond , 
and people so addicted to the initial stages of sexual bond 
formation (the infatuation , falling in love phase) that they break 
any forming bond in order to keep stepping over the threshold of the deep 
unity god has prepared for us , and stepping back out again right away. 
satan may indeed use sex as a very handy tool to corrupt human love 
but in the creation , that is not its nature , and with god 's grace 
under the power of christ to make all things new it need not be a problem 
for christians  ( though we must be , even in christ , as the devil 
is , prowling around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour . ) . 

so , returning to the original question , what is more important to straight 
christians sex , or christianity paul , clearly , tended to think that 
sex was at best a distraction from christianity  ( though to be charitable 
to him , his context was in expectation of immediate , so that the 
hard tasks of a married union the lifelong building and adaptation to 
each other seemed somehow to undercut the proper preparation for an 
immediate  . since we do not know the hour of return , we should 
act both with instant readiness for that and with a to our 
mates that proposes a long lifetime together. and telling people not to 
bond in such a perspective strikes me as crippling us in the second clause 
of the the commandment to love. i would claim that only a very few saints 
have the capacity to deeply love  ( without sexual or complication , 
mind you) their fellow human beings unless they have had a deeply spiritual 
life in married union growing together as one flesh and that means in 
the type case , with a persistent and continued sexual relationship. we 
are human , and little good comes of trying to mortify the flesh to the 
point of pretending to be otherwise , pretending not to be sexual beings .  . 

christianity i would hope. would they be willing to sex 
completely , in order to avoid being a stumbling block to others , 

it depends entirely on context. if that context is major hypocrisy 
on the part of those who find us stumbling blocks i am much less of 
a mind to myself so that they can about my sins .  . 

there are some people for whom a life of is a spritual gift , 
and maybe even a victory against a to them troubling sexual urge that 
seems to them to lead only to sin .  . nothing i say should ever be read 
as demeaning such a gift. nor the even gift of love for all our 
, and indeed for all god 's creation , that can develop to 
the full without the tutoring of a marriage founded 
in sex. but there is a difference between spiritual gifts and penance 
telling people that they have to have a particular gift  ( or else what ) 
is fraught with manipulation and disregard of the differences of our 
spiritual from god. to one person is given the gift of 
speaking in toungues , to another of toungues to yet 
another prophecy and to still another teaching .  . the notion that some 
particular gift is required of all is one of the earliest heresies .  . 

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

from 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization gte govt. systems , electronics def. div. 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( geno ) writes 
4) nothing unclean shall enter heaven (rev .  . 21 . 27) .  . therefore , 
babies are born in such a state that should they die , they are cuf off 
from god and put in hell , which is exactly the doctrine of st. augustine 
and st. thomas .  . 

i have n't read this entire thread , but , if someone has n't tossed this out yet , then here it is 

2 samuel 12 21 23  ( rsv ) 

then his servants said to him , is this thing that you have 
done you and wept for the child while it was alive but when 
the child died , you arose and ate food . ' . he david said ,  while the 
child was still alive , i and wept for i said ,  who knows 
whether the lord will be gracious to me , that the child may live ' but 
now he is dead why should i fast can i bring him back again i shall 
go to him , but he will not return to me . ' . 

anyhow , many interpret this to mean that the child has gone to heaven 
(where david will someday  . i do n't claim to know for sure if this 
applies to all babies or not. but even if it 's just this one , what 
would you say to this 

jeff adams 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 4 

have i not commanded you be strong and courageous .  . do not be terrified do not 
be discouraged , for the lord your god will be with you wherever you go. 

joshua 1 9 

from lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) 
subject re the bible on the immaculate conception 
organization none 
lines 18 

in article writes 

i will put enmity between you the serpent and the woman , and 
between your seed and her seed , she can also be read he shall 
crush your head and you shall bruise her or his heel. 
genesis 3.15 

in the hebrew of genesis 3 15 , the gender is clearly masculine .  . 

he shall crush your head , and you shall bruise his heel. 

the latin has feminine forms , only by an accident of grammar .  . 

i have yet to see an adequate explanation of st. jerome 's translation 
of genesis 3 15. his latin clearly uses the feminine , but i do n't 
know why , since the hebrew is clearly masculine .  . if anyone knows of a 
scholarly treatment of this puzzle , i would appreciate hearing from 
you. 

from  ( maureen brucker ) 
subject is this ethical 
lines 82 

the following was published in the may 15th rocky mountain news. i 
guess i have some real ethical problems with the practices at this 
church. i understand that baptism is an overriding factor. i also 
understand that this is not an honest way to proceed .  . unfortunately , 
this is becoming more typical of congregations as the second coming is 
perceived to approach. 

there is a real element of in this  make it happen at any 
cost  style of theology .  . i wonder where trust in the lord fits into 
this equation 

baptisms draw parents  ire children at church carnival in springs 
told they 'd be killed by bee stings if they did n't submit to religious 
rite .  . 

by dick foster rocky mountain news southern bureau 

colorado springs outraged parents say their children were to 
a church carnival and then without their permission by a 
baptist minister .  . 

of children , some as young as 8 years old and by 
their parents , thought they were going to a carnival at the 
cornerstone baptist church , where there would be a big water fight , 
free balloons , squirt guns and candy. 

before that may 1 carnival was over , however , children were 
into a room for religious instruction and told they should be 
baptized .  . in many cases they consented , although they or their 
families are not of the baptist faith. 

the baptisms by the church have angered many parents , including 
, a and mother of twin 8 year old girls 
who were baptized without her knowledge or consent .  . 

 my was they were going to a carnival .  . i feel that 's a 
false pretense , ' said  . her daughters said the minister 
told them they would be killed by bee stings if they were not 
baptized .  . 

cornerstone church officials defended their actions .  . 

 we take our instructions from the word of god and god has commanded 
us to baptize converts .  . no one can show me one passage in the bible 
where it says that parental permission is required before a child is 
baptized , ' said dan irwin , associate pastor of the cornerstone baptist 
church. 

church officials did not tell parents their children would be baptized 
because  they did n't ask , ' irwin said. 

many other parents also felt they were simply sending their children 
to a carnival at the invitation of their children 's friends who were 
members of the cornerstone church. 

police said officials had broken on laws in baptizing the 
children , but indicated the parents could pursue civil action. 


are n't these the same behaviors we condemn 
in the hari and other cults 

i think the issues are more complex than the newspaper account 
mentions .  . first , i'm not entirely sure that parental consent is 
absolutely required. this would be extremely difficult , because of 
the clear commandment to obey parents. but if an older child insisted 
on being baptized without their parents  consent , i might be willing 
to do it. however this would be a serious step , and would warrant 
much careful discussion. the problem i find here is not so much 
parental consent as that there was nobody 's consent .  . whether you 
believe in infant baptism or not , baptism is supposed to be the sign 
of entry into a christian community. if there is n't a commitment from 
somebody , whether parent or child , and no intent to become part of 
the church , the baptism appears to be a lie. furthermore , it is 
likely to raise serious practical problems. what if the child is from 
a baptist tradition normally when he reaches the age of decision , he 
would be expected to make a decision and be baptized .  . but he already 
has been , by a church claiming to be a baptist church. so does he get 
neither answer is really very good. if not , he 's being 
robbed of an experience that should be very significant to his faith. 

clh 

from (paul pg ) 
subject the word perfect exe file needed 
organization university of natal  ( durban ) 
lines 14 

a friend of mine managed to get a copy of a computerised greek and hebrew 
lexicon called the word perfect  ( that is not the word processing 
package  . however , some one wiped out the exe file , and she 
has not been able to restore it. there are no distributors of the package in 
south africa .  . i would appreciate it , if some one could email me the file , or 
at least tell me where i could get it from. 

my email address is 
or 


many thanks. 

in him , paul 

from  ( stuart w. marlatt ) 
subject re soc . religion . christian . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 61 

in article (d .  . andrew kille ) writes 
wrote 
after reading the posts on this newsgroup for the pasts 4 months , it 
has become apparent to me that this group is primarily active with 
liberals , catholics , new  , and athiests .  . someone might think 
 .  .  . etc .  .  .  . 

since when did conservative , protestant , old time religion believers get 
an exclusive to christianity christianity is , and always has 
been , a diverse and contentious tradition , and this group reflects that 
diversity .  . i , fo one , am not ready to concede to any group be they 
liberal or conservative , catholic , protestant , or orthodox , charismatic 
or not the right to claim that they have the truth , and everyone else 
is not christian .  . 

i am becoming increasingly convinced that most of us take paul 's illustration 
about one body many parts far too narrowly .  . it is easy to say that the one 
body represents a particular sect of christianity  ( generally our own) , and 
the parts are clearly the various offices of ministry .  . there is a place for 
that. but having met people who are walking with god in a wide 
variety of doctine catholic , protestant , liberal , conservative , orthodox , 
etc. i am willing to encompass a wide spectrum of views within the 
context of the  body of christ . ' . and i am equally sure that one day , after 
we off this mortal coil , when we no longer see through a glass darkly 
but see clearly , face to face , we will all be ashamed at some of the things 
we held as truth. we ought all fellowship , worship , and serve where we are 
called , and understand that where we are called may not be where everyone 
else is called. 

one of the fathers of the reformation  ( help me out ca n't recall the name) 
put it quite 

in essentials , unity .  . 
in , liberty .  . 
in all things , charity .  . 

while i agree with lewis  ( mere christianity ) that calling oneself a christian 
implies some basic , fundamental standards of belief if the word is to mean 
anything at all , i think most of us define the bounds of essentials a bit 
too broadly , deny the place for liberty in questionable issues near those 
bounds , and ignore the requirements of charity all together. 

me i attend a vineyard church , speak in tongues , am effectively an 
inerrantist , though i 'll grant some inaccuracy in translation , am moderately 
pre mill , and evangelical .  . but , i'm not ready to damn those who use icons , 
say mass in latin , uphold the virgin mary  ( though i really do n't believe 
that she was sinless ) , vote on church membership , or insist on baptism for 
salvation .  . of course , i think my doctine is pretty close to the truth 
why would i follow it if i believed something else was closer to the truth 
but my understanding of the reality of a walk with christ is continually 
evolving as i spend more and more time walking with him , studying his word , 
and with others in the  ( often extended ) family. 


i read , much of the night , and go south in the winter. 
t . s .  . eliot , the waste land 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
s.w. , ( )  . 25 . 2 . 
university of colorado 492 
national center for atmospheric research 497 


from  ( bill , student) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
organization university of louisville 
lines 12 

(scott holt ) writes 
hate the sin but love the sinner  .  .  . i . 've heard that quite a bit recently , 
often in the context of discussions about christianity and homosexuality .  .  .  . 
but the context really is n't that important. my question is whether that 
statement is consistent with christianity .  . i would think not. 

i'm very grateful for scott 's reflections on this oft quoted phrase .  . could 
someone please remind me of the scriptural source for it (rom .  . 12 . 9 . does n't 
count , kids . ) . the manner in which this little piece of conventional wisdom is 
applied has , in my experience , been uniformly hateful and destructive .  . 



from  ( bill rea ) 
subject re portland earthquake 
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand .  . 
lines 55 

paul hudson jr wrote 
in article  ( bill rea ) writes 

in history seems to imply some pretty serious sin .  . the one of the 
pastors in the church i attend , christchurch city , considers 
that a prophesy of a natural disaster as a judgement from the lord 
is a clear sign that the prophesy is not from the lord .  . 

i would like to see his reasoning behind this. you may have gotten 

if i get a chance i will ask them this weekend. 

burned by natural disaster prophecies down there , but that 
does not mean that every natural disaster judgement prophecy is 
false .  . take a quick look at the book of jeremiah and it is obvious 

that judgement prophecies can be valid .  . here in the us , it seems like 
we might have more of a problem with positive prophecies , though i 
am sure there may be a few people who are too into judgement .  . 

the words i have underlined are at the heart of the problem. a quick 
look does n't do justice to the depth of the book of jeremiah .  . having 
studied the jeremiah period solidly for over a year at one 
stage of my life , i have to say that there is a great deal of underlying 
theological meaning in the judgement prophesies .  . let me make one point. 
the clash between jeremiah and the false prophets was primarily in 
the theological realm .  . the false prophets understood their 
to god to be based on the covenant that the lord made with david .  . it is 
possible to trace within the pages of the old testament who this covenant , 
which was initially conditional on the continued obedience of david 's 
descendants , came to be viewed as an unconditional promise on the part 
of the lord to keep a descendant of david 's upon the throne and to never 
allow jerusalem to by any foreign power. jeremiah was not a 
prophet .  . he was from , across the border in what had formerly 
been israelite territory .  . when he came to prophesy , he came from the 
theological background of the covenant the lord had made with israel 
through moses .  . the northern kingdom had rejected the covenant 
after the death of solomon .  . his theology clashed with the theology of the 
local prophets .  . it was out of a very deep understanding of the mosaic 
covenant and an awareness of international events that jeremiah 
spoke his prophesies .  . the judgement prophesies were deeply loaded with 
theological meaning. 

in my opinion , both the portland earthquake prophesy and the david wilkerson 
new york will burn prophesy are and bubble compared to the majestic 
theological depths of the jeremiah prophesies .  . 



bill rea (o o) 
w u w 
bill rea , computer services centre , e mail 
university of canterbury , or 
christchurch , new zealand phone (03) 642 331 fax (03) 642 999 


from (david wagner ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization uh dept of math 
lines 65 

alan e alan idler writes 

alan 2. we can also analyze to whom the lord is addressing marvel 
alan not that i said unto thee , ye must be born again (john 3 7) .  . 
alan here jesus is clearly directing his remarks to nicodemus a 
alan ruler of the jews (not a  . 

yes , but jesus also made a very general and doctrinal statement 
in the same conversation 

flesh gives birth to flesh , but the spirit gives birth to spirit. 
(john 3 6) 

clearly infants are not born of the spirit. thus , without baptism 
they are  . they are not born with the image of god , but in 
adam 's fallen image (cf .  . gen 5 3) .  . they have no righteousness of 
their own , just as adults have no righteousness of their own. there 
is only the imputed righteousness of christ , which believers receive 
through faith. 

alan 3. we can ask ourselves why the lord would even introduce the 
alan concept of spiritual re birth through baptism if newborn babies 
alan were n't free from sin 

your point is a little obscure here , but i think you are saying 
that christ used the innocence of newborn babes as a metaphor 
for spiritual re birth. but this is not what he did. 
if you look at the text , he did not speak 
of spiritual re birth but of spiritual birth. we are 
born of the spirit once , not twice or several times. 
we are also born of the flesh once. the lord makes it 
clear that these are separate and different events. 
it is true that other scriptures refer to spiritual 
birth as re birth because it is a second birth 
 ( for example , titus 3 5) .  . but it is not a second 
spiritual birth. 

the only thing the two births have in common is the concept of birth , 
which is used as a symbol of life  not of innocence .  . when an 
infant is born  ( or conceived ) a new life is begun but it is neither 
innocent nor righteous .  . similarly when that same individual is 
baptized , or perhaps when they believe prior to baptism , they begin a 
new life in christ  ( romans 6 3 , colossians 2 12 , titus 3 5 , ephesians 
2 5) .  . then the believer has god 's assurance of the forgiveness of 
their sins , and of christ 's imputed righteousness .  . 

for references , see 
the augsburg confession article ii , original sin , 
the apology to the augsburg confession , 
article ii , original sin , 
the formula of concord , article i , original sin , and 
luther 's large catechism , part 4 , baptism .  . 

for something more recent , see baptized into god 's family the 
doctrine of infant baptism by andrew das , available from northwestern 
publishing house. andrew is a graduate of concordia lutheran 
seminary , st. louis , and is now pursuing doctoral studies at yale 
divinity school. 

david wagner but mad reason rushes forth 
a confessional lutheran and , because baptism is not 
dazzling like the works we do , 
regards it as worthless .  . 
martin luther , large catechism 
part 4 , baptism 

from 
subject re and the two 
organization fnal ad net 
lines 53 

in article 
 ( charley wingate ) writes 
seeing as how the two has been brought up again , 
its scholarship is phony and its assertions spurious .  . 

c. wingate 

maybe you should dig a little further charles .  . 's scholarship was 
accepted by the oriental institute which , at the time , was the 
institute for oriental studies. as i 've stated over and over , i 've checked 
out about 25 of his references  ( most are now out of print or in private 
libraries) and the likes of wilkerson and hold their own merit .  . they 
too came to the same conclusions and if you will trouble yourself , you will 
find that their knowledge of the mysteries have yet to be surpassed .  . both were 
highly honored by the british oriental museum .  . wilkerson is known as one of 
the leading archeologist in the history of and is still 
being refered two after 200 yrs of archeology in the mesopotamian regions .  . he 
was recently refered to in a time article on babylonian archeology .  . 

phony scholarship is when you review their references and find that they have 
misquoted or misrepresented the conclusions .  . did not. his conclusions 
do not tickle the ears , that much is self evident .  . but to assert that his 
conclusions are spurious is without merit .  . he gave references to all his 
conclusions and as i have stated , for the last 25 years i have used his 
conclusions in debates at rc seminaries and , not to mention the 
individual priests and bishops that i have talked to one on one. no counter to 
scholarship was made. the only rebuttals were against his conclusions 
because they do totally undermined the claims of the rcc .  . he was showing that 
the of the rcc was based on the mysteries (which others have shown 
even to this day in various articles and  . the tongues movement in 
corinth was a direct result of the mysteries entering into the church. if it 
was so in corinth , why could they not have an influence in rome , the city of 
seven hills 

also , you do not have to listen to his conclusions , you can draw your own 
conclusions by looking at the customs , artifacts , the dress , the 
of purgatory , etc from the vantage of the mysteries .  . you do n't even 
have to be a believer to see the parallels .  . just one example. the mitre .  . 
where did it come from why is it shaped the way it is what are the two 
tails that hang down the back represent was this an ancient head dress from 
an earlier culture and why was it in rome at the time of the beginnings of the 
church of the state of rome does it have pagan history behind it , and if so , 
why did the rcc chose regardless 

any lay person of middle eastern religion can answer these questions. even the 
scriptures themselves refer to it. all did was collect the information 
from all the various sources and put them in one binding .  . there is no lack of 
scholorship in that. 

please tell me why you discredit this man by your accusation , yet present no 
evidence supporting it. 

rex 

from  ( vera shanti noyes ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 56 

in article  ( ann carlson ) writes 

bible verses ag .  . used ag .  . homosexuality deleted 

anyone who thinks being gay and christianity are not compatible should 
check out dignity , integrity , more light presbyterian churches , affirmation , 
mcc churches , etc. meet some gay christians , find out who they are , pray 
with them , discuss scripture with them , and only then form your opinion. 

also check out the episcopal church although by no means all 
are sympathetic to homosexual men and women , there 
certainly is a fairly large percentage  ( in my experience) who are. i 
am good friends with an episcopalian minister who is ordained and 
living in a monogamous homosexual relationship. this in no way 
diminishes his ability to minister in fact he has a very 
significant ministry with the gay and lesbian association of his 
community , as well as a very significant aids ministry .  . 

my uncle is gay and when i found this out i had a good long think 
about what the bible has to say about this and what i feel god thinks 
about this. obviously my conclusions may be wrong nonetheless they 
are my own and they feel right to me. i believe that the one 
important thing that those who wrote the old and new testament 
passages cited above did not know was that there is scientific 
evidence to support that homosexuality is at least partly inherent 
rather than completely learned .  . this means that to a certain extent 
or to a great extent homosexuals cannot choose how to feel about 
other people which is why reports of curing homosexuals always 
chill me and make me feel ill. please not that , although i ca n't cite 
sources where you can find this information , there is homosexual 
behavior recorded among monkeys and other animals , which is in itself 
suggestive that it is inherent rather than learned , or at least that 
the word unnatural should n't really apply .  .  .  .  . 

please remember that whatever you believe , gays and lesbians not 
be excluded from your love and acceptance .  . christ loved us all , and 
we all sin .  . and he himself never said anything against homosexuals 
rather it is paul  ( who also came out with such wonderful wisdom as 
women should n't speak in church and women should keep their heads 
covered in church not exact quotations as i do n't have my bible 
handy) who says these things. i have a tendency to take some of the 
things paul says with a grain of salt .  .  .  .  . 

well , that 's all i 'll say for now. 


dr. ann b. carlson o . 
ms 366 o 
nasa langley research center ` ) 
hampton , va 23681 0001 


vera noyes 

the lord is risen indeed. let 's party ! 
, uchicago . edu .  ( vera noyes ) 

from (michael siemon ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization public access internet unix , nyc 
lines 26 

in article 
writes 

let me say that the life , death , and resurrection of jesus christ is 
central to christianity .  . if you personally believe that jesus christ 
died for you , you are a part of the christian body of believers .  . 

we are all still human. we do n't know it all , but homosexual or heterosexual , 
we all strive to follow jesus .  . the world is dying and needs to hear about 
jesus christ .  . 

are you working together with other christians to spread the gospel 

let me salute gary chin for speaking the gospel which is our source 
of life. any who will follow his example , and accept the priorities 
christ commands of us , that the matters of the law are justice 
and mercy and good faith , is my brother or sister in christ , and i will 
attend to such a person with humility and charity .  . we may not , in the 
end , agree siblings often do n't but we can at least talk. 



michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

from  ( karen lauro ) 
subject re how i got saved .  .  .  . 
organization bradley university 
lines 42 

well , i was certainly turned off by that first paragraph of oft used 
platitudes .  . i ca n't count the times i 've heard those common tactics 
anymore .  .  . may not believe it but that does n't change the fact 
that it 's true' .  .  . the . old analogy about trusting your parents .  .  . sheesh .  . 
need i point out how parents can show children that they are right 
that difference in capability alone crushes that analogy , as any  facts  
about christianity i have seen turned out to be beliefs .  . what i seek is 
fact knowledge if i can get it , and evidence for a belief if i ca n't .  . 
so far from christians i have received neither .  .  .  . 

before becoming a christian i too had problems when i asked one to explain 
it to me .  .  . the . actual evidence is not always what you see on a person 's 
outside. it should be but is not always. 
a very specific , somewhat miraculous example of the truth of god 
working to help his followers is soemthing that happened to me. for nearly 
4 years after an accident i had severe complications from a triple 
fracture in my left leg and surgery pins put in , then removed. the bone 
itself was perfectly healed .  . no that could be detected .  . yet i 
was in constant pain and it my ankle and foot were always swollen and 
 . more developed in my other leg , none of which could 
be explained by the best specialists and most sophisticated tests in te 
northern illinois region. we went everywhere no one could explain it. 
summer  ( june 19 , 1991 to be exact ) i gave my life and heart 
to christ and vowed to relinquish control over my life (which i never 
really had anyway) because of what he did for me on the cross and the 
fact that my whole life was screwed up by me trying to fix it. i was facing 
the possibility of a lifetime in a wheelchair (i was confined to one in 
order to save my legs from any further damage since the cause of my problems 
were unknown , had been in it for about 2 1 2 months before that day) .  . 
i found it ore than coincidental that less than 2 weeks after 
i put my faith where my mouth was , one more in the long line of doctors 
and not even an specialist , diagnosed my problems with no 
difficulty , set me on the path to an effective cure , and i was walking 
and running again without the pain that had stopped me from that for 
4 years. the diagnosis was something he felt the other doctors must have 
overlooked because it was perfectly obvious from my test results. 
maybe this does n't hit you as miraculous .  . but to me it really 
is. imagine an active 17 year old being told she may not be able to 
walk longer .  .  . and . is now a happy 18 year old who can dance and run 
knowing that the problem was there all along and was revealed just 
after she did what she knew was right. as the song says .  .  .  . 
our god is an awesome god .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( geno ) writes 
4) nothing unclean shall enter heaven (rev .  . 21 . 27) .  . therefore , 
babies are born in such a state that should they die , they are cuf off 
from god and put in hell , which is exactly the doctrine of st. augustine 
and st. thomas .  . 

... 
jeff adams 

regarding the first paragraph , i would say that i did n't write it. i 
do n't believe that unbaptized babies are put in hell. i do n't even 
believe in hell. at least , i do n't believe in a fiery place where 
there will be gnashing of teeth . 

geno 

from  ( ann frystad ) 
subject re how i got saved 
organization college 
lines 11 

hello , ! 
i'm a norwegian journalist student and also a christian .  . thanks for your 
testimony ! but i want to ask you one question what do you think of heavy 
metal music after you became a christian you know there are christian bands 
like barren cross , , and stryper , that play that kind of 
music. i like some of it , i feel like it sometimes. of course i listen to 
the lyrics too. i do n't listen to any christian band , but it 's better than 
listening to secular music anyway. 
hope you 're still going strong with christ ! ! 

ann , college of , norway .  . 

from lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) 
subject re catholic doctrine of predestination 
organization none 
lines 26 

(stephen a. creps ) writes 

the catholic doctrine of predestination does not exclude free 
will in any way. since god knows everything , he therefore knows 
everything that is going to happen to us. we have free will , and 
are able to change what happens to us. however , since god knows 
everything , he knows all the choices we will make in advance  ( god 
is not subject to time) .  . too often arguments pit predestination 
against free will. we believe in both. 

that last sentence of steve 's is an important one to remember. 

there are certain things in the catholic religion that cannot be 
completely comprehended by a human being. were this not the case , it 
would be good evidence that the religion was man made. 

in the case of predestination , you have to reconcile two things that 
would at first appear to be irreconcilable the sovereignty of god 's 
will over all things , and man 's free will in deciding his own fate .  . 
catholics believe in both ! but that does n't mean that anyone has come 
up with a pat reconciliation .  .  .  . 

i have often thought that 's famous theorem has applicability to 
catholic dogma , at least in an analogous sense there are things that 
are true that cannot be proved .  . god 's intellect is far above ours. 
there are many truths that we will never be able to understand. 

from (michael d. walker ) 
subject re on capital punishment 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 40 

 ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) writes 

regarding the new draft of the universal catechism 

in procuring the common good of society the need could arise 
that the aggressor be placed in the position where he cannot 
cause harm .  . by virtue of this , the right and obligation of 
public authorities to punish with penalties , 
including the death penalty , is acknowledged .  . ... 
... to the degree that means other than the death 
penalty and military operations are sufficient to keep the 
peace , then these non violent provisions are to be preferred 
because they are more in proportion and in keeping with the 
final goal of protection of peace and human dignity .  . 

exactly ! ! read that one sentence in there .  .  .  . to the degree 
that means other than the death penalty and military operations are 
sufficient to keep the peace , then these non violent provisions are to 
be preferred .  .  .  . 

i do n't believe that it is necessary for us to murder criminals to keep 
the peace the church in the united states feels the same way , thus the 
reason that the catholic church has opposed every execution in this 
country in recent memory. 

as is clearly shown by this excerpt , the church 's teaching on capital 
punishment remains today as it has always been in the past in total 
accord with my sentiment that i do not disagree with the use of deadly 
force in those cases for which this option is justifiable .  . 

so what is justifiable as you stated very explicitly from the new 
catechism , the only justifiable case is when it is necessary to keep 
the peace. since that does not apply at all to this country , the 
logical conclusion  ( based on your own premises ) is that one must be 
opposed to any form of capital punishment in america .  . 


just my opinions. 
mike walker 
univ. of illinois 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re when are two people married in god 's e 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 20 

(james r. blankenship ) writes 

the only reason for the death penalty is revenge if you are going to 
try to refute a position , try to refute the whole position or 
that you are only speaking to small piece of the problem. broad sweeping 
the only reason , etc on as tough nut to crack as the death penalty 
reallly does n't help much. 

every year the fbi releases crime stats showing an overwhelming amount of 
crime is committed by repeat offenders .  . people are killed by folks who 
have killed  ( who knows how many times) before. how aobut folks who are for 
the death penalty , not for revenge , but to cut down on recidivism 

your point is well taken. i acknowledge the fact that there are some who 
take this position. sorry about that. of course , i still believe that the 
vast majority of those who favor the death penalty , do so for reason of 
seeking vengeance .  . i'm curious , if you favor the death penalty to keep 
killers from killing again , what do you think we should do with people who 
commit other crimes , such as rape or robbery is n't it the muslims who 
cut your hand off if you 're caught stealing 

from  ( who ) 
subject islam satanic 
organization arizona state university 
lines 80 

dear fellow christians , 

i had a dinner last night with a bible study group which 
i am in. we had a discussion about the difference between christianity 
and islam .  . and i was shocked to hear that our bible study teacher 
said that mohammad was indeed a prophet but of satan .  . i said , what 
i did not believe that , because i have some moslem friends who are 
so kind and nice , even sometimes i feel i wish i could be like them 
 ( in my point of view , they do n't sin as much as i do) .  . how come if they 
were under satan , they could have such personalities .  . 

to tell you the truth , i do n't know much about islam .  . 
but i know that they believe in god , they believe in the day of 
judgement .  . 

now i'm asking you what your opinions about islam and 
its teaching .  . 

important i do not want to discuss whether they are saved or not. 
i do not want to discuss about politic related to islam .  . 

p.s i post this in bit . listserv . christia . , soc . religion . christian . , 
and bit . listserv . catholic .  . 


in christ , our lord , smile .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
jesus loves you .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



let me start by saying that this is not the right newsgroup for a 
discussion of islam , since there 's a group for that. but i suspect 
the point your teacher was making was not specifically about islam .  . 
indeed it 's going to be impossible to see what he was getting at 
within your , since the question of whether non christians 
are saved is at the heart of it. 

the classic christian view , which i think most people believed until 
the last century or so , was that christianity  ( and of course judaism) 
was the only religion founded by god , and that all other religions 
worshipped false gods , and came from satan .  . this is more or less a 
corollary of another traditional view that no one but christians  ( and 
possibly jews) will be saved .  . this need not mean that there 's no 
truth in any other religion , nor that all of their members are 
intentionally satanic .  . after all , in order to be an effective snare , 
satanic alternatives would have to be attractive. thus they might 
contain all kinds of truth , wisdom and spiritual insights .  . they would 
be missing only one thing knowledge of salvation through christ .  . 
if this is the background of your teacher 's remarks and i suspect 
it is that means that a discussion of islam is not necessarily 
relevant .  . the point is not that there 's anything intrinsically wrong 
with it. it may teach a fine code of behavior , and its practitioners 
may all be wonderful people. but if salvation requires being a 
follower of christ , it could still be a satanic invention .  . 

this is a reasonable deduction from the classic protestant position. 
christianity says that salvation is n't a matter of being kind and 
nice. those are good things , and we should encourage them. but no 
one is able to do them enough to be saved .  . salvation requires christ .  . 
(please forgive me for doing this in protestant terms. there 's a 
catholic equivalent to this that has similar implications , but in 
different terms . ) . a religion may be quite attractive in all visible 
ways. but if it does n't have christ , it 's like a diet that consists 
of food that looks wonderful , tastes great , but is missing some 
essential food element so that you end up dying. 

let me be clear that i am not specifically advocating this position. 
what i'm trying to do is  ( as usual ) to clarify issues. indeed it is 
now relatively uncommon for christians to believe that all other 
religions are satanic .  . most christians regard such beliefs as an 
unfortunate vestige of the past. this is part of a general move 
within christianity in the last century or so to a non judgemental 
god. christians now find it hard to believe that god would allow 
anybody other than a really rotten person to end up in hell , and they 
find it hard to envision that real spiritual forces are at 
work in the world doing things like creating superficially attractive 
alternatives to christianity .  . whether there is actually a sound basis 
for the shift is a decision that people need to make for themselves. 

clh 

from (michael siemon ) 
subject eros in concluding note 
organization public access unix , nyc 
lines 58 

this might be better directed to s . r . c . bible . study , which i have begun 
reading , but since my earlier notes were posted to this forum , i will 
conclude here as well. a week ago , i managed to find time to consult 
a septuagint concordance and a text with apparatus at the library , 
and i can now usefully conclude my look at the greek words for love as 
used in the christian background of the translation of the 
jewish scriptures .  . 

the principal result is that there is a cluster of uses of the verbal 
noun from , s meaning lover. this cluster occurs just 
where one might most expect it , in the image  ( and accusation ) 
of israel as faithless spouse to yhwh .  . the verses in question are hosea 
2 5 , 7 10 jeremiah 4 30 , 22 20 22 lamentations 1 19 and ezekiel 
16 33 , 36 37 and 23 5 , 9 22. 

hosea seems to have originated this usage , which jeremiah and 
ezekiel picked up lamentations is dependent on , though not 
likely written by , jeremiah .  . 

the erotic meaning  ( in its use , not at all literally ) is 
evident .  . so too in english , unless you complement it with a phrase like 
of the arts the word lover is going to have an of sexual 
relationship. there is no surprise here , but it is worthwhile to see 
that standard greek usage does show up in the translations from the 
hebrew ! ) 

more interestingly , and some confirmation of my guess that later 
usage avoided the verb because of its to  ( say ) , 
 ( ask ) , there is an error in codex  ( normally , a very 
valuable witness ) where a form of is used in a completely absurd 
context 2 samuel 20 18 , where the meaning must be say. 

in addition to the above  ( and the uses i have already mentioned in proverbs ) , 
esther 2 17 uses the verb in its most natural application , 

kai e ho r and the king loved esther 

and , rather more interestingly , 1 samuel 19 2 supplies a modest degree of 
support to the gay appraisal of the relationship of david and jonathan 

kai io nathan e i ton 
and jonathan , saul 's son , loved david intensely 

i'm using the i for io ta subscript , which i 
do n't yet have a reasonable ascii convention for. 

(the relevance of this to the gay issue is not anything implicit about 
the historical facts , but just that a quasi official translation of 
the hebrew text in the hellenistic period makes no bones about using the 
erotic verb in this context. given the quite general usage of 
for erotic senses , this need not mean anything more than alone 
would mean , but it does the relationship , as far as this 
translator goes ! ) 

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

from 
subject re , esp. 
organization at t 
lines 123 

andrew continuing the discussion on the  .  .  . 

in article (d .  . andrew kille ) writes 
wrote 
lets talk about principles .  . if we accept that god sets the 
standards for what ought to be included in scripture then we 
can ask 
1. is it authoritative 

authoritative is not a quality of the writing itself it is a statement 
by the community of faith whether it will accept the writing as normative .  . 

arguably , it is both. since authority is a matter of both 
communicator and we can say that , for example jesus 
is lord whether the world at large accepts the authority or 
not. thus the bible can be considered for its authoritative 
content whether or not it is accepted  ( this issue is at the 
heart of pilate 's pragmatic question what is truth to jesus 
when our lord was brought before him. jesus  reply was to appeal 
to the authority of his father ) 
you also might like to consider the claimed authority 
represented by the statements thus says the lord in the bible , 
which claim to put across the exact words of god. 

you fall into the danger of relativism with your rejection of 
authority and claim that it lies only in the community 
of faith does something become truth because it is accepted 
the main thrust of my argument is that there is a 
direction as well as a (which is where the reference to 
rev 22 came in . ) . 

2. is it prophetic 

how is prophecy to be defined if it is speaking forth of god 's message , 
much of the apocrypha must surely qualify .  . 

if we narrowed it down to the predictive elements which will 
cut out some of the 39 accepted ot books as well we 
nonetheless have criteria for determining the validity of the 
book jesus  standards were that scripture cannot be broken . 
can you name a single prophecy that fits the bill in the 
(ie definitely fulfilled after it has been written ) 

3. is it authentic 

again , by what standard is authenticity a function of the authors the 
historical accuracy 

does it have a subjective  ring of truth' about it and does 
other evidence that has come to light contradict or confirm the 
authenticity  ( archaeological , other textual evidence for 
example) 

4. is it dynamic 

what is this supposed to mean many of the apocryphal books are highly 
dynamic thought provoking , faithful , even exciting. 

what this is getting at is the relationship between text and 
reader. it is to do with the quality of writing , which should 
have the ability to fire the mind , affect our thought life and 
cause us to act in a certain way there is something of this 
in jesus  quote man does not live by bread alone , but by every 
word that proceeds from the mouth of the lord . (matt 4 . 4) . 

5. is it received , collected , read and used 

by whom of course the apocryphal books were received (by some) , 
collected  ( or else we would not have them) , read and used  ( and they still are , 
in the catholic and orthodox  . 

does the catholic church give the same authority to the 
as to the accepted 66 books certainly it is not as 
widely used as the ot and nt .  . 

on these counts , the falls short of the glory of god. 

this is demonstrably false .  . 

think about what i have said above. you may want to revise your 
conclusion .  . in addition think about other  sacred writings  , eg 
the koran , the book of mormon and how and why you would 
them using the above principles .  . one word of caution 
you may find some  reflected glory  in some of these books in 
that the  inspired quality  may be derived from the bible .  . 
remember that lucifer is quite capable of appearing as an angel 
of light and quoting scripture .  . 

to quote unger 's bible dictionary on the 
1. they abound in historical and geographical inaccuracies and 
anachronisms .  . 

so do other books of the bible .  . 

what were you thinking of 

deletions 

how do you then view the words i warn everyone who hears the 
words of the prophecy of this book if anyone adds anything to 
them , god will add to him the plagues described in this book. 
and if anyone takes away from this book the prophecy , god will 
take away from him his share in the tree of life and in the 
holy city (rev 22 . 18 . 9) 
surely this sets the standard and not just man made traditions .  . 

these words clearly were meant to refer to the book of revelation alone , 
not to the whole body of scripture .  . revelation itself was accepted very 
late into the canon .  . the church simply did not see it as having a primary 
role of any kind in identifying and limiting scripture .  . 

we 've lost the point and the context here. i am not arguing that 
the statement in rev. can be applied , just that 
the whole acceptance rejection idea does not just follow on from 
man made traditions but there is i believe an act of god 
involved in the selection and criteria of what is classified as 
scripture and comes under the definition of 3 . 16 .  . 




barney 
many shall run to and fro , knowledge shall increase  ( daniel ) 

from  ( brother roy ) 
subject rfd soc . religion . 
organization bbs ltd. 44  ( 0)324 ) 
lines 114 
nntp posting host rodan . uu . net . 

this is a rfd on a proposal for a newsgroup which would promote a 
sharing on the hours as proposed each month by the monks of 
the ecumenical community of  ( pronounced te zay ) in france .  . 

name of proposed newsgroup 


soc . religion .  ( unmoderated ) 


purpose of the group 


the community is an international ecumenical community of monks 
based in france .  . many young adults come there to search for meaning in 
their life and to their understanding of their faith through a 
sharing with others. this newsgroup will allow such a sharing through a 
monthly hour which will be posted at the beginning of each 
month. a hour involves a short commentary on a given bible 
passage , followed by some questions for reflection .  . any thoughts that 
may arise in consequence and that you wish to share with others can be 
posted here. we are not interested in theological debate , and even less 
in polemics .  . no expertise is required ! the idea is to help one another 
to our understanding of scripture as it is related to our own 
life journey. 

the idea of hours was born in as a simple response 
to all those who were trying to the bible 's message in the 
midst of their daily life. because of work or studies , it is often 
impossible to spend long hours in silence and reflection , but 
everyone can take an hour from time to time to enter a church , sit 
quietly at home or go out for a walk in the woods. there , in silence , 
we can meditate on a passage of scripture to listen to the voice of 
christ .  . 

during the time of silence , it is important to concentrate on what we 
understand and not waste time worrying if , in some biblical expressions , 
we find it difficult to hear the voice of christ .  . the idea is to 
communicate to others what we have understood of christ , not 
them with our own hesitations but rather telling them what has brought 
us joy , what has led us to run the risk of trusting more deeply .  . 

perhaps those who read and think about the hours in this 
newsgroup could share their reflections and discoveries with others. 

the important thing is the between two aspects , the 
personal aspect of silent , personal reflection and the communal aspect 
of sharing , which through usenet makes us a part of a worldwide network. 

background of the community 


the following provides some background information on the life and 
of the  ( pronounced te zay ) community. 

a parable of communion august 1940 , with europe in the grip of 
world war ii , brother roger , aged 25 , set up home in the almost 
abandoned village of , in eastern france .  . his dream to bring 
together a community which would live out a parable of 
community , a sign of reconciliation in the midst of the distress of 
the time. centering his life on prayer , he used his house to conceal 
refugees , especially jews fleeing from the nazi occupation .  . 

an international and ecumenical community 's founder spent the 
first two years alone. others joined him later and at easter 1949 , 
seven brothers committed themselves together to common life and 
 . year by year , still others have entered the community , each 
one making a lifelong commitment after several years of preparation .  . 
today , there are 90 brothers , catholics and from various protestant 
backgrounds , from over twenty different countries. some of them are 
living in small groups in poor in asia , africa , north 
and south america .  . the brothers accept no donations or gifts for 
themselves , not even family , and the community holds no 
capital .  . the brothers earn their living and share with others 
entirely through their own work. in 1966 , sisters of saint andrew , an 
international catholic community founded 750 years ago , came to live 
in the neighbouring village , to share the responsibility of welcoming 
people in  . 

and the young the intercontinental meetings young adults , and 
less young , have been coming to in ever greater numbers since 
1957 .  . hundreds of thousands of people from europe and far beyond have 
thus been brought together in a common search. intercontinental 
meetings take place each week , sunday to sunday , throughout the year 
and they include youth from between 35 and 60 countries during any 
one week. the meetings give each person the opportunity to explore 
the roots of their faith and to reflect on how to unite the inner 
life and human solidarity .  . the meetings in summer can have up to 
6 , 000 participants a week. three times every day , the brothers and 
everybody on the hill come together for common prayer in the church 
of reconciliation , built in 1962 when the village church became too 
small. 

a pilgrimage of trust on earth the community has never wanted to 
create a movement around itself. instead , people are called to 
commit themselves in their church at home , in their neighbourhood , 
their city or village .  . to support them in this , has created 
what it calls a pilgrimage of trust on earth . at the end of each 
year , the pilgrimage has a european meeting which brings together 
tens of thousands of young adults from every part of europe for 
several days in a major city. there have also been meetings in asia 
and in the united states. every year , brother roger writes an open 
letter to the young. usually completed during a stay in one of the 
poor regions of the world , these are translated into thirty languages 
and provide themes for for the following year. 

note discussion on the creation of this newsgroup will take place in 
news . groups .  . 

for any further information contact 



. 1st 1 . 10b . 332 . community , , france 

from 
subject jacob and esau 
lines 47 

gerry palo wrote that there is nothing in christianity that excludes 
the theory of a succession of lives. 

i wrote that the apostle paul , in romans 9 , speaks of god as 
choosing jacob over esau , and adds that this is not as a result of 
anything that either child had done , since they had not been born 
yet. 

clearly , paul does not believe that they had had previous lives , nor 
does he suppose that his readers will believe it. for if they had 
had previous lives , it would not make sense to say , neither of them 
has done anything good or bad as yet , since they are not yet born. 

daniel cossack writes to ask whether it is fair for god to hate 
when esau has done nothing bad 

i reply that in hebrew it is standard usage to speak of hating when 
what is meant is simply putting in second place. as an example , 
consider the saying in matthew 6 24 

no man can serve two masters for either he will hate the one 
and love the other , or .  .  .  .  . 

now , it is obviously false that a man with two masters must hate one 
of them. but it is obviously true that he must put one of them in 
second place. a dog that always comes when either billy or bobby 
calls will have a problem if they stand in different places and call 
simultaneously .  . it cannot give first priority to both. one must take 
second place. in our original example , second place means that 
jacob , not esau , is chosen to bear the covenant blessing and 
obligation , and to be the ancestor of christ .  . 



eugene bigelow mentions matthew 11 14 which says of john the 
baptist 

and if ye will receive it , this is elijah , who was to come. 

i take this to mean that john was an elijah like figure , dressing 
and living like elijah , preaching like elijah , and fulfilling the 
prediction that elijah would prepare the way for the messiah .  . i do 
not think that he was elijah in a literal sense , and , , 
neither did he (john 1 21) .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( fil sapienza ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization university of michigan hospitals 
lines 36 

in article bill mayne , 
writes 
in article bill mayne , 
writes 
in article 
 ( fil sapienza ) writes 
i am interested in finding out why people become 
atheists after having believed in some god god. 
in conversing with them on other groups , i 've 
often sensed anger or hostility .  . though i do n't 
mean to imply that all atheists are angry or hostile , 
it does seem to be one motivation for giving up 
faith. thus , some atheism might result from 
broken ness .  . 

this is condescending at best and a slightly disquised ad hominem 
attack. this attitude on the part of many theists , especially the 
vocal ones , is one reason for the hostility you sense. how do you 
like it when atheists say that people turn to religion out of 
immature emotionalism 

i would n't and do n't .  . i thought i did a pretty good job of 
qualifying my statement , but apparently some people 
misinterpreted my intentions .  . i apologize for my part in 
communicating any confusion. my intent was more to 
stir up discussion rather than judge. it seems to 
have worked. 

rest of post noted by the way , i did not originally post this to 
alt . atheism .  . if it got there , i do n't know how it did. 


sapienza 
department of technology services 
university of michigan hospitals surgery 


from lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) 
subject re public private revelation  ( formerly re question about virgin mary 
organization none 
lines 44 

 ( marty helgesen ) writes 

when an alleged private revelation attracts sufficient attention , 
the church may investigate it. if the investigation indicates a 
likelihood that the alleged private revelation is in fact from god , 
it will be approved .  . that means that it can be preached in the 
church. however , it is still true that no one is required to 
believe that it came from god. a catholic is free to deny the 
authenticity of even the most well attested and strongly approved 
private revelations , such as those at fatima and lourdes .  . (i 
suspect that few if any catholics do reject fatima and lourdes , but 
if any do their rejection of them does not mean they are not 
orthodox catholics in good standing . ) . 

it may be a bit much to say that a catholic is free to deny what 
happened at fatima .  . that 's a bit strong , it is sort of like saying 
that a catholic is free to deny that hong kong exists. what a 
catholic is free to do is to deny the truth of fatima , without being 
called a heretic .  . you can be labeled other things for such an 
offense , but not a heretic .  . 

theologians make a basic distinction as far as the degree of assent 
one must give to events like fatima and lourdes .  . things revealed by 
god through jesus christ or his apostles must be given the assent due 
to a revelation of god total and unswerving .  . fatima and lourdes 
demand our assent as much as any other well attested event in human 
history. perhaps a bit more , given the approval of the church. 

approval of an apparition by the church principally means that 
whatever happened was in harmony with the catholic faith. 

i personally think of private revelations as our lord 's way of telling 
us what to do at particular periods in history. he gave us all the 
doctrines , etc. , 2000 years ago , but we can always use some help in 
knowing how exactly to apply what he gave us. 

catholic devotion to the sacred heart was a result of a series of 
apparitions to st. margaret mary , for example. the problem 
at the time was extreme moral that was turning our lord into 
someone without a heart. 

the fatima apparitions were a warning of an impending crisis in the 
church  ( we are living it) , and what to do to save the most souls 
possible in such a situation. 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 6 


this is what the lord almighty says you who now hear these words spoken by 
the prophets who were there when the foundation was laid for the house of the 
lord almighty , let your hands be strong so that the temple may be built .  . 

zechariah 8 9 

from 
subject the bible on the immaculate conception 
lines 35 

andy byler writes on the biblical basis for the dogma of the 
immaculate conception 

i will put enmity between you the serpent and the woman , and 
between your seed and her seed , she can also be read he shall 
crush your head and you shall bruise her or his heel. 
genesis 3.15 

he who commits sin is of the devil ... 1 john 3.8 

hail , full of grace greek , the lord is with 
thee ... luke 1.28 

in the hebrew of genesis 3 15 , the gender is clearly masculine .  . 

he shall crush your head , and you shall bruise his heel. 

the latin has feminine forms , only by an accident of grammar .  . 

andrew stated that means not just full of grace but 
having a plenitude or perfection of grace .  . the word is used 
elsewhere in the new testament only in ephesians 1 6 

unto the praise of the glory of his grace , in which he hath 
graced us in his beloved son.  ( rheims translation ) 

i cannot find any indication in my dictionary that the verb implies 
anything as strong as andrew suggests , nor does the ephesians 
passage suggest that the verb means to preserve from any of 
original or actual sin from the first moment of existence .  . i should 
like to see a comment on the meaning of the verb , preferably not 
from s writer who is discussing luke 1 28 at the moment. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( tv 's big dealer) 
subject re , esp. 
organization university of florida 's college of liberal arts and sciences 
lines 35 


what we call today the old testament was being written up to approx 
imately 168 bce , according to most modern scholars .  . aside from the book of 
daniel , the whole ot predates alexander (the great) .  . these books were written 
 ( predominantly ) in hebrew .  . 
there were also other books being written at about this time and later 
by greek speaking , or hellenistic , jews .  . these books are those which are 
reckoned by many denominations as apocrypha . 
before the closing of the writings , the third part of what is today 
called the canon , all of the books were in use by jews of the day. however , 
there were those who reckoned  ( based on zech .  . 13) that prophecy had ceased .  . 
this faction maintained that there were no true prophets in their day. they 
also maintained that literature of a prophetic character could not be genuine 
teachings from god. 
by the time of c . 65 . ce , another faction had entered the mess. christians 
had come in claiming that their writings were also suitable to be read in 
synagogues and used for worship .  . therefore , the palestinian jewish leaders 
got together and stated that the books written from the time of ben sira  ( sirach ) 
onward were not sacred writings .  . they justified this from zech .  . 13. in 
particular , they said , the writings of the christians  ( called heretics ) were 
not inspired. 
at about 90 ce , they codified things further by closing the canon in 
somewhat of an official sense at the council of  . a few books  ( ecclesi 
, song of songs , esther ) made it in after that date , but these were those 
which had been written prior to the official cut off point (the time of ben 
sira ) for inclusion that they had established in order to keep out the christian 
and hellenistic writings .  . 
jerome excluded the  apocrypha  because they were not in use by jews 
of his day and because they were (except for sirach ) not found in hebrew in his 
time. his criterion for separating them from the other pre christian writings 
was not based on  . 

there is plenty more to say , but i do not have time. 
the passage you quote concerns the book (rev . ) . in which it is found. 
frank d. 

from  ( brooks haderlie ) 
subject re mormon temples 
reply to 
organization chemical abstracts service 
lines 18 

in article , (david hammerslag ) writes 

this paragraph brought to mind a question. how do you  ( mormons ) reconcile 
the idea of eternal marriage with christ 's statement that in the ressurection 
people will neither marry nor be given in marriage  ( luke ,  . 20) 

that 's the whole point , david .  . as spirits separated from their bodies 
and living in the spirit world , they cannot undergo the ordinance of 
marriage , just as they cannot be baptized , since there is no physical 
body to be baptized .  . we perform these ordinances as for them , 
in their behalf .  . thanks for asking. brooks 


brooks o be wise what can i say more 
columbus , oh by way of , id jacob 6 12 

these opinions do not necessarily reflect those of my employer .  . 


from 
subject the psalms 
lines 10 

paul submitted a sermon by peter hammond on praying for 
justice that spoke of the positive value of the 
 ( cursing ) psalms .  . 

in this connection , i recommend to the membership the book 
reflections on the psalms , by c s lewis , with special reference to 
the chapter on cursing in the psalms .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( elizabeth stevens ) 
subject the easy way out .  .  .  .  . 
reply to free catholic mailing list 
organization university of missouri columbia campus computing , 314 882 2000 
lines 59 


easy vs. hard  .  .  .  .  . easy . on who 

i had a rare very personal talk with my mother last year. she said 
that when she and my father were raising we four children , they 
did not try to raise us in this world as strictly as they were raised 
in their norwegian lutheran community. they felt that we would be 
alienated from them and it would create problems. 
in other words , my parent did the very tolerant , loving thing. they 
raised us without conflict , without what we saw as unreasonable 
demands and were always accepting , no matter what the circumstances .  . 
what happened was that i grew up believing in situation ethics and 
never absolutes .  . i believed in a loving god , and my concept of god 
never involved justice or punishment , nor was there any concept that 
i may someday be held responsible for the things that offended 
him .  .  . sins . that the world told me were ok. 
my parents are very good , honest and moral people. they raised 
four extremely honest children. yet , before coming to a more 
complete knowledge of god (which includes the knowledge of justice 
and punishment)i ) committed what i now believe to be many , many 
grave sins .  . i lived with a partner outside of marriage , was married 
and divorced ( only after physical abuse and no apparent hope for 
change .  .  . but . i should n't have married to person in the first place ) 
and more .  .  .  .  . 
my parents felt they were doing the loving , kind thing by allowing 
us to be who we were , by not imposing their standards on us , and by 
accepting unquestioningly everything we did without judgement or 
counsel .  . 
today , it is absolutely appalling for me to look back on what they 
did accept without a word. it takes to dare to help souls 
because you must speak up and say what is unpopular and 
difficult and what people do not want to hear. you must be able 
to say what is hard , and say it as christ would , with love and 
compassion .  . it involves risk .  .  .  . perhaps . someone you love may not 
want to hear and will stay away from you. 
this life is but dust . as long as the comfort of this life 
is our highest priority , we will fail god and fail those 
with whom we come in contact .  . 
i wonder how many who engage in sex outside of marriage , who 
support the right to abortion , who engage in homosexuality , 
or who commit any of the range of sins that are plentiful in 
this time have ever heard from a quiet , thoughtful , loving 
friend that these things are wrong . no one ever told me that 
what i was doing was wrong , and i saw multitudes around me 
living the same way i was and they seemed like good , decent 
people.  ( would n't kick dogs or beat the elderly or babies .  . ) . 
it is more difficult for sinners without a genuine prayer 
life to hear the holy spirit than it is to hear a loving friend. 
think about this the next time the holy spirit tells you that 
a friend is in error , but you do n't want to cause trouble . 
righteous prayers is great power , but do n't forget that we are 
we are christ 's lips and hands on earth. do n't be afraid to 
simply voice truth when the situation calls for it. say a 
fervent prayer and ask the holy spirit for love and guidance .  . 
in more ways than we may realize , we are our brother 's 
keeper .  . 

in jesus and mary , 
elizabeth 

from  ( anthony olejnik ) 
subject how to dispose of old blessed palms 
organization university of pennsylvania 
lines 10 

what is the proper way to dispose of old blessed palms 
have a bunch that been holding onto .  . in addition , 
my mom has been giving me her 's .  . i used to give them to my 
uncle who would burn them  ( and leave the ashes to seep into the 
ground) .  . should i do the same could i just bury them could 
i add them to my bin 

thanks in advance. 

tony 

from  ( steve hayes ) 
subject re and mike walker 
organization university of south africa 
lines 29 

in article (nabil ayoub ) writes 

as a final note , the oriental orthodox and orthodox did sign 
a common statement of christology , in which the of monophysitism 
was condemned .  . so the coptic orthodox church does not believe in 
monophysitism .  . 

this is a point that seems to have been overlooked by many. the ending of a 
1600 year old schism seems to be in sight. 

the theologians said that the differences between them were fundamentally 
ones or terminology , and that the christological faith of both groups was 
the same. 

some parishes have the eucharist , and here in southern africa 
we are running a joint theological training course for coptic and byzantine 
orthodox .  . 

there are still several things to be sorted out , however. as far as the 
copts are concerned , there were three ecumenical councils , the 
byzantine orthodox acknowledge seven .  . 


steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department 
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa 
internet fidonet 5 7101 20 

faq missiology is the study of christian mission and is part of 
the faculty of theology at unisa 

from (michael siemon ) 
subject re nt meaning of 
organization public access internet unix , nyc 
lines 210 


conviction of sin 

a meta exegetical or methodological essay 


in article 
writes 

i ca n't post it all at once , so it will come piece meal and not daily. 

i look forward to reading it. when i got to the library last week , it 
was with the object in view to look at some articles that have appeared 
over the last few years , since my previous look at the literature. un 
fortunately , they had moved the journal back issues , so i did n't get a 
look at the articles i was hoping to find. i will continue to reserve 
my own judgment on until i have seen the latest scholarly 
work , and i can hope that 's posting may give some meat to chew on. 

however , what i can do now , is to point out the methodological issues 
what needs to be shown for anything to be concluded in this matter. 
if the article posts addresses these issues , so much the better 
if not , you will perhaps understand why the problem is hard. 

james b. 

writes , in 

this study argues that paul coined the term , deriving it 
from the of lev 20 12 (cf .  . 18 22) and using it for homosexual 
orientation and behavior 

it is only a minor point , but let me make it anyway de young has 
already contradicted his own prior assertion in this abstract that 
the ancient analysis of these issues was concerned with actions and 
not with orientation .  . i doubt this will have much bearing on the 
article as such , but thought i should point it out from the start. 

the hypothesis de young is advancing is that paul a) coined the word and 
b) his intended meaning for it was in reference to the levitical law. the 
questions i wish to raise are 

1 . ) . how would one go about confirming the truth of this hypothesis 
and 2 . ) . what follows if one accepts  ( or stipulates , for the sake of the 
discussion) that it is correct 

note that b) is independent of a) i consider b) far more plausible than a) , 
which seems merely to be a counsel of despair over finding nothing in the 
literature contemporary with paul to clarify this word. so far as i know , 
paul does not in general invent words anywhere else in his letters. unless 
you have an otherwise established pattern of , it is not sound 
methodology to assume it particularly if he gives no hint in the 
ate text to fix the 's meaning for his audience. 

as yet , the extract presents no evidence at all. what do we need to confirm 
or reject the hypothesis (which , i should say at the outset , i find somewhat 
plausible i certainly know of nothing which makes it an impossible way 
of this problem passage . ) . i'm going to set aside for the moment 
the question of whether paul might have coined this usage , to look at the 
more question of what it means. for this there are , in principle , 
two kinds of evidence that can be , internal and external .  . that is , 
we can look at the text of paul 's letter for clarification or look outside 
that to prior or contemporary writings that paul might have relied on , or to 
derivative writings that have some claim of access to paul 's meaning. 

the single worst problem with this word in corinthians is that there is no 
internal evidence for paul 's meaning. he uses the word totally without an 
explanation or hint as to his meaning , save that its inclusion in a list of 
negatives implies that it has for him some negative meaning. 

we are left , as the only internal clue , with the etymology or formation 
of the word which is indeed the reason that de young  ( and others before 
him) have associated it with the leviticus prohibition of men with 
other men , where verb is some standard euphemism for having sex ( lie in 
leviticus , bed in  . one problem is that ( ) is 
not , as far as i know , used that way in greek .  . therefore , i offer one 
serious test which de young 's hypothesis must pass or be rejected 

o find a body of greek texts contemporary with paul  ( or not much 
prior to his day) such that the x formation implies 
men who have sex with x obviously , the best case is to 
find such usages of itself. 

such texts would be confirmation that the word can be read that way. 
it is worth emphasizing that compound words are not in general under 
by projecting what the reader may imagine by the juxtaposition 
of the roots .  . existence of such parallels does n't prove the hypothesis 
correct but it goes a long way towards making such a usage  ( whether or 
not original with paul in the specific case of x arse n ) possible 
of comprehension by his readers. 

my test moves in the direction of external evidence. if paul does not 
in his text explain his word  ( and he does not) , then he has to expect his 
readers to already know the word (which stands against its being a coinage ) 
or to expect that it mimics word formations that they do know , such that 
they can guess his meaning without too much  . 

external evidence , that is , texts other than paul 's own and 
or social historical considerations that might be , then come into 
the picture. if there are other uses of the word , not dependent on paul , 
which have sufficient internal  ( contextual ) evidence or some gloss by 
a contemporary scribe to show a derogatory reference to male 
, or similar formations used in similar ways , then one 
has grounds for 

o denying that paul coined the word 
and o assuming that his readers might understand his meaning 

do you see the problem if paul coined the word , then he requires his 
readers to share enough context with him to comprehend his and 
its intent in this case that they would  ( stipulating de young 's guess) 
understand him to be referring to the levitical universal prohibition 
of male male sex  ( this , mind you , in a context where paul has emphasized 
at least to other congregations  ( and so one assumes to the corinthians 
how else to explain 1 cor .  . 6 12 , and the corinthians having to be pulled 
back from their freedom ) the non applicability of torah 
law to his gentile converts ! ) 

among the considerations that make it implausible for paul to have coined 
the word , its first element is archaic arse n is an old attic or 
form of what in even classical  ( let alone koine ) times would be 
assimilated as n . to me , this implies that we are even more than 
usually of external evidence to pin down meaning and usage .  . what 
is paul doing inventing a word in obsolete attic formation 

and if he did n't coin the word , but picked it up like the others in 
his list as common terms of , then his meaning will be for 
his readers constrained by that common meaning  ( since he gives no 
other . ) . 

i cannot emphasize enough that paul does not tell us what he means by 
this word. we  ( and his original readers ) are guessing .  . they , at least , 
had a contemporary context and maybe paul had used this very word and 
explained it in great detail to them in person. but we have no trace of 
evidence of that , and to suppose it is mere fantasy .  . 

so we are desperately in need of external evidence about this word. 
and it seems to be exceptionally meagre .  . that is precisely the problem. 
i can think of several more or less equally plausible hypotheses about 
the word 

a) it was a standard gutter term of abuse for (some or all , maybe 
very specific , maybe very general) homosexual male activities 

b) it was a term of abuse used by jews about the awful homosexual 
greeks (which may or may not be consciously associated on their 
part with the leviticus passage) 

c) paul invented the term and again there may or may not be an 
association with leviticus in his doing so. he may or may not 
intend the word to have an explicit and universal application 
with absolute and clear boundaries .  . since none of his other 
words in that list have such character , this last seems to me 
about the least plausible of the hypotheses i'm advancing .  . 

of these , i 'd say off the top of my head that a) is most plausible but 
i still have reservations about that , too. 

if the word never appears before paul , and in later uses has some evidence 
of depending on paul , then one can opt for paul 's it. if it does 
appear before him , he might still have coined it being unaware of prior 
use  ( in which case , his is inherently confusing ! ) but one should 
normally c) on the basis of any earlier uses  ( especially if they 
can be shown to have been at all common in the places paul traveled . ) . in 
either of the a) or b) cases , one has to take into account paul 's relation 
to the community of usage he picked the word up from and whether it be 
from the greek or jewish communities , paul 's relations are hardly straight 
forward ! 

there is , so far as i have yet seen , little or no external evidence to aid 
us in selecting one of these  ( or some other) hypothesis .  . your guess is as 
good as mine  ( or maybe worse or maybe better , depending on a lot of things) .  . 
but it remains so far  . and i do n't know about you , but i 
for one will not equate human with the will of god. by all means 
be convinced in your own conscience about what paul is getting at as he 
says elsewhere on what was in his day a major controversy of somewhat this 
same character  ( romans 14 22 23) 

hold on to your own belief , as between yourself and god and 
consider the man fortunate who can make his decision without going 
against his conscience .  . but anybody who eats in a state of doubt 
is condemned , because he is not in good faith , and every act done 
in bad faith is a sin .  . 

for my part , i cannot see any way to resolve paul 's meaning in the use of 
without directly applicable external evidence and by 
the nature of such external evidence , it will never reach to certainty 
of constraining paul 's own intent .  . paul , like humpty dumpty  ( and me , and 
all the rest of us) will use words in ways that are personal choices 
and sometimes leave his readers puzzled .  . if that puzzlement leads you 
to god , it may be blessed if it should lead away  ( as some of paul 's 
words have led some people) , then paul 's intense effort to 
his meaning in our souls may have some regretable consequences .  . 
i have always found paul to be a reliable guide if i 
read him in the large , if i can see him lay out his position in detail 
and hammer it home time and time again. i am much less certain about his 
meaning in his many brief and cryptic passages  ( such as this one . ) . 

in my usual way , i have gone on at great length about the first 
of my intended meta exegetical points what would be needed to confirm 
that paul a) coined or b) in any case meant the word to mean the same as 
the leviticus prohibition .  . my second point is to this hypo 
thesis , and follow up what it implies for both his initial readers and 
for later christians .  . given my , this will be tomorrow night 's 
meditation ) 

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

from (michael siemon ) 
subject re , esp. 
organization public access internet unix , nyc 
lines 63 

in article (d .  . andrew byler ) writes 
michael siemon writes 

protestants love to play up jerome for all he is worth. 

yes , but no more than he is worth. ) .  . seriously jerome is merely 
 ( and grandly ) another christian witness , to be taken for what he can 
tell us. he is one in the community of saints .  . you seem to wish for 
a greater polarization and dichotomy between catholic and protestant 
thought than seems to me , from a historical perspective , to be valid .  . 
to be sure , rome rejects (some significant aspects of) protestant 
thought just as vehemently as protestants reject (some significant 
aspects of) roman thought. other than some who apparently try 
to the greatest extreme of this rejection , on either side , there 
is not quite so vast a gulf fixed as casual observers seem to assume .  . 

ecumenical consultations between rome and the lutherans , as well as 
those between rome and the anglican communion  ( to which i belong ) show 
very nearly complete convergence on understanding the basic theological 
issues the sticking points tend to be and church polity .  . 
thus , for example , as you go on to say 

they should 
remeber that after the decree of pope st. i , 

many of us do not regard a papal as having any necessary  ( as 
opposed to political ) significance .  . sometimes it will , sometimes it 
wo n't .  . you misread me if you think that my communion , at least , throws 
out the books. nor do i think you should overstress 
the sense in which the more reformed may do so. 

again , why must the church of jesus christ adopt the canon of the 
unbelieving jews , drawn up in in 90 ad , in countering the 
christian use of the septuagint .  . 

i seriously suggest you rethink what you are saying here. it on , 
and could be taken as , anti semitic in the worst sense. the unbelieving 
jews were , according to what i understand as a christian , the chosen 
people of god , and the recipients of his pre revelation .  . 
i think they have some say in the matter. the meeting should not 
be over interpreted .  . a recent study titled (i do n't 
have more citation information on hand , sorry ) produced primarily from 
the background of christian  ( rather than specifically jewish) scholarship 
suggests strongly that the meeting mostly resolved a 
question , where in practice the canon had long been fixed on the basis 
of the scrolls that were kept in the temple , and thereby made the hands 
unclean when used. the list of sacred books that may be drawn up from 
josephus and other pre sources correspond  ( plus or minus one book , 
if i rememeber the chapter correctly) to the current jewish canon of  . 

all of this is not to throw out the  ( what , by the way , 
is your position about the books the greeks accept and rome does not )) 
just to observe that the issue is complex and simply binary judgment 
does not do it justice. 

andy byler 



michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

from 
subject two nits picked 
lines 35 

gerry palo writes 

between adam and eve and golgotha the whole process of the fall 
of man occurred .  . this involved a gradual dimming of 
consciousness of the spiritual world. this is discernable in 
the world outlooks of different peoples through history. the 
greek , for example , could say , better a beggar in the land of 
the living than a king in the land of the dead.  ( iliad , i 
think) .  . 

i would not swear that nothing of the sort is found in the iliad , 
but the first passage i thought of was the odyssey 11 480 or 
thereabouts  ( my copy has no line numbers) .  . the ghost of 
speaks (robert fitzgerald translation ) 

better , i say , to break sod as a farm hand 
for some poor country man , on iron , 
than lord it over all the exhausted dead. 

the next passage i thought of was from ecclesiastes 9 4 

a living dog is better than a dead lion .  . 

on the other hand , there is one notion firmly embedded in 
christianity that originated most definitely in a pagan source. 
the idea that the human being consists essentially of soul 
only , and that the soul is created at birth , was consciously 
adopted from aristotle , whose ideas dominated christian thought 
for fifteen hundred years and still does today .  .  .  .  . 

surely aristotle had little influence on christian thought before 
about 1250 ad. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from  ( marida ignacio ) 
subject re bernadette dates 
organization trunking fixed 
lines 52 


writes 
joe moore writes 

mary at that time appeared to a girl named bernadette at 
lourdes .  . she referred to herself as the immaculate conception .  . 
since a nine year old would have no way of knowing about the 
doctrine , the apparition was deemed to be true and it sealed 
the case for the doctrine .  . 
bernadette was 14 years old when she had her visions , in , 
four years after the dogma had been officially proclaimed by the 
pope .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

i forgot exactly what her age was but i remember clearly 
that she was born in a family of poverty and she did not 
have any education , whatsoever , at the age of the apparitions .  . 
she suffered from asthma at that age and she and her family were 
living in an abandoned prison cell of some sort .  . 

she had to ask the  lady  several times in her apparitions about 
what her name was since her confessor priest asked her to do so. 
for several instances , the priest did not get an answer since 
bernadette did not receive any. one time , after several apparitions 
passed , the lady finally said , i am the immaculate conception . 
so , bernadette , was so happy and repeated these words over and 
over in her mind so as not to forget it before she told the 
priest who was asking. so , when she told the priest , the 
priest was shocked and asked bernadette , do you know what 
you are talking about . bernadette did not know what exactly 
it meant but she was just too happy to have the answer for 
the priest .  . the priest continued with , how did you remember 
this if you do not know . bernadette answered honestly that 
she had to repeat it over and over in her mind while on her 
way to the priest .  .  .  . 

the priest knew about the dogma being four years old then. 
but bernadette did not know and yet she had the answer which 
the priest finally observed and took as proof of an authentic 
personal revelation of our lady to bernadette .  . 

 ( note this lady of lourdes shrine has a spring of water which 
our lady requested bernadette to dig up herself with her 
bare hands in front of pilgrims .  . at the start little 
water flowed but after several years there is more water 
flowing . ) . 

marida 
 .  .  . spreading . god 's words through actions .  .  .  . 
mother teresa 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject and the two 
lines 9 

seeing as how the two has been brought up again , it is time for 
me to respond , once again , and say that this book is junk .  . it is nothing 
more that an anti catholic tract of the sort published ever since the there 
were protestants .  . its scholarship is phony and its assertions spurious .  . 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the marv lous peace of god. 

from hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) 
subject homosexuality 
reply to hulman . edu . 
organization news service at rose hulman 
lines 19 

recently an e mail to me mentioned 

 ( technically , the messengers are n't even human so 
it ca n't be a case of homosexuality even of rape . ) . ... 

the jude reference to sodom is also meaningful only in the context of 
the  lust for the other flesh of angels .  . again , 
application to homosexual behavior in general , or to the position of 
gay christians is specious .  . 

are angels flesh no. i feel that this is saying that it was because 
of their lust after other men , who are  ( flesh or of this world) .  . 

what are other opinons on this i have n't heard much about this verse 
at all. 

in christ 's love , 
bryan 


from lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization none 
lines 42 

regarding the consequences of the original sin 

catholics believe that what adam primarily lost by his sin , for 
himself and the human race , was sanctifying grace .  . this is basically 
a share in the divine life. take a rock and make it able to talk 
what god does to a human being through sanctifying grace is similar. 
it makes such a one able to live on a plane that is above the powers 
of any possible creature .  . this is the everlasting life that the new 
testament speaks of. 

what christ did when he came was to restore this life of sanctifying 
grace to the human race. he instituted the sacraments as the means by 
which this life is given to people , and its increase  . 

the absence of sanctifying grace at death means automatic exclusion 
from heaven. the nature of heaven is such that it 's impossible for a 
human being to have any part in it without the gift of sanctifying 
grace .  . to use my example , it would be like taking that rock and 
attempting to hold a conversation with it rocks cannot talk. neither 
can human beings live in heaven without sanctifying grace .  . 

this all obviously applies equally well to infants or adults , since 
both have souls .  . infants must be baptized , therefore , or they cannot 
enter into heaven. they too need this form of life in them , or they 
cannot enter into heaven. 

turning it around , infant baptism is good supporting evidence for the 
catholic belief in sanctifying grace .  . unless baptism causes some 
change in an infant 's soul , there is no particular reason to insist on 
the practice. yet infant baptism was probably practiced by the 
apostles themselves , and was certainly part of the church shortly 
thereafter .  . 

there is evidence for infant baptism in the new testament itself 1 
cor 1 16 , acts 16 15 , 16 33 , 18 8 , also acts 11 14. it is known for 
sure that at least one disciple of the apostle john was baptized as an 
infant st.  ( because of a remark he makes in the acts of his 
 . st. justin martyr mentions men and women baptized as 
infants .  . there is direct evidence in st. 's against 
heresies , and in 's on baptism . all these so far 
mentioned are in the first 170 years after our lord 's death. after 
that , there starts to be tons of evidence for the practice. 

from  ( matthew huntbach ) 
subject re on capital punishment 
organization computer science dept , , university of london , uk .  . 
lines 25 

in article  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) writes 
... 
safety. to the degree that means other than the death 
penalty and military operations are sufficient to keep the 
peace , then these non violent provisions are to be preferred 
because they are more in proportion and in keeping with the 
final goal of protection of peace and human dignity .  . 

thanks for posting the exact wording which i had not seen 
previously .  . the part i quote above seems to me to indicate 
disapproval of capital punishment it is to be used only when 
other means are not sufficient i would say this is a stronger 
restriction than saying that capital punishment is useable when 
justifiable .  . i would certainly say there are cases where a 
crime justifies death  ( perhaps this is the old testament 
interpretation) , but my reverence for life would say that i 
would oppose the actual of the death penalty (a new 
testament interpretation ) .  . it is a matter for debate whether 
the death penalty works to keep the peace in a way that 
non violent provisions do not. i do n't believe it does , and i 
would certainly observe that in the usa , where you have the 
death penalty , there is a far higher murder rate than here in 
the uk , where we do not. 

matthew huntbach 

from  ( fil sapienza ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization university of michigan hospitals 
lines 24 

in article maxwell c muir , 
writes 
of faith  ( if you want to know , i feel that faith is intellectually 
 . 

i 'd appreciate some support for this statement. i'm not sure 
it really makes sense to me. 

the ambiguity of religious beliefs , an unwillingness to take 
pascal 's wager , 

i 've heard this frequently what exactly is pascal 's wager 

do i sound broken to you 

i do n't know. you point out that your mother 's treatment upset you , 
and see inconsistencies in various religions .  . i'm not sure if that 
constitutes broken ness or not. it certainly 
disillusionment .  . 

sapienza 
department of technology services 
university of michigan hospitals surgery 


from  ( alison j wyld ) 
subject re dreams and out of body incidents 
organization spider systems limited , edinburgh , uk .  . 
lines 40 

in article (david e. goggin ) writes 
i 'd like to get your comments on a question that has been on my mind a 
lot what morals ethics apply to dreams and out of body incidents 
in normal dreams , you ca n't control anything , so obviously 
you are n't morally responsible for your actions .  . but if you can 
to control the action in dreams or do an , it seems like a morality applies .  . 


well i am one of those  ( apparently ) odd people who can sometimes 
control their dreams. for example , i might decide before going to 
sleep that i want to repeat a favourite dream , or dream about a 
specific place. or if i am having an unpleasant dream , i can often 
(not always ) redirect events to something more pleasant .  . 

i guess i think that the same standards apply in these directed 
dreams as apply in waking fantasies or real life (ref jesus teaching 
about looking at a woman being the same a committing 
 . 

when my normal dreams display themes that i would not chose 
to dream about , i take that as a sign that all is not well with my 
inner life maybe i have underlying fears that need to be 
resolved , or maybe its straightforward sin .  . in either case , the cause 
needs to be resolved .  . 

in fact , either case is pretty rare .  . i do n't 
often remember dreams that i do n't chose to have. when i do , they 
almost always tell me something important. 
i also almost never dream in pictures , and especially not in colour 
 ( in fact i 've had precisely one full colour picture dream that i can 
remember , and it was definately spiritually important) 
i tend to dream in sound , with the odd blurred image , in black and 
white. 

interesting topic i 'll be fascinated to read other responses. 

alison 

ps. just to make it clear , i do n't do ( and have never tried )  . 
i tend to think they are off limits for christians .  . 

from (michael siemon ) 
subject re nt meaning of 
organization public access internet unix , nyc 
lines 209 

meta exegesis conviction of sin , part ii 

let me return to the question , that paul meant his use of 
to refer more or less exactly to the levitical prohibition 
of male male sex. in order to bring out the problems most clearly , i 'll 
also  ( what i think is far less plausible ) that paul coined the 
term for this usage .  . the question i want to turn to is what that would 
mean for paul 's readers and for later christians .  . this should be shorter 
than my last note , as we will see that this question rapidly us 
with some of the major divisions within christ 's body , and i am not trying 
to open the gates for flames across any of the terrible that 
separate any of us from our fellow christians .  . my own biases  ( loosely 
as liberal ) will be evident , but i am not grinding an 
axe here , so much as trying to get all parties to see that it may be hard 
to reach closure when the issues involved strike at the heart of what we 
each , in our own different ways , see as crucial to the gospel of christ .  . 

so paul 's intent , the immediate question is how can his 
readers understand this intent and following on that question , there is 
a second one what is our proper action if we do manage to understand him 

since paul gives not a single clue about his meaning in the text of 1st 
corinthians , there are two positive answers and one negative to this 
question 

a. paul  ( or apollos , or someone) in the apostolic community has 
conveyed to the corinthians the then traditional jewish condem 
nation of homosexual behavior , and paul expects them to be 
sufficiently well tutored by this tradition that he needs no 
futher explanation. i should note that there is no evidence 
in the letter , or in 2 corinthians for such a supposition ) 

b. the spirit will teach us what paul means  ( or , if not paul , 
what god means behind paul 's inspired word choice . ) . 

c. we do n't know , and cannot guess to within any better pre 
here than , for comparison , in the parallel use by paul , 
in the same passage of the word ( those who have 
more if you think that is obvious from 
its roots , try cutting your teeth on this word ! the neb 
translates it as grabbers ) or even ( 
at least this has the advantage of being a common insult , 
so that at least there is some hint as to its meaning ! ) 

the three positions more or less if i can be allowed some exaggeration 
for the sake of argument define a classical catholic attitude towards 
tradition , one form of protestant sola scriptura , and a liberal critical 
demand for evidence. all three positions have strengths and weaknesses .  . 

ad a it is unquestionable that the gospel was preached in and by the 
community of christ 's disciples and their successors , and that 
our nt scripture itself emerges from this communal tradition .  . 
but it 's also the case that we know little or nothing about this 
tradition until almost a century after paul , which is to say that 
we have access to the tradition only after several generations of 
possibly confused transmission .  . the scripture is itself our only 
documentation of the tradition in the critical era. 

ad b if we are not born of water and spirit to revert to john in an 
attempt to explain paul ) , then we have no more hope of under 
standing the gospel than nicodemus had neither the traditions of 
men nor the vain elevation of our own reason can prevent the spirit 
from blowing where it will the is a  . but 
the downside of protestant belief in the efficacy of the spirit 
as our guide in scripture is that the wing of protestantism that 
takes this most seriously is also the most fragmented over divergent 
understanding supposedly derived from the clear word of god. 

note classical lutheran , calvinist and anglican thought 
constrains scripture to be read within tradition , even 
while reserving judgment against tradition out of scripture 
the more bizarre forms of i will read scripture my way 
are primarily a fringe aspect of cultic protestantism .  . 

the main problem with this approach is that there is apparently no 
means for one person to convey to another what that one may feel 
is teaching received from the spirit and history shows incredible 
conflict between christians on this point , each in his own mind 
convinced that he is led by the spirit. no one can seriously 
urge point b without some sense of its potential for setting christian 
against christian .  . to what purpose 

ad c the critical approach has the distinct advantage that when it can 
reach a conclusion , it can lay out the data in a way which is open 
to all. the weakness is an obvious corollary this is not usually 
possible. ) 

if i may say a word here , out of my own already acknowledged bias 
one complaint against critical methodology is that it dissolves 
faith but surely a faith that cannot honestly face the 
ation of evidence has problems which mere theology is helpless to 
address. 

anyway , there is a serious and unfortunate possibility of schism between 
liberal and conservative positions , mostly on the basis of extreme 
zealots of positions b and c. a catholic sense of authority and tradition 
tends to arguments of b contra c to secondary position , so that 
despite horrendous strains rome is not as likely to find these issues as 
ultimately divisive as the protestant world will. and will (i 
predict ) muddle through on the via media , attempting to give each position 
its due , but no more than its due .  . 

second question. suppose tradition tells us , and lots of spiritual 
christians tell us , and critical thought at least admits as possible , 
that paul is refering to a flat , universal levitical prohibition against 
male male sex. what then again , we can our personal responsi 
bility to tradition , and let it dictate the answer. but it 's precisely 
where inherited traditions are not questioned that they 're most dangerous. 

we have examples of christ questioning the pharisees and their use of 
tradition  ( despite his urging , in matthew 23 2 that we are to heed them) .  . 
we have examples of peter , and more radically still paul , the 
traditions that they were led by the spirit to call into question. jesus 
and peter and paul do not so much throw out tradition as subject it to 
radical criticism , on a couple of very basic grounds 

the demands of the law justice and mercy and good faith 
 ( matthew 23 23) 
and on these two commandments love god neighbor hand the whole law , 
and the prophets , also. 
 ( matthew 22 40 ) 

if there is a fundamental  ( because derived from christ) validity in the 
challenge to some traditions , a validity that led the first generation 
to go so far as to waive application of the torah to gentile converts 
 ( vastly beyond anything that is directly from jesus  reported 
words and deeds ) , it signifies to me a certain failure of the imagination 
to postulate that only the traditions that we have specific challenges 
against are in fact open to challenge. 

all traditions passed through men are traditions of men. that god may 
lead us even so , that these traditions are a source of our spiritual 
instruction i will freely grant .  . but tradition is inherently human , and 
inherently  ( and given the fall ,  . nothing in it is 
immune to challenge , when the spirit shows us a failure in justice , mercy 
and good faith. nothing may ultimately stand unless it does follow from 
love of god and love of neighbor .  . 

i am perfectly willing to grant that i could be blind to my own sin .  . that 
the spirit may have taught another what she refuses to teach me  ( or i am 
too dense to  . that tradition might have value here. but what i 
know of tradition is that on one occasion , some superstitious christians 
appealed to after an earthquake in asia minor , and scapegoated 
as the cause of the earthquake , so that legislation was 
passed making homosexual behavior a capital offense. if that is in 
accord with the gospel of christ , then i am no christian .  . that is human 
tradition at its most hateful and vicious .  . and i see nothing all that much 
different in all the unbidden eruptions onto usenet of people who are quick 
to condemn but slow to understand. if that is the leading of the spirit , 
then i want no part of it. but what i have found in obedience to the lord 
is that i am , myself , totally dependent on the witness of other christians , 
for the truth that lives in the body of christ .  . 

and i say to all who doubt that gay christianity is from god what 
said to doubting pharisees who would have suppressed the earliest church 

be careful how you deal with these people .  .  .  . if this enterprise , 
this movement of theirs , is of human origin it will break up of 
its own accord but if it does in fact come from god you will not 
only be unable to destroy them , but you might find yourselves 
fighting against god. 
acts 5 36 .  .  . 39 . 

all i ask is that you listen to your traditions , and read your scriptures 
with a mind and soul open to the spirit , and to the past history of our 
first christian witnesses  willingness to challenge tradition and other 
readings of scripture though read with all the authority of scribes and 
rabbis and a submission to the declaration that all must depend on the 
love of god and neighbor .  . then , study the evidence learn the history of 
christians oppressing christians out of their traditions and eagerness to 
judge where jesus and paul tell us not to judge. and let the witness of 
the spirit in the lives of your fellow christians including those who 
are not of your preference in theology guide you towards god 's truth. 

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

there 's a certain ambiguity in your discussion of position (a) , as to 
whether you 're speaking of tradition in paul 's time or ours. i think 
there are two ways to use tradition .  . one is to say that when paul and 
his readers share a tradition , it makes sense to interpret his words 
in the context of that shared tradition .  . that 's what makes me think 
that these arguments over words turn out to be silly. we know that 
paul came out of a background that was rather on sex. 
everything else he says on sex is consistent with that background. 
the tone of his remarks on homosexuality in rom 1 is consistent with 
that background. even if the words in the sin lists are n't the most 
general terms for homosexual activity  ( and it seems to me that there 's 
some evidence that they are not) , they are just one more piece of 
evidence for something we would probably be willing to believe with no 
evidence at all that paul shares the common jewish rejection of 
homosexuality .  . 

but when you identify (a) with the catholic position , that 's rather a 
horse of a different color. the catholic position involves a 
continuing church tradition .  . arguments specific to that tradition 
might be (1) we can get guidance on how to interpret paul 's original 
meaning from tradition , e.g. the way the church fathers interpreted 
him , and (2) we gain confidence that his prohibitions still apply in 
our time because of the universal judgement of the church between his 
time and ours. i think this is a somewhat different use of tradition .  . 
a radical protestant might be willing to use known 1st cent. 
tradition to illuminate paul 's original meaning , but not use the 
catholic position to answer the question of what our own attitude to 
homosexuality should be. 

clh 

from (paul c duggan ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 30 

in article (scott holt ) writes 
hate more hate , never love. consider some sin .  . i 'll leave it unnamed 
since i do n't want this to digress into an argument as to whether or not 
something is a sin .  . now lets apply our hate the sin .  .  .  . philosophy and see 
what happens. if we truly hate the sin , then the more we see it , the 
stronger our hatred of it will become .  . eventually this hate becomes so 
strong that we become disgusted with the sinner and eventually come to hate 
the sinner .  . 

though you can assert all this , i do n't see why it necessarily 
has to be the case. why ca n't hate just stay as it is , and not more 
who says we have to get disgusted and start hating the sinner .  . i admit 
this happens , but i think you can say it is always 
so. 

why can we not hate with a perfect hatred 

in the summary of the law , christ commands us to love god and to love our 
neighbors. he does n't say anything about hate. in fact , if anything , he 
commands us to save our criticisms for ourselves. so , how are christians 
supposed to deal with the sin of others i suppose that there is only one 
way to deal with sin  ( either in others or ourselves) .  .  . through . prayer .  . we 

certainly we should love even our enemies .  . amos 5 15 says to hate the evil 
and love the good. this ca n't contradict christ 's teaching .  . i think we tie 
up both hate and love with an emotional attitude , when it really should be 
considered more objectively .  . surely i do n't fly into a rage at every sin 
i see , but why can i not hate it 

paul duggan 

from  ( brad kaiser ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
reply to 
lines 105 

in article joe moore writes , 
speaking of the immaculate conception of the blessed virgin 

it was a gift from god. i think basically the reasoning was that the 
tradition in the church held that mary was also without sin as was jesus .  . 

yes. for examples of this in the writings of the early fathers , consider 

you alone and your mother 
are more beautiful than any others 
for there is no blemish in you , 
nor any stains upon your mother. 
who of my children 
can compare in beauty to these 
st. the syrian , hymns , 27 8 , around 
a.d. 370 

lift me up not from sara but from mary , a virgin not only 
but a virgin whom grace has made inviolate , free of every stain of sin .  . 
st. ambrose , commentary on psalm 118 , 22 30 , ca. a.d. 388 

there are many others. 

as the tenets of faith developed , particularly with augustine , sin was 
more and more equated with sex , and thus mary was assumed to be a virgin 
for life  ( since she never sinned , and since she was the spouse of god , etc . ) . 

no. we have , for instance 

was there ever anyone of any breeding who dared to speak the name of 
holy mary , and being questioned , did not immediately add , the virgin 
... and to holy mary , virgin is invariably added , for that holy woman 
remains  . 
st. of salamis , panacea against all heresies , 
between a.d. 374 377 .  . 

we surely cannot deny that you were right in correcting the doctrine 
about children of mary ... for the lord jesus would not have chosen 
to be born of a virgin if he had judged that she would be so 
as to the birthplace of the body of the lord , home of the eternal 
king , with the seed of human intercourse .  . anyone who proposes this is 
merely proposing ... that christ could not be born of a virgin .  . 
pope st. , letter to , bishop of 
, a.d. 392 

note that st. augustine 's conversion to christianity was in a.d. 387 .  . i 
do n't know offhand when his election as bishop of hippo was , but i'm quite 
sure it was after 392 .  . the belief in mary 's perpetual virginity originated 
long before augustine 's time. we hold that it originated with the 
apostles .  . 

strictly speaking , however , mary 's perpetual virginity is independent 
of her immaculate conception .  . mary could have been immaculately 
conceived and not remained a virgin she could have remained a virgin 
and not been immaculately conceived .  . 

since we also had this notion of original sin , ie. that man is born with 
a predisposition to sin , and since mary did not have this predisposition 
because she did not ever sin , she did n't have original sin .  . when science 
discovered the process of conception , the next step was to assume that 
mary was conceived without original sin , the immaculate conception .  . 

no. it has been held in the church since ancient times that original 
sin was transmitted at conception , when a person 's life begins .  . 
biology had nothing to do with it. prayerfully reflecting on the 
truth of mary 's sinlessness , and the means by which god could have 
achieved this , the church arrived at the truth of the immaculate 
conception .  . thus , the immaculate conception is not a new doctrine , 
but the logical result of our understanding of two old ones. 

the celebration of the feast of the immaculate conception itself was 
given by pope iv  ( 1471 84) and the feast was made a precept 
feast of the church by pope clement xi  ( 1700 21) .  . 

mary at that time appeared to a girl named bernadette at lourdes .  . she 
refered to herself as the immaculate conception .  . since a nine year old 
would have no way of knowing about the doctrine , the apparition was deemed 
to be true and it sealed the case for the doctrine .  . 

no. first of all , lourdes is private revelation , and doctrine is not 
based on private revelation .  . the most that private revelation can do 
is enhance and our understanding of existing public revelation , 
which ended with the death of st. john the apostle .  . 

second , the case for the doctrine was sealed in 
with the ex cathedra promulgation of the bull deus by 
pope pius ix .  . this meant that the doctrine was formally recognized as 
a dogma a dogma , by definition , cannot change and is required to be 
believed by the faithful .  . 

the apparition at lourdes happened in , four years later. the most 
that might be claimed is that lourdes gave the infallible proclamation 
of a sort of heavenly stamp of approval , but the church has never 
claimed that , nor shall she .  . 

in christ 's peace , 

brad kaiser 


those who trust in him shall understand truth , 
and the faithful shall abide with him in love 
because grace and mercy are with his holy ones , 
and his care is with his elect .  . 
wis 3 9 nab 

from (paul c duggan ) 
subject re baptism requires faith 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 118 

in article  ( aaron bryce cardenas ) writes 
colossians 2 11 12 in him you were also circumcised , in the putting off of 
the sinful nature , not with a circumcision done by christ , having been 
buried with him in baptism and raised with him through your faith in the 
power of god , who raised him from the dead. 

in baptism , we are raised to a new life in christ  ( romans 6 4) through a 
personal faith in the power of god. our parent 's faith cannot do this. do 
infants have faith let 's look at what the bible has to say about it. 

i do n't think the issue of whether infants have faith is relevant or not. 
certainly they can , as the example of john in proves .  . i find the 
translation of col 2 above odd in terms of the circumcision of christ , 
which the kjv and rsv put in terms of christ 's which we , in 
union with him participate in putting off the body of sins of the flesh .  . 

also , perhaps cor 2 12 is dividing the act of burial with him in baptism , 
which can be independant of faith , from the experience of rising with 
christ by faith. who says both are by faith this interpretation has the 
advantage of explaining those who are baptized , for whom their 
is not benefit , but serves to put them into the kingdom nonetheless. 

like the israelites  ( all of them , children included) who were baptized in 
the cloud and in the sea , it was of no advantage because they did not add 
to their baptism faith and obedience .  . 

baptism does not impart faith , nor is it done strictly speaking on the 
basis of the faith of the parent , but because of the promise of 
god. it grace , the grace of the kingdom , which can be a 
punishement in disguise if there is later apostacy .  . 



romans 10 16 17 but not all the israelites accepted the good news. for 
isaiah says ,  lord , who has believed our message ' consequently , faith 
comes from hearing the message , and the message is heard through the word 
of christ .  . 

so then we receive god 's gift of faith to us as we hear the message of the 
gospel .  . faith is a possible response to hearing god 's word preached .  . kids 
are not yet spiritually , intellectually , or emotionally mature enough to 
respond to god 's word. hence they cannot have faith and therefore cannot 
be raised in baptism to a new life. 

do you teach a child to pray the lord 's prayer do you expect them to not 
steal they can have faith appropriate to their condition. and in the 
new covenant , we shall no longer say know the lord , for they shall all 
know him from the least unto the greatest heb 8 11. 

if you read all of ezekiel 18 , you will see that god does n't hold us guilty 
for anyone else 's sins .  . so we can have no original guilt from adam .  . 

but also according to ezekiel 18 , god will not hold innocent anyone on the 
basis of anyone elses  . thus jesus could not be our federal head 
any more than adam , if that 's what ezekiel is talking about. shall you 
make ezekiel 18 contradict the second as well 



ezekiel 18 31 32 rid yourselves of all the offenses you have , 
and get a new heart and a new spirit. why will you die , o house of israel 
for i take no pleasure in the death of anyone , declares the sovereign lord .  . 
repent and live ! 

the way to please god is to repent and get a new heart and spirit. kids 
cannot do this. acts 2 38 39 says that when we repent and are baptized , we 
will then receive a new spirit , the holy spirit. then we shall live. 

ezekiel 36 25 26 indicates that this new heart will be given by god , 
in the context of the sprinkling of water in baptism .  . it is the action of 
god puting them into his new order , and not a question of personal 
faith as such. 


romans 5 12 therefore , just as sin entered the world through one man , and 
death through sin , and in this way death came to all men , because all 
sinned 

sin and death entered the world when the first man sinned .  . death came to 
each man because each man sinned .  . note that it 's good to read through all 
of romans 5 12 21. some of the verses are easier to misunderstand than 
others , but if we read them in context we will see that they are all 
saying basically the same thing. let 's look at one such. 

but the death that came to all because of sin is not just their personal 
death , but the dead state  ( originbal sin) .  . we are in a covenant of death , 
because adam , our federal head gave over his dominion to the devil and death. 


psalm 51 5 surely i was sinful at birth , sinful from the time my mother 
conceived me. 

this whole psalm is a wonderful example of how we should humble ourselves 
before god in repentance for sinning .  . david himself was a man after god 's 
own heart and wrote the psalm after committing adultry with and 
murdering her husband. all that david is saying here is that he ca n't 
remember a time when he was n't sinful .  . he is humbling himself before god 
by confessing his sinfulness .  . his saying that he was sinful at birth is 
a hyperbole .  . the bible , being inspired by god , is n't limited to a literal 
interpetation , but also uses figures of speech as did jesus (john 16 25) .  . 
for another example of hyperbole , see luke 14 26. 

while this psalm is figurative in it 's language , it is not hyperbolic , and 
the one does not necessarily imply the other. there is not other 
hyperbolic language in this psalm .  . what v 5 is likely refering to is 
what is symbolized by the ot cleanliness laws (which make intercourse and 
both acts which and seperation from god) .  . the 
whole psalm is in the language of ot ritual  ( hyssop , cleansing , burnt 
offering , etc) david 's sin with included this element , as he 
did not cleanse himself when he should have. 

but what was symbolized by the ot ritual was the truth that sin was 
passed  . that 's why the organ of generation had to be 
cut. that 's why brith was unclean .  . was death , and all babies 
were born dead , and needed to be washed to newness of life , which we have in 
baptism today. 

paul duggan 

from 
subject bernadette dates 
lines 14 

joe moore writes 

mary at that time appeared to a girl named bernadette at 
lourdes .  . she referred to herself as the immaculate conception .  . 
since a nine year old would have no way of knowing about the 
doctrine , the apparition was deemed to be true and it sealed 
the case for the doctrine .  . 

bernadette was 14 years old when she had her visions , in , 
four years after the dogma had been officially proclaimed by the 
pope .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from e  ( edgar pearlstein ) 
subject re bastards  ( was mormon beliefs about bastards ) 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 7 


. 
of some relevance to the posts on this subject might be deut . 23 . 2 , 

a bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the lord 
even to his tenth generation shall he not enter into the 
congregation of the lord .  . 

from  ( daniel cossack ) 
subject re christianity and repeated lives 
organization procom technology , inc. 
lines 32 

(scott a mayo) writes 

gerry palo writes 
 .  .  . there . is nothing in christianity that precludes the idea of 
repeated lives on earth. 

does n't it say somewhere it is appointed to man once to die , 
and then judgement i do n't have a concordance here but i have 
some dim memory that this appears somewhere in the bible .  . 
given a fairly specific context for what judgement is , i 'd say 
that more or less decides the issue. 
heb 9 27 clh 

that depends on how this verse is read. there are at least two 
meanings of the word once . 1) only one time , and 2) at some 
other time (i . e .  . once upon a time) .  . note that in the previous 
verse , the word once is used with the second meaning , and also 
in the following verse , once is again used with the second meaning. 
the greek , i am sure , uses different words for each of the two meanings 
for the english word once . i am not a greek scholar , but i'm sure 
someone here can verify which greek word is used here for this meaning. 
if the second meaning is being used , that verse can be interpreted as 

for it was once given for men to die  ( beginning with adam ) , but 
after this gift of atonement offered by jesus christ the judgement 
is made available , for now there is no longer death , but life 
with christ .  . 


daniel cossack , 
senior software engineer 2181 dupont drive , irvine , ca 
procom technology , inc. 1 714 852 1000 

from  ( larry autry ) 
subject definition of christianity 
organization silicon graphics , st. louis , mo 
lines 84 

i have enrolled in the history of christianity at a college here in 
st. louis .  . the teacher of the class is what i consider to be 
closed minded and on the subject of what the definition of 
christianity is. his definition is tied directly to that of the 
trinity and the catholic church 's definition of it and belief in 
jesus christ is not sufficient to call one 's self a christian .  . 

while his saying it does n't make it so , i nevertheless feel insulted 
 ( or am i just neurotic ) ) .  . i would like to be able to respond to 
him with some sense of literacy while maintaining an amiable 
student teacher relationship. 

so , is there common definition of what christianity is as the 
previous discussion of the trinity did not lend itself to an exchange 
of flames , i am hopeful that this will also not produce major 
flames .  . 

regards , 

larry 
silicon graphics , st. louis 




often we get into discussions about who is christian .  . unfortunately 
there are a number of possible definitions .  . starting from the 
broadest , commonly used definitions are 

a historical definition 
people who accept christ as lord and savior 
a broad doctrinal definition 
narrow doctrinal definitions 

1) by a historical definition i mean the sort of definition a secular 
historian would likely use. this would include any group that 
developed out of the christian church , and continues within the same 
broad culture. e.g. some unitarians would fail just about any 
doctrinal test you could come up with. yet it 's clear that that group 
developed from christianity , and people from very different 
backgrounds (e . g .  . hindus ) would likely see them as part of 
christianity .  . this is not a definition most christians like , but it 's 
relevant in some political and ethnic contexts .  . 

2) accepting christ as lord and savior is a test used by many 
christian groups for membership , e.g. the southern baptists and 
presbyterian church (usa) .  . i would qualify it by saying that what 
most people have in mind is an exclusive commitment to christ , so that 
someone who accepted christ as one of many gods would not fit. it 's 
an attempt to formulate a criterion that is religious but is not based 
on technical doctrine .  . by this definition , groups such as arians 
would be viewed as heretical christians , but still christians .  . in the 
modern context this would include mormons , jw 's , and oneness 
pentecostals . they would be viewed as heretical christians , but 
still christian .  . in practice i believe just about everyone who falls 
into this category would accept the apostle 's creed .  . 

3) the next level is an attempt to give a broad doctrinal definition , 
which includes all of the major strands of christianity , but excludes 
groups that are felt to be outside historic christianity .  . this is 
of course a slippery enterprise , since catholics could argue that 
protestants are outside historic christianity , etc. but i think the 
most commonly accepted definition would be based on something like the 
nicene creed and the formula of chalcedon .  . the attempt is to 
characterize doctrines that all major strands of christianity agree 
are key. obviously this is to some extent a matter of judgement .  . a 
mormon will regard the lds church as a major strand , and thus will not 
want to include anything that contradicts their beliefs .  . but i think 
this definition would have fairly broad acceptance .  . 

4) finally , some people use definitions that i would say are limited 
to a specific christian tradition .  . e.g. some evangelicals only 
consider someone christian if he has had an evangelical style 
conversion experience , and some i 've even heard of groups that limit 
it to their specific church. 

i think you can find contexts where each of these definitions is used. 
a lot is going to depend upon the purpose you 're using it for. if 
you 're using it , e.g. in history or anthropology , you 'll 
probably use definition 1 or 2. if you 're using it , i.e. 
to say what you believe the christian message is , you 'll probably use 
a definition like 3 or even 4. 

clh 

from  ( rj pomeroy ) 
subject re catholic doctrine of predestination 
lines 36 

from article , by (stephen a. creps ) 
the catholic doctrine of predestination does not exclude free will in 
any way. since god knows everything , he therefore knows everything that 
is going to happen to us. we have free will , and are able to change 
what happens to us. however , since god knows everything , he knows all 
the choices we will make in advance  ( god is not subject to time) .  . too 
often arguments pit predestination against free will. we believe in 
both. 

just a little issue of semantics 

would it not be better , then to call it pre determination ! 



rrrrr oo bbbbb 
r r oo oo b b 
r r oo oo b bb robert pomeroy 
r rr o o b b 
rrrr o o bbbbb 
r r o o b b 
r r oo oo b bb 1993 
r r oo oo b b 
r r oo bbbbb 



my address 
during hall , keele , ,  . england .  . 
term time. 




16 x 


from  ( max webb ) 
subject re earthquake prediction 
organization cypress semi , beaverton or 
lines 55 

in article (a rose arose ) writes 
i believe with everything in my heart that on may 3 , 1993 , the city of 
portland , oregon in the country of the united states of america will be hit 
with a catastrophic and disastrous earthquake .  .  .  . 
by now , we know that this did not come to pass .  .  .  .  . 

surprise , surprise. i sure did n't lose any sleep over it , and i live there. 

mistakes in this area are costly and dangerous. for me , my greatest fears 
in this area would be the following  .  .  . 
4 were god to call me to be a prophet and i were to misrepresent god 's word , 
my calling would be lost forever. god 's word would command the people 
never to listen to or fear my words as i would be a false prophet .  . my 
bridges would be burnt forever. perhaps i could repent and be saved , but 
i could never again be a prophet of god. 

suppose someone said that he was sure that he would return from death , 
in glory and power , flying in the clouds with the host of heaven , soon , within 
the lifetimes of those then standing with him and 2000 years went by without 
any such event. he also asserted , so they say , himself to be god. 

2 questions 

1) is that one of those false prophecies you were talking about 
2) does that make the speaker a false prophet 

speak directly .  . if the lord has given you something to say , say it. 
but , before i declare thus sayeth the lord , i 'd better know for certain 
without a shadow of a doubt that i am in the correct spiritual condition 
and relationship with the lord to receive such a prophecy and be absolutely 
certain , again , without the shadow of a doubt that there is no 
possibility of my being misled by my own imaginations or by my hope of gaining 
recognition or of being misled by the wiles of the devil and his followers. 

uhh , has it occurred to you that there is no way to know any of these 
things , for certain , without the shadow of a doubt that people 
who thought they did have also been deluded 

those of us who believe in actually being able to check our opinions 
have an out we can check against some external reality. those who 
assert that beliefs entertained without evidence , or even despite evidence 
have a special virtue (ie .  . faith ) are out of luck and this is the 
result. 

it 's time that we christians give an example of honesty that stands out in 
contrast against this backdrop of falsehood .  . when we say , thus sayeth the 
lord , it happens. when we pray , prayer is answered because we prayed right. 
when we say we 're christians , we really mean it. 

dan 

you want to demonstrate christian honesty great. 
start with the prophecy above what can we conclude about the speaker 

max 

from  ( stan friesen ) 
subject re sj mercury 's reference to fundamentalist christian parents 
reply to 
lines 49 

in article , (a rose arose ) writes 
in the monday , may 10 morning edition of the san jose mercury news an 
article by sandra gonzales at the top of page 12a explained convicted 
killer david edwin mason 's troubled childhood saying , 

raised in oakland and san lorenzo by strict fundamentalist 
christian parents , mason was beaten as a child. ... 
other instances of child abuse deleted 

were the san jose mercury news to come out with an article starting with 
raised in oakland by mexican parents , mason was beaten .  .  .  . , my face would 
be red with anger over the injustice done to my mexican family members and 
the mexican community as a whole .  . ... 

why is it that open like this is practiced and encouraged by the 
san jose mercury news when it is pointed at the christian community 

perhaps because there is a connection here that is not there in the mexican 
variant you bring up. 

that is , many (not all) extreme fundamentalist christians use the excuse of 
teaching their children biblical morality to justify this sort of mistreatment .  . 
i do not see many mexicans using their mexican heritage as an excuse for abuse .  . 

it is indeed this judgemental , controlling of many fundamentalist 
christians that has led me to reject that branch of our faith as not true 
to the gospel of christ , the gospel of love. 

i have seen this sort of thing too often , even amoung my own relatives , to 
believe there is no relationship. often leads to overly 
strict , and thus abusive , discipline of children. 
this is not restricted to just christian fundamentalism , it is found in 
many extreme sects of other legalistic religions . 

can a good christian continue to purchase newspapers and buy advertising in 
this kind of a newspaper this is really bad journalism .  . 

i , too , am a christian .  . but i do not condone the use of the bible to justify 
this sort of abuse .  . i believe that it is only by exposing the horrors of 
the of the biblical concept of discipline that such abuses 
can be stopped .  . 

just because someone is also a christian does not mean we must identify 
eith them. this sort of sin needs to be made public. 


 ( formerly ! sarima ) 
or 


from (mike miller) 
subject re consecration and anniversary 
reply to free catholic mailing list 
lines 6 

not to change the subject , but how was fr. allowed at notre dame notre 
dame is an anti catholic university .  . was this allowed to show that the 
at notre dame believe in freedom of speech i am glad that they did 
allow him to speak. 

mike 

from  ( allen koberg ) 
subject re christianity in crisis by hank 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 11 

in article  ( frank decenso , jr . ) . writes 
has anyone read this important book if so , what are your feelings about it 


i have not yet read the book , though i intend to. judging from the 
i hear constantly on the radio , it sounds good. in john 
macarthur 's charismatic chaos series and the book , he talks about 
much of the same things. the health , wealth , and prosperity thing 
is a very real part  ( and very prominent ) of tv religion. every time 
i turn to , there 's paul crouch  ( showing off his new building) 
talking about it 's a sin to be poor and unhealthy .  . gr .  .  . 

from  ( steve hayes ) 
subject re the nicene creed  ( was re major views of the trinity ) 
organization university of south africa 
lines 23 

in article (d .  . andrew byler ) writes 

the so called creed of athanasius , however , has always been a western 
creed , and has always had the filioque .  . the orthodox have said that 
they accept all that it says , with the exception of the filioque , but 
it is not in use. 
... 
of course the orthodox did not delete the filioque from the nicene 
creed (it was n't there to begin with) , but they certainly did from the 
creed , which did have it from the beginning. 

the so called creed has never been a recognized standard of faith 
in the orthodox church. it was introduced  ( without the filioque ) in certain 
service books in the 17th and 18th centuries at a time when there was a 
strong western influence on  . 


steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department 
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa 
internet fidonet 5 7101 20 

faq missiology is the study of christian mission and is part of 
the faculty of theology at unisa 

from 
subject paul 's thorn in the side 
lines 49 

joe moore writes 

paul repeatedly talks about the thorn in his side. some think 
it refers to lust , others pride , but who knows whatever the 
thorn was , apparently it was not compatible with christianity , 
yet does that make his epistles any less 

paul mentions his thorn  ( skolops , actually a sharp stake ) in 2 
corinthians 12 7 9 

and to keep me from being too elated by the abundance of 
revelations , a thorn was given me in the flesh , a messenger of 
satan , to harass me , to keep me from being too elated .  . three 
times i the lord about this , that it should leave me 
but he said to me , my grace is sufficient for you , for my 
power is made in weakness .  . 

he does not explain what it was , but it need not have been a moral 
problem. one guess is that paul had a disorder of the eyes. he 
ordinarily dictated his letters , and then added a personal note and 
his signature. at the end of the letter to the galatians , he says , 
see , i am writing in large letters with my own hand , or else , see 
what a long letter i have written with my own hand. if the former 
translation is adopted , it seems that paul could not write in the 
small script of a practiced writer , but needed to make his letters 
larger , and this suggests eye problems. again , he says to the 
galatians (4 13 15) , 

you know that it was because of a bodily ailment that i preached 
the gospel to you at first and although my condition was a trial 
to you , you did not scorn or despise me , but received me as an 
angel of god .  .  .  .  . for i bear you witness that , if possible , you 
would have out your eyes and given them to me. 

perhaps this last line means simply , you would have done anything 
for me , not withholding your most precious possessions  ( your  . 
but in that case , we would expect some wording like , if i had 
needed them. if it were possible sounds as though the bodily 
ailment was connected with his eyes. 

william barclay , in his volume on acts , makes a more specific 
suggestion. before paul preached in the of , he 
had been preaching in the coastal areas of asia minor .  . if he had had 
a malarial attack while there , a doctor would have advised him to 
leave the low country and head for the hills .  . malaria might well 
have given him both severe headaches and blurred vision .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from (scott a mayo) 
subject re dreams and out of body incidents 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 66 

(david e. goggin ) writes 

i'm fairly new to these groups , tho' some have heard from me before. 
welcome. 

i 'd like to get your comments on a question that has been on my mind a 
lot what morals ethics apply to dreams and out of body incidents 
in normal dreams , you ca n't control anything , so obviously 
you are n't morally responsible for your actions .  . 

hm .  . i get a little around the phrase are n't morally 
responsible , perhaps because i 've heard it misused so many times. 
(i remember in college some folk trying to argue that a person who 
was drunk was not morally responsible for his actions . ) . in general , 
most folk ca n't control their dreams , but perhaps what you do all day 
and think about has some impact on them , hm and i'm not sure what 
actions are in a dream. but i will note that jesus does seem 
about the fact that our thought life is at least as important as 
our actions .  . go lightly with this argument we are all morally 
responsible for who we are and dreams might well be an important 
part of that. 

now , there seem to be 3 alternatives 
1) dreams and are totally mental phenomena .  . in this case no morality 
applies beyond what might be called  mental  , that is , not trying 
to think about anything evil , or in overly sexy or violent 
thoughts. 
i do n't know a thing about out of body experiences. i 've had dreams , some 
fairly vivid ones is an just a very vivid dream i would argue that 
extreme interest in this sort of phenomena is a tad risky it is probably 
much better to think about who jesus is , and who we are in relation to that , 
than to cultivate a strong interest in dreams. unless you feel plagued by 
dreams that are painful and out of control then pray about it and or get help. 

2) dreams and have a reality of their own (i . e .  . are  another plane' ) 
evidence for this is that often dreams and are sometimes done in 
common by more than one person. 
what on earth is your definition of often i know exactly one case of 
two people who had substantially the same dream at the same time , and 
as they were brothers who had spent the day doing the same things i could 
see why their dreams might be similiar .  . anyway , the only other plane i 
know of is the spiritual realm .  . i do n't think anyone 's dreams , 
perhaps outside the occasional prophet 's , represent actual actions on an 
alternate plane. if they were real actions , or conscious thoughts , then 
yes they would have direct moral significance .  . 

3) like (2) , but here we assume that garbled text because the dream occurs 
in a different environment , then different moral laws apply is my guess of 
what you said. 
i do n't see the slightest hint in christian writings that ones environment 
changes the way a person determines what is moral .  . for a christian wo n't 
it always come down to what jesus would have us do 

so .  .  .  . there it is. is one of these cases the truth , or does anyone know 
of another alternative respond by post or email. 
truth i do n't claim to be an expert in dreams. i 'll note that the bible 
does n't talk much about dreams outside of the realm of god using them to speak 
to us , with the caveat that such messages are not always very clear , as it 
warns somewhere in the ot .  . given that , i would not give them a lot of 
attention unless you feel your dreams are trying to tell you something. 

i would discount talk of alternate planes , though. the only places such 
concepts are commonly bandied about are for the most part hostile to 
christianity , though i 've run into the occasional exception. if you are , 
or want to be , a christian , you want to be very careful about ideas like 
this. 

from (d .  . andrew byler ) 
subject re , esp. 
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 78 

barney writes 

on these counts , the falls short of the glory of god. 
to quote unger 's bible dictionary on the 
1. they abound in historical and geographical inaccuracies and 
anachronisms .  . 

so do other parts of the bible when taken literally i.e. the psalms 
saying the earth does not move , or the implication the earth is flat 
with four corners , etc. the bible was written to teach salvation , not 
history or science. 

2. they teach doctrines which are false and foster practices 
which are at variance with sacred scripture .  . 

what ones for the dead or the intercession of saints (which 
are taught in 2 maccabees , , and tobit ) 

3. they resort to literary types and display an of 
subject matter and styling out of keeping with sacred scripture .  . 

by your own subjective judgement .  . this falling short is your judgement , 
and you are not infallible rather the church of jesus christ is  ( see 1 
timothy 3 . 15) .  . 

4. they lack the distinctive elements which give genuine 
scripture their divine character , such as prophetic power and 
poetic and religious feeling. 

more subjective feelings. this is not a proof of anything more than 
one persons feelings. 

but the problem with this argument lies in the assumption that 
the hebrew canon included the in the first place , and 
it was n't until the sixteenth century that luther and co. threw 
them out. the jewish council you mentioned previously did n't 
accept them , so the reformation protestants had good historical 
precedence for their actions .  . jerome only translated the 
under protest , and it was literally  over his dead 
body  that it was included in the catholic canon .  . 

as i have written time and again , the hebrew canon was fixed in , 
palestine , in 90 ad. 60 years after the foundation of the one , holy , 
catholic , and apostolic church. furthermore , the opinons of jerome do 
not count. he was neither the church , or the pope , or an ecumenical 
council , or a council in general , or an insturment of the magisterium of 
the church. he was a private individual , learned admittedly , but 
subject to of opinion. and in the deuterocanon , he 
erred , as pope , and the council of carthage , and the tradition of 
the fathers , clearly shows , as i pointed out in my previous post. 

how do you then view the words i warn everyone who hears the 
words of the prophecy of this book if anyone adds anything to 
them , god will add to him the plagues described in this book. 
and if anyone takes away from this book the prophecy , god will 
take away from him his share in the tree of life and in the 
holy city (rev 22 . 18 . 9) 

i suggest you take heed of the last part of the statement , if you want 
to take it in the sense you are taking it , that taking away from the 
book will cause you to lose heaven. 

it is also noteworthy to consider jesus  attitude. he had no 
argument with the pharisees over any of the ot canon (john 
10 . 31 . 6) , and explained to his followers on the road to emmaus 
that in the law , prophets and psalms which referred to him the 
ot division of scripture  ( luke 24 . , as well as in luke 11 . 51 . 
taking genesis to chronicles (the jewish order we would say 
genesis to malachi ) as scripture .  . 

the order of the canon is unimportant , it is the content that matters. 
none of jesus  the deuterocanon , which were 
throughout the canon .  . and remeber , there are some 
completely undisputed books , ezra , nehemiah , esther , , song 
of songs , job , etc. that are not quoted in the new testament , which is 
not taken as prejudicial to their being inspired. 

andy byler 

from  ( timothy richardson ) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization pygmalion productions 
lines 31 

in article brian finnerty , 
writes 
one last point an ex catholic attempted to explain catholic doctrine 
on the assumption by asserting it is connected to a belief that mary 
did not die. this is not a correct summary of what catholics believe. 
the dogma of the assumption was carefully phrased to avoid saying 
whether mary did or did not die. in fact , the consensus among catholic 
theologians seems to be that mary in fact did die. this would make 
sense christ died , and his mother , who waited at the foot of the 
cross , would want to share in his death. 

the above article is a good short summary of traditional christian 
teaching concerning the death of mary .  . 
also very good is re question about the virgin mary by micheal d. 
walker .  . he tells the story very well. 
i would like to add that in the eastern orthodox church we celebrate the 
 ( or falling asleep ) of the theotokos (the mother of god) . the 
icon for this day shows mary lying on a bed surrounded by the apostles 
who are weeping .  . christ , in his resurrected glory , is there holding what 
seems to be a small child. this is , in fact , mary 's soul already with 
christ in heaven. the assumption of mary is one more confirmation for us 
as christians that christ did indeed conquer death. it the 
general resurrection on the last day. the disciples were not surprised 
to find mary 's body missing from the grave .  . she was the mother of the 
savior .  . she was the first of all christians .  . she gave birth to the word 
of god. if it were not for her we would not be saved .  . this is why we 
pray in the orthodox church , through the prayers of the theotokos , 
savior save us. 

timothy richardson 


from  ( ted kalivoda ) 
subject re incarnation .  .  . two . minds of christ .  .  . 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 48 

nabil wrote 
5. both families agree that he who wills and acts is always the one 
of the logos incarnate .  . 

nabil , 

if we posit two minds in christ , the mind of the logos and the mind of the 
human jesus , then we must admit two wills .  . a mind is not a mind without a 
will. i know this has been dealt with in past church , but there 
is a philosophical problem here that should examined .  . 

t. v. morris argued that the incarnation can be seen like this 


 ( mind of logos ) 
( ) 
( ( ) ) here , the mind of jesus is by god the 
( ( human ) ) son. god the son has complete access to the human 
( ( mind ) ) mind but the human mind only has access to the mind 
( ( ) ) of god the son when the son allows access. this 
( ( ) ) explains why jesus said even he did not know the 
( ) time of the kingdom .  . 

the human will acted in accordance with the divine will according to free 
human decision. but if the human will would have decided differently than 
what was intended the divine will would have , but this was never 
the case. 

he employs some very interesting analogies to support the one person two mind 
theory. the ideas of a completely healthy version of split personality from 
the field of psychology , and the intriguing ideas of being in a dream , seeing 
yourself acting , knowing that is you , but also being omniscient .  . 

the one would be the unity of the two minds. agreed. but i am 
still waiting for morris and others to respond to the problem of two 
minds making two persons .  . christian analytic philosophers are breaking new 
ground in the rationality of theism and the incarnation .  . 


ted kalivoda 
university of georgia , athens 
institute of higher ed. 

note that person is being used in a more abstact sense here than 
the english. we connect person with personality and other things that 
are human attributes .  . i'm not entirely sure whether i 'd want to apply 
personality to god , but if it is appropriate , then i think we 'd have 
to say that christ had two personalities .  . clh 

from  ( mail server) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
lines 76 

hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) sent in a list of verses 
which he felt condemn homosexuality .  . (michael siemon ) wrote in 
response that some of these verses are used against us only through incredibly 
perverse interpretations and that others simply do not address the issues. 

in response , i wrote 
i can see that some of the above verses do not clearly address the issues , 
however , a couple of them seem as though they do not require incredibly 
perverse interpretations in order to be seen as condemning homosexuality .  . 

... do not be deceived neither , nor idolators , nor adulterers , 
nor , nor homosexuals , nor thieves , nor the , nor , 
nor , nor , shall inherit the kingdom of god. and such were 
some of you .  .  .  . i cor .  . 6 9 11. 

would someone care to comment on the fact that the above seems to say 
will not inherit the kingdom of god how does this apply 
to homosexuals i understand fornication to be sex outside of 
marriage. is this an accurate definition is there any such thing as 
same sex marriage in the bible my understanding has always been that 
the new testament blesses sexual intercourse only between a husband 
and his wife. i am , however , willing to listen to scriptural evidence 
to the contrary .  . 
remainder of my post deleted the moderator then made some comments i would 
like to address 

there 's some ambiguity about the meaning of the words in the passage 
you quote. both liberal and conservative sources seem to agree that 
homosexual is not the general term for homosexuals , but is likely to 
have a meaning like homosexual prostitute .  . that does n't meant that i 
think all the biblical evidence , but the nature of the 
evidence is such that you ca n't just quote one verse and solve things. 

if you are referring to the terms and homosexuals in 
the above passage , i agree that the accuracy of the translation has 
been challenged .  . however , i was simply commenting on the charge that 
it is an incredibly perverse interpretation to read this as a 
condemnation of homosexuality .  . such a charge seems to imply that no 
reasonable person would ever conclude from the verse that paul 
intended to condemn homosexuality however , i think i can see how a 
reasonable person might very well take this view of the verse .  . 
therefore i do not believe it is incredibly perverse to read it in 
this way. 

i think your argument from fornication is circular .  . why is 
homosexuality wrong because it 's fornication .  . why is it 
fornication because they 're not married. why are n't they married 
because the church refuses to do a marriage ceremony .  . why does the 
church refuse to do a marriage ceremony because homosexuality is 
wrong. in order to break the circle there 's got to be some other 
reason to think homosexuality is wrong. 

clh 

actually , i was n't thinking of the church at all. after all , a couple 
does n't have to be married by a minister .  . a secular justice of the 
peace could do the job , and the two people would be married. my point 
was that it is easy to find a biblical basis for heterosexual 
marriage , but where in the bible would one get a christian marriage 
between two people of the same sex and if you do see a biblical 
basis for same sex marriages , how willing would gay christians be to 
save themselves for such a marriage and to never have sexual 
intercourse with anyone outside of that marriage relationship please 
note that i am not trying to imply that gay christians would not be 
willing to be so monogamous , i am genuinely interested in hearing 
opinions on the subject. i have heard comments from gays in the past 
that lead me to believe they regard promiscuity as one of the main 
points of being homosexual , yet i tend to doubt that gays who want to 
be christian would advocate such a position. so what is the gay view 

mark 

yes , i agree that a reasonable person might conclude that paul is 
condemning homosexuality .  . i was responding to certain details of 
your posting. that does n't mean i agree with michael in all 
respects .  . clh 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re does it matter which church 
organization indiana university 
lines 22 

in article  ( gideon king ) writes 
when the protestant reformers opposed and subsequently separated from the 
church of rome , the battle cry of the new protesting religion was the 
bible , the whole bible , and nothing but the bible . underlying that cry 
was a theory that if people could read the bible for themselves in their 
native tongue they would discover the truth about god and his purpose. 
they would shed their old errors and be united by a common faith. 

this idea , that the reformers somehow were the first to bring the 
bible to the people in their own language , is a myth .  . many vernacular 
translations of the bible existed long before the reformation .  . the 
vulgate bible , which is still the official version of the bible for the 
catholic church , was itself a translation in the common (i . e .  . vulgar 
vulgate ) tongue of its day , latin , and had existed for about a millenium 
before the reformation .  . 

it might also be noted that the printing press was not even invented 
until the same century as that in which the reformation occurred .  . 


steve creps , indiana university 


from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re homosexuality 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 48 

bryan whitsell hulman . edu) . wrote 
recently an e mail to me mentioned 

 ( technically , the messengers are n't even human so 
it ca n't be a case of homosexuality even of rape . ) . ... 

the jude reference to sodom is also meaningful only in the context of 
the  lust for the other flesh of angels .  . again , 
application to homosexual behavior in general , or to the position of 
gay christians is specious .  . 

are angels flesh no. i feel that this is saying that it was because 
of their lust after other men , who are  ( flesh or of this world) .  . 

what are other opinons on this i have n't heard much about this verse 
at all. 

bo in the anchor bible volume on james , peter , and jude points 
out that all the examples given in this section of jude are distinguishing 
the elect from apostates , not just the wicked in general. hence , those 
who were delivered from egypt , but did not follow moses  ( and , by extension , 
god) the apostate angels and sodom and gomorrah .  . quoting 

fornication may here , as often in the new testament , 
refer to idolatry , while flesh  ( as in i pet 1 24) 
denotes human society and its violent attempts at self 
 . sodom and represent the leaders 
of apostasy , and the surrounding cities correspond to 
their followers. p. 199 


there is no inherent reason to read this verse (7) as literally referring 
to actual sexual lust for alien flesh . nor is it inherently necessary 
to understand it as referring to homosexuality , outside of the circular 
reasoning that has already concluded that the sin of sodom is the sin 
of homosexuality .  . the only place that the sin of sodom is specified , and 
not merely inferred , is in ezekiel 16 49 this was the guilt of your sister 
sodom she and her daughters had pride , excess of food , and prosperous ease , 
bit did not aid the poor and needy .  . they were , and did abominable 
things before me therefore i removed them when i saw it. 

for the same reason  ( overliteralizing the text) your correspondent 's 
suggestion that the reason the passage does n't deal with homosexuality 
is because the guests were angels and not men is just silly. there 
are much more solid reasons for pointing out the of the 
sodom passages for dealing with homosexuality per se .  . 



from (mike christensen ) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
organization procom technology , inc. 
lines 140 

(michael siemon ) writes 

in article  ( someone named mark) writes 


... do not be deceived neither , nor idolators , nor adulterers , 
nor , nor homosexuals , nor thieves , nor the , nor , 
nor , nor , shall inherit the kingdom of god. and such were 
some of you .  .  .  . i cor .  . 6 9 11. 

the moderator adequately discusses the of your use of 
in this. i think we can all agree  ( with paul) that there are some kinds of 
activity that could be named by fornication or theft or or 
or drunkenness which would well deserve condemnation .  . we may 
or may not agree to the bounds of those categories , however and the very 
fact that they are argued over suggests that not only is the matter not at 
all clear but that paul an excellent had no interest 
in making them clear , leaving matters rather to our spirit led decisions , 
with all the uncomfortable living with other readings that has dominated 
christian discussion of all these areas. 


what is fornication  ( sex outside of marriage , abuse of sex ) 

is not homosexual intercourse outside the context of marriage 
is n't it an use of what god has given us 

why is it that homosexuals are using the grace of god as a license to 
practice sin 

for certain persons have crept in unnoticed , those who were long 
beforehand marked out for this condemnation , ungodly persons who 
turn the grace of our god into and deny our only 
master and lord , jesus christ .  . 

jude 4  ( nasb ) 

what is defined by god as a legitimate marriage 

for this cause a man shall leave his father and his mother , and 
shall to his wife and the shall become one flesh .  . 

gen 2 24  ( nasb ) 

and he answer and said , have you not read , that he who created them 
from the beginning made them male and female , and said ,  for this 
cause a man shall leave his father and mother , and to his wife 
and the two shall become one flesh  consequently they are no longer 
two , but one flesh .  . what therefore god has joined together , let no 
man separate .  . 

matt 19 4 6  ( nasb ) 

but because of immoralities , let each man have his own wife , and let 
each woman have her own husband. let the husband fulfill his duty 
to his wife , and likewise also the wife to her husband. 

1 corinthians 7 4 , 5  ( nasb ) 

there are plenty of 
laws prohibiting sexual behavior to be found in leviticus , most of 
which christians ignore completely. they never even bother to examine 
them. they just assume that they know which ones are moral and 
which ones are ritual .  . well , i have news for you. any anthropology 
course should sensitize you to ritual and clean vs. as categories 
in an awful lot of societies  ( we have them too , but buried pretty  . 
and i cannot see any ground for distinguishing these bits of leviticus 
from the ritual law which no christian i know feels applies to us. 

i disagree .  .  .  . every law that is written in leviticus should be looked at 
as sin .  . that is why we have a need for a savior .  . i can understand 
someone who may not know a particular sin listed in the law , but 
i would hope that they would repent when confronted with it. 

i notice that the verse forbidding immediately follows the 
verse prohibiting what appears to be homosexual intercourse .  . 

well , la ti da .  . so what this is almost as slimey an argument as the 
one that homosexuality rape .  . i know of no one who argues seriously 
 ( though one can always find jokers ) in defense of  . it is 
absolutely irrelevant and incomparable to the issues gay christians do 
raise (which concern sexual activity within committed , consensual human 
adult realtionships ) , so that your bringing it up is no more relevant 
than the laws of  . if you cannot address the actual issues , you 
are being bloody dishonest in trailing this red herring in front of the 
world. if you want to address , that is your business , not 
mine. and attempting to torpedo a serious issue by using what is in 
our culture a ridiculous joke shows that you have no interest in hearing 
us as human beings .  . you want to dismiss us , and use the means 
you can think of to do so. 

also i noticed that the preceeding verses say. 

also you shall not approach a woman to uncover her during her 
menstrual  . and you shall not have intercourse with your 
neighbors wife , to be with her. 


leviticus 18 19 , 20  ( nasb ) 

these verses are just as relevant as 

you shall not lie with a male as one lies with a female it is an 
abomination .  . 

leviticus 18 22  ( nasb ) 

why was god telling the israelites not to practice such things 

do not yourselves by any of these things for by all these 
the nations which i am casting out before you have become  . 
for the land has become , therefore i have visited its 
punishment upon it , so the land has out its inhabitants .  . 
but as for you , you are to keep my statutes and judgments , and 
shall not do any of these abominations , neither the native , nor 
the alien who among you 

leviticus 18 24 26  ( nasb ) 

he is the lord .  .  .  . listen to what he has to say .  .  .  . 

nobody wants to dismiss homosexuals .  . we do love you , but we do n't 
agree that what you practice is not sin .  . you have not truly repented 
of your sin .  . we hate the sin that is within your lives. i hate sin 
that is in my life. all christians should hate the sin that is within 
their own lives. with sin should bring about repentance .  . 
yes i agree with john 3 17 , but i also know that jesus said , repent for 
the kingdom of heaven is at hand matt 3 17. if you do n't agree that 
homosexuality is sin than how can you repent from it this means that 
you remain in bondage to it. repent from it and god will set you free. 

in his love , 

mike 


michael christensen trust the lord with all your heart , 
senior product support engineer and do not lean on your own 
procom technology , inc. understanding. proverbs 3 5  ( nasb ) 


from lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
organization none 
lines 12 

marida ignacio writes 

still , the angel gabriel 's greetings was 
hail mary , full of grace , the lord is with you. 
blessed art thou amongst women . 

even mary was confused about this greeting .  . 

there are various explanations for her reaction to the angel 's 
greeting .  . one is that she grasped what the angel was getting at , that 
she was to be the mother of the messiah .  . and knew what this , 
all the suffering .  . this gave her a moment 's pause .  . 

from  ( ben hambidge ) 
subject committing my life to god 
organization edinburgh university 
lines 42 

hi everyone , 

i'm trying to find my way to god , but find it difficult as i ca n't hear 
god talking to me , letting me know that he exists and is with me and 
that he knows me , and i feel that i ca n't possibly get to know him until 
he does. maybe he is talking to me but i just do n't know or understand 
how to listen. 

some christians tell me that  ( in their opinion) the only way to find god 
is to take a plunge and commit your life to him , and you will discover .  . 
this idea of diving into the totally unknown is a little bit 
frightening , but i have a few questions. 

1) how do you actually commit yourself if i just say , ok god , her you 
go , i'm committing my life to you , i would n't really feel that he 'd 
listened at least , i could n't be sure that he had. so how does one  ( or 
how did you) commit oneself to god 

2) in committing myself in this way , what do i have to forfeit of my 
current life what can i no longer do i feel that i'm as  good  as many 
christians , and i try to uphold the idea of  loving your neighbour  i 
do n't go round killing people , stealing , etc. , and i try not to get 
jealous of other people in any way and i would say that i keep to the 
standards of treating other people as well as many christians .  . so what 
do i have to give up 

3) when committed , what do i have to do what does it involve what  ( if 
any) burdens am i taking on 

4) so then , what 's the general difference before and after i assume , 
that  ( like on your birthday you do n't suddenly feel a year older ) it 
wo n't suddenly change my life the day i commit myself. so what happens 

5) how can i be sure that it is the right thing to do how can i find 
out what the  it  in the last sentence actually is ! 

thanks very much for all your help in answering these questions. perhaps 
e mail would be a better way to reply , but it 's up to you. 

ben .  . 
janet 
(20 year old at university in scotland ) 

from  ( wallace mayo) 
subject re consecration of russia 
reply to free catholic mailing list 
lines 7 

i will remind this list that i have a booklet on fatima i will send to any 
one who wants it. it is our lady of fatima 's peace plan from heaven . 
it is 30 pages in length and includes the fatima story. if you want one 
or more , let me know. 

wallace mayo 


from 
subject virtues of purity , and innocence 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 154 

heres a nice story to help explain the virtues of purity , innocence 
and , and their importance .  . 



the most beautiful virtues 

this story is an excerpt taken from the basket of flowers by 
christoph von 


in a certain little market town , over a hundred years ago , there 
lived an upright and intelligent man named jacob  . he was 
married to a most virtuous young woman and they lived happily in 
a humble home which was in the midst of a large , beautiful val 
ley .  . after living many , happy years together , jacob 's wife died , 
leaving him alone with only one friend .  .  . his . daughter mary .  . even 
as a child mary was pretty but as she grew in years , 
her , her innocence , her and her ss 
towards all she came in contact with , gave to her beauty a rare 
and peculiar charm. her face was lighted up with a look of such 
indescribable goodness , that it seemed almost as though one 
looked upon an angel. 

mary 's greatest delight was the beautiful garden and her favour 
flowers were the violet , the lily and the rose .  . jacob loved 
to point to them as of the virtues most becoming to her 
gender .  . when she once , early in march brought the first violet to 
him and joyfully called upon him to admire it , he said 

let the modest violet , my dear mary , be to you an image of 
and of the benevolence that does good in secret. it clothes 
itself in the tender colours of it prefers to bloom in 
retired it fills the air with its while remain 
ing hidden beneath the leaves. may you also , my dear mary , be 
like the retiring violet , avoiding vain display , not seeking to 
attract the public eye , but preferring ever to do good in 
and peace. 

one morning when the roses and lilies were in full bloom and the 
garden appeared in its richest array , jacob said to his daughter , 
as he pointed out a beautiful lily , which was beaming in the 
morning sun 

let the lily my dear child , be to you the 
of purity .  . look how beautiful , how pure and fair it is ! the whi 
test linen is as nothing compared with the purity of its 
they are like the snow. happy the whose heart is as pure 
and as free from stain .  . but the purest of all colours is also the 
hardest 

5 







to preserve pure .  . easily is the of the lily touch 
it but carelessly or roughly and a stain is left behind. in the 
same way , a word or a thought may stain the purity of innocence ! 
then pointing to a rose he said 

let the rose my dear mary , be to you an of  . more 
beautiful than the colour of the rose is the that rises to 
the cheek of a modest girl. it is a sign that she is still pure 
of heart and innocent in thought. happy is the whom the 
suggestion of a thought that is , will cause to , 
as she is thus put on her guard against the approach of danger .  . 
the cheeks which readily will remain for a long time with 
their hue , while those which fail to at the least 
of thought will soon become pale and wan , and go 
before their time to the grave .  . 




among the many fruit trees that the garden there was one 
that was prized above all the others. it was an apple tree , not 
much larger than a rose bush , and stood by itself in the middle 
of the garden. mary 's father had planted it the day that she was 
born and every year it bore a number of beautiful apples .  . once it 
blossomed earlier than usual and with unusual  . the 
tree was one mass of  . mary was so delighted with it that 
she went every morning as soon as she was dressed to look at 
it. once , when it was in full bloom , she called to her father 
and said 

look father , how beautiful ! was there ever such a lovely mingling 
of red and white the whole tree looks like one huge bunch of 
flowers ! 

the next morning she hastened into the garden to feast her eyes 
once more upon the tree. but what was her grief to see that the 
frost had nipped it and destroyed all its flowers .  . they were all 
become brown and yellow and when the sun came forth in its 
strength they withered and fell to the ground. mary wept bitter 
tears at the sight. then said the father 

thus , does sinful pleasure destroy the bloom of youth .  . oh my 
child , never cease to remember how dreadful it is to be seduced 
from the path of right ! behold in the example of the apple tree 
an image of what would happen if you were to wander from the way 
if the hopes your conduct hitherto has raised in my heart 
should vanish , not merely for a day or year , but for life. ah , 
then how much more bitter would be the tears which i would shed 
over your lapse from virtue than those which now course down your 
cheeks ! life would have no joys for me with tears in my eyes i 
should 

6 







go down to my grave .  . 

as he spoke , the tears stood in his eyes mary was deeply moved , 
and the words he uttered made so profound an impression upon her 
mind that she never forgot them. 

under the eyes of a father so loving and wise , and amid the 
flowers of her garden , mary grew daily in stature and 
as a rose , pure as a lily and retiring as a 
violet , and as full of promise as a tree laden with  . 

happy was the old man at all times to behold how the 
fruits of his garden rewarded his diligent toil but with how 
much more happiness and content did he mark the gracious effect 
produced upon the heart and mind of his beloved daughter by his 
pious teaching and example. 

jacob several roses and lilies , tied them together in a 
bunch and gave them to mary with the words 

the lily and the rose , sister flowers as they are , belong the one 
to the other both incomparable in their beauty , they are ren 
still more lovely by being together. in the same way my 
dear child are innocence and twin sisters of virtue and 
cannot be separated 




the greatest and most powerful guardian of purity is the thought 
of the presence of god 


internet 
viva cristo rey ! ! long live christ the king .  . 

from  ( darius a. lecointe ) 
subject christianity and holy things 
organization florida state university 
lines 19 

ezek 22 26 god seems to be upset with the priests who have made no 
difference between the holy and the profane .  . this brought to my mind a 
sermon i heard recently in which the speaker said god 's second name does 
not begin with a d referring , i believe , to use of god 's holy name and 
titles as swear words. i was also reminded of the experience of moses at 
the burning bush when god told him take off your , for the place 
where you are standing is holy ground. 

these and other texts seem to imply that god 's people must treat holy 
things differently from other common things , or make a difference 
between holy and common things. 

the obvious questions are 

what makes something holy and how are christians  ( primarily ) supposed to 
make this difference between holy and common things (e . g .  . god 's name , 
the holy spirit , the holy bible , etc . ) . 

darius 

from hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) 
subject re homosexuality 
reply to hulman . edu . 
organization news service at rose hulman 
lines 11 

i am going to stop reading the homosexuality posts , at least for a 
while , because of the repeated seemingly personal attacks on me via 
post e  ( mail(mainly e mail) .  . if anyone has a specific comment , 
suggestion , and or note that does not contain any name calling , etc. 
that they would like for me to read , send it to me via e mail. i 
would like a copy of file mentioned by the moderator the 
issue of it. i attempted to get it via ftp but was 
unable .  . 

in christ 's love , 
bryan 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re soc . religion . christian . 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 18 

wrote 
after reading the posts on this newsgroup for the pasts 4 months , it 
has become apparent to me that this group is primarily active with 
liberals , catholics , new  , and athiests .  . someone might think 
to change the name to soc . religion . any . or perhaps even 
soc . religion . new .  . it might seem to be more appropriate. 
heck , do n't flame me , i'm catholic , gay , and i voted 
for bill clinton .  . i'm on your side ! 

since when did conservative , protestant , old time religion believers get 
an exclusive to christianity christianity is , and always has 
been , a diverse and contentious tradition , and this group reflects that 
diversity .  . i , fo one , am not ready to concede to any group be they 
liberal or conservative , catholic , protestant , or orthodox , charismatic 
or not the right to claim that they have the truth , and everyone else 
is not christian .  . 



from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization indiana university 
lines 63 

in article writes 
if babies are not supposed to be baptised then why does n't the bible 
ever say so. it never comes right and says only people that know 
right from wrong or who are taught can be baptised .  . 

this is not a very sound argument for babies. it assumes that 
if the bible does n't say specifically that you do n't need to do something , 
then that must mean that you do need to do it. i know there 's a specific 
term for this form of logic , but it escapes me right now. however , if it 
were sound , then you should be able to apply it this way if the bible 
does n't specifically say that something is wrong , then it must be ok , 
which , coincidentally , leads perfectly into a question i 've often pondered .  . 

this is no less logical than the assumption that if something is 
not in the bible , then it must not be done. but i do n't really 
think that 's what he 's saying anyway. see below. 

if slavery is immoral (which i believe it is , can i assume that everyone 
else in this group does too ) , why does n't jesus or any of the apostles 
speak out against it owning slaves was common practice back then. paul 
speaks about everything else that is immoral .  . he apparently thought it 
was important enough to talk about things like not being a  . why 
does n't anyone mention slavery if god 's morals are eternal and do n't 
change like the morals of society , then it must have been just as immoral then 
as it is today. 

what about the letter to philemon in it paul at least hints that a 
certain slave be released. also , slavery in those times was not the 
same as the type of slavery we had in the u.s. i think a better 
comparison would be to servitude .  . i do n't really want to get 
into a discussion on slavery .  . anyway , although it does demonstrate your 
point , i do n't think it is relevent , because the original poster did not 
say that absence of specific proves something is not 
immoral .  . 

back to the original poster 's assertion .  . he is not in fact making 
the logical error of which you accuse him. he stated the fact that the 
bible does not say that babies cannot be baptized .  . also , we know that 
the bible says that everyone must be baptized to enter heaven. 
everyone includes infants , unless there is other scripture to the 
contrary , i.e. an exception. since there is no exception listed in the 
bible , we must assume  ( to be on the safe side) that the bible means what 
it says , that everyone must be baptized to enter heaven. and so we 
baptize infants .  . 

to summarize , you accused the original poster of saying if something 
is not forbidden by the bible , then that proves it is ok i.e. if 
something cannot be disproven , it is true. he rather seemed to be 
asserting that since the bible does not forbid , you cannot prove , 
using the bible , that it is not ok. there is a difference between 
proving whether or not something can be proven or disproven  ( there are 
theories on provability in the field of logic , by the way) and actually 
proving or disproving it. the other logical error we must avoid falling 
into is the converse that if something cannot be proven , then it is 
false .  . this seems to be the error of many sola scriptura believers .  . 

i think the only thing that can be proven here is that one cannot use 
scripture alone to prove something either way about infant baptism , 
although the evidence seems to me to favor it. 


steve creps , indiana university 


from  ( lois christiansen ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization microsoft corp. 
lines 44 

in article hulman . edu . wrote 
any one who thinks that homosexuality and christianity are compatible should check 
out 
romans 1 27 
i corinthians 6 9 
i timothy 1 10 
jude 1 7 
ii peter 2 6 9 
gen. 19 
lev 18 22 
 ( to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality ) 

in christ 's love , 
bryan whitsell 

like we have never heard of , or read these verses before 

how about you read them in context , taking into consideration the times and 
places in which they were written the local customs and pagan rituals 
what the surrounding verses are talking about and how they interact with 
the rest of the bible .  . 

there are many issues in the bible that are argued , and can be argued 
from both sides of an issue. some examples that come to mind 
are 
gifts of the spirit 
when the rapture will  ( occur(pre or post tribulation ) 
how people should be baptized 
to name a few. 

i have found nothing in scripture that condemns me , or anyone else , for having 
a monogamous relationship with the person whom i love , even if we are the 
same sex. 

i'm sorry if i am coming across as heated .  . it 's just that the lord has been 
so dear to me the last several years and i'm tired of hearing this same old 
thing from people who believe what their told rather than finding out for 
themselves. 

check it out for yourself. invite the holy spirit to guide you. if i were n't 
confident of this i would n't invite you to do this. 

god bless 


from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject re christianity in crisis by hank 
reply to  ( anthony g rose ) 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 22 

in article  ( frank decenso , jr . ) . writes 
has anyone read this important book if so , what are your feelings about it 

frank 

if one wished to contend with him , he could not answer him one time out 
of a thousand .  . job 9 3 


hi frank 

i 've read it a couple of times and i think that it is excellent. 
has needed this book for some time now. i suggest that 
every christian read it. 

according to hank , they printed 15 times more than harvest house 
usually prints for the first printing , and it still sold out in 
the first week. it is in it 's second printing , and most christian 
book stores have waiting lists. you can order it directly from cri 
at 1 800 443  . 

tony 

from 
subject re immaculate conception  ( was re what was the immaculate 
organization rohm and haas company 
lines 3 

you forgot one thing all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of 
god . 
mark 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject catholic doctrine of predestination 
organization indiana university 
lines 20 

in article writes 

really you may be right , but i 'd like proof. as far as i know  ( and 
i am not a div school student ! ) the catholic church does not seem to 
accept predestination .  . my chaplain told me beware of greeks bearing 
gifts with reference to this doctrine it seems to have the curious 
result that human beings are not held responsible for their own 
actions ! i 'll answer how you deal with this in a minute. 

the catholic doctrine of predestination does not exclude free will in 
any way. since god knows everything , he therefore knows everything that 
is going to happen to us. we have free will , and are able to change 
what happens to us. however , since god knows everything , he knows all 
the choices we will make in advance  ( god is not subject to time) .  . too 
often arguments pit predestination against free will. we believe in 
both. 


steve creps , indiana university 


from  ( alison j wyld ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in 
organization spider systems limited , edinburgh , uk .  . 
lines 49 

he is hoping to pass a resolution that more or less states that we , the 
members of the church agree to disagree on the issue , admitting that 
both sides have honestly studied the scriptures and had the spirit lead 
them to different conclusions .  . it worked last year when the abortion 
issue threatened to do more or less the same thing , and he is hopeful that 
the ga can foster a loving and caring attitude about people who disagree 
with their own view. 


cliff slaughterbeck 

people would not be willing to. note that the church was not willing 
to live with this kind of compromise with ordination of women. the 
one thing that will definitely prevent a person from becoming a 
presbyterian minister is if they indicate that they do n't accept 
ordination of women. the argument is that we ca n't have half the 
church not accepting the leaders of the other half. maybe people will 
clh 

it might be interesting for folk to know that the church of scotland 
 ( also a presbyterian church) managed to agree to disagree over 
women 's ordination for 25 years. the reasoning was that congregations 
are free to call whoever they wish , and that ministers and sessions 
choose elders .  . if a congregation did not wish to have a woman , they 
were not obliged to , and if a session did not wish to , they could not 
be forced to.  ( note that the who issue of freedom to call on the part 
of the congregation is very important here this year is the 
of the , where the church split on that very 
issue , they did n't get back together for almost 80 years) .  . 

a couple of years ago on the 25 anniversary of the allowing of womens 
ordination the position was changed so that , in theory , all 
ministers and elders must recognise that women can be ordained .  . in 
theory , a minister who refused to ordain a woman to his session , or 
refused to work with a woman minister in , could be 
disciplined .  . in practice this has not happened , and i believe it is 
unlikely to happen. my personal view is that the new legislation was 
a mistake , and that the  ( but not prescriptive ) legislation 
worked very well. 

we are going to start going round the homosexual debate at next years 
assembly .  . at this years , a motion was put to ban the blessing of 
same sex couples  ( after an edinburgh minister did so) .  . our panel on 
doctrine is currently looking at marriage , and will report next year 
the matter will be considered and debated then. 

hope this is interesting 

alison 

from !  ( gerry palo ) 
subject re christianity and repeated lives 
lines 73 

in article wr 
ites 
while this is essentially a discussion of reincarnation in the context of 
christianity gerry palo has made some comparisons to asian religious 
beliefs on this topic which have simplified the asian idea of karma 
to the point of misrepresentation .  . 

i realized that my generalizations would probably have problems 
under scrutiny from various asian points of view. they need to be 
discussed in detail , indeed. but for the purposes of this newsgroup 
and thread thus far and in this newsgroup , i risked 
 . my main purpose was to emphasize that i was not coming 
from a buddhist or hindu point of view. as you observed , the 
main context is that of christianity .  . but by all means , add comments 
and corrections as you find them. 

i wrote a longer reply addressing some of your points , but decided 
to not post it. perhaps it would be more appropriate for soc . religion .  . 
eastern .  . instead i just add the following couple of items about karma 
and reincarnation as i see the matter from an and 
a christian point of view. 

1. karma is not simple reward and punishment dealt out by a judging 
deity . 

2. reincarnation is not the same as being born again. 

3. reincarnation is not the same as the resurrection of the body. 

4. reincarnation and karma do not contradict the fundamental teachings 
of christianity about god , the fall , the being. incarnation , death , 
and resurrection of christ , his coming again , sin , grace , forgiveness , 
salvation , and the last judgement .  . 

is n't origen usually cited as the most prestigious proponent of reincarnation 
among christian thinkers what were his views , and how did he relate them 
to the christian scriptures 

jack carroll 

origen 's work was mostly lost. he was not , to my knowledge , 
but his writing comes down largely in fragments and quotations from enemies .  . 
perhaps someone else can comment on origen .  . i do n't know if there 
is a specific statement about reincarnation from him , but from what i do 
know about him he probably did hold to the teaching in one form or another. 

i do n't know too much about the history of the idea of reincarnation in 
the church. however , i heard an interesting story about pope john paul ii 
from an astronomer who teaches at the university of  . the pope likes 
to go to poland for a scientific conference every couple of years so he 
can relax and talk polish to friends and fellow countrymen .  . my acquaintance , 
an , related the fact that knew about steiner and 
anthroposophy from his early days. before he became a priest he was an 
actor in a dramatic company in whose leader was a of steiner 
and based his acting and directing methods on steiner 's indications .  . part 
of the work was the study of the basic works of anthroposophy .  . well , 
going to this conference with him a few years ago , the astronomer and another 
polish thought they would ask the pope what he thought about 
anthroposophy .  . they chickened out at the last minute , but one of them did ask 
him what he thought about reincarnation .  . the pope smiled and said , 
actually there have been quite a few good catholics who believed in 
reincarnation , and he proceeded to name several from the earliest times 
to modern times. then he changed the subject. my polish friend did not 
say whether origen was among those he mentioned. 

gerry palo 

as far as i know origen himself was not  . he was 
controversial , but avoided outright condemnation during his lifetime. 
however some of his views were condemned at a council in alexandria in 
400 and two councils in constantinople in 543 and 553 .  . i am fairly 
sure the of souls is one of the doctrines condemned .  . 
clh 

from  ( gary chin ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 27 

in article , (michael siemon ) writes 
in hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) writes 
homosexual christians have indeed checked out these verses .  . some of 
them are used against us only through incredibly perverse interpretations .  . 
others simply do not address the issues. 

you would seem to be more in need of a careful and spirit led course 
in exegesis than most of the gay christians i know. i suggest that 
you stop proof texting about things you know nothing about. 

let me say that the life , death , and resurrection of jesus christ is 
central to christianity .  . if you personally believe that jesus christ 
died for you , you are a part of the christian body of believers .  . 

we are all still human. we do n't know it all , but homosexual or heterosexual , 
we all strive to follow jesus .  . the world is dying and needs to hear about 
jesus christ .  . 

are you working together with other christians to spread the gospel 


gary chin 
staff engineer 
sun microsystems 
mt. view , ca 



from (peter white ) 
subject re question about hell 
lines 70 

in article , cs . cs . umn . edu .  ( dale wyttenbach ) writes 
what is the basis of the idea of hell being a place of eternal 
suffering if it is biblical , please reference. 

here 's my train of thought if god is using the earth to manufacture 
heavenly beings , then it is logical that there would be a certain 
yield , and a certain amount of waste. the yield goes to heaven , and 
the waste is burned  ( destroyed ) in hell. why is it necessary to 
punish the waste , rather than just destroy it 

luke 16 talks about the rich man and lazarus .  . matthew 25 talks about 
the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels .  . revelations 
20 and 21 reference this fire as the place where unbelievers are 
thrown .  . matthew 18 talks about being thrown into the eternal fire and 
the fire of hell. it seems quite clear that there is this place where 
a fire burns forever. from the revelations passages it is clear that 
the devil and his angels will be tormented there forever. from the 
matthew 25 passage it does n't seem abundantly clear whether the 
punishment of unbelievers is everlasting in the sense of final or 
in the sense of continual .  . 

from dale 's question , i come away with the suggestion that hell , 
if it were short , might be an acceptable alternative to living 
forever with the source of life , peace and joy i.e. the 
ceases to exist. whereas , if punishment goes on 
continually , then one should have a greater motivation to avoid it. 
it definately seems to me that hell is something we want to avoid 
regardless of its exact nature. 

there seem to be two main questions in dale 's thought 
what is god 's main plan on earth 
why is continual punishment a necessary part of hell as opposed 
to simply destroying completely those who refuse god 

i believe that god 's main plan is to have a genuine relationship 
with people. 

the nature of hell and the reasons for its nature seem a lot more 
difficult to ascertain .  . it does seem clear that hell is something 
to avoid .  . at a minimum , hell is the state one is in when one has 
nothing to do with god. 

in the bible , i am not aware of any discussion about the specifics of 
hell beyond the general of hot , unpleasant and torment .  . for instance , 
it is not discussed how  ( if at all) the rich man can 
continually stay in the fire and still feel discomfort or pain or 
whether there is some point at which the pain sensing ability is 
burned up. if you can forgive the , if you throw a 
physical body into a fire , assuming the person starts out alive , 
at some fairly quick point , the nerves are destroyed and pain is 
no longer sensed .  . it is not stated what occurs when at the judgement , 
the unbelievers ,  ( who are already physically dead ) are cast into hell 
i.e. they no longer have a physical body so they ca n't feel physical 
pain. what could be sensed continually is that those in hell are 
to be forever without god. 

the lazarus rich man parable is told with the idea of having the listener 
think in physical terms in order to get the point that some people 
wo n't listen to god even after he rises from the dead. the point of 
the parable is to reach the hard hearted here who are not listening 
to the fact of the resurrection nor the gospel about jesus christ .  . 
it seems reasonable to also draw from the parable that hell is 
not even remotely pleasant .  . 

peter white 
disclaimer none of what is written necessarily reflects 
a view of my company. 
phil i want to know christ and the power of his 
3 10 resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in 
niv his sufferings , becoming like him in his death 

from  ( ken kutz ) 
subject re faq essay on homosexuality 
organization bowling green state university b.g. , oh. 
lines 22 

our moderator writes 

i believe one could take a view like this even while accepting the 
views paul expressed in rom 1. one may believe that homosexuality is 
not what god intended , that it occured as a result of sin , but still 
conclude that at times we have to live with it. note that in the 
creation story work enters human life as a result of sin .  . this 
does n't mean that christians can stop working when we are saved .  . 

please note that god commanded adam to work before the fall 

the lord god took the man and put him in the garden of eden to work 
it and take care of it. (gen 2 15 ,  . 

work was god 's design from the beginning. 


ken 

i 'll clarify the wording .  . there was obviously a rather different 
kind of labor imposed after the fall , but the statement as it 
stands is misleading .  . clh 

from hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) 
subject re divorce 
reply to hulman . edu . 
organization news service at rose hulman 
lines 28 

in article 
(david shao ) writes 
in article 
 ( cliff slaughterbeck ) writes 

along the way , she was married , happily , to a wonderful and 
supportive husband and gave birth to two sons .  . still , everything was not 
perfect for jane , since she could never open up the deepest part of her 
soul to her husband. 
 .  .  . 
one of the interesting things that jane said in this whole discussion was 
homosexuality is not about what goes on in the bedroom. she found that 
she was much more able to have a deep , committed relationship with a woman 
than a man. sex , in her mind , is only a part of the whole relationship. 
... 

it sounds like she has a problem. she has a problem opening up to her 
husband so she is lesbian .  . what in a , a couple is supposed 
to open up to each other. because she did n't feel comfortable opening 
up to her husband she gets a divorce and comes to the conclusion that 
she is lesbian .  . before anyone gets they should make sure that 
they would feel comfortable open up the deepest part of her soul to 
her husband . sex , in her mind , is only a part of the whole 
relationship. did she think it was diffrent with a man. that might 
be her problem. 

in christ 's love , 
bryan 

from  ( aaron bryce cardenas ) 
subject re jacob and esau 
organization massachusetts institute of technology 
lines 15 

writes 
i wrote that the apostle paul , in romans 9 , speaks of god as 
choosing jacob over esau , and adds that this is not as a result of 
anything that either child had done , since they had not been born 
yet. 

it 's my understanding that romans 9 13 as it is written , jacob have i 
loved , but esau have i hated .  . refers not to the two individuals , but 
rather to their offspring , the tribe of jacob and the tribe of esau 

see , for example. in fact , if you scan through the ot , you 
will find similar references to the two tribes .  . 

aaron cardenas 


from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization indiana university 
lines 31 

in article writes 
this all obviously applies equally well to infants or adults , since 
both have souls .  . infants must be baptized , therefore , or they cannot 
enter into heaven. they too need this form of life in them , or they 
cannot enter into heaven. 

are you saying that baptism has nothing to do with asking jesus to come into 
your heart and accepting him as your savior , but is just a ritual that we 
must go through to enable us to enter heaven 

i do n't think joe was saying any such thing. however , your question 
on asking jesus to come into your heart seems to imply that infants 
are not allowed to have christ in theirs. why must baptism always be 
viewed by some people as a sort of prodigal son type of thing i.e. a 
sudden change of heart , going from not accepting christ to suddenly 
accepting christ why ca n't people start out with christ from shortly 
after birth , and build their relationship from there after all , does 
a man suddenly meet a woman , and then marry her that same day from my 
experiences , i 've learned that all relationships must be built , 
including one 's relationship with god. 

also joe is speaking from the standpoint that baptism is not just a 
ritual , but that through it god bestows grace upon the 
recipient .  . certainly for those with the mental faculties to know christ 
it is necessary to believe in him. however , the sacrament itself 
bestows grace on the recipient , and makes a permanent mark of adoption 
into god 's family on the soul. 


steve creps , indiana university 


from  ( martin pauley ) 
subject re question about virgin mary 
lines 27 

in article , 
 ( mark ashley ) wrote 

countries. that event is approved by the pope .  . currently , 
images of mary in japan , korea , yugoslavia , philippines , africa 
are showing tears  ( natural or blood) .  . 
... 
if you have the resources , go to one of the countries i mentioned. 

in article , 
(michael d. walker ) wrote 

1. as far as current investigations , the church recently declared the 
crying statue and corresponding messages from mary at akita , 
japan as approved (i found this out about a month ago . ) . 

i'm in japan .  . 
(michael , could you give me more info about where akita is nearest city 
would be good) 

if i find it , i 'll get pictures and post a digitised version if enough 
people are interested. 


 .  . marty .  . ! 
lost in space !  ( or is it japan ) 


from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re is this ethical 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 19 

just a quick comment. as a baptist , i find the idea 
of such a baptism  ( if the news report is in fact accurate , and 
they seldom are regarding religion ) offensive .  . the pastor here seems 
to have a most view of baptism one that seems to demand the 
ceremony even when comprehension and choice are absent .  . 

we do baptize converts , but no one who has been deceived into hearing 
the word is likely to be a convert .  . if in fact the grace of god might 
work in such a situation , there is no harm done in waiting a day or 
two. 

baptist believe in regenerate membership .  . did this church include these 
half baked (at best ) converts into their church fellowship or do they 
somehow feel there is some validity in dunking them and turning them loose 

this kind of evangelism is certainly not baptist , and probably not 
very christian , either. 



from  ( cliff slaughterbeck ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 58 

ofm writes 

this is an issue throughout the presbyterian church. on the other 
side , one of the major churches in cincinnati has been 
homosexual elders , and has ignored instructions not to do 
so. and the church in rochester where the judicial commission said 
they could n't install a homosexual pastor has made her an 
evangelist . these situations , as well as the one you describe , do 
not appear to be stable .  . this will certainly be a major topic for the 
general assembly next month. if the church ca n't come up with a 
solution that will let people live with each other , i think we 're end 
up with a split .  . clearly neither side wants that , but i think we 'll 
get pushed into it by actions of both sides. 

clh 

the moderator of the general assembly , the rev. john fife , visited our 
church about a week ago  ( just 4 days after rev. it 's been a busy 
week for our small church ! ! ) .  . he was asked specifically about the issue 
of homosexuality and what he thinks will happen at the ga meeting next 
month. evidently , there are 15 20 known resolutions pending that range 
the from outlawing homosexuality altogether to legalizing it 
completely. he will readily admit that this is the most difficult 
issue that the church has had to deal with since the presbyterian church 
split in two over the issue of slavery more than 100 years ago. without 
question , the issue may split the church again after we 've been 
for all of a dozen years or so. he is hopeful that it will not and is 
pushing the same attitude that helped the church deal with the abortion 
issue last year as a solution. 

he is hoping to pass a resolution that more or less states that we , the 
members of the church agree to disagree on the issue , admitting that 
both sides have honestly studied the scriptures and had the spirit lead 
them to different conclusions .  . it worked last year when the abortion 
issue threatened to do more or less the same thing , and he is hopeful that 
the ga can foster a loving and caring attitude about people who disagree 
with their own view. 


cliff slaughterbeck 
dept. of physics , fm 15 it 's time for the sermon on the 
university of washington grand torino ! 
seattle , wa 98195 

it 's going to be hard to agree to disagree. if we allow 
disagreement , then some and churches are going to ordain 
people that others will not recognize .  . that 's a difficult situation 
in a church. i could live with it , but i think a lot of 
people would not be willing to. note that the church was not willing 
to live with this kind of compromise with ordination of women. the 
one thing that will definitely prevent a person from becoming a 
presbyterian minister is if they indicate that they do n't accept 
ordination of women. the argument is that we ca n't have half the 
church not accepting the leaders of the other half. maybe people will 
decide to live with it in this case when they did n't in the other , but 
i wonder. i admit that my own submitted an overture to the 
ga that would have exactly this effect , and we considered the 
ambiguity better than the current situation. clh 

from (robert weiss ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 62 

in article , 
 ( jay windley ) writes .  .  .  . 

... 

there are other interpretations to christian history in this matter. 
one must recall that most of what we know about the gnostics was 
written by their enemies .  . eusebius claims that jesus imparted secret 
information to peter , james , and john after his resurrection , and that 
those apostles transmitted that information to the rest of the twelve 
 ( eusebius , historia ecclesiastica ii 1 3 4) .  . 

this is curious. i read in eh ... 

the lord imparted the gift of knowledge to james the just , to john 
and peter after his resurrection , these delivered it to the rest of 
the apostles , and they to the seventy , of whom barnabas was one. 

eusebius , ecclesiastical history 

it seems that the lord imparted the gift of knowledge , not that the 
lord imparted secret information. 

... 

apostles .  . interestingly enough , eusebius refers to the groups which 
we today call gnostics as promulgators of a false gnosis  ( eusebius , 
op. cit. , iii , 32 7 8) .  . his gripe was not that thay professed a 
gnosis , but that they had the wrong one. 

i'm afraid that i cannot find this in eh . 
i do n't see anywhere in 3 32 7 8 where eusebius mentions that certain 
gnostics had the wrong gnosis .  . 

the closest is when eusebius summarizes  statements , 
 .  .  . whilst . if there were any at all , that attempted to pervert 
the sound doctrine of the saving gospel , they were yet 
in dark retreats .  .  .  . 

now one can approach this and other such evidence in many ways. i 
do n't intend that everyone interpret christian history as i do , but i 
believe that evidence exists  ( favorably interpreted , of course) of 
early christian rites analogous to those practiced by mormons today. 

favorably interpreted just in looking at two of the four 
references that you gave (i have the eh handy , and the 
recognitions i will have to look for) i see no room for 
such ' . 

and any such  interpretation  still falls short of an equivalence to 
the temple ceremonies .  . 

the links for jay 's using eh for support are the gift 
of knowledge imparted secret information being given secret 
signs and tokens to gain entrance to heaven. but there is not 
enough equivalence between the the ideas for us to be able to call 
this favorable interpretation .  . it appears to be closer to 
fabrication .  . 


robert weiss 


from  ( geno ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 20 

bigelow writes 

it is also noteworthy to consider jesus  attitude. he had no 
argument with the pharisees over any of the ot canon (john 
10 . 31 . 6) , and explained to his followers on the road to emmaus 
that in the law , prophets and psalms which referred to him the 
ot division of scripture  ( luke 24 . , as well as in luke 11 . 51 . 
taking genesis to chronicles (the jewish order we would say 
genesis to malachi ) as scripture .  . 

you should remember that in adam 's transgression , all men and women 
sinned , as paul wrote. all of humanity against 
god in 's sin , thus , all are subject to it , and the sin is 
transmitted from generation to generation. 

andy byler 

andy , i did not write the above paragraph .  . i believe this is about the 3rd 
time someone else 's words have been attributed to me. i ca n't speak for 
the rest of humanity , but i did not cooperatively against anything. 

from  ( geno ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 11 

(stephen a. creps ) writes 

to summarize , you accused the original poster of saying if something 
is not forbidden by the bible , then that proves it is ok i.e. if 
something cannot be disproven , it is true. he rather seemed to be 

you are absolutely right. after reading it over again , i realized that i 
misunderstood what he said. my apologies .  . as for the question about 
slavery , i have to disagree. slavery in those times was the same as slavery 
in the us. some may have been servants , but not all. i would also 
expect paul to do a little more than just hint about a particular slave .  . 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 4 


for he himself is our peace , who has made the two one and has destroyed the 
barrier , the dividing wall of hostility , 
ephesians 2 14 

from 
subject in english 
organization society of independent 
lines 11 

does anyone know whether the , the huge multi volume collection 
of roman catholic produced by the , has ever been 
translated into english i'm working on the s. and would love 
to be able to check my own translation against somebody else 's .  . 

email replies preferred , unless this query turns out to be of general interest. 


liz 
department of english ad dei  . 
the university of pennsylvania 

from (dr nancy 's sweetie ) 
subject does anyone remember . . . 
organization rowan college of new jersey 
lines 30 

some years ago possibly as many as five there was a discussion on 
numerology .  .  ( that 's where you assign numeric values to letters and then add 
up the letters in words , in an effort to prove something or another. i can 
never make any sense of how it 's supposed to work or what it 's supposed to 
prove . ) . 

somebody posted a long article about numerology in the bible , saying 
things like this proves the intricate planning of the scriptures , else 
these patterns would not appear . 

then there was a brilliant followup , which was about numerology in all the 
other numerology posts. stuff like the word  adds up to 28 , 
and the word appears 28 times in the posting ! such elegant planning ! 
further , the word  also adds up to 28 the writer is using these 
clues to show us that we reach truth via numerology ! 
 ( these examples are made up by me just as examples . ) . 

i really liked that reply , because it did such an excellent job of showing 
that these patterns can be found in just about anything. however , i did 
not save a copy of it. i do not remember the author. i'm only 90 sure 
that it was posted to this newsgroup .  . 

but , on the off chance that somebody remembers it and saved it , or that the 
author is reading here , i wanted to know if anyone could send me a copy. (i 
think it should be made into an faq , if we can find it . ) . 


darren f 
i use not only all the brains i have , but all those i can borrow as well. 
wilson 

from  ( simon d. wibowo ) 
subject quit smoking 
organization national university of singapore 
lines 15 

my girlfriend is a smoker .  . she has been addicted to it for quite some time. 
she has been tried a couple of times , but then always get back to it. her 
background is non christian , but she 's interested in christianity .  . i'm a 
christian and non smoker .  . 

i would like to collect any personal stories from christians who managed to 
quit. i hope that this will encourage her to keep on trying. if anybody ever 
had a similar problem or knows a good book on it , pls reply by email. 

i appreciate any kinds of helps. thanks a lot. 


simon  ( 65)7726863 ) 
dept. of ee , nat'l univ. of s pore fax  ( 65)7773117 ) 
singapore 0511 internet 

from 
subject christianity and repeated lives 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 38 

there is a paragraph in the new testament which in my opinion , clearly makes 
a positive inference to reincarnation .  . i do n't remember which one it is off of 
the top of my head , but it basically goes like this jesus is talking with the 
apostles and they ask him why the pharisees say that before the messiah can 
come elijah must first come. jesus replies that elijah has come , but they did 
not recognize him. it then says that the apostles perceived that he was refering 
to john the baptist .  . this seems to me to clearly imply reincarnation .  . 

this was a popular belief in the judaism of time , that elijah 
would return again  ( as he had been taken in to heaven in a chariot and 
did not actually  . however jesus was referring to john the 
baptist not in the sense that elijah was as john 
 ( remember elijah didn`t die ) but that john was a similar prophet to 
elijah .  . john was a fiery preacher , he wore sackcloth and wandered 
rough through israel preaching the coming kingdom .  . the verses that 
describe him  ( in gospel ) can be linked to ot references about 
elijah .  . hence john was similar to elijah and jesus was drawing the 
parallels between the two just as he drew parallels with the suffering 
servant in isaiah  ( and other messianic figures) and himself. 

a brief reply but i have time to look up all the relevant stuff. 

suffice to say there is a very strong explanation. 



rick .  . 



richard johnston university 
73 malone road belfast 
belfast 
northern ireland 





from (a rose arose ) 
subject re the arrogance of christians 
organization representing my own views and not that of my company here. 
lines 122 

writes 
arrogance is arrogance .  . it is not the result of religion , it is the result 
of people knowing or firmly believing in an idea and one 's desire to show 
others of one 's rightness .  . i assume that god decided to be judge for our 
sake as much as his own , if we allow him who is kind and merciful be the 
judge , we 'll probably be better off than if others judged us or we judged 
ourselves. 

i'm not sure i agree with this 100 . i agree that arrogance is not the result 
of religion and that god is a far better judge than we are. i also agree if 
you mean to say that arrogance shows up in the form of trying to prove one 's 
superior knowledge , rightness , or holiness over another person 's beliefs .  . 

i need to be careful to understand what you mean here so that i do not fall 
into the mistake of misrepresenting your views. if i fall down in this area 
i hope you will forgive me. 

arrogance is not the result of believing one is right or of believing that 
one 's god is greater than the god 's of others or of believing that one 's 
religion is better than other religions .  . these are all naturally self implied 
beliefs .  . 

it is self contradictory to say that i believe my current beliefs to be wrong. 
were i to find myself in error , my beliefs would naturally change and follow 
what i believe to be right. therefore , i must always consider my beliefs 
correct. that 's not arrogance .  . that 's unavoidable behavior. 

it is nonsense to say that i believe another person 's god to be greater than 
my god. were his or her god greater , would n't i be obligated to change so 
that their god would become my god we are naturally obligated to worship 
that god which we deem to be the greatest .  . why should we feel obligated to 
worship a second best god for the sake of feeling humble 

arrogance is not necessarily thinking onesself to be better looking or more 
intelligent or stronger or having more resources than another person. no 
doubt many will have to chew on this one awhile. were passive observation 
of one 's superior points arrogance , then god would be most arrogant of all. 

humility does not rest in slandering or belittling god 's work of creation in 
our lives. people often go around trying to be humble saying to one another , 
i'm not very smart. i'm poor. i'm not good looking. i'm just a worm in 
the ground. i'm such a weak person and although i do n't want to sin , i 
really cannot help it. were this person truely humble , he would take a 
different approach. god , thank you for making me the way you did. i know 
that you never do anything second best. yet with all that you have given me , 
i have been so  . you 've given me power to resist the devil .  . i 
have not used it but have myself in doing exactly what you have said 
not to do. i have your creation in my life and have credited myself 
with humility for doing so. lord , with all you 've given me , i have been 
completely unfaithful and i do not deserve your forgiveness .  . and , yet your 
love for me is so that you would give yourself to die for me to 
save me. as terribly evil as i am , i deserve to go straight to hell , yet it 
pleases you somehow to rescue me from this terrible life i 've led .  . lord , 
please forgive me and help me stay on the right track so that i can bring 
glory to your name instead of insult .  . lord i'm so sorry for my wrongs .  . please 
help me to change. 


i think people take exceptional offense to religious arrogance because 
they do n't want to be wrong. if i find someone arrogant , i typically 
do n't have anything to do with them. 

for me , i 've often found it hard to tell the difference. often times , the 
most humble christian has come across to me as arrogant while the most 
proud worm in the ground false humility type person has been found to be 
most comfortable company. 

when i'm wrong and arrogant about my wrongness , i certainly do n't feel like 
being confronted by my wrongness .  . were someone to confront me verbally with 
my wrongness , i 'd be likely to snap at them and examine them head to toe for 
all their faults and charge them with hypocricy for what they said to me. 
at the root , my desire would be to make them shut up so that i can go about 
living my life arrogantly as i wish. however , were someone to confront me 
silently by their example , earn my respect , and perhaps mention it to me in 
humility in private , i 'd feel broken down and challenged to seek god for help 
in changing from the error of my ways. 

the hard part is getting to the point to where i can be humble before anyone 
regardless of their humility or pride regardless of their hypocricy or 
sincerity regardless of whether will frown down upon me or not. 
it is n't easy to take this pain in love with for the opportunity 
to improve in one 's ability to serve god. it 's easier to cast aside any hope 
of reaching true humility and merely hide behind slandering god 's creation 
in our lives instead. 

but we should examine ourselves i hope i typed this back in right 
and why we react to certain situations with such emotions .  . for instance , 
many of us feel justified to be insulted by an arrogant person. as if 
we needed a reason to feel insulted .  . but after being insulted over and 
over again by the words of others , you 'd think we 'd either toughen up 
or decide not to be insulted , or ignore the insult .  . just because you 
can justify feelings of anger or insult or outrage , that does n't make that 
reaction the appropriate one. it is in this light of self examination 
that we can change our emotional reactions .  . 


sometimes it helps when we can understand and feel the difference between 
what is a true statement of our character and what is a false and slanderous 
statement of our character. the devil is the of the bretheren .  . he 
would love us to feel hopelessly guilty where we are innocent and feel arrogant 
and self righteous where we are indeed wrong. the devil 's aim is to get us 
into as much misery as he can. just think of the devil as a cruel and merci 
less criminal who a parent by burning his or her children with 
hot irons .  . the way the devil gets under the father 's skin is by hurting 
those that the father loves so much. 




i deplore the horrible crime of child murder .  .  .  . 
we want prevention , not merely punishment .  . 
we must reach the root of the evil .  .  .  . 
it is practiced by those whose inmost souls revolt 
from the dreadful deed .  .  .  . 
no mater what the motive , love of ease , 
or a desire to save from suffering the unborn innocent , 
the woman is awfully guilty who commits the deed .  .  .  . 
but oh ! thrice guilty is he who drove her 
to the desperation which impelled her to the crime .  . 

susan b. anthony , 
the revolution july 8 , 1869 

from  ( thomas galen ault ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 70 

in article  ( fil sapienza ) writes 
i am interested in finding out why people become 
atheists after having believed in some god god. 
in conversing with them on other groups , i 've 
often sensed anger or hostility .  . though i do n't 
mean to imply that all atheists are angry or hostile , 
it does seem to be one motivation for giving up 
faith. thus , some atheism might result from 
broken ness .  . 

i 'd like to field this one , if i may .  . although i am a believer in and follower 
of christ , my experiences with religion have n't been all that positive. in 
fact , there was one point in my life when , for about three days , i simply 
could n't believe in the existence of god. anyway , when i look back upon the 
troubles i 've had , they seem to fall into two categories impulses to 
unbelief that resulted from logical contradictions , and impulses to unbelief 
that resulted from frustration with god. 

the first category does n't occur to me much anymore , as i have worked through 
most of the arguments for the non existence of god. but way back when , these 
would cause me some problems , and i would have to struggle with my faith to 
continue to believe. i can see where others less stubborn than i  ( and i do 
mean stubborn .  . has often been the only thing standing between 
me an atheism from time to time) would fail. 

the second category arises out of some long term personal difficulties and 
the struggle to live my life as god would have me live it without living my 
life as others would tell me how god would have me live it. a good example of 
this is my struggle with the more radical christians i meet. i am not , nor 
have i ever been , on fire for , and i do n't think i ever want to be. 
nevertheless , i am not lukewarm about my faith , so i do n't really 
fit in with the mainstream either. quite naturally , i feel a lot of anxiety 
about my dislocation within christian society , and it can lead to a lot of 
internal tension , when i want to do what i know is right , 
but when another part of me believes that what i want to do is wrong because 
all the other christians think so to. quite naturally , this tension has a 
destructive effect on my relationship with god , and during all of this internal 
strife , there 's atheism sitting there like the promised land no rules , no 
responsibilities , no need to live up to anyone 's expectations but my own. 
complete freedom .  . of course , it 's all an illusion , but nevertheless , it 's a 
very appealing illusion , especially when the so called people of god are 
behaving like total  . i can easily understand why someone would go 
that route , and would be hostile to ever coming back. 

imho , many of the former christians turned atheists who are now actively 
hostile to christianity are so because their experience with christ and god 
was n't a very peaceful one , but one of mind control and shut up and do what 
you 're told because we know what 's best for you because it 's god 's will and 
you 're to young to know what god 's will is yet courtesy of some of christ 's 
more overzealous followers. 

a final reason why people become atheists is because christians do not have a 
very good reputation right now. one of the things that attracted people to 
christianity in the ancient days was the love that christians obviously had 
for one another and the world around them. unlike the rest of the world , 
christian communities actively cared for their poor , and the christian rich 
did not trod on the backs of their poorer brothers , but bent down to help 
them. christians were known for living exemplary lives , even if they were 
thought to be traitors to the state because they would n't sacrifice to the 
 . nowadays , courtesy of the media and some christian leaders who lost 
christ on their way to power , people see christians as sexually repressed 
who want to remake society into a facist version of 
their own moral view. 

there are a lot more reasons why people become atheists , but i do n't have time 
to go into them right now. 



tom 

from (peter trei ) 
subject re athiests and hell 
organization the mitre corporation 
lines 24 

in article writes 
much deleted 
point today might be the masons .  .  ( just a note , that they too worshipped 
osiris in egypt .  .  . ) . 
much deleted 

it bugs me when i see this kind of nonsense. 

first , there is no reasonable evidence linking masonry to ancient 
egypt , or even that it existed prior to the late 14th century  ( and 
there 's nothing definitive before the  . 

second , worship of osiris is not , nor has it ever been , a part of 
masonic practice  ( we are strictly non  . 

tangents , never ending tangents , 

you said it ! 

rex 

peter trei 

editor masonic digest 

from (david o hunt ) 
subject re how i got saved .  .  .  . 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 44 

my first and most important point is that regardless of how your recovery 
happened , i'm glad it did ! 

on 10 may 93 in re how i got saved .  .  .  . 
user karen writes 
i found it ore than coincidental that less than 2 weeks after 
i put my faith where my mouth was , one more in the long line of doctors 
and not even an specialist , diagnosed my problems with no 
difficulty , set me on the path to an effective cure , and i was walking 
and running again without the pain that had stopped me from that for 
4 years. the diagnosis was something he felt the other doctors must have 
overlooked because it was perfectly obvious from my test results. 

now ! the point that i 'll try to make is that coincidences like this occur 
with a very high frequency .  . how many of us have been thinking of someone 
and had that person call much of the whole psychic phenomenon is easily 
explicable by this one forgets the misses .  . consider your astrological 
in the newspaper .  . how many times have you said that 's me vs 
that 's not me you 'll remember the hits , but the misses will be much more 
frequent .  . 

on 10 may 93 in re how i got saved .  .  .  . 
user karen writes 
maybe this does n't hit you as miraculous .  . but to me it really 
is. imagine an active 17 year old being told she may not be able to 
walk longer .  .  . and . is now a happy 18 year old who can dance and run 
knowing that the problem was there all along and was revealed just 
after she did what she knew was right. as the song says .  .  .  . 

and what if , instead if being healed , your affliction got much worse and 
you ended up paralyzed would you have attributed that to god as well 
or would that have been the work of satan if you believe that would have 
been so , why only good from god , and only evil from satan could n't the 
agony have come from god think about what he did to poor job ! 



david hunt graduate slave my mind is my own. towards both a 
mechanical engineering so are my ideas opinions. palestinian and 
carnegie mellon university use golden rule v2 . 0 . jewish homeland ! 
t h e r e i s n o g o d t h e r e i s n o g o d 
email working towards my piled higher and deeper 

the the ! 

from  ( hal f lillywhite ) 
subject re mormon beliefs about children born out of wedlock 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 24 

in article  ( aaron bryce cardenas ) writes 
bruce webster writes 
indeed , lds doctrine goes one step further and in some cases 
holds parents responsible for their children 's sins if they have 
failed to bring them up properly (cf .  . d c 68 25 28 

hi bruce .  . how do you reconcile this practice with ezekiel 18 
ezekiel 18 20 the soul who sins is the one who will die. the son will not 
share the guilt of the father , nor will the father share the guilt of the 
son. the righteousness of the righteous man will be credited to him , and 
the wickedness of the wicked will be charged against him. 

actually in d c 68 25 28 the parents are being held accountable for 
their own sins .  . specifically they are accountable for their failure 
to teach their children properly. if i fail to teach my children 
that stealing is wrong then i am responsible for their theft if they 
later indulge in such behavior. 

this is very similar to the instructions ezekiel was given in 
3 18. if ezekiel failed to do his duty and warn the wicked , 
not only would the wicked die in his sins but the lord would hold 
ezekiel responsible ! similarly parents are responsible to teach 
their children right from wrong. i suspect most christians  ( and 
jews etc . ) . would agree that parents have this responsibility .  . 

from  ( randal lee nicholas mandock ) 
subject re question about virgin mary 
organization georgia institute of technology 
lines 16 

in article 
writes 
basically the teaching on infallibility 
holds that the pope is infallible in matters of faith and doctrine , the 
college of bishops is likewise infallible , and the laity is as well. 

not exactly correct , but nice try. the catholic doctrine of infallibility 
refers to freedom from error in teaching of the universal church in 
matters of faith or morals .  . it is this teaching which is taken as 
doctrine .  . 



randal lee nicholas mandock 
catechist 


from  ( bruce stephens ) 
subject re why do people become atheists 
organization centre for mathematical software research , univ. liverpool 
lines 31 

on 11 may 93 06 38 48 gmt ,  ( fil sapienza ) said 

in article maxwell c muir , 
writes 

the ambiguity of religious beliefs , an unwillingness to take 
pascal 's wager , 

i 've heard this frequently what exactly is pascal 's wager 

either a god exists , or b he does n't .  . we have two choices , either 
1 believe in god , or 2 do n't believe in god. if a is true , then 2 
brings eternal damnation , whereas 1 brings eternal life. if b is 
true , then 1 has minor inconvenience compared with 2. thus , it is 
rational to believe in god. 

this has numerous flaws , covered in the faq for alt.atheism , amongst 
other places. 

do i sound broken to you 

i do n't know. you point out that your mother 's treatment upset you , 
and see inconsistencies in various religions .  . i'm not sure if that 
constitutes broken ness or not. it certainly 
disillusionment .  . 

disillusionment strikes me as an excellent reason for stopping 
believing in something. 

bruce , university of liverpool 
religion is myth information 

from (a rose arose ) 
subject re earthquake prediction 
organization representing my own views here. 
lines 75 

 ( mail server) writes 
ok , a few days back , the below included message was posted stating 

i believe with everything in my heart that on may 3 , 1993 , the city of 
portland , oregon in the country of the united states of america will be hit 
with a catastrophic and disastrous earthquake .  .  .  . 

by now , we know that this did not come to pass .  .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . i . do n't think it 's particularly 
glorifying to god to say things like well , i think the lord is telling me .  .  .  . , 
 .  . such . statements seem to me to be an attempt to get a spiritual thrill should 
the guess happen to come true , without risking the guilt of false prophecy 
should it fail to come to pass. i do not believe genuine prophecy was ever 
like this. comments 


i agree. people should not be misled to believe thus sayeth the lord by 
or opinion or speculation .  . 

speak directly .  . if the lord has given you something to say , say it. 
but , before i declare thus sayeth the lord , i 'd better know for certain 
without a shadow of a doubt that i am in the correct spiritual condition 
and relationship with the lord to receive such a prophecy and be absolutely 
certain , again , without the shadow of a doubt that there is no 
possibility of my being misled by my own imaginations or by my hope of gaining 
recognition or of being misled by the wiles of the devil and his followers. 

mistakes in this area are costly and dangerous. for me , my greatest fears 
in this area would be the following 

1 that the people would be misled 
2 that people would lose respect for christianity 
3 that true prophecy would be clouded by all the false prophecies 
4 were god to call me to be a prophet and i were to misrepresent god 's word , 
my calling would be lost forever. god 's word would command the people 
never to listen to or fear my words as i would be a false prophet .  . my 
bridges would be burnt forever. perhaps i could repent and be saved , but 
i could never again be a prophet of god. 

in the light of this , it is critical that we speak when the lord says speak 
and that we be silent when the lord says to be silent lest we deprive the 
world of god 's word and hide it under a either by our inappropriate , 
cowardly silence or by our false statements .  . and because of this , it 
is critically important that we remain close to the lord , in his word , and 
in prayer , and filled with the spirit of god so that we know the difference. 

in this day and age , sinners spout off their mouths left and right judging 
one another , claiming rights that are not theirs , denying rights that do 
indeed belong to others , demanding equal respect for all the gods of this 
world , and uttering every form of falseness that promises to make one feel 
good. 

it 's time that we christians give an example of honesty that stands out in 
contrast against this backdrop of falsehood .  . when we say , thus sayeth the 
lord , it happens. when we pray , prayer is answered because we prayed right. 
when we say we 're christians , we really mean it. 

dan 



i deplore the horrible crime of child murder .  .  .  . 
we want prevention , not merely punishment .  . 
we must reach the root of the evil .  .  .  . 
it is practiced by those whose inmost souls revolt 
from the dreadful deed .  .  .  . 
no mater what the motive , love of ease , 
or a desire to save from suffering the unborn innocent , 
the woman is awfully guilty who commits the deed .  .  .  . 
but oh ! thrice guilty is he who drove her 
to the desperation which impelled her to the crime .  . 

susan b. anthony , 
the revolution july 8 , 1869 

from (a rose arose ) 
subject re legal definition of religion 
organization representing my own views here only 
lines 26 

e  ( edgar pearlstein ) writes 

. 
it 's my understanding that the u.s. supreme court has never 
given a legal definition of religion. this despite the many 
cases involving religion that have come before the court. 
can anyone verify or falsify this 
has any state or other government tried to give a legal 
definition of religion 

according to the legal practices of today 's america , i imagine the legal 
definition of religion , if defined , may resemble the following 

any system of belief or practice to which people are committed 
for the benefit of society which must , in the opinion of secular 
thought , be isolated from political and educational influence .  . 

should any system of belief or practice to which people are 
committed be harmful or void of any benefit to society in the 
opinion of religious thought as defined in the previous paragraph , 
isolation of such from political and educational influence would 
constitute unreasonable censorship and an unlawful violation of 
civil rights. 

someday , perhaps they 'll legalize benevolence ) 


from (david e. goggin ) 
subject dreams and out of body incidents 
lines 38 

hey folks , 

i'm fairly new to these groups , tho' some have heard from me before. 

i 'd like to get your comments on a question that has been on my mind a 
lot what morals ethics apply to dreams and out of body incidents 
in normal dreams , you ca n't control anything , so obviously 
you are n't morally responsible for your actions .  . but if you can 
to control the action in dreams or do an , it seems like a morality applies .  . 

now , there seem to be 3 alternatives 

1) dreams and are totally mental phenomena .  . in this case no morality 
applies beyond what might be called  mental  , that is , not trying 
to think about anything evil , or in overly sexy or violent 
thoughts. 

2) dreams and have a reality of their own (i . e .  . are  another plane' ) 
evidence for this is that often dreams and are sometimes done in 
common by more than one person. a 
mark of objective fact is that 1 people report the same objective experience. 
in this case , the same interpersonal morality ethics applies in dreams and 
as does in waking life. 

3) like (2) , but here we assume that though the and environs have a 
real existence , a different moral ethics apply there , and no  ( or maybe 
different ) moral laws apply there. 

so .  .  .  . there it is. is one of these cases the truth , or does anyone know 
of another alternative respond by post or email. 

thanks very much 

dt 



. 

from 
subject tongues  ( read me ! ) 
lines 8 

persons interested in the tongues question are are invited to 
peruse an essay of mine , obtainable by sending the message 
get tongues 
to or to 


yours , 
james kiefer 

from 
subject nt meaning of 
organization fnal ad net 
lines 84 

this week , many of you have asked about my earlier postings on ot , nt and 
exegesis on the homosexual issue. i have refered you to the faq 
files , which i find out , no longer contains them. they are too long for me to 
mail to each of you , each article , but will try to get them back on the faq 
file. 

because of the renewed interest on this subject , i will type , with permission , 
an article by james  . i think it is one of the best articles that i 've 
read from the conservative position. i ca n't post it all at once , so it 
will come piece meal and not daily. after i'm done retyping the entire 
article , i will make it available for the faq file. talk to clh .  . 

also , for those who ca n't get through to me , you may try one of these 


loren 

the source and nt meaning 
of , with implications 
for christian ethics and ministry 


james b. 
professor of new testament 
western conservative baptist seminary 
portland , oregon 

traditional interpretation of ( homosexuals ) in 1 cor 6 9 
and 1 tim 1 10 refers to sexual vice between people of the same sex , 
specifically  . some restrict the term 's meaning to active male 
, but stronger evidence supports a more general translation , 
namely homosexuals .  . more recently the definition homosexual has been 
opposed on and linguistic grounds , the claim being that the term 
homosexuals is anachronistic .  . in addition , criticism of the traditional 
rendering says the term today includes celibate , excludes 
heterosexuals who engage in homosexual acts , and includes female homosexuals .  . 
a concern for acts instead of the modern attention to desires was the only 
factor in the ancient world. the foregoing to the translation of 
by homosexuals has a number of debilitating weaknesses .  . 
finally , this study argues that paul coined the term , deriving it 
from the of lev 20 12 (cf .  . 18 22) and using it for homosexual orientation 
and behavior , the latter of which should be an occasion for church discipline 
(i cor 5 6) and legislation in society (1 tim 1 8 11) .  . 



introduction 

coincident with the rise of the gay rights movement in recent years has 
been an increasing focus on the biblical statements regarding homosexuality or 
sodomy .  . as part of this focus , the meaning of the term , used 
twice by the apostle paul (1 cor 6 9 , i tim 1 10) , has received vigorous 
scrutiny .  . this issue is particularly crucial to contemporary society since 
so much of modern ethics is shaped by biblical statements .  . more particularly , 
the concern over gay rights and the place of gays or homosexuals in the church 
and in society require the resolution of biblical interpretation .  . 

this study of historical , linguistic , and literary matters will survey and 
recent proposals for the meaning of and present evidence 
to point to a resolution. several writers and their positions represent the 
modern debate on this word. three authors , bailey , boswell , and , have 
provoked considerable discussion and significantly encouraged the wider 
acceptance of the homosexual lifestyle in society , in the church , and in the 
ministry .  . 


footnotes 

1. for convenience sake , the term homosexual is used to encompass both 
same sex orientation and same sex behavior. the meaning of this term is one of 
the main considerations of this study. 
2. these times are differnt from just over a century ago. then p 
 ( pastoral epistles , 1874 ) 891 ) could write of it 
is a term for which fortunately our language has no proper equivalent .  . 
unknowingly he thereby touched upon the basis for the contemporary debate and 
study. the present writer endorses the pauline authorship of the pastoral 
epistles on the basis of internal and external evidence  ( see donald guthrie , 
new testament introduction , 4th ed 1990 621 649 , for an extensive 
discussion and citation of supporters of the pauline  . 
3. for example , see  influence on m. olson , the web , the 
other side  ( april 1984 ) 24 29. for a study suggesting a further prohibition 
of homosexuality in the ot , see a. phillips , the father 's , 
vt 30 1  ( jan , 1980) 38 43 .  . for a bibliography of other sources dealing with 
, see the religion indexes  ( ny h. co. , 1987) .  . 

from (richard a chonak ) 
subject re hate the sin .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization l'organisation , c'est moi 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( bill , student) writes 
(scott holt ) writes 
hate the sin but love the sinner ... my question is whether that 
statement is consistent with christianity .  . i would think not. 

i'm very grateful for scott 's reflections on this oft quoted phrase .  . could 
someone please remind me of the scriptural source for it 

it 's not scriptural , but comes from the age , i think 
something about , , which sounds 
more like love the errant , slay the error . no doubt someone else 
will know in particular who minted the phrase .  . if i had to guess , i 'd 
blame ) st augustine , who seems to have had a gift for aphorism .  . 


richard aquinas chonak , 
sometimes , it 's necessary to act as if you believed .  . 

from rick  ( rick granberry ) 
subject re baptism requires faith 
reply to rick  ( rick granberry ) 
organization motorola paging and systems group 
lines 26 

in article lake . nj . us . (joseph h. buehler ) writes 

catholics view the effects of baptism slightly differently , and that 's 
one primary reason why they baptize babies. they believe that baptism 
produces a change in the soul of the baby , quite independently of any 
act on the part of the baby. this change in the baby 's soul 
gives the infant certain capabilities that he would not have 
without baptism .  . since the infant does not have the use of his 
intellect and will yet , these new faculties are  . but as the 
child gets older , the gifts of baptism come more and more into play. 

i guess i would react rather strongly to this line of thinking carried 
out ! when you think your army is stronger than mine , you would 
righteously take my children and baptize them , doing what you know is 
really best for them. 
you cannot possibly put this kind of action , nor the crusades into the 
context of the teachings of jesus god. i think he advocated a different 
approach that was by design made to be appealing , to those called by him , 
not chosen by a church practice. 
it seems to me you have the cause and effect switched , the change comes 
and then you get baptized .  . 


answer not a fool according to his folly , lest thou also be like unto him. 
answer a fool according to his folly , lest he be wise in his own conceit .  . 
 ( proverbs 26 4 5) 

from (richard a chonak ) 
subject  latin  mailing list 
reply to 
organization l'organisation , c'est moi 
lines 16 

from the june newsletter of the latin liturgy association 

there is a new e mail discussion group latin l , a forum for people 
interested in classical latin , medieval latin , neo latin the languages of 
choice are latin  ( of course) and whatever vulgar languages you feel 
comfortable using. please be prepared to translate on request. the field 
is open name your topic ! in order to subscribe , bitnet users should 
send an interactive message of the form tell sub latin l 
your name . internet users should send a message  ( without a subject 
line) to the address the message should read sub 
latin l your name . once subscribed , one may participate by sending 
messages to latin or latin 


richard aquinas chonak , 


from pages !  ( bruce f. webster ) 
subject re mormon temples 
reply to pages ! 
organization pages software inc. 
lines 23 

in article 
 ( mail server) writes 
i do n't necessarily object to the secrecy but i do question it , since i see 
no 
biblical reason why any aspect of christian worship should involve secrecy .  . 
but i am interested in your claim that early christian practices parallel 
mormon temple ceremonies .  . could you give an example also , why do they only 
parallel mormon ceremonies why do n't mormon ceremonies restore the original 
christian practices was n't that the whole point of joseph smith 's stated 
mission 


i 'd recommend reading mormonism and early christianity by hugh nibley , 
particularly the articles on christ 's forty day  ( post resurrection ) mission , 
baptism for the dead , early christian prayer circles , and temples (2 articles) .  . 
 .  . bruce .  .  . 


bruce f. webster a religion that does not require the sacrifice 
cto , pages software inc of all things never has power sufficient to 
produce the faith necessary unto life and 
import pages disclaimer . h . salvation .  . joseph smith 


from (david wagner ) 
subject re , esp. 
organization uh dept of math 
lines 67 

larry larry l. overacker ! writes 

i , not dave davis , wrote 

the canonical books were added much later in the church 's 
history. they do not have the same spiritual quality as the rest of 
scripture .  . i do not believe the church that added these books was 
guided by the spirit in so doing. and that is where this sort of 
discussion ultimately ends. 

sorry , i put my foot in my mouth , concerning the church 's history. 
it is correct to say that the council of hippo 393 listed the 
books among those accepted for use in the 
church , and that this was ratified by the council of carthage , 
and by pope i and i  ( 414  . 

yet 's history of the church says 

at the end of the fourth century views still differed in regard to 
the extent of the canon , or the number of the books which should 
be acknowledged as divine and authoritative .  . 

the jewish canon , or the hebrew bible , was universally 
received , while the apocrypha added to the greek version 
of the septuagint were only in a general way accounted as books 
suitable for church reading , and thus as a middle class between 
canonical and strictly apocryphal  ( pseudonymous ) writings .  . 
and justly for those books , while they have great historical 
value , and fill the gap between the old testament and the new , 
all originated after the cessation of prophecy , and the cannot 
be therefore regarded as inspired , nor are they ever cited 
by christ or the  . 

in the western church the canon of both testaments was closed 
at the end of the fourth century through the authority of 
jerome  ( who wavered , however , between critical doubts and the 
principle of tradition ) , and more especially of augustine , 
who firmly followed the canon of the septuagint , 
and the tradition in reference to the catholic 
epistles and the revelation though he himself , in some 
places , to consider the old testament apocrypha 
as canonical , bearing a subordinate authority .  . 

this history goes on to say that augustine attended both the 
council of hippo and of carthage .  . 

it is interesting to note , however , the following footnote to 
the fourth session of the council of trent .  . the footnote 
lists various which endorsed lists of canonical 
books , but then says the list or decree was the 
first infallible and promulgated declaration 
on the canon of the holy scriptures .  . 

which leads one to think that the rc canon was not official 
until trent .  . thus my previous erroneous statement was 
not entirely groundless .  . 

it is also interesting to note that the council of trent 
went on to uphold the old latin vulgate edition of 
the scriptures as authentic .  . which , i would suppose , 
today 's catholic scholars wish the council had never said. 
also the council made no distinction between canonical 
and canonical books in contrast to  ( eerdman 's statement of) the 
fourth century views. 

david wagner 
a confessional lutheran 

from 
subject re christianity and repeated lives 
organization city university of new york 
lines 36 

while this is essentially a discussion of reincarnation in the context of 
christianity gerry palo has made some comparisons to asian religious 
beliefs on this topic which have simplified the asian idea of karma 
to the point of misrepresentation .  . 

there are significant differences in the idea of karma among hindus , 
, buddhists  ( and even among the various buddhist traditions . ) . 

to refer to karma as a system of reward for past deeds is totally 
incorrect in the buddhist and jain traditions .  . karma is considered to 
be a moral process in which intentions  ( either good or evil ) shape 
a person 's for future intention and action and 
produce a person who is more prone to good than evil , or the opposite 
reward has nothing to do with it. both and buddhism are atheistic 
so there is no deity to dispense rewards or punishments .  . karma is usually 
described in terms of seeds and reaping the fruit thereof .  . in fact as you 
sow , so shall you reap is found in the canon as i recall , the metaphor 
of natural growth is explicit .  . 

hinduism , or some sects in that tradition , are i believe much more 
deterministic and involve concepts closer to reward and punishment being 
inclined .  . 

in point of fact , the buddhist tradition of southeast asia 
considers karma as only one of five influences in human life , and in 
fact from their point of view they would be unable to explain the mechanics 
of karma without the element of free will. 

also in eastern religions there is a difference between reincarnation and 
rebirth , which is essentially absent in western considerations .  . 

is n't origen usually cited as the most prestigious proponent of reincarnation 
among christian thinkers what were his views , and how did he relate them 
to the christian scriptures 

jack carroll 

from  ( darin johnson ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization cse dept. , u . c .  . san diego 
lines 33 

any attempts to make homosexuals 
feel unwelcome because of our discomfort with homosexuality is incompatible 
with christianity .  . is our hatred so deep that rather than see someone 
try to become closer to jesus , we need to keep them away. 

this is too often true. many people try to place this as a higher 
sin .  . however .  .  .  . 

does jesus need 
us to screen out those guilty of a particular sin .  . do we really mistrust 
jesus when he says he can forgive any sin 

a big part of the problem is that many of the homosexuals and people 
advocating acceptance of homosexuality in churches do not consider 
 ( active ) homosexuality a sin .  . i do n't often see the attitude of 
forgive me and i will try to change . instead i see there 's nothing 
wrong with my life and i can be a good christian , so it must be you who 
have an illness because you do n't accept me . christians can and will 
accept homosexuals , just as they will accept any sinner .  . 

sure , it may be natural to some people to be homosexual but it 
is also perfectly natural for everyone to sin ! i was born with 
a desire to sin , but i work to prevent myself from sinning .  . it 's 
much less common now , but i still have urges to out in 
anger .  . there also may not be a sudden disappearance of sinful 
desires  ( or ever ! ) , so it is sad to see people leave the church 
when they are discouraged that they are still homosexual after 
several years. 


darin johnson 

particle man , particle man , doing the things a particle can 

from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re sj mercury 's reference to fundamentalist christian parents 
reply to 
organization sun microsystems 
lines 15 

in article , (a rose arose ) writes 

raised in oakland and san lorenzo by strict fundamentalist 
christian parents , mason was beaten as a child. he once was 

were the san jose mercury news to come out with an article starting with 
raised in oakland by mexican parents , mason was beaten .  .  .  . , my face would 
be red with anger over the injustice done to my mexican family members and 


although i'm neither fundamentalist nor evangelical , i have often noticed 
this trend in the media. in short , it is permissable to bash fundamentalists .  . 
no need to a nationality such as mexican .  .  .  . try simply to 
substitute a different religion  .  .  . raised . by muslim parents , or  .  .  . raised . 
by jewish parents .  .  .  . the paper simply would not do this. 

from (michael d. walker ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 34 

 ( geno ) writes 

joseph h. buehler writes 

this all obviously applies equally well to infants or adults , since 
both have souls .  . infants must be baptized , therefore , or they cannot 
enter into heaven. they too need this form of life in them , or they 
cannot enter into heaven. 

are you saying that baptism has nothing to do with asking jesus to come into 
your heart and accepting him as your savior , but is just a ritual that we 
must go through to enable us to enter heaven 


my feeling on baptism is this parents baptize their baby so that the 
baby has the sanctifying grace of baptism  ( and thus removal of original 
sin) on its soul in the event of an unexpected death. 

that is , the parents speak on behalf of the child which is too young 
to speak on its own. this should not surprise anyone do n't parents 
always do what they believe is the best for their baby why would 
that apply to the baby 's physical needs only but not his her spiritual 
needs to have god 's grace 

the purpose of confirmation is for the baby  ( now young adult ) to 
decide to re affirm for himself herself the promises that his her 
parents made at baptism .  . that is where accepting jesus into your 
heart comes in. in baptism , the parents ask jesus to come into their 
baby 's heart at confirmation the child repeats that request 
independently .  . 

(by the way , these are my personal feelings , though i believe they are 
pretty close to what the doctrinal position of the catholic church on 
this issue. can anyone out there back me up or correct me 

from  ( russ hardy ) 
subject mary and idols 
organization environmental research institute of michigan , ann arbor , michigan 
lines 78 


i have been studying the bible now for about a year. i love it , 
but i am not very familiar with the different denominations , or 
traditions , or common beliefs of various christian groups. 
i have heard various people  ( outside this news group ) 
describe idols such as power , money , material 
possessions etc. these things are worshiped in some sense i 
suppose , but i never really gave idols much thought. until now .  .  .  . 

i have been reading the postings in this news group (which i 
just found a few days ago) , and i have a question .  .  .  . first , i'm 
not trying to question anyone 's belief or try to push my views 
on anyone else (i have n't been at this long enough to have 
any views other than i cannot get to heaven by being good , 
i must understand that christ bore my sins on the cross so that 
i could be saved and i need to repent , i.e. realize that 
every time i sin , i might as well stick a sharp stick in 
christ 's side because he took the punishment for my sins , 
when he died on the  . 

in my studies , mary never really comes up. i know who she is , 
but that 's about it. it seems to me that a statue of mary 
could be considered an idol do people pray to statues of mary 

it sounds like educated christians  ( more educated than myself 
i'm sure) believe mary was sinless wow .  .  .  . i hoped to spend 
the summer convincing myself  ( one way or the other) about 
tongues  ( i'm reading charismatic chaos ) .  . i guess i 'll study 
tongues in parallel with reading this news group. any help you can 
give me will be appreciated. 



i do n't think the issue is so much that people are more educated than 
you  ( though it may well be that they are) , as that they come from a 
different tradition than yours. 

this is a discussion between catholics and protestants .  . catholics 
generally believe that mary was sinless .  . protestants do not. the 
issue comes down to different sources of authority .  . protestants 
generally limit themselves to the bible as a source of doctrine .  . 
since this is n't in the bible (except in passages that no one would 
understand in this way if they did n't already believe it) , protestants 
do n't accept it. catholics see continuing revelation through the 
church , though they believe the results are consistent with the bible .  . 

i interpret your posting , not as a call for yet another argument about 
whether the catholic marian are idolatry  ( an argument i am 
not prepared to see here) , but as a sign of being interested in 
learning about traditions other than your own. catholics are of 
course a major one , but by no means the only one. i generally 
consider the major traditions to be catholic , orthodox , and 
various subsets of protestantism .  . within protestantism , it 's a matter 
of how finely you want to cut things. these days i think the major 
division is between those who accept biblical inerrancy and those 
who do n't .  . there are also a number of major historical traditions , 
but in recent decades distinctions are to blur .  . i 'd 
identify the major protestant traditions as 

lutheran , reformed , anglican  ( they 're sort of halfway between 
catholic and protestant ) , wesleyan , baptist , holiness , pentecostal , 
church of christ 

but there are a number of others. historical distinctions tend not to 
be so important among the liberal churches anymore , and i think 
current trends in society and the church are also to make 
conservatives seen themselves as allies from a general evangelical 
perspective. but differences among these various traditions are still 
quite marked .  . 

i think the best introduction to these issues is to read a good book 
on church history. anyone who wants to understand the church really 
needs to understand how we got where we are now. a church history 
will normally show you where each of these traditions came from , and 
give a feeling for their nature. unfortunately i'm away from my 
library at the moment , so i do n't have anything specific to recommend .  . 

clh 

from (stephen a. creps ) 
subject re the doctrine of original sin 
organization indiana university 
lines 15 

in article writes 
2 samuel 12 21 23  ( rsv ) 
... 
anyhow , many interpret this to mean that the child has gone to heaven 
(where david will someday  . i do n't claim to know for sure if this 
applies to all babies or not. but even if it 's just this one , what 
would you say to this 

that brings up an interesting question. if this interpretation is 
correct , how would these people be getting into heaven before jesus 
opened the gates of heaven 


steve creps , indiana university 


from (d .  . andrew byler ) 
subject re what was the immaculate conception 
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 12 

joe buehler writes 

there are various explanations for her reaction to the angel 's 
greeting .  . one is that she grasped what the angel was getting at , that 
she was to be the mother of the messiah .  . and knew what this , 
all the suffering .  . this gave her a moment 's pause .  . 

a priest i know gave me an interesting explanation. he said that the 
words of mary point not to doubt or troubled thoughts , but rather to 
complete  . those who are humble and do not revel in 
themselves frequently are confused when given high praise about 
themselves , as mary would rightly be. 

from 
subject an quoted argument for theism 
lines 26 

on sun 2 may 1993 , damon wrote 

a christian friend of mine once reasoned that if we were never 
created , we could not exists. therefore we were created , and 
therefore there exists a creator .  . 

i hesitate to comment on the validity of this , because i do not know 
what your friend meant by it. if he meant that whatever exists must 
have been created , then he is open to the obvious retort that god 
exists , and so god must have been created. 

perhaps your friend meant that we exist now but that there was a 
time when we did not exist , and therefore something other than 
ourselves must have brought us into existence .  . this seems plausible , 
but an atheist might reply , so my parents me. so what 
here your friend would have to explain why an infinite regress of 
causes is not a satisfactory explanation. he would have some support 
from philosophers who are not ordinarily considered religious  ( ayn 
rand , and some others who are in the tradition of  . having 
argued for a first cause , he would have to bridge the gap between 
said entity and the god of abraham .  . if he merely asserts that the 
things we observe are ultimately dependent on things radically 
unlike them , few physicists would disagree. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from 
subject traveling fatima  ( was re consecration and anniversary ) 
lines 48 

hello. 
i just like to share this rosary and other prayer propagation 
practice we do in my country. i am not sure if it is going on 
also here in the us or any other country. in all these 4 1 2 
yrs .  . i 've been here in illinois , usa , i have not encountered 
it. may i just call it traveling fatima since i do n't know 
of an exact translation of what we call it in my native language. 

for certain regions in a district in a town or city , an image 
statue of our lady of fatima is moved from one home  ( originating 
from owner ) to another. this will stay with that family for 
one (1) week and this family is required to pray the rosary and 
other prayers  ( prayer sheets accompany the image) to our lady 
of fatima .  . the move will be like a simple procession of folks 
picking up the image from its current  home  after  departing  
prayers and proceeds to move it to the next home which has the 
prior notification about the move. there will be the  receiving  
prayers at the next home to welcome our lady of fatima image 
there. it does not have to be that only members of the family 
in that home who must pray to the image. they may invite others 
 ( or others friends can invite themselves in )) to participate 
during prayer time in that  new  home everyday for one week. 
this image is moved from one family to the next within the 
bounded region of that district , until it goes back to the owner 
of the image. 

this is probably going on around there  ( philippines ) right now 
 ( or somebody correct me when exactly since i forgot ) and every 
year , this is part of our devotion to our lady of fatima .  . 

it has been easy to facilitate this back home because it is more 
likely that your next door neighbor is a catholic and the image 
then is just moved next door. 

i am thinking of starting something like it in the village where 
my sister and her family lives. most of our friends and neighbors 
there are catholics and practicing ones. 

i 'd like to know if there are any state community laws that this 
practice will violate , whatsoever , before i go for it. thank you 
for any comments or help about this matter. 






marida 

from hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in 
reply to hulman . edu . 
organization news service at rose hulman 
lines 13 

in article 
writes 
the question is how do they interpret these verses .  . we 
must now establish reasons for not believing this to be true based on the 
interpretation of these scriptures given by someone who has come to grips with 
them. 

i see no other way of interpreting them other than 
being wrong. please tell me how these verses can be interpreted in 
any other way. i read them and the surrounding text. 

in christ 's love , 
bryan 

from  ( seanna (s . m . ) . watson ) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 20 

in article writes 
in response to a question about why jesus  parents would be sanctified 
beyond normal humanity 

when elizabeth mary , elizabeth said something to the effect that 
mary , out of all women , was blessed .  . if so , it appears that this 
exactly places mary beyond the sanctification of normal humanity .  . 

i would think that simply being pregnant with the incarnation of the 
almighty god would be enough to make mary blessed among all women , whether 
or not she had special spiritual attributes .  . i find that the more special 
mary needs to be , the less human jesus gets .  . 


seanna watson bell northern research , pray that at the end of living , 
ottawa , ontario , canada of philosophies and creeds , 
god will find his people busy 
opinion , what opinions oh these opinions. planting trees and sowing seeds .  . 
no , they 're not bnr 's , they 're mine. 
i knew i 'd left them somewhere. fred kaan 

from crackle !  ( name ) 
subject why i am not bertrand russell  ( 2nd request) 
reply to  ( derek abbott ) 
organization electrical electronic eng. , university of adelaide 
lines 4 

could the guy who wrote the article why i am not bertrand russell 
resend me a copy 

sorry , i accidently deleted my copy and forgot your name. 

from  ( mail server) 
subject christian homosexuality  ( part 2 of 2) 
lines 226 

 ( this is a continuation of an earlier post) 

(michael siemon ) writes 
for those christians who do think that some parts of leviticus can 
be law for christians  ( while others are not even to be thought about) 
it is incumbent on you in every case , handled on its own merits to 
determine why you pick one and ignore another. i frankly think the 
whole effort misguided .  . reread paul no doubt i am free to do anything. 
but christians have a criterion to use for making our judgments on this , 
the great commandment of love for god and neighbor .  . if you cannot go 
through leviticus and decide each command there on that basis , then 
your own arbitrary selection from it is simply  . in this 
context , it is remarkably offensive to say 

i notice that the verse forbidding immediately follows the 
verse prohibiting what appears to be homosexual intercourse .  . 

(i am sorry you found this offensive .  . it was not my intent to offend .  . i was 
leading up to another point , which i discuss in more detail below . ) . 

well , la ti da .  . so what this is almost as slimey an argument as the 
one that homosexuality rape .  . i know of no one who argues seriously 
 ( though one can always find jokers ) in defense of  . it is 
absolutely irrelevant and incomparable to the issues gay christians do 
raise (which concern sexual activity within committed , consensual human 
adult realtionships ) , so that your bringing it up is no more relevant 
than the laws of  . if you cannot address the actual issues , you 
are being bloody dishonest in trailing this red herring in front of the 
world. if you want to address , that is your business , not 
mine. and attempting to torpedo a serious issue by using what is in 
our culture a ridiculous joke shows that you have no interest in hearing 
us as human beings .  . you want to dismiss us , and use the means 
you can think of to do so. 

i can see you have a revulsion for that far exceeds my for 
homosexuality .  . certainly if i spoke about homosexuality the way you speak of 
, nobody would have any trouble labelling me a homophobe .  . let me ask 
this gently why are you so judgemental of other people 's sexual preferences 
what happened to no doubt i am free to do anything i think you have a 
serious double standard here. when you describe a comparison between 
homosexuality and as slimey and sleazy , you are making an 
implicit judgement that is perverted , sinful , disgusting , 
unnatural in short , all the things that society once thought about 
homosexuality .  . not all people share your view. you claim not to know any 
sincere , but this does not mean that they do not exist. they even 
have their own newsgroup alt . sex .  . are you going to accuse them 
all of being mere jokers 

i notice you deleted the main point of my comment the fact that the only 
biblical condemnations of occur in connection with the levitical 
prohibitions against homosexuality .  . while there are some new testament 
passages that can arguably be taken as condemning homosexuality , there are none 
that condemn  . one of your main points seems to be that christian 
homosexuality is acceptable due to the lack of any clear new testament 
statements against it if this is a valid argument , then should not christian 
be made that much more acceptable by the fact that the new testament 
makes no reference , clear or unclear , to the subject at all 

i am quite serious here. if i am going to accept homosexuality as biblically 
acceptable on the basis of your arguments , then i am going to be fair and apply 
the same standards to everyone else 's declared sexual preferences as well. if 
the arguments you make for homosexuality can be applied to other sexual 
preferences as well , i'm going to apply them and see what comes up. i'm not 
trying to torpedo a serious issue by using what you label a ridiculous 
joke . i posted a question about how we should interpret biblical guidelines 
for christian sexuality , and i do n't think such a question is irrelevant in a 
group called soc . religion . christian . . the bible discusses homosexuality and 
together in the same context , and therefore i feel i have a good 
precedent for doing the same. 

jesus and paul both expound , very explictly and in considerable length , 
the central pin of christian moral thought we are required to 
love one another , and all else depends on that. gay and lesbian christ 
ians challenge you to address the issue on those terms and all we get 
in return are cheap debate tricks attempting to side track the issues. 

i do n't know whether it makes any difference , but for the record , this is not a 
side issue for me. i believe loving one another includes not encouraging 
people to themselves , therefore it is of high importance to determine 
whether god regards certain sexual acts as defiling .  . i can read in the new 
testament that god has joined together heterosexual couples , and that the 
marriage bed is  . i can read in the old testament that homosexual 
intercourse and a person whether or not that person is under 
the law. if gay christians can validly put aside the old testament standards 
of , then i want to know so that i can fairly apply it to all the 
sexual practices that a person in the old days. i do n't think it 's 
right to take just bits and pieces of the law and try and apply them to 
christians today , e.g. still you but homosexuality does n't .  . 
that was pretty much what you said earlier , right you used different 
examples , but i think you said essentially the same thing about it being wrong 
to apply only certain parts of the law to christians .  . 

christians , no doubt very sincere ones , keep showing up here and in every 
corner of usenet and the world , and all they ever do is spout these same 
old verses (which they obviously have never thought about , maybe never 
even read) , in total ignorance of the issues raised , slandering us with 
the vilest charges of child abuse or whatever their minds can 
manage to conjure up , tossing out red herrings with  ( they suppose) great 
emotional force to cause readers to dismiss our witness without even 
taking the trouble to find out what it is. 

it was not my intent to stir up such an emotional reaction. i personally do n't 
get all that upset discussing alternatives to the monogamous heterosexual 
orientation i'm afraid i assumed that others would have a similar 
attitude. please note that i have never intended to equate homosexuality with 
child abuse .  . i have merely noted that , for all the lack of clear nt 
condemnation of homosexuality , there is an even greater lack of nt condemnation 
 ( or even mention ) of , a practice which a number of people (e . g .  . on 
alt . sex . consider to be their true sexual orientation .  . 

such behavior should shame anyone who claims to have seen truth in christ .  . 
why , for god 's precious sake , do you people quote irrelevant verses to 
condemn people you do n't know and wo n't even take the trouble to listen 
to before you start your condemnations is that loving your neighbor 
god forbid ! is that how you obey the repeated commands to not judge or 
condemn others christ and paul spend orders of magnitude more time in 
insisting on this than the half dozen obscure words in paul that you are 
so bloody ready to take as license to do what god tells you not to do. 

why , for god 's sake 
quote from john 3 omitted for brevity 

this is an excellent question , and i pray that you will not treat it as a mere 
rhetorical question , but will genuinely seek to discover and understand the 
answer. i recommend you begin with a little introspection into why you 
yourself have much the same attitude towards  . why do you find 
so repugnant that you regard it as slanderous to even mention in 
connection with other alternative sexual orientations why do you not apply 
all the same verses about love and tolerance to the way you apply 
them to homosexuals 

is it because you automatically experience a subjective feeling of revulsion at 
the thought a lot of people have the same experience at the thought of 
homosexual intercourse .  . is it because you regard the practice as socially 
unacceptable a lot of people regard homosexuality as socially unacceptable .  . 
do you feel that it violates the traditional judeo christian standard of sexual 
morality many people feel that homosexuality does. do you feel the bible 
condemns it many people think the bible says more to condemn homosexuality 
than it does to condemn  . why then do you think comparing 
with homosexuality is insulting to homosexuality if you can honestly answer 
this question , you will have come a long way towards understanding why many 
people feel the same way about homosexuality as you feel about  . 

also please note that i am not in any sense condemning people . i am merely 
pointing out that when i read the bible i see certain sexual practices that 
the bible appears to condemn , e.g. sex outside of marriage. when i say i think 
adultery and pre marital sex are sinful , do you take that as me failing to love 
my neighbor when you treat as something disgusting and 
, are you disobeying repeated orders not to judge or condemn 
others when you say other christians are guilty of sinning by condemning you 
and judging you , are you by that accusation making yourself guilty of the same 
offense or are you and i both simply taking note about practices the bible 
brands as sinful , and leaving the judgement of the people up to god 

for long ages , we  ( many of us) have been confused by evil counsel from 
evil men and told that if we came to the light we would be shamed and 
rejected .  . some of us and took to courses that probably do 
show a sinful of god 's light. blessed are those whose spirits 
have been crushed by the self righteous they shall be justified .  . 

however , we have seen the truth , and the truth is the light of humanity 
and we now know that it is not we who fear the light , but our enemies who 
fear the light of our witness and will do everything they can to shadow 
it with the darkness of false witness against us. 

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 82 6 7 

i'm not sure what you mean by the above two paragraphs .  . if you mean that jesus 
is the truth , and that he accepts sinners , and does not reject them , then i 
agree. if we were not sinners , then we would not need a savior .  . our 
salvation in christ , however , does not mean that sin is now irrelevant for us , 
and we can now do whatever we want. nor does christ 's grace mean that those 
who refer to sin as sin are being judgemental or intolerant .  . i am speaking 
in general terms here , not specifically about homosexuality .  . if the bible 
calls something sin , then it is not unreasonable for christians to call it 
sin too. 

as applied to christian homosexuality , i think the only definitive authority on 
christian sexuality is the bible .  . if you make a list of everything the bible 
says on the subject of homosexual intercourse , i think you will find that every 
verse on the list is negative and condemning at worst , and unclear at best. 
the most pro gay statement you could make about the list is that there is some 
dispute about the new testament verses which many people interpret as 
condemning homosexual intercourse .  . that is , from a gay perspective , the most 
positive thing you can say about the bible 's treatment of homosexuality is that 
some verses fail to clearly condemn it. that 's it. jesus declared all foods 
clean , the council at jerusalem declared that gentiles were not required to 
keep the ritual law , but nobody ever homosexual intercourse from 
being an abomination deserving of death to being an accepted christian 
practice. you have verses describing homosexual intercourse as an abomination 
that both jews under the law and gentiles not under the law , and you 
have some verses which are at best not clear but which some people believe 
are clear in their condemnation of homosexual behavior , and that 's the sum 
total of what the bible says about same sex intercourse .  . 

i can appreciate (from personal experience) your desire to have everything 
simple , cut and dried , black and white , what i want is ok , and 
those who oppose me are wicked .  . however , i do not think the bible makes your 
case as definitively as you would like it to. in fact , i do n't believe it says 
anything positive about your case at all. yes , i know the verses about loving 
one another , and not judging one another , but that 's not really the issue , is 
it you know and admit that there are still things that are sinful for 
christians to do , since you say it is wrong for christians to condemn you. 
therefore , the issue is whether the bible says homosexual intercourse is a sin .  . 
even if you do challenge the clarity of the new testament verses , you are still 
left with the fact that the only thing the bible does say clearly about 
homosexual intercourse is that it is an abomination that both those who 
are under the law and those who are not. 

mark 


actually i do n't think the reaction to the comparision with 
is based on  . i think what he regards as 
slimey is the rhetorical approach of connecting homosexuality and 
 . most people who accept homosexuality take a radical 
approach to the law. they regard all of lev as not binding on 
christians .  . the argument is that there 's no way in the text to 
separate , homosexuality , and wearing mixed  . this 
does not mean that such people have no limits on their conduct , nor 
does it mean that they accept  . it simply means that their 
sexual ethics does not come from the law , and particularly not from 
lev .  . clh 

from  ( sheila patterson ) 
subject re mary 's assumption 
organization cornell university cit 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( marxhausen paul) writes feeling that the assumption of mary would be better phrased our 

text deleted 
i also do n't see the necessity of saying the holy parents were some 
how sanctified beyond normal humanity it sounds like our own inability 
to grasp the of god 's grace in being incarnated through an or 
human being. 

text deleted 

paul marxhausen 

thank you very much paul .  . i have always been impressed by the very human ness of 
mary .  . that god chose a woman , like me , to bring into this world the incarnation 
of himself proves to me that this god is my god. he reaches down from his 
perfection to touch me. ah , the wonder of it all ) 


sheila patterson , cit cr technical support group 
315 ccc cornell university 
ithaca , ny 14853 
 ( 607 ) 255 

from  ( lisa stewart) 
subject christian embassy in dc 
reply to 
organization lawrence berkeley laboratory 
lines 6 

does anyone know about the christian embassy in washington dc what 
exactly does it do 

please respond to 

thanks 

from 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization fnal ad net 
lines 39 

in article (michael 
siemon ) writes 

romans 1 27 
i corinthians 6 9 
i timothy 1 10 
jude 1 7 
ii peter 2 6 9 
gen. 19 
lev 18 22 
 ( to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality ) 

homosexual christians have indeed checked out these verses .  . some of 
them are used against us only through incredibly perverse interpretations .  . 
others simply do not address the issues. 

you would seem to be more in need of a careful and spirit led course 
in exegesis than most of the gay christians i know. i suggest that 
you stop proof texting about things you know nothing about. 

michael 

well , michael , i do n't know if clh has left them in the faq  ( maybe you should 
post the how to get there map again) , but i posted two or three lengthy 
exegetical paper on these verses .  . they looked at the ot , nt and 
usages of terms in reference. i would suggest you read those 
before you talk about a need in exegetical studies. if those are n't enough , 
i could also provide the source and nt meaning of . dr james 
published it in the masters seminary journal in fall of '92 .  . to read 
any of these 4 papers shows that the shoe is on the other foot as far as a need 
for honest exegesis .  . 

again , please refer to the faq file , or if you are unable to it , drop me 
a line and i will enclose them to you. 



they 're in a separate file , which i gave a pointer to in my posting 
yesterday. clh 

from 
subject legal definition of religion 
lines 31 

edgar pearlstein asks  ( fri 7 may 1993) whether the supreme court , or 
any other government authority , has attempted a legal definition of 
religion. 

the universal military training and service act of 1958 exempted 
from the draft those whose religious training and belief was 
opposed to participation in war in any form. it defined r t b as 
an individual 's belief in a relation to a supreme being involving 
duties superior to those arising from any human relation , but not 
including essentially political , , or philosophical 
views or a merely personal moral code. 

in the 1965 case of united states v. seeger , the supreme court 
broadened the definition so as not to restrict it to explicit 
theists .  . justice tom clark , delivering the court 's opinion , said 

we have concluded that congress , in using the expression supreme 
being rather than the designation god , .... the test of belief 
in a relation to a being is whether a given belief that 
is sincere and meaningful occupies a place in the life of its 
possessor parallel to that filled by the orthodox belief in god 
of one who clearly qualifies for the exemption .  . where such 
beliefs have parallel positions in the lives of their respective 
holders we cannot say that one is in a relation to a supreme 
being and the other is not .  .  .  .  . 

my immediate reference is the first freedom , by nat , 
 ( delacorte 1980 , dell 1981) .  . 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from 
subject knights of columbus 
lines 9 


the initiations ceremony for knights is almost 
as secretive as that for the mafia .  . 

what are the phases of and why the 


dale 


from  ( thomas galen ault ) 
subject re catholic doctrine of predestination 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 24 

in article (stephen a. creps ) writes 
in article writes 

the catholic doctrine of predestination does not exclude free will in 
any way. since god knows everything , he therefore knows everything that 
is going to happen to us. we have free will , and are able to change 
what happens to us. however , since god knows everything , he knows all 
the choices we will make in advance  ( god is not subject to time) .  . too 
often arguments pit predestination against free will. we believe in 
both. 

curiously enough , this subject has occupied a good bit of my prayer life 
recently. god 's experience of time is so completely different from our own , 
since he is both within and without it. using words like foreknowledge 
and predestination are incorrect when it comes to describing 
god 's perception of our action , because , for god , the beginning , living , and 
ending of our lives are all the same. sort of. for god , there is no before 
when he did not know , so he could not have foreknowledge of our lives or 
a time when he could have predestined our actions .  . in fact , since our 
understanding of things is so tied to our linear experience of time , i 
would say that it is impossible for us to understand completely how our 
free will interacts with god 's control of the universe. 

tom 

from  ( stan friesen ) 
subject re major views of the trinity 
reply to 
lines 43 

in article , you write 

yes. my comments were long enough that i do n't want to repeat 
them here , but i 'll send them via email back to the author. 
certainly it was not intended to be a description of three similar 
deities , though i certainly see why it would look that way. 

thanks for the letter , your comments helped some. 

as to the last comment , i certainly realize that it was not intended to 
sound that way. i am still trying to understand how a spiritual being 
truly be one and three at the same time. all of the descriptions 
of this are either platonic or sound like special pleading  ( sort of , 
they appear to be three seperate beings in all ways , but really they are 
one , trust me ) .  . 

neither of these is acceptible to me. 

the fact is , so far the only descriptions of the trinity that makes any 
sense to me are the ones , such as 
or economic trinitarianism . i can accept that the three aspects are 
intrinsic to the nature of god , so i perhaps lean more towards the latter . 

i am trying , here , to see if anybody can come up with another description 
that is both orthodox and believable .  . 


 ( formerly ! sarima ) 
or 


i fear orthodox theologians have been overly in love with paradox , to 
the extent that well meaning people think they 've just flat out 
confused. there 's no problem with things being both 3 and 1 , e.g. if 
the 3 are different parts of the 1. father , son , and holy spirit 
are n't exactly parts of god , because parts are things distinguished by 
physical separation .  . all three persons are omnipresent , so they are 
obviously are n't physically separate .  . but they 're in some way 
different aspects , modes , or whatever , of one god. if you accept 
economic trinitarianism , it 's possible that you do n't have any 
substantive difference with the standard view. is it possible that 
you just do n't find the neo platonic explanation illuminating 
clh 

from 
subject re dreams and out of body incidents 
organization at t 
lines 44 

in article (david e. goggin ) writes 

i 'd like to get your comments on a question that has been on my mind a 
lot what morals ethics apply to dreams and out of body incidents 

dave you might like to read a book by god 
wants you rich other doctrines , which discusses 
in one of her chapters .  . 

in the bible we have examples of men caught up in the spirit (eg 
ezekiel , paul) .  . i believe that also this experience is 
by satan so that for example and other 
eastern techniques can be used to induce the soul to 
leave the body and float off. someone tried to sell me a book in 
los angeles airport entitled easy to other planets 
which uses such techniques. 

the occultic trance of a medium sometimes involves such body 
departure the book the challanging counterfeit , about a 
former medium who gets saved , tells how the author , on his last 
trance , was attacked by evil spirits who tried to kill him 
while returning to his body at the end of the 
because of his interest in christianity and how he was 
protected by the lord .  . 

there may be some similarities in mind altering drugs and the 
phenomena of  . 

as regards the connection between body and soul , there is an 
interesting verse in ecclesiastes .  . in a passage talking about 
old age , the preacher writes then man goes to his eternal home 
and go about the streets. remember him before the 
silver cord is severed .  . (12 . 5 . 6) my understanding of this 
silver cord is that it is something that attaches body and soul 
in a manner somewhat similar to an umbilical cord or an 
astronaut 's air line to his spaceship .  . 
when a person goes out of body this silver cord still attaches 
the soul whereever it goes and is vulnerable to being broken 
astral projection can be dangerous ! , i think , reports a 
case of a yogi off on an who was found dead in his 
apartment , with no apparent external cause. 

barney 
many shall run to and fro , knowledge shall increase  ( daniel ) 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 38 

in article (michael siemon ) writes 
i notice that the verse forbidding immediately follows the 
verse prohibiting what appears to be homosexual intercourse .  . 

it is 
absolutely irrelevant and incomparable to the issues gay christians do 
raise (which concern sexual activity within committed , consensual human 
adult realtionships ) , so that your bringing it up is no more relevant 
than the laws of  . if you cannot address the actual issues , you 
are being bloody dishonest in trailing this red herring in front of the 
world. 

no. it is very relevant .  . homosexual acts and acts of are 
together in the law. this is very important. 
anyone who would want to say that this command against homosexuality 
deals with temple prostitution  ( and i think you would agree that there 
is no proof for this . ) . if the law reveals the character of god , and 
is holy , just , and good as is written in the new testament , then 
those who consider we who are against commiting homosexuals acts 
to be have to address this passage of scripture .  . 

why must we only discuss scriptures that involve consensual human 
adult relationships is n't that bordering on sophistry the point 
we are making is that god did not ordain certain kinds of sex acts .  . 
not everyone who brings up these scriptures is just trying to use and emotional 
argument that compares homosexuals to and child  . 
the issue we are dealing with is that some sex acts are ungodly .  . 

i do not have problem with a loving , relationship with a member 
of the same sex. i have them , and we all do. the issue at hand is 
the sinfulness having sex with members of the same sex , or after. 
so other forbidden sex acts are a valid topic for conversation. 

and the idea that these relationships may be emotional relationships 
between adult humans is red herring .  . we all agree that it is okay 
for adults to have caring relationships with one another. 

link hudson .  . 

from (john kolassa ) 
subject re definition of christianity 
organization university of rochester biostatistics .  . 
lines 29 

in article clh writes 

often we get into discussions about who is christian .  . unfortunately 
there are a number of possible definitions .  . starting from the 
broadest , commonly used definitions are 

3) the next level is an attempt to give a broad doctrinal definition , 
which includes all of the major strands of christianity , but excludes 
groups that are felt to be outside historic christianity .  . this is 
of course a slippery enterprise , since catholics could argue that 
protestants are outside historic christianity , etc. but i think the 
most commonly accepted definition would be based on something like the 
nicene creed and the formula of chalcedon .  . 

are you sure you want to include chalcedon here i presume that you 
mean the description of jesus as fully human and fully devine .  . almost 
everyone would consider the majority of copts and armenians , and the 
, as christians , yet for 15 centuries it has been maintained 
that they disagree with the formula of chalcedon .  . those that would n't 
consider them christians are most likely to object that these communities 
do n't require a personal commitment to jesus , which is only tangentially 
related to the formula of chalcedon .  . 

thanks , john , 

as i understand the recent discussion here , the copts for all 
practical purposes accept chalcedon .  . they talk about one nature 
rather than two , but the issue seems to be one of terminology rather 
than substance .  . clh 

from  ( frank decenso , jr . ) . 
subject re christianity in crisis 
organization youngstown state youngstown free net 
lines 371 

from bit . listserv . christia . 

zane writes .  .  .  . 

from  ( zane of dhahan ) 
newsgroups bit . listserv . christia . 
subject christianity in crisis 
date wed may 12 14 43 19 1993 

frank , first of all , thanks for all of the great scripture verses .  . it 
was a pleasure to read them. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
you are welcome , zane .  . 

zane .  .  .  . 
i am sure nothing that i will say will change your mind about it .  .  .  . but i 
would like to ask you if the book in question really does anything for you. 
i mean , were you all caught up in the word faith thing , but now that you 
have read the book you 've been rescued from all of the error and pain that 
will result in your christian life 

my reply .  .  .  . 
(1) when i first became a christian , i entered into the word faith 
movement. it was easy. i was n't grounded in the word of god and sound 
doctrine .  . when i visited christian book stores , the cheapest books i 
could find to buy were the .50 and 1.00 books by and others. 
consequently , i began receiving 's monthly magazine  ( and they 
still send it to me) , and also copeland 's  ( also , still sent to me) .  . 
it was n't until i read a booklet by jimmy called hyper faith 
the new gnosticism that i began to realize the teachings i were 
of were error. i started reading the bible more and studying 
more. sure enough , jimmy was right in many points. as part of my 
experience , i am christians , particularly new christians , that 
these teachings are heretical and they need to do as the did in 
acts 17 11 check these teachings out with scripture ! 

(2) my brother in law was involved in a word faith cult in my area it 's 
leader is real good friends with benny hinn .  . rather then going into 
much detail about this , suffice it to say he was deceived , mistreated , and 
has now fallen into atheism .  . i'm still praying for him  . 1 6) .  . 

(3) the assistant pastor at the church i teach adult sunday school in has been 
a  of copeland for 15 years. he has thousands of tapes by the 
faith teachers .  . in the class recently , i quoted several of the teachers  
heretical statements to his surprise. since then , i 've been able to talk 
to him at length about these issues. 

(4) the leader of the women 's group at my church is a benny hinn  . 
recently , i found that she has been lending good morning , holy spirit to 
women in the church. that prompted my quotes in sunday school , as well as 
my lending to people in the church. 

i'm well aware of the abuses and heresies perpetrated in this movement and 
have an urgency in my heart and life to warn people about the heresies .  . 
what heresies 
a. jesus became sin took on the very nature of the devil , and became 
one with him. 
b. jesus  death on the cross was n't enough to atone .  . 
c. jesus was dragged to hell after his death , was beat and abused by 
satan and demons , thus finishing our atonement .  . satan was ruling 
over him there. 
d. jesus was again  in hell. 
e. jesus died spiritually , lost his divinity , and it after 
the resurrection .  . 
f. we are gods .  . 

these are heresies .  . documentation will be provided re these teachings 
upon request. 

zane .  .  .  . 
or what does it do for you is it preventing you from going out and 
joining up with the word faith movement which you 'd been contemplating 
joining for so long , but now that you 've read the book , you 've been saved 
from all of that 

my reply .  .  .  . 
it was n't christianity in crisis that helped me it was a booklet by 
that i mentioned above. but is much , much better tremendous 
documentation and insights .  . 

zane .  .  .  . 
i do n't have a nice scriptural answer for why i believe it is at best un 
profitable for christians to engage in this type of activity heresy hunting .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
why do you call it heresy hunting hunting implies it is n't readily 
accessible or available. this movement is the fastest growing movement in 
christendom .  . has sold over 40 million books and booklets .  . hinn has sold 
more books in the last couple of years than and dobson combined .  . fred 
price has the largest church in terms of seating capacity in the usa .  . does n't 
sound like much hunting is needed. 

it is scriptural to expose doctrinal error. i gave some verses to you before. 
more can be given. most of the epistles were written due to error  ( doctrinal , 
practical ) in the churches. the early church had numerous councils to expose 
error and heresy .  . it 's not a new thing. remember luther 

zane .  .  .  . 
i would like to point out though , that historically those who hunt heretics 
often end up causing a bigger mess than the heretics .  .  .  . but this is my un 
documented opinion. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
(1) if you can provide documentation , it would be appreciated. 
(2) read ephesians 4 11 16 , esp. vss .  . 13 and 14 and tell me what causes 
and immaturity in the body. 

eph 4 13 14 till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of 
the son of god , to a perfect man , to the measure of the stature of the 
of christ that we should no longer be children , tossed to and fro and carried 
about with every wind of doctrine , by the trickery of men , in the cunning 
of deceitful plotting .  .  .  .  . 

, contrary to popular opinion , is n't caused by exposing error it 's 
caused by error. 

zane .  .  .  . 
there are many who probably give no place for seeing the scriptures as 
documenting a spiritual development or growth in its writers but i would 
suggest that the fiery paul of the letter to the galatians and 
into the one who loses all for the sake of love in the end. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
most scholars believe paul wrote 2 timothy last. let 's examine his admonitions 
to tim to ascertain how mellow he had become .  .  .  . 

1 13 15 hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me , 
in faith and love which are in christ jesus .  . that good thing which was 
committed to you , keep by the holy spirit who dwells in us. this you know , that 
all those in asia have turned away from me , among whom are and 
 . 

2 15 18 be diligent to present yourself approved to god , a worker who does 
not need to be ashamed , rightly dividing the word of truth. but shun profane 
and idle , for they will increase to more ungodliness .  . and their 
message will spread like cancer. and are of this sort , who 
have strayed concerning the truth , saying that the resurrection is already 
past and they overthrow the faith of some. 

2 24 26 and a servant of the lord must not quarrel but be gentle to all , 
able to teach , patient , in humility correcting those who are in opposition , if 
god perhaps will grant them repentance , so that they may know the truth , and 
that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil , having 
been taken captive by him to do his will. 

3 6 9 for of this sort are those who creep into households and make 
captives of gullible women loaded down with sins , led away by various lusts , 
always learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. now as 
and resisted moses , so do these also resist the truth men of 
corrupt minds , disapproved concerning the faith but they will progress no 
further , for their folly will be manifest to all , as theirs also was. 

3 12 17 yes , and all who desire to live godly in christ jesus will suffer 
persecution .  . but evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse , deceiving 
and being deceived .  . but you must continue in the things which you have learned 
and been assured of , knowing from whom you have learned them , and that from 
childhood you have known the holy scriptures , which are able to make you wise 
for salvation through faith which is in christ jesus .  . all scripture is given by 
inspiration of god , and is profitable for doctrine , for reproof , for 
correction , for instruction in righteousness , that the man of god may be 
complete , thoroughly equipped for every good work. 

4 2 5 preach the word ! be ready in season and out of season. convince , 
rebuke , exhort , with all and teaching .  . for the time will come 
when they will not endure sound doctrine , but according to their own desires , 
because they have itching ears , they will heap up for themselves teachers and 
they will turn their ears away from the truth , and be turned aside to fables .  . 
but you be in all things , endure , do the work of an 
evangelist , fulfill your ministry .  . 

4 14 15 alexander the coppersmith did me much harm .  . may the lord repay him 
according to his works. you also must beware of him , for he has greatly 
resisted our words. 

zane .  .  .  . 
the picture i have of paul is not of one who goes out of his way to destroy 
the ministry of wolves .  .  .  . but of one who teaches the sheep , with many tears , 
the necessity of absolutely not allowing themselves to be transformed into 
wolves to protect themselves. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
act 20 26 31 therefore i testify to you this day that i am innocent of the 
blood of all men. for i have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel 
of god. therefore take heed to yourselves and to all the flock , among which 
the holy spirit has made you , to shepherd the church of god which he 
purchased with his own blood. for i know this , that after my departure savage 
wolves will come in among you , not sparing the flock .  . also from among 
yourselves men will rise up , speaking perverse things , to draw away the 
disciples after themselves. therefore watch , and remember that for three years 
i did not cease to warn everyone night and day with tears. 

zane .  .  .  . 
for all the warning paul does , it is of note that he never once drops a name 
of a wolf .  .  .  .  . but i will admit he cries in his beard at the end over those 
who have abandoned him everyone in asia was n't it 

my reply .  .  .  . 
paul mentioned names .  .  .  . 

1 18 20 this charge i commit to you , son timothy , according to the 
prophecies previously made concerning you , that by them you may wage the good 
warfare , having faith and a good conscience , which some having rejected , 
concerning the faith have suffered , of whom are and 
alexander , whom i delivered to satan that they may learn not to blaspheme .  . 

1 15 this you know , that all those in asia have turned away from me , among 
whom are and  . 

2 16 18 but shun profane and idle , for they will increase to more 
ungodliness .  . and their message will spread like cancer. and 
are of this sort , who have strayed concerning the truth , saying that the 
resurrection is already past and they overthrow the faith of some. 

4 10 for has forsaken me , having loved this present world , and has 
departed for for , titus for  . 

4 14 15 alexander the coppersmith did me much harm .  . may the lord repay him 
according to his works. you also must beware of him , for he has greatly 
resisted our words. 

so did john .  .  .  . 

1 9 10 i wrote to the church , but , who loves to have the 
preeminence among them , does not receive us. therefore , if i come , i will call 
to mind his deeds which he does , against us with malicious words. and 
not content with that , he himself does not receive the brethren , and forbids 
those who wish to , putting them out of the church. 

jesus also singled out teachings and doctrines .  .  .  . 

rev 2 14 16 but i have a few things against you , because you have there those 
who hold the doctrine of , who taught to put a stumbling block 
before the children of israel , to eat things sacrificed to idols , and to commit 
sexual immorality .  . thus you also have those who hold the doctrine of the 
, which thing i hate.  repent , or else i will come to you quickly 
and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. 

rev 2 20 23 nevertheless i have a few things against you , because you allow 
that woman , who calls herself a , to teach and my 
servants to commit sexual immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols .  . and i 
gave her time to repent of her sexual immorality , and she did not repent .  . 
indeed i will cast her into a , and those who commit adultery with her 
into great tribulation , unless they repent of their deeds .  . i will kill her 
children with death , and all the churches shall know that i am he who searches 
the minds and hearts. and i will give to each one of you according to your 
works. 

zane .  .  .  . 
i question too , the purposes of those who write books and build ministries 
on the faults deliberate or otherwise of others. maybe if they would 
wander around in the desert eating locust and honey , or barely  .  . with . 
no worldly goods at stake , money to be made , or no reputations to maintain .  .  .  . 
i would question their motives conscious or otherwise less. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
i wo n't comment on this because it deals with the motives of others. 
but even if they had bad motives , remember what paul said .  .  .  . 

phi 1 15 18 some indeed preach christ even from envy and strife , and some also 
from good will the former preach christ from selfish ambition , not sincerely , 
supposing to add affliction to my chains but the latter out of love , knowing 
that i am appointed for the defense of the gospel .  . what then only that in 
every way , whether in pretense or in truth , christ is preached and in this i 
rejoice , yes , and will rejoice .  . 

zane .  .  .  . 
if we want to be true to the admonitions of scripture many of which you 
list about protecting ourselves and the flock from wolves and winds of 
doctrines , i suggest we start by allowing the wolf program in our own 
pasture to be nailed to the cross .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
please explain. 

zane .  .  .  . 
secondly , i suggest any heresy hunting be restricted to our own fellowships 
which in the strict scriptural sense is the local city church. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
if heresy was not being propagated over the mass media , then it may not be 
needed to go mass media with the exposure .  . unfortunately , heresy is being 
taught not just in copeland 's church or 's or hinn 's or price 's , but all 
over the radio , in print , etc. no pastor or church leader knows what materials 
the sheep are feeding on outside the church. it 's imperative that leadership 
be made aware of this , and does just that. 

also , let 's examine a passage of scripture .  .  .  . 
eph 4 11 and he himself gave some to be apostles , some prophets , some 
evangelists , and some pastors and teachers , 
eph 4 12 for the of the saints for the work of ministry , for the 
of the body of christ , 

these ministry gifts that the lord installs in the church are not just for one 
individual church , but for the body of christ . 
paul was an apostle he traveled all over distilling his message. he was also 
a teacher 
4 17 for this reason i have sent timothy to you , who is my beloved and 
faithful son in the lord , who will remind you of my ways in christ , as i teach 
everywhere in every church. 
7 17 but as god has distributed to each one , as the lord has called each 
one , so let him walk. and so i ordain in all the churches. 

also 
12 28 and god has appointed these in the church first apostles , second 
prophets , third teachers , after that miracles , then gifts of healings , helps , 
administrations , varieties of tongues .  . 

eph 4 13 till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of 
the son of god , to a perfect man , to the measure of the stature of the 
of christ 

notice that the five fold ministries are going to be around till the church 
is in unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the son of god to a perfect 
man . this , i believe will not occur fully until the lord jesus returns  ( see 
 . 13 9 12) .  . but god wants the body to continue on  . what hinders 
maturity and unity of the body 

eph 4 14 that we should no longer be children , tossed to and fro and carried 
about with every wind of doctrine , by the trickery of men , in the cunning 
of deceitful plotting , 

it 's clear that false doctrine , integrated into the church by the trickery of 
men causes (1) the thing we are striving for and (2) spiritual 
immaturity the church continues in spiritual childhood when christians are 
tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine . 

the five fold ministry , of which there does not appear to be clear 
scriptural denominational boundaries ( pastors appear responsible for their 
individual flock ) , is to deal with these doctrines  ( when necessary) in their 
struggle to equip the body. 

all believers are called to do this to a degree .  .  .  . 
1 3 4 beloved , while i was very diligent to write to you concerning our 
common salvation , i found it necessary to write to you you to contend 
earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints .  . for 
certain men have crept in unnoticed , who long ago were marked out for this 
condemnation , ungodly men , who turn the grace of our god into and deny 
the only lord god and our lord jesus christ .  . 

zane .  .  .  . 
if you 'll notice , in scripture the heresy hunters that went from church to 
church and area to area , were the bad guys and they went after the good guy 
namely paul who they considered to be the arch heretic .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
they were themselves heretics trying to discredit paul who was preaching 
contrary to what they taught ! 

zane .  .  .  . 
let 's face it , the wolves are here for a reason. and we are here for the 
reason. and let 's hope the wolves become sheep , and the sheep ,  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
yes ! 
2 24 26 and a servant of the lord must not quarrel but be gentle to all , 

able to teach , patient , in humility correcting those who are in opposition , if 

god perhaps will grant them repentance , so that they may know the truth , and 

that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil , having 
been taken captive by him to do his will. 

amen ! 


frank 

if one wished to contend with him , he could not answer him one time out 
of a thousand .  . job 9 3 

from  ( jason lee ) 
subject 25 words or less .  .  .  .  . 
organization computer science , university of melbourne , australia 
lines 13 

everywhere we see and hear about christianity  ( due to its 
nature) .  . witnessing , spreading the gospel , etc. 
but what i want to know is .  .  .  . 

why should i  ( or anyone else) become a christian 

 ( in twenty five words or less) .  . 

zeros and ones will take us there .  .  .  .  . 
peace. plastic. 1993. 

we 've had enough discussions about evidence recently that it would 
probably be best to respond via email. clh 

from 
subject re , esp. 
organization at t 
lines 86 

in article (d .  . andrew kille ) writes 
dave davis wrote 

lots deleted , with which i generally agree there is no inherently 
defensible argument for the inclusion or exclusion of the 
books 

i think everyone would agree that principles that cannot be 
consistently applied are not very useful as principles .  . 
so , if we are to exclude them (not accord them the authority of 
scripture ) we would appear to require other reasons. what might these 
reasons be 

lets talk about principles .  . if we accept that god sets the 
standards for what ought to be included in scripture then we 
can ask 
1. is it authoritative 
2. is it prophetic 
3. is it authentic 
4. is it dynamic 
5. is it received , collected , read and used 

on these counts , the falls short of the glory of god. 
to quote unger 's bible dictionary on the 
1. they abound in historical and geographical inaccuracies and 
anachronisms .  . 
2. they teach doctrines which are false and foster practices 
which are at variance with sacred scripture .  . 
3. they resort to literary types and display an of 
subject matter and styling out of keeping with sacred scripture .  . 
4. they lack the distinctive elements which give genuine 
scripture their divine character , such as prophetic power and 
poetic and religious feeling. 


my interim conclusion is that protestant exclusion of 
(at least one of) these writings is one of those  traditions 
of men  one hears of so often. they were excluded during the 
reformation , and that appears to be the reason many people 
continue to exclude them. 

but the problem with this argument lies in the assumption that 
the hebrew canon included the in the first place , and 
it was n't until the sixteenth century that luther and co. threw 
them out. the jewish council you mentioned previously did n't 
accept them , so the reformation protestants had good historical 
precedence for their actions .  . jerome only translated the 
under protest , and it was literally  over his dead 
body  that it was included in the catholic canon .  . 

the simple fact is that protestant exclusion , roman inclusion , orthodox 
inclusion of still other books , or any other definition of a closed canon 
is the decision of a community of faith about what the standard collection 
of scripture shall be for that community. they all are traditions of 
men. whether one considers that to be a problem or not depends on which 
community happens to be yours , and how you accept define authority within 
it. i personally believe that the concept of a closed canon , whether 
catholic , protestant , or orthodox is one that developed rather late in the 
history of the church , and which has not served the church well. 

how do you then view the words i warn everyone who hears the 
words of the prophecy of this book if anyone adds anything to 
them , god will add to him the plagues described in this book. 
and if anyone takes away from this book the prophecy , god will 
take away from him his share in the tree of life and in the 
holy city (rev 22 . 18 . 9) 
surely this sets the standard and not just man made traditions .  . 

it is also noteworthy to consider jesus  attitude. he had no 
argument with the pharisees over any of the ot canon (john 
10 . 31 . 6) , and explained to his followers on the road to emmaus 
that in the law , prophets and psalms which referred to him the 
ot division of scripture  ( luke 24 . , as well as in luke 11 . 51 . 
taking genesis to chronicles (the jewish order we would say 
genesis to malachi ) as scripture .  . 

see dr. lee macdonald 's the formation of the christian biblical canon 
 ( abingdon , 1988) for a clear and faithful examination of the origins and 
issues of the canon .  . 

i am not familiar with the book. 
some other arguments you might like to consider are found in 
chapter 3 of josh mcdowell 's evidence that demands a verdict .  . 

barney 
many shall run to and fro , knowledge shall increase  ( daniel ) 

from  ( dave davis ) 
subject re , eps .  . 
lines 108 

thanks for the responses so far. i hope that i have 
sparked some thought (which is more my intent than 
to restart one of the  . 

i'm just going to tug on two threads 

in message id 
(d .  . andrew byler ) writes , 

and i must point out that 
the jews only drew up their canon in 90 ad , 60 years after the founding 
of the christian religion upon the cross .  . why should we adhere to a 
canon that was drawn up by the faithless , in reaction to the 
use of the greek septuagint , which includes the canon 

i was simply observing that as a non jew , i am not in that community 
which might be bound by such a decision (i do n't know much about 
the council of , but i have heard that it is not well attested 
 .  faithless  has nothing to do with it , and i prefer 
not to speculate about motives .  . 

as early 
as 150 ad , st. justin had already accused the jews of mutilating the 
canon of scripture by their removal of certain books. 

i wish the dialogue with were a real transcript of a real 
dialogue , , but i think it a fictional effect on justin 's part. 
putting that to one side , justin 's point may be one 
would want to know  which books ' 

protestants apparently prefer to think that god 's revelation was limited 
by a decree of the jews ... 

perhaps the reformers were traveling in all the light  ( ms evidence) 
they had. let 's stick to the issues. again , i prefer not to speculate 
about motives .  . one would need quotes from luther , calvin , etc. to 
evidence this  . 


in message id 
(david wagner ) 

that is not quite accurate. otherwise we would have the book 
of enoch in the canon  ( as dave noted) .  . one can say that the 
apocrypha are not quoted by christ .  . 

is this the principle  any  ( bc ) text not quoted by christ cannot 
be counted as scripture  think well about this job , ruth .  .  .  . 

i wrote 
these is a logically invalid a priori . 
besides , we are talking about ot texts 
which in many parts are superceded by the nt 
 ( in the xtian view) .  . would not this same 
principle exclude ecclesiastes 
this principle cannot be consistently applied .  . 

dave w. answers 

i have to reject your argument here. the spirit speaks with one 
voice , and he does not contradict himself. 

meaning what do you affirm the principle  ( that the d . c . 's can be 
excluded since they contain  false doctrine' ) or do you deny it 
if affirmed  ( as is implied in your statement ) how does one determine 
that doctrine x is false do you affirm every teaching in ecclesiastes 

the ultimate test of canonicity is whether the words are inspired 
by the spirit , i.e. , god breathed .  . it is a test which is more 
guided by faith than by reason or logic .  . 

if so , it may be a test that cannot be applied .  . the orthodox 
faithfully believe that psalm 151 is canonical .  . how can my 
faith say  not ! ' all i hear here is the a priori i mentioned 
before. 

the canonical books were added much later in the church 's 
history. 

this is contrary to fact. 

they do not have the same spiritual quality as the 
rest of scripture .  . 

can this be elevated to a principle how is  spiritual quality  
measured i 'll take the  spiritual quality  of most of over 
joshua or chronicles , any day. 

i do not believe the church that added these 
books was guided by the spirit in so doing. 

what can i say you believe what you believe i'm asking for 
a consistency check. i do n't see that the books were added in any 
construction this formulation begs the question. no one can validly 
ask me to  have faith' that these books are  . 


dave davis , 
these are my opinions activities alone 



christianity is not a doctrine , not , i mean , a theory about what has 
happened and will happen to the human soul , but a description of something 
that actually takes place in a human life. for of sin  is a 
real event , and so are despair and salvation through faith. those who speak 
of such things  ( bunyan , for instance) are simply describing what has happened 
to them , whatever anyone may want to say about it. ludwig wittgenstein 

from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical 
reply to  ( anthony g rose ) 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 8 

this is a response to a request for a biblical reference about satan 
being a fallen angel. clh 

isaiah 14 12 

a common reading of this passage is that it 's referring to 
the king of babylon , using language ironically , 
because of his claims .  . clh 

from (d .  . andrew kille ) 
subject re , esp. 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 102 

wrote 
lets talk about principles .  . if we accept that god sets the 
standards for what ought to be included in scripture then we 
can ask 
1. is it authoritative 

authoritative is not a quality of the writing itself it is a statement 
by the community of faith whether it will accept the writing as normative .  . 

2. is it prophetic 

how is prophecy to be defined if it is speaking forth of god 's message , 
much of the apocrypha must surely qualify .  . 

3. is it authentic 

again , by what standard is authenticity a function of the authors the 
historical accuracy 

4. is it dynamic 

what is this supposed to mean many of the apocryphal books are highly 
dynamic thought provoking , faithful , even exciting. 

5. is it received , collected , read and used 

by whom of course the apocryphal books were received (by some) , 
collected  ( or else we would not have them) , read and used  ( and they still are , 
in the catholic and orthodox  . 

on these counts , the falls short of the glory of god. 

this is demonstrably false .  . 

to quote unger 's bible dictionary on the 
1. they abound in historical and geographical inaccuracies and 
anachronisms .  . 

so do other books of the bible .  . 

2. they teach doctrines which are false and foster practices 
which are at variance with sacred scripture .  . 

false by whose interpretation those churches that accept them find no 
contradiction with the rest of scripture .  . 

3. they resort to literary types and display an of 
subject matter and styling out of keeping with sacred scripture .  . 

this is a purely subjective evaluation .  . the apocryphal books demonstrate 
the same categories and forms of writing found in the other scriptures .  . 
 ( in fact , one could argue that the apocryphal additions to the book of 
esther act rather to bring the book of esther more into 
line with other books . ) . 

4. they lack the distinctive elements which give genuine 
scripture their divine character , such as prophetic power and 
poetic and religious feeling. 

have you ever read the wisdom of ben sira or the wisdom of solomon they 
exhibit every bit as much poetic and religious feeling as psalms or 
proverbs .  . 

deletions 

how do you then view the words i warn everyone who hears the 
words of the prophecy of this book if anyone adds anything to 
them , god will add to him the plagues described in this book. 
and if anyone takes away from this book the prophecy , god will 
take away from him his share in the tree of life and in the 
holy city (rev 22 . 18 . 9) 
surely this sets the standard and not just man made traditions .  . 

these words clearly were meant to refer to the book of revelation alone , 
not to the whole body of scripture .  . revelation itself was accepted very 
late into the canon .  . the church simply did not see it as having a primary 
role of any kind in identifying and limiting scripture .  . 

it is also noteworthy to consider jesus  attitude. he had no 
argument with the pharisees over any of the ot canon (john 
10 . 31 . 6) , and explained to his followers on the road to emmaus 
that in the law , prophets and psalms which referred to him the 
ot division of scripture  ( luke 24 . , as well as in luke 11 . 51 . 
taking genesis to chronicles (the jewish order we would say 
genesis to malachi ) as scripture .  . 

jesus does not refer to the canon for the simple reason that in his day , 
the canon had not been established as a closed collection. the books 
of the apocrypha were part of the septuagint (which was the bible of 
the early church) .  . the hebrew canon was not closed until 90 c.e. 
the torah  ( pentateuch law ) was established in jesus  day , as were 
the prophets  ( with the exclusion of  . the writings , however , 
were still in flux .  . jesus does not refer to the writings , only to the 
psalms , which were part of them. the books of the apocrypha were all 
part of the literature that was eventually and separated .  . 

to argue that jesus is referring to the jewish canonical order in luke 11 51 
is weak at best he is not quoting scripture , but telling a chronological 
story. and , as mentioned above , the hebrew canon  ( especially in the 
present order) did not exist as such in jesus  day. 



from  ( darin johnson ) 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization cse dept. , u . c .  . san diego 
lines 15 

ok , what 's more important to gay christians sex , or christianity 
christianity i would hope. would they be willing to sex 
completely , in order to avoid being a stumbling block to others , 
to avoid the chance that their interpretation might be wrong , 
etc if not , why not heterosexuals abstain all the time. 
(it would be nice if protestant churches had celibate orders 
to show the world that sex is not the important thing in life) 

to tell the truth , gay churches remind me a lot of henry the viii 
starting the church of england in order to get a divorce  ( or is 
this a  . note that i am not denying that gay christians are 
christian .  . 

darin johnson 
toy cows in africa 

from (paul hudson jr) 
subject re satanic tounges 
organization university of georgia , athens 
lines 60 

in article  ( allen koberg ) writes 
there seem to be many points to the speaking in tongues thing which 
are problematic .  . it 's use as prayer language seems especially troubling 
to me. i understand that when you pray in tongues , the spirit is doing 
the talking. and when you pray , you pray to god. and the spirit is 
god. so , the spirit is talking to himself. which is why i only go 
by the pentecost use where it 's an actual language. 

what is wrong with the spirit talking to himself. jesus 
for us , and romans 8 26 27 tell of how the spirit for 
us before god. that is no theological problem. tounges as a prayer 
language finds support in i corinthians 14 14 18. 


moreover , the phrase though i speak with the tongues of men and angels 
used by paul in i cor .  . is misleading out of context. some would then 
assume that there is some angelic tongue , and if when they speak , it 
is no known language , then it is an angelic tongue. 

its true that this could be  ( and has been ) used as a rug to sweep 
any difficulties under .  . but it is a valid point. paul does mention 
angelic tounges in the verse .  . 


hmmm .  .  . in . the old testament story about the tower of babel , we see how 
god punished by giving us different language. can we assume then that 
if angels have their own language at all , that they have the same one 
amongst other angels after all , they were not punished in any manner. 

if the languages we are the result of babel , then it stands to 
reason that angels would speak a different language from us. you do 
have a valid point about multiple angelic languages. but angelic 
beings maybe of different species so to speak. maybe different species 
communicate differently. 

trouble is , while such stories abound , any and all attempts at 
verification  ( and we are to test the spirit .  .  . ) . either show that 
the witness had no real idea of the circumstances , or that outright 
fabrication was involved. the brother puka story in a previous post 
seems like a friend of a friend thing. and linguistically , a two 
syllable word hardly qualifies as language , inflection or no. 

i have heard an eyewitness account , myself. such things are hard to prove .  . 
they do n't lend themselves to a laboratory thing very well. i don  t 
know if it is a very holy thing to take gifts into a laboratory anyway. 

much as many faith healers have trouble proving their victories  ( since 
most ailments cured are just plain unprovable ) and modern day 
have never been validated , so is it true that no 
modern day has been proved by clergy or lay .  . 

that 's an unprovable statement. how can you prove if somethings been proved 
there is no way to know that you 've seen all the evidence. once i 
saw an records complete with photographs showing how one of 
his patients severe was cured by constant prayer .  . 

john g. lakes once prayed for someone and saw them healed in a laboratory , 
according to adventures in god. its an interesting book. 

link 

from 
subject trinity 
lines 27 

james green writes 

ca n't someone describe someone 's trinity in simple declarative 
sentences that have common meaning 

i offer him four attempts .  . 

first is an essay by me  ( largely indebted to attempts two and 
three ) , obtainable by sending the message get trinity analogy to 
or to 

second is a couple of books by dorothy l sayers a play called the 
zeal of thy house , and a non fiction book called the mind of the 
maker .  . the play can be found in the book four sacred plays , and 
also in various other collections , including one called religious 
drama  ( meridian books) and one called best plays of 1937 .  . 

third is the book mere christianity by c s lewis , particularly the 
last section , called beyond personality . 

fourth is a book called theology for beginners , by the roman 
catholic writer frank  . i will say that i do not find 's 
approach altogether satisfying , but i know some persons whose minds 
i respect who do. 

yours , 
james kiefer 

from 
subject harold camping 
organization city university of new york 
lines 9 

have any of you read harold camping 's book 1994 it 's about 
biblical that points to september of 1994 as the probable time 
of christ 's second coming it 's a very informative book and a must read 
for all christians .  . you can get i at your local bookstore for only 
14 . 95 .  . 

peace ! 

no ! not again ! clh 

from  ( mail server) 
subject christian homosexuality  ( part 1 of 2) 
lines 288 

note i am breaking this reply into 2 parts due to length. 

(michael siemon ) writes 
in article 
 ( someone named mark) writes 
(michael siemon ) writes 
homosexual christians have indeed checked out these verses .  . some of 
them are used against us only through incredibly perverse interpretations .  . 
others simply do not address the issues. 

i can see that some of the above verses do not clearly address the issues , 

there are exactly zero verses that clearly address the issues. 

i agree that there are no verses that have gone unchallenged by gay rights 
activists .  . but if there are zero verses that  clearly  address the issues , 
does n't that mean that there are also no verses that clearly support your 
case are you sure you want to say that there are zero verses that clearly 
address the issues 

however , a couple of them seem as though they do not require incredibly 
perverse interpretations in order to be seen as condemning homosexuality .  . 

the kind of interpretation i see as incredibly perverse is that applied 
to the story of sodom as if it were a blanket equation of homosexual 
behavior and rape .  . since christians citing the bible in such a context 
should be presumed to have at least read the story , it amounts to slander 
a charge that homosexuality rape to use that against us. 

the story in genesis 19 tells of the citizens of sodom demanding an opportunity 
to know the two men who were lot 's guests the fact that the became 
angry when lot offered them his daughters could be seen as indicating that they 
were interested only in homosexual intercourse .  . yes , what they wanted was 
rape , homosexual rape , and everybody agrees that that is wrong. some 
christians believe that the homosexual aspect of their desire was just as 
sinful as the rape aspect of their desire .  . the passage does not say what it 
was that so offended god , whether it was the homosexuality , or the intended 
rape , or both , but i believe that it is only fair to consider all the possible 
alternatives in the light of related scriptures .  . i do not believe that those 
who believe god was offended by both the homosexuality and the rape are trying 
to say that homosexuality is itself a form of rape .  . 

you seems to take the view that the only sin described in gen. 19 is in the 
fact that the wanted to commit rape , and that it is unfair to 
their homosexuality by associating it with the sin of rape .  . i can 
see how you might reach such a conclusion if you started from the conclusion 
that there is nothing wrong with homosexuality , but then again we 're not 
supposed to start from our conclusions because that 's circular reasoning .  . if 
god is in fact opposed to homosexual intercourse in general , then the more 
probably interpretation is that he was at least as offended by the  
blatant homosexuality as he was by their intent to commit rape .  . later on i 
will document why i believe the old testament portrays god as one who 
any homosexual intercourse , even if both partners are consenting adults. 

... do not be deceived neither , nor idolators , nor adulterers , 
nor , nor homosexuals , nor thieves , nor the , nor 
, 
nor , nor , shall inherit the kingdom of god. and such 
were 
some of you .  .  .  . i cor .  . 6 9 11. 

the moderator adequately discusses the of your use of 
in this. 

the moderator found my proposal to be circular in that he regarded the church 
as the proper authority for determining what kinds of marriages would be 
legitimate , and thus the church 's refusal to recognize perverted marriages 
was circular reasoning .  . my questions , however , had nothing to do with the 
church new kinds of marriages , and so his argument was something of a 
straw man. in terms of my original question , the precise 
definition translation of is n't really important , unless you are 
trying to argue that the bible does n't really condemn extramarital sex. i'm 
not sure the moderator was trying to do that. 

in any case , i think both you and the moderator have missed the point here. 
when jesus was asked about divorce , he replied , have you not read , that he who 
created them from the beginning made them male and female , and said ,  for this 
cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall to his wife and 
the two shall become one flesh  consequently they are no longer two , but one 
flesh .  . what therefore god has joined together , let no man separate .  .  . 
19 4 6) .  . i read here that the sexual union of a man  ( male ) and his wife 
 ( female ) is a divinely ordained union .  . in other words , the institution of 
heterosexual marriage is something ordained and established by god not by men , 
and not by the church , but by god. men are not supposed to dissolve this 
union , in jesus  words , because it is not something created by men. 

this is not circular reasoning , this is just reading god 's word. i read in the 
bible that god ordained the union of male and female. i do not read of any 
similar divinely ordained union of two males or two females .  . granted , there 
have been men who have ordained alternative unions  ( is n't caligula 
reported to have married his horse ) , but the only union that jesus refers to 
as what god has joined together is the heterosexual union of a man and his 
wife. 

 ( pardon me for mentioning caligula .  . i know that 's probably inflammatory , and i 
should save it for the discussion on , in part 2 of this post. 
please hold off on passing judgement on me until you have read that section of 
my reply . ) . 

anyway , my original question was not whether we should translate in a 
way that condemns only a select few kinds of extramarital sex , my question was 
given that heterosexual marriage is the only union described by the bible as 
divinely ordained , and given a biblical prohibition against sex outside of 
marriage , is homosexual intercourse sinful of course , i see now that first we 
need to ask whether the bible really condemns sex outside of marriage. you 
seem to be trying to argue that only certain kinds of extramarital sex  ( and 
other sins ) are really wrong 

i think we can all agree  ( with paul) that there are some kinds of 
activity that could be named by fornication or theft or or 
or drunkenness which would well deserve condemnation .  . we may 
or may not agree to the bounds of those categories , however and the very 
fact that they are argued over suggests that not only is the matter not at 
all clear but that paul an excellent had no interest 
in making them clear , leaving matters rather to our spirit led decisions , 
with all the uncomfortable living with other readings that has dominated 
christian discussion of all these areas. 

alternatively , it may be that the definition of such terms as and all 
the rest was , in paul 's day , what we would call a faq i.e. the law , as the 
tutor appointed by god to lead us to christ , had just spent some sixteen 
centuries into the heads of god 's people the idea that things like 
homosexual intercourse were abominations that deserved punishment by death. 
perhaps paul did n't go into detail on what c were because after 1600 
years he considered the question to have been dealt with already. perhaps the 
reason god 's apostles and prophets did not devote a great deal of time defining 
a distinct , new testament sexuality was because he did not intend any 
significant changes in the sexuality he had already established by the law. 
i 'll discuss the law and homosexuality in greater detail below , but i just 
wanted to point out that the new testament 's failure to develop a detailed new 
standard of sexuality is not necessarily evidence that god does not care about 
sexual conduct especially after 1600 years of putting people to death for 
practicing homosexuality ! 

homosexual behavior is no different. i  ( and the other gay christians i 
know) are in condemning rape heterosexual or homosexual and 
child molestation heterosexual or homosexual and even the possibly 
harmless but obsessive kinds of sex heterosexual or homosexual 
that would stand condemned by paul in the very continuation of the chapter 
you cite may i mildly suggest that what paul does in his letter that 
you want to use is perhaps a good guide to his meaning 

 i am free to do anything , ' you say. yes , but not everything 
is for my good. no doubt i am free to do anything , but i for one 
will not let anything make free with me. 1 cor .  . 6 12 

which is a that we must have no other god before god. a 
commandment neither i nor any other gay christian wishes to break. some 
people are indeed involved in obsessively driven modes of sexual behavior. 
it is just as wrong  ( though slightly less incendiary , so it 's a secondary 
argument from the  contingent ) to equate homosexuality with such 
behavior as to equate it with the rape of god 's messengers .  . 

and how do you define an obsessively driven mode of sexual behavior how do 
you determine the difference between obsessive sexual behavior and normal sex 
drives is the desire to have sinful sex an obsessively driven mode of 
behavior i think you see that this is circular reasoning why is it defined 
as sinful because it is obsessive .  . what makes it obsessive the fact that 
the person is driven to seek it even though it 's sinful .  . or is it obsessive 
because it is a desire for that which society condemns once again , that 's 
circular why is it defined as obsessive because the person wants it even 
though society condemns it. why does society condemn it because it is 
obsessive .  . 

you seem to be trying to limit the bible 's condemnation of to only 
perverted sex acts , but i do n't think you can really define perverted 
without falling into exactly the same you accuse me of. what , 
then , is paul condemning when he declares that  .  . shall . not enter 
the of heaven 

i wo n't deal with the exegesis of leviticus , except very tangentially .  . 
fundamentally , you are exhibiting the same here as in your 
assumption that you know what means. 

i think you misunderstood me i was not trying to make an argument on some 
technical definition of , i was raising the issues of the sinfulness 
of extramarital sex and the lack of any scriptural evidence of a homosexual 
counterpart to the divinely ordained union of heterosexual couples .  . 

there are plenty of 
laws prohibiting sexual behavior to be found in leviticus , most of 
which christians ignore completely. they never even bother to examine 
them. they just assume that they know which ones are moral and 
which ones are ritual .  . well , i have news for you. any anthropology 
course should sensitize you to ritual and clean vs. as categories 
in an awful lot of societies  ( we have them too , but buried pretty  . 
and i cannot see any ground for distinguishing these bits of leviticus 
from the ritual law which no christian i know feels applies to us. 

i'm dead serious here. when people start going on  ( as they do in this 
matter) about how repulsive and unnatural our acts are and what 
do they know about it , huh it is a solid clue to the same sort of 
arbitrary cultural as the american prejudice against eating 
insects .  . 

please remember what you just said here for when we discuss , in part 
2. 

on what basis , other than assuming your conclusion , can you 
say that the law against male male intercourse in leviticus is not a part 
of the ritual law 

i am glad you asked. would you agree that if god condemns homosexual 
intercourse even among those who are not under the law of moses , then this 
would show that god 's condemnation of homosexual acts goes beyond the ritual 
law if i can show you from scripture that god punished the homosexual 
behavior of people who were not under the law of moses , would you agree that 
god 's definition of homosexual intercourse as an abomination is not limited to 
just the ritual law and those who are under the law 

i 've been having a private email discussion with a 7th day adventist on the 
subject of the sabbath , and my main point against a christian sabbath keeping 
requirement has been that nowhere in scripture does god command gentiles to 
rest on the sabbath , nor does he ever condemn gentiles for failing to rest on 
the sabbath .  . this illustrates the difference between universal requirements 
such as thou shalt not kill , and requirements that are merely part of the 
 ( temporary , jews only) law of moses , such as the sabbath .  . 

the point you are trying to make is that you think the classification of 
homosexual intercourse as an abomination is just a part of the temporary , 
jews only law of moses .  . i on the other hand believe that it was labelled by 
god as an abomination for gentiles as well as jews , and that he punished those 
guilty of this behavior by death or exile .  . here 's why 

back in genesis 15 , god promises to give abraham all the land that was then in 
the possession of the kinda hard on the , do n't you think 
but in verse 16 we have a clue that this might not be as unjust as it sounds 
it seems god is going to postpone this takeover for quite a while , because the 
iniquity of the is not yet complete . 

remember , this is all long before there was a ritual law. what then was the 
iniquity the was committing that , when complete , would justify his 
being cast out of his own land and or killed go back and look at lev .  . 18 
again. verses 1 23 list a variety of sins , including child sacrifice , incest , 
homosexuality , and  . beginning in verse 24 , god starts saying , do 
not yourselves by any of these things for by all these things the 
nations which i am casting out before you have become . for the 
land has become , therefore i have visited its punishment upon it , so 
the land has out its inhabitants .  .  .  . for whoever does any of these 
abominations , those persons who do so shall be cut off from among their 
people. 

notice that god says the gentile nations  ( who are not under the ritual law of 
moses ) are about to be punished because they have themselves and 
their land by committing abominations that include incest , , and 
homosexuality .  . flip ahead two chapters to lev .  . 20 , and you will find these 
same abominations listed , and this time god decrees the death penalty on 
anyone involved in any of these things , including , specifically , a man lying 
with another man as one lies with a woman  . 20 13) .  . their 
was upon them , meaning that in god 's eyes , they deserved to 
die for having done such things. according to lev .  . 18 26 29 , even the alien 
non jew who among you was to refrain from these practices , on 
penalty of being cut off by god from among their people. 

under the circumstances , i believe it would be very difficult to support the 
claim that in the old testament god objected only to the intended rape , and not 
the homosexuality , in sodom .  . since god took the trouble to specifically list 
sex between two consenting men as one of the reasons for wiping out the 
canaanite nations , (not homosexual rape , mind you , but plain , voluntary gay 
sex ) , i 'd say god was not neutral on the subject of homosexual behavior , even 
by those who had nothing to do with the mosaic covenant .  . 

for those christians who do think that some parts of leviticus can 
be law for christians  ( while others are not even to be thought about) 
it is incumbent on you in every case , handled on its own merits to 
determine why you pick one and ignore another. 

according to ii tim .  . 3 16 , all scripture is inspired by god and is profitable 
for teaching , reproof , correction , and training in righteousness thus , i 
believe that even though we gentile christians are not under the law , we can 
learn from studying it. if a certain action is defined as a sin because it is 
a violation of the law , then it is a sin only for those who are under the law 
 ( for example , in the case of sabbath  . where god reveals that certain 
actions are abominations even for those who are not under the law , then i 
conclude that god 's objection to the practice is not based on whether or not a 
person is under the law , but on the sinfulness of the act itself. in the case 
of homosexuality , homosexual intercourse is defined by god as a defiling 
abomination for gentiles as well as jews , i.e. for those who are not under the 
law as well as for those who are. thus , i am not at all trying to say that 
gentile christians have any obligation to keep any part of the law , i am simply 
saying that god referred to homosexuality as a sin even for those who are not 
obligated to keep the law. if this is so , then i do not think we can appeal to 
our exemption from the law as valid grounds for legitimizing a practice god has 
declared a abomination that both jew and gentile .  . 

 ( continued in part 2) 

mark 

from  ( mail server) 
subject re homosexual issues in christianity 
lines 83 

(michael siemon ) writes 
in 
hulman . edu . (bryan whitsell ) writes 

any one who thinks that homosexuality and christianity are compatible should 
check 
out 
romans 1 27 
i corinthians 6 9 
i timothy 1 10 
jude 1 7 
ii peter 2 6 9 
gen. 19 
lev 18 22 
 ( to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality ) 

homosexual christians have indeed checked out these verses .  . some of 
them are used against us only through incredibly perverse interpretations .  . 
others simply do not address the issues. 

i can see that some of the above verses do not clearly address the issues , 
however , a couple of them seem as though they do not require incredibly 
perverse interpretations in order to be seen as condemning homosexuality .  . 

... do not be deceived neither , nor idolators , nor adulterers , 
nor , nor homosexuals , nor thieves , nor the , nor , 
nor , nor , shall inherit the kingdom of god. and such were 
some of you .  .  .  . i cor .  . 6 9 11. 

would someone care to comment on the fact that the above seems to say 
will not inherit the kingdom of god how does this apply 
to homosexuals i understand fornication to be sex outside of 
marriage. is this an accurate definition is there any such thing as 
same sex marriage in the bible my understanding has always been that 
the new testament blesses sexual intercourse only between a husband 
and his wife. i am , however , willing to listen to scriptural evidence 
to the contrary .  . 

you shall not lie with a male as one lies with a female it is an 
abomination .  . also you shall not have intercourse with any animal to 
be with it , nor shall any woman stand before an animal to mate 
with it it is a perversion .  . lev .  . 18 22 23. 

i notice that the verse forbidding immediately follows the 
verse prohibiting what appears to be homosexual intercourse .  . i know 
of no new testament passages that clearly condemn , or even mention , 
intercourse with animals. do those who argue for the legitimacy of 
homosexual intercourse believe that the bible condemns as a 
perversion , and if so , why that is , what verses would you cite to 
prove that was perverted and sinful could the verses you 
cite be refuted by interpreting them differently can one be a 
christian 

by the way , i myself am subject to sexual desires that i did not 
choose to have and that many people would regard as perverted and 
sinful , so please understand that i am not asking these questions out 
of an antipathy towards my fellow people of alternative 
orientations . i do believe , however , that one should read the bible 
with an attitude of what is the bible trying to say and not what do 
i want the bible to say. i choose not to give in to my perverted 
sexual desires because i believe the bible tries to tell me , whether i 
like it or not , that such things are sin .  . it is frustrating at times , 
and i have had days where it really got me down , but i do n't blame god 
for this , i blame the sin itself. 

mark 

there 's some ambiguity about the meaning of the words in the passage 
you quote. both liberal and conservative sources seem to agree that 
homosexual is not the general term for homosexuals , but is likely to 
have a meaning like homosexual prostitute .  . that does n't meant that i 
think all the biblical evidence , but the nature of the 
evidence is such that you ca n't just quote one verse and solve things. 

i think your argument from fornication is circular .  . why is 
homosexuality wrong because it 's fornication .  . why is it 
fornication because they 're not married. why are n't they married 
because the church refuses to do a marriage ceremony .  . why does the 
church refuse to do a marriage ceremony because homosexuality is 
wrong. in order to break the circle there 's got to be some other 
reason to think homosexuality is wrong. 

clh 

from (nabil ayoub ) 
subject re and mike walker 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 47 

in article our moderator 
comments 

chalcedon was a compromise between two groups , the alexandrians and 
antiochenes .  . it adopted language that was intended to be acceptable 
to moderates in both camps , while ruling out the extremes .  . i agree 
that there were extremes that were heretical .  . however in the course 
of the complex politics of the time , it appears that some people got 
rejected who did n't intend heresy , but simply used language that was 
not understood or even was mispresented .  . and some seem not to have 
jointed in the compromise for reasons other than doctrine .  . there are 

groups descended from both of the supposedly heretical camps .  . this 

posting discussed the descendants of the alexandrians .  . there are also 
a remaining nestorians .  . like some of the current so called 
, there is reason to believe that the current so called 
nestorians are not heretical either. they sheltered from 
what they saw as unfair treatment , but claim they did not adopt his 
heresies , and in fact seem to follow more moderate representatives of 
the tradition .  . 

clh 

there is a big difference between the status of what you refer to as 
alexandrians  ( actually , this includes all oriental orthodox churches 
and not only copts ) and that of nestorians .  . the oriental orthodox 
churches never even shelter (the of monophysitism ) 
but on the contrary , it condemned  ( and still does condemn ) him and his 
heresy .  . that is why the  ( chalcedonian ) orthodox church held 
talks with the oriental  ( non chalcedonian ) that started 30 years ago 
and still till today , but they have on many 
issues the most of which is christology (i have more 
details of the inter orthodox dialogue , in case anyone is  . 
so i do not see how the alexandrians and the nestorians are in a 
similar position. 

peace , 

nabil 
. . 
nabil ayoub 
engine research center 
dept. of mechanical engineering 
university of wisconsin madison 
email 
' ' 

from (michael c davis ) 
subject leadership magazine article 
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk 
lines 11 

i'm looking for the following article 

war within an anatomy of lust   
leadership 3  ( 1985 ) , pp 30 48 

i 've looked in the libraries of 3 uk bible colleges , but none of them subscribe 
to the magazine  ( its a us publication , btw) .  . if anyone has access to this 
article and would be willing to post me a photocopy (i presume that copyright 
restrictions will allow this ) , please e mail me. thanks , 

michael davis 

from  ( chuck ) 
subject daily verse 
lines 3 

i have given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and to overcome 
all the power of the enemy nothing will harm you. 
luke 10 19 

from  ( christopher mussack ) 
subject re if there were no hell 
lines 48 

 ( larry l. overacker ) writes 
q if you knew beyond all doubt that hell did not exist and that 
unbelievers simply remained dead , would you remain a christian 

my contention is that if you answer this question with no. i would 
not then remain a christian then you really are not one now. 
... i follow christ because it 's a great way 
to live life. and i could care less what really happens after 
i die. i believe that there will be a resurrection , but that 
wo n't have any effect on how i live this life. ... 

ouch , this is a good question. to me , not existing is worse 
than existing no matter what , so i will modify this question to be 
would i be a christian if it made no eternal difference in my 
reward or punishment i hope this is in the same spirit you want. 

i personally am very goal oriented .  . it is hard for me to do things 
that do not achieve some goal. however , to relate this to sports , 
only after i learned to not care about the score did i become 
a good basketball player. i had to learn to go all out no matter 
the situation. perhaps this lesson is relevent .  . after all , 
only if i can give up my life can i keep it , only if i am 
humble can i achieve glory. only if i concentrate on living 
my life now the best i can will i be afforded life eternal .  . 
i think you have illuminated the true meaning of saved by faith. 

but what is my answer right now i would remain a christian .  . 
however , was that always my answer that 's the problem. heaven 
and hell are good motivators at certain stages of maturity .  . 
and i admit there are certain times when perhaps i bite my 
tongue and put up with something in the hope of a better day , 
i.e. i mentally trade present happiness for future happiness. 
i hope the cynics and skeptics do not read more into that 
than appropriate , but i am trying to be honest. 

(scott a mayo) writes 
of course. but it is a pointless question , because you cannot know 
beyond all doubt that hell does not exist , anymore than you can know 
it does , short of taking jesus 's word for it. what if questions are 
fun and entertaining , but probably fruitless .  . 

i think these kinds of questions are extremely  . i guess it 
depends on how one views knowledge and learning. by stripping 
ideas to simple , straightforward , opposing concepts we can 
determine levels of importance .  . by analyzing the theoretically 
absurd we can gain a better understanding of the actually absurd .  . 

chris mussack 

from  ( dan lieuwen ) 
subject re christian reformed 
organization at t bell laboratories , murray hill , nj 
lines 8 

the christian reformed church does not allow people to belong to lodges , 
the reformed church in america does. the conservatives in both churches 
are very similar , as are the progressives . the rca currently 
women the crc is fighting over the issue. 

a significant fraction of both churches live in western michigan .  .  ( fyi , 
i went to the crc school calvin college . ) . 
dan 

from !  ( larry l. overacker ) 
subject re mormon temples 
organization shell oil 
lines 17 

in article  ( mail server) writes 

i do n't necessarily object to the secrecy but i do question it , since i see no 
biblical reason why any aspect of christian worship should involve secrecy .  . 

early in church history , the were dismissed prior to the celebration 
of the eucharist .  . it was secret , giving rise to the rumors that christians 
were cannibals and all sorts of perverse claims .  . the actions were considered 
too holy to be observed by non christians , as well as potentially dangerous 
for the individual christian who might be identified .  . 

larry overacker 


lawrence overacker 
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965 


from 
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity 
organization at t bell labs 
lines 46 

in article hulman . edu . writes 
any one who thinks that homosexuality and christianity are compatible should check 
out 
romans 1 27 
i corinthians 6 9 
i timothy 1 10 
jude 1 7 
ii peter 2 6 9 
gen. 19 
lev 18 22 
 ( to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality ) 

but would n't that go for any sin .  . my father told me when he was growing 
up catholics were not allowed to associate with anyone who was divorced .  . 
there are a few verses divorce .  . somehow , divorce became 
acceptable  ( even in catholicism  . certainly it is no longer 
a sin to associate with a divorced person. the point is that each person 
has their own temptations to deal with. paul repeatedly talks about the 
thorn in his side , some think it refers to lust , others pride , but 
who knows. whatever the thorn was , apparently it was not compatible 
with christianity , yet does that make his epistles any less the bible 
warns us against judging , greed , anxiety , impure thoughts , bearing , 
etc. , etc. i suppose we should seek out all the so called christians 
who have entertained impure thoughts and them. all those who have 
given in to greed , get 'em outta here. jesus pointed out that he 
was the physician for the sinners .  . any attempts to make homosexuals 
feel unwelcome because of our discomfort with homosexuality is incompatible 
with christianity .  . is our hatred so deep that rather than see someone 
try to become closer to jesus , we need to keep them away. does jesus need 
us to screen out those guilty of a particular sin .  . do we really mistrust 
jesus when he says he can forgive any sin 

think about it. among the people jesus encountered were sinners and 
the pharisees .  . the sinners he embraced and forgave .  . the pharisees , 
, , self righteous , pointed out others sins and 
did not seek and thus did not gain forgiveness of their own sins .  . what 
i take from this and other verses is that if we do not admit our sins , 
those sins will not be forgiven .  . and since those guilty of even one sin 
are guilty of the whole law , those not repenting the judging of others 
are guilty , as guilty as if they committed the same sin they judged others 
of. 

the poor in spirit , meek , humble , merciful , pure of heart , peacemakers , 
those who thirst for justice , those who suffer for his sake are blessed .  . 

joe moore 

from 
subject re question about hell 
organization fnal 
lines 93 

in article 
(peter white ) writes 
luke 16 talks about the rich man and lazarus .  . matthew 25 talks about 
the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels .  . revelations 
20 and 21 reference this fire as the place where unbelievers are 
thrown .  . matthew 18 talks about being thrown into the eternal fire and 
the fire of hell. it seems quite clear that there is this place where 
a fire burns forever. from the revelations passages it is clear that 
the devil and his angels will be tormented there forever. from the 
matthew 25 passage it does n't seem abundantly clear whether the 
punishment of unbelievers is everlasting in the sense of final or 
in the sense of continual .  . 

you 've missed on very important passage .  . 

2 thess .  . 1 6 10 
for after all it is only just for god to repay with affliction those who 
afflict you , and to give relief to you who are afflicted and to us as well when 
the lord jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming 
fire , dealing out retribution to those who do not know god and to those who do 
not obey the gospel of our lord jesus .  . and these will pay the penalty of 
eternal destruction , away from the presence of the lord and from the glory of 
his power , when he comes to be glorified in his saints on that day , and to be 
at among all who have believed for our testimony to you was 
believed .  . 

things to note from this passage .  . unbelievers are both those who openly reject 
the gospel , and those who do not know god. the eternal destruction is the same 
as the eternal hope in 2 16. this primarily emphasize that it is 
separation from the presence of god. the context is speaking of the 2nd advent 
while 2 1 is speaking of the rapture .  . do n't confuse the two. 

in the bible , i am not aware of any discussion about the specifics of 
hell beyond the general of hot , unpleasant and torment .  . 

yet we have a far greater discription of hell that we do heaven. 

for instance , 
it is not discussed how  ( if at all) the rich man can 
continually stay in the fire and still feel discomfort or pain or 
whether there is some point at which the pain sensing ability is 
burned up. if you can forgive the , if you throw a 
physical body into a fire , assuming the person starts out alive , 
at some fairly quick point , the nerves are destroyed and pain is 
no longer sensed .  . 

if this was like earthly fire that requires a gas producing substance to 
ignite .  . 
however , there seems to be a different type of fire as expressed in the burning 
bush that was not consumed .  . also , the daniel  . shows that the laws of 
nature can be interupted even with earthly fire. 

it is not stated what occurs when at the judgement , 
the unbelievers ,  ( who are already physically dead ) are cast into hell 

maybe you do n't understand. there will be those who are alive at the end of 
the millenium , who will walk straight into the  . even those who have died 
in their sin will be resurrected , i.e. with their physical body , to 
receive condemnation .  . 

i.e. they no longer have a physical body so they ca n't feel physical pain. 

this is contrary to the teaching of scripture .  . 

what could be sensed continually is that those in hell are 
to be forever without god. 

the lazarus rich man parable is told with the idea of having the listener 
think in physical terms in order to get the point that some people 
wo n't listen to god even after he rises from the dead. 

this is conjecture at best if you are using it to support the no physical 
body thesis. 

the point of 
the parable is to reach the hard hearted here who are not listening 
to the fact of the resurrection nor the gospel about jesus christ .  . 
it seems reasonable to also draw from the parable that hell is 
not even remotely pleasant .  . 

the true of hell , is that it is eternal separation from god , after 
having seen the glory of his presence at the  . but whether it was open 
rebellion against the revealed gospel of christ or if it is not having known 
god (not saught him as he is) , then as paul says , they are without and 
that every mouth will be stopped .  . there will be no defense at the judgment 
seat of god. therefore we understand it is appointed unto man once to die , and 
then comes judgment literally .  . 

just because it is horrific , does n't make it less of a reality. 
it should compel those of us who have the riches of christ to share it with 
others 

rex 
