from  ( mohammad razi khan) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi 
lines 82 
nntp posting host nova . gmi . edu . 

 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

in article ahmed  ( shakil ahmed ) writes 

in article , 
 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

muslim in ex yugoslavia was a nation not a religion. in fact , not 
all muslims in b h are followers of islam .  . therefore , there do  ( did ) 
exist in ex yugoslavia christian muslims .  . 

yeah ! that 's it ! ) you 've really yourself this time nick .  .  .  . 
do n't forget the davidian muslims ... ) 

islam is not a race. it 's a religion. you can be white , black , 
or alaskan .  . 

this does not change the fact that muslim is a legal and political 
term defined constitutionally in former yugoslavia , and therefore has 
meaning and consequences entirely independent and immaterial of 
any religious considerations .  . 
not to muslims ) 


it is a 
civil war in which the terms of secession are being negotiated with guns 
instead of pens .  . the croat , muslim , and serb political leaders all 
chose to fight over the terms of secession instead of compromising and 
peacefully negotiating secession agreements .  . 


that could be arguable .  .  .  ( for bandwith and flames sake , i wont say more) 



terms of secession you are , of course , joking , right nick nobody 
chose to fight. bosnia and croatia were internationally 
recognized nations when the serbs attacked and started on their 
well documented genocide .  . that makes them an outside aggressor .  . it 's 
a simple genocide , a classical example of ethnic cleansing .  . there is 
no question of civil war .  .  .  . 

you only wish it were so. 
it is a civil war , but the serbian generals who allow rape are not fighting 
fair. yah i know  .  .  . war is hell  .  .  . those serbian generals are 
both .  .  . 

more than 2 , 000 , 000 residents of croatia and b h have not accepted the 
terms of secession which and unilaterally forced upon 
them. croats and muslims may have a right to negotiated secession but 
they do not have a right to grab the entire territories of the former 
yugoslav republics of croatia and b h. 
lines and  .  .  . money  .  .  . power  .  .  . fear  .  .  . 

oh , btw , yugoslavia was internationally recognized when it was 
destroyed by , , milosevic , and the international 
community led by germany .  . if yugoslavia 's borders could be changed 
against its will , then certainly croatia 's borders and b h 's borders 
can be changed as well. 
let 's change canadian while we are at it ) 
i see this as war .  .  . 
(sp borders ) 

as i have stated many times the civil war in ex yugoslavia will end 
when the terms of secession  ( borders , etc . ) . for croatia and b h are 
finally agreed upon .  . serbs , croats , and muslims will all have to 
make territorial concessions to reach such an agreement .  . 


possibly .  .  . i do agree that it is a civil war , which makes the donation of 
humanitarian aid even more complex .  .  .  . i mean serbs are bleeding too and i a few croats had raped serbian women .  .  .  ( unconfurmable at this point) 


nick 





mohammad r. khan 
after july '93 , please send mail to 
if responses to this letter post bounce , e mail me at the nyx account. 

from 
subject re saudi clergy and their western supporters vs human rights. 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 158 

nntp posting host po4 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 



ilyess sez 
so how would have you defended saudi arabia and rolled 
back the iraqi invasion , were you in charge of saudi arabia 

all muslims knew that the whole thing was set up to destroy iraq , not 
to liberate kuwait , the people who were killed by the invasion are 
more  ( many many more) , than the ones that were killed by the iraqis 
in their smaller invasion .  . i lived in the west , and i have seen how 
your media prepared you  ( helpless naive americans) for a war against 

no doubt you plan on exploiting helpless naive americans for your own 
purposes. hmm .  .  . let . 's see 

iraq even before the artificial conflict between iraq and kuwait that 
led to the invasion , as the cia correctly predicted  ( and pretended to 
be surprised not to know) .  . 
it just happened that saddam was so and so arrogant and stupid. 

what would i have done most muslims would choose 300 dead kuwaitis over 
200 , 000 dead iraqis and 1000 dead kuwaitis .  . the first case would happen 
if no western intervention happened , and the second case was a direct 
or indirect result of western  . 

possibly , if 200 , 000 iraqis had indeed died , but this number is based on 
greenpeace estimates .  . greenpeace had compromised its alleged 
impartiality during the war by condemning the potential environmental 
consequences of allied action , while initially completely 
ignoring iraq 's horrible environmental crimes , starting with the dumping 
of millions of barrels of oil into the gulf at ahmadi to the blowing of 
over 700 oil wells .  . what is the real number there has been a lot of 
work on this in the last two years , none of it reported as the 
greenpeace figure seems to get continuously bandied about. the real 
number seems to be around 10 , 000 , on the same order as the number of 
kuwaitis killed , tortured and kidnapped during the occupation .  . i 've 
included an article i recently posted below , but this is really old 
news. independent television news reported a figure around 15 , 000 only 
a few months after the war , but it was hardly reported .  . 

for the allies to have killed 200 , 000 iraqis , they would have had to 
kill twice the total number of iraqis in kuwait .  . 

the favored image of the is the last battle of the war at 
 . this was yet another example of the american and european media 
playing into the hands of iraq and its de facto allies .  . the 
destruction of the iraqi convoy at  was portrayed as an all out 
slaughter .  . this is simply not true. the head and tail of the convoy 
was bombed initially , resulting in a lot of casualties at these points. 
before bombers came back , most of the rest of the iraqi soldiers fled 
on foot. 

furthermore , your estimates of kuwaiti war dead if allies had n't invaded 
is completely ridiculous. you have acknowledged  ( certainly implicitly ) 
that saddam is a barbarous brute .  . you have acknowledged the hundreds 
of thousands he has been for killing in his own country . 
you know that the man he appointed as governor of kuwait , ali , 
was his most brutal , presiding over the near genocide of the 
kurds in the late 80 's and , more recently , the  . yet , when it 
comes to his treatment of kuwaitis , he is an angel. in your estimate , 
he would 've killed fewer than he already had when the war started. 
what a joke ! 


apn 03 09 iraq war dead 

copyright , 1993. the associated press. all rights reserved. 

by nick 
associated press writer 
washington  ( ap ) after the persian gulf war ended , the world was 
told that 
as many as 100 , 000 iraqi soldiers were killed. at one point , even baghdad put 
the toll that high , as did the u.s. defense intelligence agency in private. 
but u.s. officials have been ever since , even though the 
pentagon has yet to settle on an official estimate to release to the public. 
now , one former dia analyst says the number of iraqi troops killed may 
have been 
as low as 1 , 500. 
that conclusion by john , writing in the current issue of the 
quarterly magazine foreign policy , represents the lowest estimate yet 
from u.s. 
defense sources. 
the revisions suggesting a less devastating iraqi toll fit a pattern of 
vastly moderated u.s. military claims in the months after the war ended. 
claims 
for a number of u.s. weapons also were scaled down. 
despite the dramatic videotapes of successful weaponry or the shocking 
pictures of iraq 's disastrous retreat from kuwait , arguments have continued 
about what really happened in the gulf war. 
is not the first to question the iraqi death toll numbers that 
originally were aired .  . more that a year ago , air force lt. gen. charles 
horner , 
the commander of the air campaign in the gulf war , said he believed the iraqi 
military death toll was fewer than 10 , 000 for the entire war. 
the pentagon itself still refuses to provide an estimate of the number of 
iraqis who died in the 42 day war against the u.s. led coalition in 
january and 
february 1991. on monday , pentagon spokesman lt. cmdr .  . joe 
reiterated 
past statements that there just is n't a number , that is credible .  . 
but some current internal estimates range from 8 , 000 to 25 , 000 iraqi troops 
killed , said one analyst , speaking on condition of anonymity , who is familiar 
with the pentagon 's reports. 
allied deaths were put at 146 americans , 35 by friendly fire 24 british , 9 
by american fire 2 , 1 italian and 39 among various arab allies .  . 
of the postwar , the most widely publicized was the army 's 
reluctant acknowledgement , months later , that its touted patriot air defense 
system was nowhere near so effective as claimed against iraq 's scud missiles .  . 
the bush administration initially claimed an almost perfect record for the 
patriot last spring it revised the hit ratio to 60 percent. 
the success record of the navy 's tomahawk high tech cruise missile used 
against targets in baghdad and other parts of iraq also turned out to be more 
modest than initially indicated by the pentagon .  . 
the first iraqi casualty figures to surface after the war came in a 
may 1991 
report by the environmental group greenpeace , which said 100 , 000 to 120 , 000 
iraqi soldiers were killed. it estimated that 5 , 000 to 15 , 000 iraqi civilians 
were also killed. 
the same month , published reports said the defense intelligence agency 
estimated 100 , 000 iraqi soldiers were killed and 300 , 000 wounded in the 
air and 
ground campaigns although the agency qualified that by saying the estimate 
could be off by as much as 50 percent in either direction. 
but as more information became available , those figures gradually were 
revised downward .  . 
the house armed services committee staff estimated 9 , 000 dead and 17 , 000 
wounded after a review last year. 
but , writing in the current issue of the quarterly foreign 
policy , 
estimated the total death toll from both the air and ground 
as low as 
1 , 500 with about 3 , 000 wounded .  . 
based the conclusion in his article on the number of 
bodies found 
and buried by u.s. troops 577 and on prisoner of war interviews .  . 
he noted 
that only about 2 , 000 of 69 , 000 iraqi prisoners of war were wounded .  . 
based on the calculation that about half as many wounded escaped as were 
captured , he put the number of wounded at about 3 , 000 .  . using a conservative 
ratio of one dead to two wounded , applicable to third world armies like 
iraq , he 
set battlefield deaths at 1 , 500. 
maybe the figures are too low , he wrote. maybe the real death toll 
on the 
battlefield was 2 , 000 or 3 , 000 or even 6 , 000 .  . even then , the evidence 
suggests a 
death toll of well below 100 , 000 or even 10 , 000 .  . 
in an interview , he said the 100 , 000 figure was obviously off base 
because it 
would mean that virtually all the iraqi soldiers in the kuwait theater of 
operations were casualties .  . 
he said today 's bloodiest wars were not those fought with high technology , 
but rather the drawn out conflicts such as those in yugoslavia and somalia .  . 





from ronald 
subject reflections on bosnia owen , , 
nf id n cdp 000 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! may 15 10 30 00 1993 
lines 187 


reflections on bosnia 

lord owen and the serbs 

in early february '93 , lord owen made appearances in new york city 
on the donahue and charlie rose shows. on a couple of occasions on 
those shows lord owen gave away his pro serbian position when he 
made the point that much or most of the bosnian territory then in 
dispute or already overrun by serbian forces had been controlled 
and occupied by serbs before wwii .  . it was as if he were saying 
that since the serbs had previously occupied those territories and 
lost them during the hitler years , they should be allowed to 
them today. 

i was familiar with this view because my father , a yugoslav jew 
who escaped to this country during the war , was aided and found 
sympathy among the serbs during those years. in recent 
months when the subject of serbian aggression was mentioned , my 
father would make the point that 850 , 000 serbs were killed by nazi 
and pro nazi forces known as the  . my father is 
so pro serbian that he dismissed reports of serbian atrocities .  . my 
father also new york times columnist anthony lewis , 
because , my father said , anthony lewis is always talking about 
the muslims .  . 

update april 28 , 1993 after an uneasy truce in and around 
, shelling has resumed in nearby areas by all sides and 
the killing and the misery continues apace while the clinton 
administration its response. in the days leading to the 
collapse of resistance at , lord owen changed his tune. 
previously he had opposed military intervention on the grounds 
that it would endanger u.n. relief workers .  . when serbian forces 
began to march on , the threat to u.n. relief soldiers 
went unmentioned while lord owen called for outside intervention 
to stop serbian aggression , including the use of air strikes .  . the 
current disastrous situation can be seen as a failure of the west 
and a failure of the vance owen initiative which did nothing to 
halt the serbs .  . now that it 's too late to save muslim areas that 
lord owen felt should be in a muslim state , lord owen 
calls for strong action. 

clinton and bosnia 

in the summer of 1992 , george kenney , a senior state department 
official , the in charge of the yugoslav desk , made 
news when he resigned from the state department because of the 
bush administration 's refusal to take any action to halt serbian 
aggression .  . as kenney saw it , bush 's inaction was largely due to 
the president 's unwillingness to risk any political capital by 
getting involved there. 

apparently the same is true of the clinton administration. 
clinton gives the impression that he cares more than bush did 
about the terrible ongoing tragedy , but the practical effect has 
so far been the same. 

according to the new york times , (4 16 93) the clinton 
administration did everything it could to suppress a mid march 
report by its own experts which called for military action if 
necessary to protect safe havens for the muslims .  . at one point , 
senate majority leader , george mitchell was so incensed that the 
report was kept from congress , that he called for an 
investigation .  . 

instead of helping the desperate bosnians , clinton has signalled 
again and again that milosevic and the serbs are free to do what 
they want in bosnia indeed , clinton and the west have been 
signalling that the serbs should get on with the job and finish 
off the bosnians as quickly as possible while we turn the other 
way. a key signal was when clinton made it clear that he would 
not send in american military forces on the ground. on this 
issue , clinton has made me for bush .  . bush and baker could 
not have done worse , and might have been pressured to do better 
well before this time. lives in bosnia might have been saved and 
the destruction might have been curtailed .  .  . 

the nation , the left and the bosnian quandary 

typical of the left 's inability to come to grips with the core 
issue involved in bosnia , i.e. , a clear aggressor destroying 
hundreds of thousands of lives , is the editorial on the bosnian 
quandary in the nation (4 26 93) .  . in the end the editorial votes 
to do nothing , even while noticing the ghastly atrocities of the 
bosnian serbs and that the greater and lesser powers .  .  . dither . 
and fuss and hang back. ( before anything else happens , the 
clinton administration ought to pay the 530 million the united 
states the u.n. the editorial concludes . ) . 

in its most striking passage , the editorial writer warns that 
those who are pushing president clinton to intervene on the side 
of the bosnians had better review u.s. foreign policy since world 
war ii. the editorial argues for inaction on the basis that the 
bosnian serbs are no worse than any number of u.s. clients 
including the , the south , the greek fascists and 
others.  ( in a subsequent column for the nation , christopher 
correctly called this editorial ,  . ) 



william , a european based journalist who writes for the the 
new yorker and the los angeles times , is among a group of liberal 
columnists like anthony lewis , and leslie who have clearly 
and consistently called for strong western and american 
intervention to stop the serbs .  . 's most recent column 
 ( liberal opinion week 4 19 93) is entitled international 
cowardice worsened bosnian tragedy .  . 

he clarifies the international failure which has led to present 
situation in one sentence. having refused to intervene to 
sanction the threat to minority rights in newly independent 
croatia in june 1991 , or to block or penalize the military 
aggression by serbia that immediately followed , and the atrocious 
ethnic cleansing which followed that , the united nations now 
contemplates deploying in bosnia military force on a scale which 
two years ago could have deterred the horrors yugoslavia has since 
experienced .  . he goes on to explain that u.n. plans now 
call for a more daunting and open ended military assignment than 
a direct military intervention to halt the aggression would have 
been a year ago. 

on the serbs in his watching rights column in the 
the nation (5 3 93) gets to the heart of the 
motivation of the aggressors the preferred term for the serbian 
forces who have been besieging and shelling sarajevo for more than 
a year. he explains that there is no military purpose that is 
served by the destruction of its fabric and its people .  .  . above . 
all , few of those aligned with the forces attacking sarajevo would 
want to live there even if the city could be rebuilt .  . they are 
not city people. 

it is this , i believe aside from a desire to break the morale of 
bosnians and make them press their government to accept peace at 
any price that explains the conduct of the siege of 
sarajevo .  .  .  . i t is a loathing for all that is urban , and 
cosmopolitan that has made sarajevo the object for devastation .  . 

historically , most of the serbian population in bosnia and 
herzegovina has been rural , while muslims , who were the civil 
servants and during the centuries of ottoman rule , 
made up a disproportionate share of the urban population .  .  .  . the . 
destruction of sarajevo is not only an expression of hostility 
against this city it is also an attack on the urban idea .  .  .  . the . 
who whipped up the passions let loose by this war 
exploited not only ethnic and religious bigotry but also hatred 
for all that is cosmopolitan .  . 

the light that sheds on the issue helps to clarify what is 
at stake .  . the serbs represent the know nothing , anti secularist , 
fundamentalist , fascist forces who are attacking the urban , 
cosmopolitan , secular , multi cultural idea. they are attacking 
the rest of us , just as hitler did. one irony is that at the 
beginning of the crisis over bosnia , it was for awhile maintained 
by the serbs and their supporters that they were responding to a 
threat by the bosnian muslims to create a fundamentalist state. 

has shown that it is the serbs who are the great threat to 
, multi , diversity and democracy .  . it 's the 
serbs who are attacking the democratic notion , the democratic 
idea. 

anthony lewis comes close to the point when he asks why does 
respect for clinton 's presidency depend .  .  . on . his acting 
effectively against serbian aggression  .  .  . first . of all because to 
do nothing about genocide would be such a betrayal of the values 
we and our allies profess .  .  ( times , 4 26 93) but it 's not merely 
a betrayal of our values .  . it 's because the serbs are attacking us 
by proxy , just as hitler was. 

one argument for decisive action by the west that is heard in a 
different form , is that war in the balkans is for 
europe .  . we hear it as , the bosnians are europe 's palestinians 
that is to say , just as the palestinian refugee problem has been 
the key to instability in the middle east , just so will the 
hundreds of thousands of yugoslav refugees of all 
result in turmoil in europe for decades to come. 

one of the lessons of the twentieth century is that even though 
the atlantic ocean divides us , the americas are ultimately tied to 
the destiny of europe .  . if europe is destabilized , the u.s. will 
inevitably be affected and drawn into its problems. as in a 
, sooner or later we will be drawn into the  . 
and as past history and have shown , it 's much better if we 
do so decisively , quickly and on our terms. 

sincerely , ronald 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 92 

in article  ( josip loncaric ) writes 

and (1) was soundly rejected .  . the reasons are pragmatic even if 
bosnian muslims are croats and serbs who converted to islam under 
turkish rule centuries ago , none of the present generation has any 
clue what was their ancestor 's actual nationality .  . in fact , although 

i am forced to disagree with you. first of all , one may have been 
born from a non turkish , non muslim parent outside the turkish land , 
yet still can be a turk , provided this person calls himself or herself 
a turk .  . because the designation of a turk is not a genetic feature , 
not a racial or religious feature. it is a matter of identifying 
with the turkish values .  . secondly , the following observations by 
westerners were written in french by ahmet 

if turks had behaved like christians to use force to convert to islam the 
nations which they brought under their power , to which no one could have 
opposed , today there would be no eastern problem. but turks did not do so. 
they obeyed the word of the koran to permit everybody to worship in their own 
way centuries before frederick the great pronounced his famous dictum .  . thus , 
in an age when the christian europe itself shed christian blood and when 
people in europe enjoyed inflicting inhuman tortures upon those whose beliefs 
differed from theirs , the ottoman empire became the sole country where the 
inquisition did not exist , where deaths at the stake were unheard of and 
where accusations of witchcraft were not made. and the barbarian ( ! ) turkey 
was the only country where the jews persecuted and chased away everywhere 
by the christians , could find asylum .  . these facts demonstrate that muslim 
countries provided spiritually far better living conditions than christian 
countries. 1 

the turks , who are a conquering nation , did not the nations that came 
under their rule instead , they respected their religions and traditions .  . it 
was a stroke of luck for romania to live under turkish rule instead of 
russian or austrian rule. because otherwise there would not have been a 
romanian nation today  ( popescu ciocanel) .  . 

turks rule over people under their administration only externally , without 
interfering with their internal structures .  . on account of this , the autonomy 
of minorities in turkey is better and more complete than any in the most 
advanced european countries. 2 

 .  .  . human . beings hate each other on account of religious differences .  . this flaw 
is older than islam and christianity .  . but there has never been any examples 
of this adjuration in turkey because turks never oppress anybody on account 
of his religion. if enmity on the basis of religion had been such a case of 
simple contempt among us too , or if it did not keep translating itself into 
action , many nations in our europe would probably have considered themselves 
happy ! (a .  . de mortraye) .  . 3 

turkey never became a scene for religious terror or for the cruelty of the 
inquisition .  . on the contrary , it served as an asylum for the unfortunate 
victims of christian fanaticism .  . if you look into history , you will see that 
in the fifteenth century thousands of jews who were expelled from spain and 
portugal found such a good asylum in turkey that their descendants have been 
living there very calmly all through these approximately three hundred years , 
and are only forced to defend themselves in some countries against the 
cruelty of christians , especially that of the orthodoxes .  . no jew is able to 
appear in public during easter celebrations in athens , even today. in turkey , 
however , if the israelites are insulted by the greek and armenian communities , 
local courts immediately take them under their protection. 

in that vast and calm country of the sultan , all religions and nations are 
living together peacefully .  . although the mosque is superior to the church and 
the synagogue , it does not replace them. because of this , the catholic sect is 
more free in istanbul and smyrna compared with paris and lyon .  . in addition 
to the fact that no law in turkey prohibits the open air ceremonies of this 
sect , neither does any law imprison its cross in the church. while the 
dead are being taken to the graves , a long line of priests bear processional 
candles and chant catholic hymns .  . when all the priests in all the churches in 
the galata and districts go into the streets and form clerical 
processions during the eucharist celebrations , chanting hymns and bearing 
their crosses and religious banners , a detachment of soldiers escorts them 
which forces even the turks to stand in respect around the group of 
priests .  . (a .  . ubicini) .  . 4 

1 ah .  . , gore eski , 3rd ed.  ( istanbul , 1978) , 
pp. 70 71 .  . 
2 ibid. , p . 91 .  . 
3 ibid. , pp. 214 215 .  . 
4 ibid. , pp. 215 216 .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject strictly speaking 
organization corporation 
lines 20 


jake livni writes 



well over 100 , 000 in lebanon alone. 
1 , 000 , 000 2 , 000 , 000 in the iran iraq conflict , even if iranians 
are n't arabs , strictly speaking .  .  ( they seem to hate the zionists at 
least as much as anyone else in the neighborhood. is there some 
correlation perhaps between hating israel and killing off your own 
people ) 


perhaps iranians are not arabs even not so strictly speaking 



dorin 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re the of the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslims .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 60 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

during the period of 1914 to 1920 , the armenian government 
ordered , incited , assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million 
muslim people because of race , religion and national origin the x soviet 

my gosh ! ! ! , what armenian government armenia did n't even become 

no wonder you clown are in such a mess. let 's take 's  ( an 
armenian sociolog ) book , the armenian community , pages 97 and 
105 .  . quotes 

... the immediate question concerned itself with the organization and 
tactics of revolution .  . the liberation of armenia , the immediate aim of 
the party , was to be attained by 

1. oral and written propaganda .  . 
2. terrorism both as punishment against the enemy and as a measure 
of self defense .  . 
3. the creation of an avant of revolutionary groups to be 
equipped and prepared for action when other nations were prepared 
for a general uprising .  . 
4. the organization of larger committees to be in constant contact with 
each other and subject to a central body. 
5. organization of units of guerilla fighters .  . 

now , on page 105 , 's book quotes of armenian constitution 

... if the means was revolution , how was the revolution to be attained 
by 

1. propaganda 
2. preparation of combat units and their indoctrination 
3. encouragement of the revolutionary morale of the people 
4. the arming of the people 
5. organization of revolutionary committees 
6. espionage throughout the country and the exchange of information with 
the official bodies and journals 
7. organization of financial zones for public collection 
8.  fighting and using  the weapon of the terror on corrupt government 
officers , spies , traitors , , and all sorts of oppressors 
9. defense of the people against attacks from the 
10. building of roads for the transport of arms 
11. wrecking and looting of governmental institutions .  . 

many of the recent armenian terrorist acts against the turkish people 
were committed by the brainwashed members of the , namely , 
race worshipers of the youth organization. ironically , again , 
was set up by an undisputed armenian nazi , , 
in 1941  ( see , loc cit , page  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


reply to 
from d. c. sessions 
organization nobody but me really 
x tmail version 1 . 20r . 
subject re final solution for gaza 
distribution world 
lines 78 

in ,  ( center for political reflux ) wrote 

pseudo letterhead deleted dcs 

while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they 
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and 
attempt to starve the gazans .  . 

why do i detect the faint of bias here could it be because 
the israelis are n't perhaps because the gazans are n't 
starving 

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
density in the world , 

oh , oh. i had n't realized that the chinese had wiped out hong 
kong , or that singapore had sunk into the sea , or that several 
other cities had vanished .  . either that , or this is a taste of 
the quality of  research  we 're about to see. 

has been cut off from the world for weeks. 

so i suppose that the footage on cnn last night was archival , 
and ted turner was faking it after the nbc style or is this 
another wee little exaggeration for the sake of a greater truth 

the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

hey ! you forgot that israel has also denied syrians the same 
'right' .  . come to think of it , mexico is denying me that 'right' 
evan as i write this ! or are you ever so gently suggesting that 
israel , unlike every other country on earth , should n't be allowed 
to control traffic across its borders 

while polish non jews risked their lives to save jews from the 
ghetto , no israeli jew is known to have risked his life to help 
the resistance. the only help given to gazans by israeli 
jews , only dozens of people , is humanitarian assistance. 

this sounds like a parallel , but it is n't .  . tell us how many poles 
went into the ghetto to join the jews there. oops ! for a moment 
there i forgot that in poland ,  humanitarian assistance could 
get you killed. come to think of it , humanitarian assistance to 
the gazans can get israelis killed , too. except that in gaza , 
it 's likely to be by a death squad in your own office. 

so let 's keep the parallel .  . since the gross numbers are n't the 
same , we 'll need a value. should we use 
vs jewish initial population 
vs jewish death rates 
gazans vs jews who survived five years of occupation 
israelis vs nazis attacked by the  resistance  
israelis vs poles charged with aiding the victims 
since the two cases are so comparable , it should n't matter 
which we pick , they 'll all be about the same , right 



contrary to popular hyperbole , the idf could quite easily kill 
off the entire population of gaza in hours if they wanted to. 
(no , i'm not exaggerating .  . and i really do n't want to discuss how . ) . 
note that a million dead gazans do n't get much more headline 
space than a dozen , and are just as soon forgotten and once 
exterminated , they ca n't keep popping up as headlines .  . 

so if a final solution for gaza would be so much better from 
a standpoint , why does n't israel go for it a 
difficult question to answer for those who ca n't believe anything 
good about jews , and probably why they keep trying to force fit 
the facts into the theory. 


d. c. sessions speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of tmail  ( dos mail news shell) 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 40 

in article  ( danny keren ) writes 
can someone elaborate a little on what this libertarian movement is i 
am not going to draw conclusions from a small sample , but so far i 
recall two self described libertarians posting here. both seems to be 

1) incredibly ignorant .  . 
2) incredibly arrogant .  . 
3) all they want is to get people angry .  . 
4) posses a lousy sense of humor. 
5) write incoherently and jump from topic to topic without any logical 
connection between topics. 
6) describe themselves as intelligent and knowledgeable , although everything 
in their posters points to the opposite .  . 
7) very childish .  . 

the libertarians believe in getting the government off the 
backs of the people , so that the free market can solve problems. 

libertarians believe in an end to the welfare state , an end to 
government subsidies of all sorts .  . the basic idea is that the 
government is way too big and way too expensive , and should be shrunk 
down to a reasonable size. 

they also believe in a complete end to foreign aid , including 
the of american troops overseas .  . we can not and should not 
be policing the world. 


i agree that the people who come into this group and describe 
themselves as libertarians seem to posses the you 
describe , but heck , we 're not all like this. i'm a libertarian , and 
i 've got a great sense of humor ! ) 

adam 


adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from () 
subject re the stage is being set 
organization computing services , uc davis 
lines 26 

srinivas writes 

if the people 's will is that their current govt. get thrown out , 
they 'll find a way to do it. getting the us un to short cut the process will 
only hasten it , but sets a bad precedent can the us interfere everywhere 
why not right at our doorstep cuba 

precisely , why not cuba why not the are being ruled by thugs 
and their elected leader has asked support to reestablish the peoples will. if 
the u.s. or any other democracy wishes to , they are in the perfect right to 
help them without any whining from parties. after all if it turns out to 
be and the poeple do n't like it , they  find a way to throw them out. 

there is an implicit assumption here that we as outsiders have a right to sit 
in judgement of another people , and to then act on it. to me , it is in there 
that the roots of old colonial attitudes lie. today , the motives are noble .  . 
tomorrow , they may not be. 

who ever said people who commit genocide have the right to commit genocide 
i want a world where criminals agains humanity have no place to hide , while you 
want special sovereignties designed to protect them. nobody has the right to 
commit crimes against humanity , and if they do they loose all right to self 
determination .  . if this is classical , then so be it. 




from (david davidian ) 
subject re armenia and azerbaijan two views 
summary refuting azeri professor , dr. 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 278 

in article (paul 
thompson schreiber ) posted 

pts armenia and azerbaijan two views 
pts 
pts washington report on middle east affairs 
pts april may 1993 , vol. xi , no. 9 
pts 
pts 
pts 
pts 
pts life under blockade in yerevan 
pts 
pts by nancy 

ms. wrote on her personal observations .  . if somebody wishes to 
counter the reality she described , fine. 

pts 
pts 
pts 
pts the conflict over nagorno karabakh an azeri perspective 
pts 
pts by alec 
pts 
pts 

ar western readers have learned of the nagorno  ( upper ) karabakh 
ar controversy through reports from that remote area by western 
ar correspondents and from commentaries by member of the long established 
ar armenian american community. azeri views on this dispute have 
ar appeared rarely if at all in the western news media. therefore let me 
ar present washington report readers with some basic truths about the 
ar origins of the conflict .  . 

during the past two years , if one reads all the commentaries on the subject , 
a small minority of the writers have been armenia or azeri .  . 

the following should be interesting. 

ar armenian leaders claim that azerbaijan was the first to oppress and 
ar expel the armenian minority from the azerbaijani republic .  . actually , 
ar the initiative to banish the azeri minority and convert the armenian 
ar republic into a homogeneous state began in the winter of 1987 1988 , 
ar when 165 , 000 azeris were driven out of armenia .  . following that move , 
ar there were massacres of armenians in the azerbaijani cities of sumgait 
ar in february 1988 and two years later , in baku in january 1990. 

this not true. other than simply checking the newspapers , i will quote from an 
independent human rights report. in the pax netherlands , 29 september 
1991 , page 28 , we read 

by mid november , many incidents took place in several places in 
azerbaijan .  . the azeri popular front challenged the communist party 
for power. ... after ten days , the authorities came in with tanks to 
their power. in , the last armenian villages were 
deported .  . in ganja , armenians were attacked and killed. all 40 , 000 
armenian inhabitants fled the city .  .  .  . 

between 22 november and 8 december 1988 , refugees from ganja arrived in 
armenia while all 167 , 000 azeris in armenia were chased away. 

in this part of the world february 1988 start of organized anti armenian 
pogroms in azerbaijan come before november and december of 1988 ! 

ar azeri parliamentary committees have compiled evidence indicating that 
ar both events were inspired from moscow to secure russian imperial rule 
ar in the transcaucasus , according to the roman principle of divide and 
ar rule. similar conspiracies are evident throughout the five year 
ar history of the conflict .  . 

it is interesting that the azeris killed , burnt , raped the armenians but the 
perpetrators blame russians , and armenians themselves on other occasions .  . 

ar each time the parties have been about to reach an agreement  ( in 
ar , moscow , , rome , geneva and alma ata ) , an 
ar invisible hand provoked further bloodshed .  . those interested in 
ar maintaining the azeri armenian conflict , as well as the georgian 
ar turmoil , are imperialist forces in russia , and probably in iran .  . 

incorrect ! when were the people of nagorno karabakh ever involved in an 
agreement never. until azerbaijan sits down with the armenians of nagorno 
karabakh there will never be an end to this conflict .  . 

ar the armenian offensive last spring created more than 100 , 000 new azeri 
ar refugees from the captured towns of upper and lower karabakh and 
ar adjacent rural districts .  . today 500 , 000 azeri refugees the 
ar city of baku and environs , providing more problems for the newly 
ar elected popular front government , which is opposed by the rigidly 
ar nationalistic national independence party. 

it 's called war. if the azerbaijanis did n't try to deport and allow the 
armenians of nagorno karabakh to live in their ways , keep their armenian 
culture , these armenians would not have had to defend their existence .  . the 
azeris should not have assumed that armenians were going to roll over and 
play dead. 

ar how can a western style democracy survive in a small muslim country 
ar where 1 million of the 7 million inhabitants are unemployed in the 
ar absence of any international effort to help azeri refugees , as kurdish 
ar and bosnian refugees have been helped , how can the azeri government 
ar reject the demand of these exiles to their lands , homes and 
ar possessions 

the azeri government should have thought about such before they 
attempted to deprive armenians of lands , homes , and possessions . 

ar such simple realities must be understood in the west .  . 
ar misunderstanding caucasian politics leads both western and russian 
ar public opinion to imagine a permanent , and therefore irreversible , 
ar ethnic and religious rivalry in the caucasus .  . 

true , and you , dr. alec , should practice what you preach ! 

ar i think western reluctance to interfere derives from this idea. 
ar meanwhile , continuation of the war could draw both eastern and western 
ar states into the conflict through activation of various security 
ar  . these include , on the armenian side , the moscow led 
ar commonwealth forces under the mutual security pact , signed 
ar may 15 , 1992. on the azeri side , should turkey get involved as the 
ar guarantor of the nakhichevan autonomy through the kars treaty of oct. 
ar 13 , 1921 , these include the north atlantic treaty forces .  . 

western interference ! turkish intervention ! the moment turkey dares step into 
this conflict it will close the doors of any chance of turkey being part of 
europe  ( as if it ever will) and will destroy the eastern third of anatolia ! 
dr. , international is not as simple minded as you would 
have us believe. 

ar upper karabakh generally is described in western press reports as an 
ar armenian enclave within azerbaijan .  . the truth is that the armenians 
ar began to appear there only in the middle of the last century. 

incorrect once again. a brief scan of history addresses such a foolish 
claim .  . 

armenians today , refer to the area of nagorno karabakh as , which 
comes from the term . no azeris yet ! 

ancient greeks referred to as . no azeris yet ! 

in the first half of the 6th century b.c. , , as part of 
armenia of media. no azeris yet ! 

from the end of the 4th century b.c. , was part of the armenian kingdom 
of ervan .  . no azeris yet ! 

was still part of the armenian empire of  . , or 
is refereed to by , as part of armenia .  . no azeris yet ! 

after armenia was divided between the persian and byzantine in 387 
a.d. until 428 , was part of armenia .  . no azeris yet ! 

end of the 5th century , and became of the 
 . no azeris yet ! 

by the 7th century an dialect of armenian formed .  . no azeris yet ! 

emperor konstantin  ( 913 959 ) a letter to the prince of to 
armenia . was the central of  . no azeris yet ! 

in the decree of paul i  ( 1797 ) , the number of armenian families in this area 
was stated as 11 , 000 .  . 

it was from the 16th to the 18th centuries that non armenians from central 
asia , asia minor , and kurdistan first began to be exercise political influence 
in the planes of  . caucasian muslims around karabakh ! 

in 1813 karabagh becomes part of russia .  . part of russia 1828 .  . some 
muslims in karabakh ! 

in 1914 , the number of armenian churches in nagorno karabagh was 224 , 188 
priests , 206 , 768 parishioners in 224 armenian towns and villages .  . the armenian 
percentage of the population was over 90 . max 10 azeris in karabakh 
assuming no kurds ! 

consider the following statement by the azerbaijani on december 1 , 1920 

the worker peasant government of , having been informed of the 
proclamation of armenia a soviet socialist republic , sends its greetings 
to the brother people. from this day the previous boundaries between 
armenia and are annulled .  . karabakh , , and 
nakhichevan are recognized as integral parts of the armenian 
republic .  . 

long live the brotherhood and union of the workers and peasants of soviet 
armenia and ! 

chairman of the of 
n. 

people 's commissar for foreign affairs 


ar a few years ago they celebrated the anniversary of their 
ar resettlement from persia to karabakh , after it came under russian 
ar rule. 

no , incorrect .  . the 1988 celebration was the anniversary of russian rule 
in the caucasus , including karabakh ! 

ar at the same time the russian colonial administration also drew 
ar in russian and german settlers , who were welcomed by azeris .  . how 
ar would americans react if the large numbers of armenians living in 
ar southern california suddenly claimed an armenian homeland , and 
ar demanded separation from california 

non sequitur .  . 

ar armenian historians insist that before the armenian resettlement 
ar karabakh was inhabited by christians .  . that is correct. 

armenian historians do n't say this ! 

ar the people of medieval caucasian albania adopted christianity in the 
ar fourth century. but those ancient residents had no link to and 
ar nothing in common with armenians .  . 

considering the caucasian albans were of the armenian apostolic faith , and 
their utilization of the armenian language in their liturgy , makes such an 
argument totally invalid ! 

ar azeris would have a better claim to 
ar be successors of albania , since azeris have for centuries inhabited , 
ar dominated , and developed the karabakh part of the azeri nation .  . 

wishing to be part of a people non existent for nearly a millennium for geo 
political advantage is rather outrageous .  . in addition to such absurdity , 
azeris claim to be turks , persians , and all the while are their 
minorities , such as the lezgians , kurds , , , and a host of other 
nationalities which may amount to nearly half the population of azerbaijan .  . 

ar both armenia and azerbaijan last year signed the final act of the 
ar conference on security and cooperation in europe of 1975 , and the 
ar paris charter for new europe of 1990 , confirming their mutual 
ar adherence to the principle of inviolability of existing borders .  . this 
ar principle means that the borders and territorial integrity of the 
ar republic of azerbaijan are to be guaranteed by all of the 
ar nations , not just by turkey .  . 

such agreements do not give azerbaijan the right to de populate karabakh of 
armenians .  . 

ar this is one key to intervention on behalf either of the u.n. , the 
ar csce , the commonwealth , nato or iran .  . the second key to the 
ar caucasian knot is to determine who is the aggressor , according to the 
ar u.n. definition of 1974 .  . 

fine , so why has azerbaijan refused to allow un troops into the armenian 
enclave what is azerbaijan afraid of perhaps the fact that the territory 
is the home of armenians , the un , would by definition , support the local 
population ! 

ar when that is accomplished , the international community can and should 
ar apply to the aggressor in the caucasus international sanctions such as 
ar those presently being employed against serbia and montenegro in the 
ar former yugoslavia .  . such decisive collective international action can 
ar halt further aggression in karabakh , and prevent the armenian azeri 
ar conflict from growing and spreading .  . 

azerbaijan 's refusal to allow the armenians of karabakh to determine their 
own future the is issue , not viewing isolating events out of context are 
actions that will address the karabakh conflict .  . viewing events in a war 
in isolation and out of context is like viewing the landing at normandy as 
an act of allied aggression ! 

ar dr. alec , senior research officer at the academy of sciences 
ar of azerbaijan , is a visiting researcher at the harriman institute of 
ar columbia university in new york .  . 

ha ! 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( bill coleman) 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
reply to 
organization live direct from downtown israel 
lines 26 

in article writes 

the cases are n't really comparable .  . a project like a freeway requires 
public hearings , court action , appeals , advance determination of 
restitution , and so on. the of the district in east 
jerusalem happened within hours of the end of the hostilities of the 6 
day war. the residents were given only two or three hours  notice to 
pack up and find accomodations elsewhere. they had no chance of 
public hearing , debate , appeal , negotiation or anything. it was get 
out or die in the rubble .  . 

in today 's jerusalem post magazine there is a feature story about the 
ongoing restoration of synagogues in the jewish quarter .  . the author , 
leah , writes that there were fifty seven synagogues in the 
quarter in 1948 , all of which were destroyed , some , she says , used as 
donkey stables .  . the building shells , that is. 

i still find it really , really hard to understand why the demolition 
of the buildings in front of the continues to evoke more outrage 
than this. everything is so much cheaper when it happens to the jews .  . 

why 


bill coleman 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 53 

in article  ( kandala srinivas ) writes 

my reference is a 4 page essay in our local star tribute newspaper 
putting the whole conflict in perspective. i will readily admit 
that i am no authority in this area however , other 
asserted that some muslims did join hands with croats and 
nazis in persecuting serbs .  . in any case , past actions do not 

and the best evidence you can find is second hand hearsay from 
an unnamed source you may indeed be confusing some muslims 
with nazi armenians .  . altogether 30 , 000 nazi armenians served in 
various units in the german wehrmacht , according to ara j.  . 
14 , 000 in predominantly armenian army units , 6 , 000 in german army 
units , 8 , 000 in various working units and 2 , 000 in the waffen ss. 1 

amazing ! how the discussions change from one topic to another ) 

i really disagree with you. but maybe you know better. here is the 
issue at hand 


 after all , who remembers today the extermination of the tartars ' 
 ( adolf hitler , august 22 , 1939 ruth w. rosenbaum  ( durusoy ) , 
the turkish holocaust turk , p. 213 . ) . 


the crime of systematic cleansing by mass killing and extermination 
of the muslim population in soviet republic of armenia , karabag , 
bosnia and herzegovina is an  islamic holocaust  comparable to the 
extermination of 2.5 million muslims by the armenian government 
during the wwi and of over 6 million european jews during the wwii .  . 
 ( tovfik azeri leader september 25 , 1992) 


today 's ethnic cleansing policies by the serbian dictatorship against 
croatians and muslims of yugoslavia , as well as the soviet republic 
of armenia 's against the muslim population of neighboring azerbaijan , 
are really no different in their aspirations than the genocide 
perpetrated by the armenian government 78 years ago against the 
turkish and kurdish muslims and sephardic jews living in these 
lands .  .  ( cebbar kurdish leader october 13 , 1992) 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jim eggert g41 ) 
subject re chomsky 
in reply to 's message of 24 may 1993 19 17 34 gmt 
lines 9 
reply to 
organization mit lincoln lab group 41 

i caught the tail end of a piece on npr  ( national public radio) about 
chomsky .  . apparently there is a new documentary about him and his 
concepts on the propagandist news media of the west , or some such. 
the funny thing is that npr painted chomsky and the documentary in 
such a positive light , or at least ended the report in a positive way. 
the documentary is just now showing in a few cities in the us , and 
will open in more cities in june .  . sorry , forgot the title. 

jim  ( jim eggert ) 

from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re zionist leaders  frank statements 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 27 
nntp posting host rac3 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

and , if you are jewish , you are a self hating jew .  . there can 
be no doubt of this. 

there are doubts about it. why do n't you define what self hating jew means 
i found the idea itself of being a self hating jew to be one of those 
rediculous things that people repeat and repeat because it seems to have a 
meaning when in fact it has none. 
i hope you can come up with a definition in itself and not something like 
look at this person , that is a self hating jew .  . 




who is a jew a person whose integrity when 
by the knowledge of wrong done to other people. 

a. j. 


that is why i get moved when i see the israeli army killing people in 
the occupied territories as much as i get moved when i see a 
people in israel .  . 

aap 


from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 202 
nntp posting host rac3 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 
in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 

i do not want to convince anyone. this is just usenet , not the real 
world. i just read the opinions others have about a subject , and sometimes 
i present my opinion. i think that this net is only useful to exchange 
ideas. i never wanted nor i want now to convince anyone of anything. 

fine. now if your opinion is n't convincing anyone , and it 's getting 
refuted regularly by the facts (which is the case) , is n't it likely that 
your opinions need some revision 

as i said , i do not want to convice anyone , so , why should my opinions 
convince anyone 
i do not believe that my opinions are refuted by facts. 


first , and i repeat it , i never said that the idea of jews having the 
right to have a state is racist .  . 
zionism , as a movement , is more than just that idea. 

in a word utter and complete horse puckey .  . look the term up in the 
dictionary .  . 

maybe view of a dictionary is the problem here. one thing is the 
accepted meaning of a word by a dictionary , and sometimes a completely 
different thing is what that word came to mean after a long time. 



i think that zionism 
in the way it defines who is a jew , for example , is racist like. 

ok , now how would you define it. and by the way , you 're wrong again. 
there is no uniformity of this definition among zionist movements .  . 
you know this is the case , it 's been pointed out on the net directly to 
you before , and yet you continue to maintain this delusion .  . 

ok. tell me how many people in zionist movements define a jew in a 
different way , and how many are who define jew based on a religious way. 

in the same way i believe that irish have a right to nationalism but i do 
not support the bombing and killing of the ira , i believe that jews have 
a right to nationalism but i do not support zionism as it is right now. 

comparing the actions of israel to that of the ira is like comparing 
those of the us to those of chile under  ( for example) , with the 
ira in the role of  . you really need to get your history 
straight. you also need a basic dictionary .  . 

you need to start reading before answering .  . 
my point was that because some movement claims to be nationalistic , it 
does not mean that i consider it to be nationalistic .  . i did not 
israel to the ira .  . i think that you are starting to put words on my 
mouth and that is wrong. 



stuff deleted by  . his statement , which i was responding to 
with the below , asserted that zionism was uniform and monolithic 

i never said that zionism is monolithic .  . if you are going to attribute 
me things , present the quotes where i said that. 


that is what makes the basis for zionist movements .  . however , i am not 
considering just that , but the rest of it. 

in a word i do n't believe you. your words tell a very different 
story. especially since they are not based on fact , but and 
misrepresentation .  . 

that is your problem. i could certainly interpret this like you are 
running out of arguments .  . first , you put words in my mouth , now , you 
say you do ot believe me. 


which makes an interesting point. people living in a jewish state have 
shown that jewish culture includes in it jewish religion but they are 
not the same. so , the jewish people living in the jewish state have shown 
us that there are some problems in a state where 80 of the people is secular 
but judaism is define according to religious standards , or where marriage 
is a religious stage , or where the law of return defines a jew according to 
a religious standard. 

no , it does n't ! nowhere does the law of return demand that one must be 
religious or even believe in g d to become a citizen of israel 
 . 

why do n't you try reading for a change did i say that the law of return 
demand a person to be religious now , how does the law of return define 
who is a jew and who is not i said that it uses a religious standard 
if your mother is a jew , you are a jew , if your mother is not jewish , 
neither you are. 
do not twist my words , please. 


true , there are debates in israel and abroad about who is 
a jew , but those debates are taken up by both religious and secular .  . 
would you say that religious people should not have a say in that 
would you deny them their right of free speech 

i am not talking about the debate. i am talking about how things are right 
now. when the debate is over , i 'll see what happens. 
right now , things are like they are. 
let me ask you one thing. i understand that israel between 
citizenship and nationality .  . suppose  ( m(ale ) and  ( f(emale ) have a child in 
israel .  . which nationality will the child 's id show , according to each one 
of the following cases 

a) f and m are both jewish .  . 
b) f is and m is not. 
c) f is muslim and m is jewish .  . 
d ) f is christian and m is jewish .  . 
e) f and m are both non jewish .  . 




did those israelis who do not believe in god and will never do become 
non jews why should they still define then a jew based on what is a 
religious definition 

it 's called history. how do you think jews stuck together through 
pogroms for millenia in europe we had to know who was our own. i for 
one do think that some change is in order and that descent 
is no less legit than is (which is not the religious jew 's 
point of view) .  . there 's plenty of room for that in zionism as you 
well know. 

it called history. at some point it was ok. now , i believe , it is not. 


according to webster 's ninth new collegiate dictionary , merriam webster inc , 
publishers , springfield , massachusetts , u.s.a. , 1986 , page 593 , 

hy poc ri sy a to be what one is or to believe one does not. 

so , saying that one believes in zionism as a simple matter of people 
having the right to nationalism , but disregarding the right of the palestinian 
people to do the same , according to this dictionary , is hypocrisy .  . 

utter baloney .  . by the way , i do believe the palestinians have a right 
to self determination , have stated so on this net , and i know you 've 

seen it. 


interesting. how do you know had i ever talked to you about this and 
forgotten about that 

but that right to self determination cannot be at israel 's 
expense .  . israel 's security comes first and that security must be 
maintained .  . you 're also twisting words now beyond belief .  . if you think 
that 's what that definition means in this context , you need a first grade 
course in english. 


which definition are you now talking here about 
i do not know why you are so touchy .  . i never said that you did not support 
palestinian self determination .  . i just gave an example of hypocrisy .  . i never 
said that someone in this net is guilty of it. it was just an example. nothing 
more , nothing less than that. why did you have to clarify what you think 

if you did n't use different meanings of words than are in the 
dictionary , you might be believable .  . 

here you have several problems. 
first , you should know that words have more meanings than those given in 
the dictionary .  . 
second , it may come to be a shock for you to know that there are more 
words than those in the dictionary .  . 
third , we can exchange ideas if you want , but you come out with this nonsense 
about being believable using the definitions given in a dictionary .  . 
it seems that you cannot answer to the ideas given by others without insulting 
others. sad. 

if your facts at all resembled 
even the slightest bit of truth which they do not you might be 
believable .  . 

if you did not put words in my mouth , it might be that you might 
start reading what i had actually said. so far , you come over and over 
twisting what i said or presenting things i never said as if i had said 
them. in this way , you are answering to yourself. that is why you do not 
find it believable .  . maybe , if you start reading what i had actually said , 
and not what you added , you might change your mind. 

but the fact is that there is nothing resembling fact in 
what you 've said on this thread. and the fact also is that you 're using 
different definitions for your words based on baloney than anyone 
else does. 

first , there is nothing resembling a fact in what you added to what i said , 
as if i had said it. 
, anyone else is supposed to mean than i do 


eric s. perlman 
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder 

aap 

from  ( steve birnbaum ) 
subject re rejoinder .  . questions to israelis 
reply to  ( steve birnbaum ) 
organization the national capital freenet 
lines 27 


in a previous article ,  ( tsiel ohayon ) says 

i agree with all you write except that terrorist orgs .  . were not shelling 
israel from the golan heights in 1982 , but rather from lebanon .  . the golan 
heights have been held by israel since 1967 , and therefore the plo could 
not have been shelling israel from there , unless there is something i am 
not aware of. 

oops .  .  . small . mistake. thanks for mentioning it. i just read on 
the . israel . line . that a village just got shelled by terrorists last week 
and some children were killed. i guess the terrorists must have gotten by 
the security zone. just think at how much more shelling would be 
happening if the security zone were n't there. 
 .  .  . 

steve 


internet fidonet 1 163 109.18 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

from center for policy research 
subject labour 's enclaves policy . important . 
nf id n cdp 000 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 11 05 21 00 1993 
lines 247 


from center for policy research cpr 
subject labour 's enclaves policy . important . 


labour 's enclaves policy in the occupied territories 

by israel shahak 
publ. in middle east international , london , 30 . 4 . 93 . 

it is not difficult to discover israel 's policy towards the 
palestinians at any given time. it can be easily inferred 
from the facts on the ground and from the information 
provided by the hebrew press. there is one condition , 
though. the of claptrap about the peace 
process must be totally ignored , as must israel 's official 
pronouncements , whole sole purpose is to distort reality. 
by concentrating only on the facts , it was early apparent 
that labour 's policies were no different from those of 
shamir but for their greater reliance on deceit and their 
more effective implementation .  . 

likud 's policies were accurately described by ariel 
sharon in an article , accompanied by a map , in 
last august .  . the sharon plan a 
division of the west bank into seven , and the gaza strip 
into four , autonomous palestinian enclaves , all of them 
under israeli supervision .  . the total area of these 
enclaves to about 15 per cent of the 
territories .  . the rest was to be controlled by the israeli 
settlements and the highways built around the enclaves .  . 
the entire area around jerusalem , from the outskirts of 
ramallah to the boundaries of bethlehem , has already 
been turned into a greater jerusalem where the arab 
inhabited localities amount to small enclaves surrounded 
by areas occupied by israeli settlements or reserved for 
them. 

judging from labour 's settlement policy , it may be 
assumed that it may content itself with a lesser number 
of arab enclaves of a rather larger size than sharon had 
planned. but the principle of surrounding the enclaves by 
settlements strategically dispersed along the highways 
remains unchanged .  . labour plans only four enclaves in 
the west bank two in samaria and two in judea (i . e .  . 
north and south of jerusalem respectively) , and no more 
than two in the gaza strip .  . in regard to greater 
jerusalem , labour 's policies hardly deviate from 
sharon 's .  . 

a saner version of likud policy 

as some israeli correspondents at once realised , labour 
policies were but a saner version of sharon 's 
 . last july , gideon wrote in 
that , while barely a few months ago labour 
supported the demand to freeze all construction beyond 
the green line , no specific decision to freeze 
construction in the territories has been taken . and uzi 
wrote in ha'aretz that as far as can be judged 
on the basis of the internal political discussions in 
jerusalem , rabin intends to stick to likud 's ways . 

the two biggest enclaves by labour are 
located in samaria . therefore the belt of settlements 
around the trans samaria highway , designed to 
separate those enclaves from each other , is of paramount 
importance .  . according to the latest data , the percentage 
of israeli settlers in the entire west bank population 
 ( apart from east jerusalem ) is a mere 5.5 per cent. but 
for the area around the trans samaria highway , the 
corresponding figure is almost 20 per cent , and it is 
increasing steadily .  . the situation in the settlements of 
the block south of jerusalem , designed to sever 
the enclave around bethlehem from the one around 
hebron , is pretty much the same. the block is now 
being connected with west jerusalem by a highway .  . 

the project is costly in the extreme , because the highway 
is designed to bypass bethlehem by a sequence of long 
tunnels .  . the final decision to build this highway was 
suspended until rabin 's return from his us visit in 
march .  . the subsequent decision to renew its construction 
can be seen as us approval for the enclaves plan as a 
whole .  . 

process of 

the enclaves plan implies deliberate and steady 
of the palestinians .  . this is well known 
in israel but ignored abroad by all who should be 
concerned , including the plo .  . in regard to the gaza strip , 
the whole process was best described by ze'ev in 
ha'aretz in march .  . he mentions having seen a pamphlet 
issued six years ago by the civil administration 
forecasting the conditions in the gaza strip under israeli 
rule in 2000 . his analysis deserves to be quoted 
extensively 

we continue to steal the strip 's water , even though its 
quality from year to year. we continue to 
steal the strip 's tiny land resources , in order to found 
there more and more settlements , as if we deliberately 
want to make the inhabitants despair , and in their 
despair think in of having nothing to lose. it is 
by our own doing that the strip 's workers must now 
spend travelling to their almost as much time 
as they spend working. from the military point of view , 
we have kept control of no more than half the strip 's 
area at an increasingly exorbitant price in manpower and 
resources. about a year before moshe arens left the 
defence ministry , i heard him saying that we should 
withdraw from the strip come what may .  . his argument 
was that israel sinks into the strip ever deeper and 
deeper .  . he told me he had proposed this to 
shamir but he rejected it. rabin rejects it too. 

enormous state support for the block settlers can 
also be cited as proof that the enclaves plan is being 
implemented .  . the block settlements , founded by 
the first rabin government of 1974 77 , are intended to 
divide the gaza strip into two separate enclaves .  . 
of davar had data showing how vital for israeli 
this enterprise is. the block is now producing 40 
per cent of israeli tomatoes destined for export , and a 
substantial proportion of cut flowers .  . he also deals with 
the subsidies the settlers receive , considerably 
augmented by the present government. owing to them , 
housing units are cheap. the present government does 
not spare efforts to recruit new settlers to the block. 
any prospective settler will get a 95 per cent mortgage 
for his house on top of a grant of 18 , 000 shekels 
( 6 , 500) .  . 

such data shows that israel 's plans apply whether the 
palestinians of the gaza strip are allowed or forbidden to 
work in israel .  . the economic motivations were explained 
by danny in ha'aretz in march 

from the economic viewpoint gaza could already be 
sealed off and all the strip 's workers could 
be barred from entering israel .  .  . even . though accurate 
data is hard to come by , it is indisputable that during the 
last two years the of workers arriving 
daily to work in israel has markedly decreased , from 
80 , 000 in the mid 80s to 40 , 000 today. but the decrease 
is not only due to restrictions imposed on entering israel 
from gaza .  . it is also due to the drastic of 
demand for labour in israel .  . with unemployment 
in israel soaring and the construction of apartments 
blocks virtually halted , the workers from gaza are no 
longer really needed .  .  .  . 

gaza 's total dependence 

the entire economy of the gaza strip is totally dependent 
on israel .  . in recent years in the gaza strip there has 
been an increase in sub contracted work for israeli 
factories , mostly and textiles .  . thousands of 
small workshops , employing an average of four workers , 
get their raw materials or unfinished products , together 
with detailed working instructions , from israeli factories .  . 
attributes this development to the fact that 
the average wage in the gaza strip is merely 40 per cent 
of that in the west bank , which in turn stands at half the 
average wage in israel and besides the employer 
does not pay any social security for his employees .  . if 
the average wage in the gaza strip is just a fifth of that 
in israel , the profits of israeli factories and even of 
palestinian sub contractors must be vast .  . 

they are higher still when a sub contractor 
provides labour to be performed at home , with the 
family 's help. the livelihood of tens of thousands of 
gazans depends on such sub contracted work. many of 
them are women and children , paid about ten shekels 
( 3 . 50) . a day which can last 12 hours or more. there can 
be no doubt that profits from exploiting cheap 
labour are one of the reasons for the stubborn opposition 
of rabin and other israeli ministers to withdrawal from 
the strip .  . 

economic conditions in the gaza strip differ little from 
what was created straight after israel 's conquest in 
1967 . in this respect , one should not be deluded by the 
talk , nowadays fashionable , about israeli gestures 
intended to encourage economic development in the 
territories , as israeli journalists point out , all permits 
for opening new businesses depend on a prior approval 
by the shin bet. behind all the professed goodwill there 
is no desire to solve problems , just the attitude of a good 
colonialist , willing to do something for the benefit of the 
natives , but on condition that they behave nicely , do not 
become rebellious , and never do anything against the 
interests of the , its economic interests 
included , wrote michal in davar in february .  . the 
development of sub contracted work in the gaza strip 
accords perfectly with 's diagnosis .  . 

also shows how exactly the economic controls work. 
in all branches of the economy , lobbies have been set in 
motion for purposes of freeing israeli production from 
the threat of any palestinian competition. the method is 
simplicity itself. as soon as any israeli producer succeeds 
in persuading the government , or even the trade and 
industry minister alone , a military order is issued 
prohibiting the export of a given produce to israel .  . if this 
does not suffice , a palestinian factory may be denied a 
licence to operate or bureaucratic obstacles may 
its production. among the most active of such lobbies is 
the agricultural one. it has succeeded in limiting exports 
of vegetables (except for those grown by settlers ) 
not only to israel but also to europe , where they 
otherwise might compete with israeli exports .  . 

apartheid 

labour 's goal is to perpetuate this apartheid regime in 
the territories .  . the same goal is shared by the us , which 
otherwise could not support the labour government so 
firmly .  . in my view one of the reasons the us feels 
happier about supporting labour than likud is its 
greater efficiency in pursuing the settlement drive. this 
point was brought home by in ma , who 
deplored the settlers  failure which he attributed to 
likud 's  . he showed that the peak yearly 
settlement growth occured during the term of office of 
the national unity government (i . e .  . 1984 90) in which 
rabin served throughout as the defence minister . 
likud 's reputation for settling the territories better than 
labour is false , attributable to the many tiny settlements 
without strategic value founded under shamir for 
symbolic reasons. 

to sum up labour 's policy , unconditionally supported by 
the us differs from that of likud primarily in the 
efficiency with which it is implemented .  . according to 
that policy the territories are to be divided into two 
parts. the major part is to be ruled by israel directly , 
and the minor part indirectly .  . in my view , this racist 
scheme is doomed to ultimately fail , but at a horrifying 
price in human suffering .  . the sooner its true nature is 
recognised , the less suffering it may cause. 





from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the genocide of 204 , 000 azeri people by armenians between 1988 1992. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 172 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

the treatment of armenians by azeri 's equals the treatment bosnian 
muslims are getting from the bosnian serbs .  . 

that is the result of living in an alternate universe with   
of the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle .  . are you ' ians  
for real 

a final goodbye in azerbaijan 

photo by associated press at a cemetery in agdam , azerbaijan , family 
members and friends grieved during the burial of victims killed in the 
fighting in nagorno karabagh .  . , right , hugged the 
coffin containing the remains of his brother , one of the victims .  . a copy 
of koran lay atop the coffin .  . 
the new york times , 3 6 92 

final embrace 

photo by associated press , right , weeps over 
coffin holding the remains of his brother as other relatives grieve 
at an cemetery yesterday amid burial of victims killed 
in fighting in nagorno karabagh .  . 
the washington post , 3 6 92 

nagorno karabagh victims buried in azerbaijani town 

refugees claim hundreds died in armenian attack .  .  . of . seven bodies seen 
here today , two were children and three were women , one shot through 
the chest at what appeared to be close range. another 120 refugees 
being treated at agdam 's hospital include many with multiple stab 
wounds .  . 
thomas goltz 
the washington post , 2 28 92 

armenians burn azeri village in new unrest 

armenian guerillas attacked a strategic azeri village .  .  . in . nagorno karabagh 
and burned it to the ground on tuesday , commonwealth television reported .  . 
channel one television said the village of , in the 
district , was now cut off and a large number of wounded were left stranded .  . 
itar tass news agency said several people were killed and 20 wounded in 
the attack on the village .  .  .  . tass also said shells fired from armenian 
villages into the azeri populated town of , just 6 miles south of 
, demolished two houses and damaged five others .  .  . fierce . fighting 
flared two weeks ago following the crash of an azeri helicopter in karabagh 
in which 40 people died.  ( reuters ) 
turkish daily news , 2 12 92 

cis commander pulls troops out of karabagh 

elif , a reuter correspondent in agdam , reported that after a battle 
on wednesday , azeris were burying scores of people who died when armenians 
overran the town of khojaly , the second biggest azeri settlement in the 
area. 'the world is turning its back on what 's happening here. we are dying 
and you are just watching , ' one mourner shouted at a group of journalists .  . 
helen womack 
the independent , 2 29 92 

armenian soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families 

the attackers killed most of the soldiers and volunteers defending the 
women and children. they then turned their guns on the terrified refugees .  . 
the few survivors later described what happened  that 's when the real 
slaughter began , ' said azer , one of the three soldiers to survive. 
'the armenians just shot and shot. and they came in and started carving 
up people with their bayonets and knives . ' . a 45 year old man who had been 
shot in the back said ' we were walking through the brush .  . then they opened 
up on us and people were falling all around. my wife fell , then my child. 
thomas goltz 
sunday times , 3 1 92 

armenian raid leaves azeris dead or fleeing 

 .  .  . about . 1 , 000 of khojaly 's 10 , 000 people were killed in tuesdays attack. 
azerbaijani television showed truckloads of corpses being evacuated from 
the area. 
brian killen  ( reuters ) 
the washington times , 3 2 92 

atrocity reports horrify azerbaijan 

azeri officials who returned from the seen to this town about nine miles 
away brought back three dead children , the backs of their heads blown off .  .  .  . 
 women and children had been scalped , ' said assad , an aide to 
karabagh 's azeri governor .  . azeri television showed pictures of one 
truckload of bodies brought to the azeri town of agdam , some with their 
faces apparently scratched with knives or their eyes gouged out. 
brian killen  ( reuters ) 
the washington times , 3 3 92 

massacre by armenians being reported 

the republic of armenia reiterated denials that its militants had 
killed 1 , 000 azeris ... but dozens of bodies scattered over the 
area lent credence to azerbaijani reports of a massacre .  . 
 ( reuters ) 
the new york times , 3 3 92 

killings rife in nagorno karabagh , moldova 

journalists in the area reported seeing dozens of corpses , including some 
of the civilians , and azerbaijani officials said armenians began shooting 
at them when they sought to recover the bodies .  . 
fred hiatt 
the washington post , 3 3 92 

bodies mark site of karabagh massacre 

a local truce was enforced to allow the azerbaijanis to collect their dead 
and any refugees still hiding in the hills and forest .  . all are the bodies 
of ordinary people , dressed in the poor , ugly of workers .  . of the 31 
we saw only one policeman and two apparent national volunteers were wearing 
uniform .  . all the rest were civilians , including eight women and three small 
children. two groups , apparently families , had fallen together , the children 
cradled in the women 's arms. several of them , including one small girl , had 
terrible head injuries only her face was left. survivors have told how they 
saw armenians shooting them point blank as they lay on the ground. 

the times  ( london ) , 3 3 92 

karabagh survivors flee to mountains 

, the deputy mayor of , said that armenian troops 
surrounded the town after 7 pm on tuesday .  . they were accompanied by six 
or seven light tanks and armoured carriers .  .  we thought they would just 
bombard the village , as they had in the past , and then retreat .  . but they 
attacked , and our defence force could n't do anything against their tanks . ' . 
other survivors described how they had been fired on repeatedly on their 
way through the mountains to safety.  for two days we crawled most of the 
way to avoid gunfire , ' sukru said. his daughter was killed in the 
battle for , and his brother and son died on the road. 

the times  ( london ) , 3 3 92 

corpses litter hills in karabagh 

as we swooped low over the snow covered hills of nagorno karabagh we saw 
the scattered corpses .  . apparently , the refugees had been shot down as 
they ran .  .  . suddenly . there was a thump .  .  .  . our azerbaijani helicopter had 
been fired on from an armenian anti aircraft post .  .  .  . 

the times  ( london ) , 3 4 92 

police in western azerbaijan said they had recovered the bodies of 
120 azerbaijanis killed as they fled an armenian assault in the 
disputed enclave of nagorno karabagh and said they were blocked from 
recovering more bodies .  . 
the wall street journal , 3 4 92 

exiting troops attacked in nagorno karabagh 

withdrawal halted armenians blamed .  .  .  . 
more video footage and reports from paint a grim picture of 
widespread civilian deaths and mutilation .  .  .  . 
one woman 's feet appeared to have been bound .  .  .  . 
paul quinn judge 
the boston globe , 3 4 92 

 ( to be continued .  .  . ) . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from nxt09 . cso . uiuc . edu .  ( nizam arain ) 
subject re the fraud of elias davidsson 
reply to 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 7 

mark ira kaufman writes 
it is your responsibility for posting quotes in context. your 
phony  research center  is the source of the most , 
out of context , agenda ridden , and propaganda that i 
have ever seen. 

take a look in the mirror , mark. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the unspeakable crimes of x soviet armenian government must be righted .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 88 

in article  ( mau napoleon ) writes 

greeks do not like turks not because of what they did to us but because of 
what they plan to do to us. 

let me improve this one for you , then. for nearly one thousand years , 
the turkish and kurdish people lived on their homeland the last 
one hundred under the oppressive soviet and armenian occupation .  . the 
persecutions culminated in 1914 the armenian government planned and 
carried out a genocide against its muslim subjects .  . 2.5 million turks 
and kurds were murdered and the remainder driven out of their homeland .  . 
after one thousand years , turkish and kurdish lands were empty of turks 
and kurds .  . 

the survivors found a safe heaven in turkiye .  . 

today , x soviet armenian government rejects the right of turks and 
kurds to return to their muslim lands occupied by x soviet armenia .  . 

today , x soviet armenia covers up the genocide perpetrated by its 
predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against 
humanity .  . 

x soviet armenia must pay for its crime of genocide against the muslims 
by admitting to the crime and making reparations to the turks and kurds .  . 

turks and kurds demand the right to return to their lands , 
to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland .  . 

 .  .  . on . this occasion , we once again reiterate the unquestioned 
justice of the restitution of turkish and kurdish rights and .  .  .  . 

we demand that the x soviet armenian government admit its 
responsibility for the turkish and kurdish genocide , render 
reparations to the muslim people , and return the land to its 
rightful owners. the recognition of the genocide has become an 
issue which cannot be delayed further , and it is imperative that 
artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed. 

we believe the time has come to demand from the the united states 
that it formally recognizes the turkish and kurdish genocide , adopts 
the principles of our demands and refuses to accede to armenian pressures 
to the contrary .  . 

as taxpayers of the united states , we express our vehement 
protest to the present u.s. government policy of continued 
coddling , protection and unqualified assistance towards x soviet 
armenia .  . 

our territorial demands are strictly aimed at x soviet armenia 's .  . 


source from to sevres and lausanne by aharonian .  . the 
armenian review , vol. 16 , no. 3 63 , autumn , sep. 1963 , pp. 47 57 .  . 

p. 52  ( second paragraph) .  . 

your three chiefs , dro , and are the ringleaders 
of the bands which have destroyed tartar villages and have staged 
massacres in , , , and zangibasar .  . this is 
intolerable .  . look and here he pointed to a file of official documents 
on the table look at this , here in december are the reports of the last 
few months concerning ruined tartar villages which my representative 
has sent me. the official tartar communique speaks of the 
destruction of 300 villages .  . 

p. 54  ( fifth paragraph) .  . 

yes , of course. i repeat , until this massacre of the tartars is stopped 
and the three chiefs are not removed from your military leadership i 
hardly think we can supply you arms and ammunition .  . 

 .  .  . it . is the armed bands led by dro , and who 
during the past months have raided and destroyed many tartar villages in 
the regions of , , , and zangibasar .  . there are 
official charges of massacres .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from (steven berson ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
nntp posting host surya . cs . ucla . edu . 
organization ucla , computer science department 
lines 31 

 ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
well canada is wrong about hate speech law sb . 
if it was in the us the aclu would have 
made sure that such repressive laws are found unconstitutional .  . 

bull shit. there is no reason in the world why we ca n't say that 
taking views analogous to the kkk 's or some such organization is 
wrong. there is no reason why some morality may not be legislated .  . as 
it is we do not allow theft , or murder , or rape .  . why should we allow 
hateful whose only purpose is to stir anger and violence .  . 
harry .  . 

i think the answer to mr. 's question can be found in the 
first amendment to the us constitution .  . 

amendment i  ( 1791 ) 

congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 
religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof or 
abridging the freedom of speech , or of the press or the 
right of the people peaceably to assemble , and to petition 
the government for a redress of grievances .  . 

steve 


steven berson ucla computer science department (310) 825 3189 
los angeles , ca 90024 1596 


from  ( yigal arens ) 
subject arrest of fugitive in adl case 
organization usc information sciences institute 
lines 105 
distribution world 
nntp posting host grl . isi . edu . 

los angeles times , saturday , may 8 , 1993. page  . 

figure in adl spy case arrested at s.f. airport 

espionage former police officer is taken into custody upon 
arriving from philippines , where he had fled after fbi 
interrogation .  . 

by warren , times staff writer 

san francisco a former san francisco police officer who fled to the 
philippines amid accusations that he funneled confidential law 
enforcement information to an investigator for the anti defamation 
league was arrested at the airport here on 11 felony charges , police 
said friday .  . 

thomas j. gerard who abruptly left the united states in october after 
the fbi questioned him about his activities , was apprehended thursday 
night after a source in the philippines told investigators that gerard 
was returning home. 

gerard , 50 , was booked into san francisco county jail early friday 
morning on eight counts of theft of government documents and one count 
each of computer theft , burglary and conspiracy .  . 

if convicted on all charges , gerard could face 16 years in prison and 
40 , 000 in fines .  . bail was initially set at 250 , 000 after police 
argued that he was a flight risk , but it was later reduced to 20 , 000 .  . 
a friend of gerard was trying to post bail late friday afternoon , a 
sheriff 's spokeswoman said. 

gerard returned to the united because he missed his wife and child , 
with whom he lived on a in sausalito , and wanted to have 
his day in court , said police  . john , his former boss and 
one of two arresting officers .  . 

gerard , an undercover agent for the central intelligence agency from 
1982 to 1985 , also feared that the cia was out to kill him , 
said. in an interview with the times last month , gerard threatened to 
disclose illegal cia support of death squads in central america if he 
was indicted and tried on the san francisco spying charges .  . 

gerard is a central figure in a scandal over an intelligence network 
operated by the anti defamation league , a prominent jewish civil 
rights organization. investigators allege that gerard illegally gave 
criminal histories to roy bullock , a san francisco art dealer who said 
he has been an undercover adl intelligence operative for 40 years. 

investigators said they found confidential police files in bullock 's 
home computer which contained entries on 10 , 000 people and 950 
groups and in boxes in his apartment. files have also been seized 
under search warrants from adl offices in san francisco and los 
angeles but authorities have not disclosed their contents .  . 

gerard could not be reached for comment friday , and his attorney , 
james , did not return telephone calls seeking comment. in the 
interview with the times last month , however , gerard acknowledged 
snooping and sharing some information with bullock , but denied any 
criminal wrongdoing .  . 

bullock and gerard also are under investigation for selling 
intelligence to south africa .  . 

adl officials have described bullock as a 550 a week independent 
contractor and have vigorously denied knowledge of any illegal 
activity. on friday , adl lawyer said gerard 's arrest 
has nothing to do with adl .  . other than that , we have no comment on 
the case. 

arab american groups which were a main target of the spying , 
according to police applauded the arrest and pressed authorities to 
pursue the investigation .  . 

we urge investigators to carry this case forward and to publicly 
disclose the full extent of adl and law enforcement involvement , said 
james , head of the arab american institute in washington .  . 

police , meanwhile , characterized gerard 's arrest the first in the 
inquiry into the spying scandal as an unexpected breakthrough .  . a 
former police colleague of gerard , inspector fred , visited 
gerard several weeks ago and urged him to return home. 

i knew he would n't want to live on an island on the lam forever , but 
we did n't think it would happen this quickly ,  . said. 
this development really speeds up our timetable on the case. 

during his 25 year career on the police force , gerard was a highly 
regarded officer known for his work in the department 's intelligence 
division .  . his last assignment was on the gang task force. 

after fbi agents questioned gerard last fall , he took early retirement 
and fled to the remote jungle island of , 300 miles south of 
 . 

gerard was arrested at 8 40 p.m. as he stepped from his philippines 
airlines flight. he was traveling alone and looked tanned but 
after his six month , police said. 

he was surprised when he saw us standing there , and got a shocked 
look on his face , said. then he said ,  hello , i'm back . ' . 


yigal arens 
usc isi tv made me do it ! 


from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re synagogues , mosques , and double standards 
organization nysernet , inc. 
lines 22 

nxt09 . cso . uiuc . edu .  ( nizam arain ) writes 

mark ira kaufman writes 
... ... ... 
a perfect example is the outcry over the temporary removal of 
400 men who advocated murdering jews and destroying the state 
of israel , compared to the deafening silence over the abusive 
treatment of jews in arab countries during the past 50 years. 

never mind the fact that these people were denied the right to a fair trial .  . 

repeat a lie often enough and people will start to believe it , eh 

the hamas terrorists were given the opportunity to appeal. they 've 
chosen not to , obviously because they get better propaganda mileage 
out of refusing .  . 

israel also agreed that they could return immediately , provided they 
agreed to stop killing jews .  . their refusal speaks for itself. 


alan h. stein 

from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re uva 
organization university of virginia 
lines 27 

writes 
a few things about the university .  . it is more fun than some may 
admit .  . does go on and it has consistently been ranked 
one of playboy 's top party schools. but we do study and more 
importantly learn a lot. the overall uva drug use is actually 
lower than the average college in the u.s. 
there is no hate law on the books even though they (the 
forces of pc) tried to have one last  ( year by the way a similar 
law at the university of wisconsin was found unconstitutional 
last year) .  . there is a law 
against relationship of professors with their students or 
that just passed. 
thomas jefferson was the sole author of the virginia 
statute for religious  ( freedom(the basis for the first ten 
amendments ) , though he is not given full credit for righting 

the bill of rights. so someone who picked on me for that is 
right. 
by the way , we 're the man in everything. sports 
academics and  . i'm sure a lot of other schools are 
good at what they do as well , so do n't start mailing me junk .  . 
i'm happy where i am and maybe i 'll go to one of y medical 
schools in a couple of years. 
oh my god. my spelling and grammer suck. i guess i need some 
sleep. i said righting  ( instead of writing) .  . what 's the chance 
of that. thank god i caught it before everyone started picking 
on it. i hope i did n't cause mr . jefferson . too much shame. 

from  ( ramachandra p. kunda ) 
subject where do the serbs get their ammunition 
organization sun microsystems , inc. 
lines 7 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host 


i am trying to follow the current conflict in former yugoslavia .  . one thing 
i cannot figure out is where do the serbs and croats get their weapons , 
etc do n't they run out of them 

ram 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 38 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( adam l. schwartz ) writes 
in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 

i'm not sure about this but i hope the answer is that you ca n't apply under 
the law of return. by conversion , you 've elected not to be a part of the 
jewish nation .  . 

which was my point. by converting to another religion i do not loose 
my cultural identity , i just loose my religious identification .  . 

i disagree. by converting to another religion , you certainly 
do change your cultural identity , and lose that part of you which was 
jewish .  . 


at the moment you converted , you officially to the world 
that you do not consider yourself to be part of the jewish nation .  . 
so , why should the jewish nation consider you to be a member 

to be a part or not of the nation is defined by my culture and not 
by my religion. actually , if i am an atheist , which is in fact like 
converting into a non jewish in terms of religion , i am still considered as 
part of the jewish nation .  . 

no , there is a serious cultural and religios difference 
between renouncing the jewish god and accepting a new one. thou 
shall have no other gods before me. conversion is a violation of 
this , atheism you might be able to wiggle around with. 

adam 



adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( tim clock) 
subject re peace talks 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 38 

in article  ( alan stein ) writes 
it seems that , to keep the peace talks going , israel has to keep 
making goodwill gesture after goodwill gesture , while palestinian 
arabs continue to go around hunting jews .  . 

you know that putting something like this out on the newsgroup is only 
going to generate flames , not discussion. try adding some substance to 
the issue of gestures you mentioned. 

if the peace talks are going to have any realistic chance of success , 
the arabs are going to have to start , especially since 
they are the ones who will be getting tangible concessions in return 
for giving up only  . 

what is it you feel that israel has offered as a gesture what would 
you ( realistically ) expect to see presented by the arabs palestinians 
in the way of gesture 

if they keep trying to change the already agreed upon rules , which seems 
to be one of their favorite games , the israelis are not likely to be very 
confident that the they will receive at the bargaining table 
will be worth the parchment they 're written on. 

what are the rules that have been bent by arab actions it would seem 
that the israeli deportations were seen by the other side as an example 
of changing the rules . 

it takes two to negotiate a peace. it 's time for the arabs to start 
doing their share. 

alan h. stein 



tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from center for policy research 
subject zionist leaders  frank statements 
nf id n cdp 000 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 11 05 18 00 1993 
lines 230 


from center for policy research cpr 
subject zionist leaders  frank statements 

the following are quotations from zionist leaders .  . they appear in 
numerous scholarly works dealing with the palestine question. i urge those 
who have access to original sources , to verify the authenticity of the 
source and post here their finding , adhering to the truth whatever it be. 
thanks. 
elias davidsson 


quotations from zionist leaders 

1. there was no such thing as palestinians 
 ( golda meir , prime minister of israel , london sunday 
times , 15 june 1969) 

2. there is , however , a difficulty from which the zionist 
dares not avert his eyes , though he rarely likes to face it. 
palestine proper has already its inhabitants .  . 
 ( israel , the voice of jerusalem , london 1920 , 
p . 88) . 

3. when we have settled the land , all the arabs will be 
able to do about it will be to around like 
cockroaches in a bottle. 
 ( raphael , israeli chief of staff , new york times , 14 
april 1983) 

4. the palestinians are beasts walking on two legs. 
 ( menachem begin , prime minister of israel in a speech to 
the knesset , 
quoted in ,  begin and the beasts , new 
statesman , 25 june 1982) 

5. both the process of of the palestinians 
and the removal of the poor must be carried out 
and . 
(dr .  . theodor , the complete diaries , press , 
1960 , i. , p . 88) . 

6. between ourselves it must be clear that there is no 
room for both people together in this country .  .  . the . only 
solution is a palestine .  .  .  .  . without . arabs .  . and there is no 
other way than to transfer the arabs from here to the 
neighboring countries , to transfer all of them not one 
village , not one tribe , should be left. 
(joseph weitz , jewish national fund , administrator 
responsible for zionist colonization .  . davar , 29 september 
1967) .  . 

7. we shall try to spirit the population the 
palestinians across the border by procuring employment 
for it in the transit countries , while denying it any 
employment in our own country 
 ( theodor , the complete diaries , press , 1960 , 
i , p . 88) . 

8. zionists  .  .  . looked . for means .  .  . to . cause the tens of 
thousands of arabs who remained in the galilee to 
flee .  .  . i . gathered all the jewish , who have contact 
with arabs in different villages and asked them to 
whisper in the ears of some arabs that a great jewish 
reinforcement has arrived in galilee and that it is going 
to burn all of the villages of the  . they should 
suggest to these arabs , as their friends , to escape while 
there is still time .  .  .  . the . tactic reached its goal .  .  .  . wide . 
areas were cleaned .  . 

 ( yig'al alon , sepher ha , in hebrew , ii. p . 268 . , 
quoted in , from haven to conquest , ips ,  . 

10. jews must expel arabs and take their place 
(david ben gurion , 1937 , quoted in , ben 
gurion and the palestine arabs , oxford university press , 
1985 , p. 89 ) 

11. we must do everything to ensure they the 
palestinian refugees never do return 
(david ben gurion , in his diary , 19 july 1948 , quoted in 
michael bar , ben gurion the armed prophet , 
prentice hall , 1967 , p . 

12. the country was mostly an empty desert , with only 
a few islands of arab settlement 
 ( shimon peres , minister of defense , quoted in david 's 
sling the arming of israel , and nicholson , 
1970 , p . 

13. all this story about the danger of extermination of 
jews has been blown up .  .  .  . to . justify the annexation of 
new arab territories 
 ( mordechai , israeli cabinet minister , al 
, 14 april 1972) 

14. neither jewish ethics nor jewish tradition can 
disqualify terrorism as a means of combat 
 ( yitzhak shamir , , summer 1943 journal of the 
lehi , the stern gang , translated from the israeli daily 
al , 24 december 1987 

14. the domination of jewish agriculture by arab 
workers is a cancer in our body 
(a .  . , israeli minister of agriculture , ha'aretz , 13 
december 1974) 

15. there can be only one national home in palestine , 
and that a jewish one , and no equality in the partnership 
between jews and arabs 
 ( montague david eder , president of the zionist 
federation of great britain , , 
in , comp. , palestine papers 1917 1922 , 
seeds of conflict , george , 1973 , p. 135 ) 

16. i hope that the jewish of palestine will be 
as great as jewish energy for getting palestine 
(dr .  . chaim weizmann , first president of the state of 
israel , excerpts from his historic statements , writings 
and addresses , jewish agency for palestine , 1952 , p . 

17. there is not a single jewish village in this country 
that has not been built on the site of an arab village 
 ( moshe , ha'aretz , 4 april 1969 .  .  . ) . 

18. some people talk of expelling 700 , 000 to 800 , 000 
arabs in the event of a new war , and instruments have 
been prepared 
 ( aharon , former chief of israeli military 
intelligence , 1980 , inquiry , 8 december 1980) 

19. if i was an arab leader i would never make peace 
with israel .  . that is natural we have taken their 
country. 
(david ben gurion , in , the jewish 
paradox , and , 1978 , p . 99) . 

20. we should there in palestine form a portion of the 
of europe against asia , an of civilization 
as opposed to barbarism .  . 
(dr .  . theodor , the jewish state , london , 1896 , p. 
29) 

21. i deeply believe in launching preventive war 
against the arab states without further hesitation .  . by 
doing so we will achieve two targets firstly , the 
annihilation of arab power and secondly , the expansion 
of our territory 
 ( menachem begin , in a speech to the knesset , 12 october 
1955 ) 

22. during the last 100 years our people have been in a 
process of building up the country and the nation , of 
expansion , of getting additional jews and additional 
settlements in order to expand the borders here. let no 
jew say that the process has ended. let no jew say that 
we are near the end of the road. 
 ( moshe , ma , 7 july 1968) 

23. until the british left , no jewish settlement , however 
remote , was entered or seized by the arabs , while the 
, under severe and frequent attack , captured 
many arab positions and liberated and haifa , 
jaffa and 
(david ben gurion , rebirth and destiny of israel , 
philosophical library , 1954 , p . 

24. in the months preceding the arab invasion of 
1948 , and while the five arab states were conducting 
preparations , we continued to make into arab 
territory .  . the conquest of jaffa stands out as an event of 
first rate importance in the struggle for hebrew 
independence early in may , on the eve of the invasion 
by the five arab states. 
 ( menachem begin , the revolt , nash , 1972 , p . 

25. what the french could do in , i said , the jews 
would be able to do in palestine with jewish will , jewish 
money , jewish power and jewish enthusiasm 
(dr .  . chaim weizmann , first president of the state of 
israel , trial and error , harper , 1949 , p . 

26. i do not think nasser wanted war. the two divisions 
he sent to the sinai on may 14 1967 would not have 
been sufficient to launch an offensive against israel .  . he 
knew it and we knew it. 
 ( yitzhak rabin , le monde , 29 february 1968) 

27. to pretend that the egyptian forces on our 
in 1967 were in position to threaten the 
existence of israel constitutes an insult not only to the 
intelligence of anyone capable of analyzing this sort of 
situation , but above all an insult to the israeli 
army 
 ( general res. matti , ha'aretz , 19 march 1972) 

28. when we have broken the strength of the arab 
legion and bombarded , we would wipe out 
after that syria would fall .  .  .  . we . would thus 
end the war , and would have put paid to egypt , assyria 
and on behalf of our ancestors 
(david ben gurion in his diaries , quoted in michael bar 
, the armed prophet , a biography of ben gurion , 
prentice hall , 1967 , p . 

29. these jews of the diaspora would like to see us , for 
their own reasons , heroes with our backs to the wall. but 
this wish can in no way change the realities .  . 
 ( israeli general weizmann , le monde , 3 june 1972) 

30. let us not today fling accusations at the palestinian 
arab murderers .  . who are we that we should argue 
against their hatred for eight years now they sit in 
their refugee camps in gaza , and before their very eyes , 
we turn into our homestead the land and the villages in 
which they and their have lived .  . we are a 
generation of settlers , and without the steel helmet and 
the cannon we cannot plant a tree and build a home. let 
us not shrink back when we see the hatred 
and filling the lives of hundreds of thousands of arabs , 
who sit all around us. let us not avert our gaze , so that 
our hand shall not slip .  . this is the fate of our generation , 
the choice of our life to be prepared and armed , strong 
and tough or otherwise , the sword will slip from our 
first , and our life will be snuffed out. 
 ( moshe , of roy at kibbutz 
oz , 1956 , quoted in uri , israel without zionists , 
collier books , macmillan , new york , 1971 , p . 



from  ( sabri t atan ) 
subject re stretching from the adriatic sea to the great wall of china 
reply to  ( sabri t atan ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 33 

in article , (david 
davidian ) writes 
in the following report turkey eyes regional role ankara , turkey  ( ap ) 
april 27 , 1993 , we find in the last paragraph 

although premier criticized 's often 
brash calls for more turkish influence , he also has spoken 
of a of turkic peoples stretching from the adriatic 
sea to the great wall of china .  . 

who does think he is fooling it seems at both ends of his envisioned 
pan turkic empire the balkans and the caucasus turkey 's fascist boasts 
are being pre empted .  . 

i would suggest turkey let the world feel some of their grey wolf teeth , 
and 
attempt to stretch from the adriatic to china ! turkey will have cried wolf 
just once too much ! 

mentioning that turkic people are wide spread means desiring a turkish empire 
is that the logical thing to conclude from a statement like that 
to me it just says that turkey may have economical benefits from that 
if she can be competitive enough. no more than that. but of course 
you have the freedom of extrapolating as you wish from any statement. 

one question in what context did use the words you are quoting 
can you give the whole speech. 


atan 


achtung , baby ! 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re says no ! 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 131 

in article  ( tim clock) writes 

you are right to notice my assumptions .  . i should have used bosnian 
serbs  ( and serbia) and bosnian muslims in my post. 

how quaint of you to point this out , and then to completely ignore 
all of the blatant lies you 've trotted out. the scenario and genocide 
staged by the armenians 78 years ago in eastern anatolia and x soviet 
armenia is being reenacted again this time in azerbaijan .  . there are 
remarkable similarities between the plots , the perpetrators , and the 
underdogs .  . 

remember , in article , you have 
blatantly lied and still have not corrected yourself. 

the goltz article was not published in the sunday times magazine 
on march 1 , 1992 , but in the guardian sunday section. the story was 
not filed frim agdam but from london .  . 

i 'll let the rest of the net judge this on its own merits .  . 

source 'the sunday times , ' 1 march 1992 (a british weekly , written by 
thomas goltz , from agdam , azerbaijan . ) . 

armenian soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families. 

the spiralling violence gripping the outer republics of the former 
soviet union gained new impetus yesterday with cold blooded slaughter of 
hundreds of women and children in war racked nagorno karabakh .  . 
survivors reported that armenian soldiers shot and bayoneted more 
than 450 azeris , many of them women and children , who were fleeing an 
attack on their town. hundreds , possibly thousands , were missing and 
feared dead. 
the attackers killed most of the soldiers and volunteers defending 
the women and children. they then turned their guns on the terrified 
refugees .  . the few survivors later described what happened that 's when 
the real slaughter began , said azer , one of three soldiers to 
survive. the armenians just shot and shot. and then they came in and 
started carving up people with their bayonets and knives .  . 
they were shooting , shooting , shooting , echoed , who 
arrived in agdam with other women and children who made their way through 
armenian lines. she said her husband , , and a son in law were killed 
in front of her. her daughter was still missing. 
one boy who arrived in agdam had an ear sliced off. 

the survivors said 2000 others , some of whom had fled separately , 
were still missing in the gruelling terrain many could perish from their 
wounds or the cold. 
by late yesterday , 479 deaths had been registered at the morgue in 
agdam 's morgue , and 29 bodies had been buried in the cemetery .  . of the 
seven corpses i saw awaiting burial , two were children and three were 
women , one shot through the chest at point blank range. 
agdam hospital was a scene of carnage and terror .  . doctors said they 
had 140 patients who escaped slaughter , most with bullet injuries or deep 
stab wounds .  . 
nor were they safe in agdam .  . on friday night rockets fell on the city 
which has a population of 150 , 000 , destroying several buildings and 
killing one person. 

now wait , there is more. 

it's inhumane to ignore this violence 

the stories of survivors of karabag massacre 

69 year old hatin nine telling 

  my twin grandchildren were cut to pieces in front of my eyes. they told 
me we wo n't kill you. but the babies have to die in front of your eyes . '' . 

72 year old 

  our turkish village in town was blown up in two hours. 
while killing children and babies mercilessly they said you are 
turks , you must die . '' . 

28 year old 

  they my 3 year old daughter in her stomach in front of 
my eyes . '' . 

are these stories lies have the eye witnesses been day dreaming 
were these stories forged by turkish journalists in the region 

the nonsense of such a claim is clear from the writings of british 
journalists , too. two days before we had quoted from a sunday times 
article. they british reported the events in karabag even before 
turkish journalists .  . what is more here are the pictures. pictures 
of people who were , whose eyes were gouged , ears cut off. 

even the armenian radio could n't claim these lies .  . they are saying 
exaggeration .  . that means '  somethings   have happened but the 
situation is not as bad as reported .  . perhaps that village of 
town was destroyed in 4 hours , instead of 2 .  .  .  . or 's 
3 year old daughter was in her chest instead of stomach .  .  .  . 

the massacre is clearly seen with all its dimensions .  . the effects of 
this massacre on karabag and environs cannot be reduced by any word. 

some of the western press  , led by some french newspapers , ability 
to   close their eyes   is nothing but complicity in this massacre .  . 

yesterday we gave samples from le figaro .  . until yesterday 's print 
no news about the real events in karabag were printed .  . so were the 
french tv channels .  .  . the subject they considered related to karabag 
was   the necessity of protecting armenians against azeri attacks . '' . 

the age we are living in is termed a human rights age. there are lots 
of organizations such as united nations and  ( csce(conference on security 
and cooperation in europe) , and rules , all designed to fight against human 
rights violations .  . international reactions must be made with international 
cooperation .  . with support of everybody and every organization claiming 
to be civilized .  . 

could there be a more serious human rights violation than that of the 
right to live and with such levels of barbarity and cruelty where 
is the cooperation where are the reactions and the intellectuals , 
journalists , writers , tv stations of certain western countries such 
as france who are fast to claim leadership of human rights 
where are you 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from (peter freeman ) 
subject re zionist leaders  frank statements 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to (peter freeman ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 165 

in article center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research cpr 
subject zionist leaders  frank statements 

the following are quotations from zionist leaders .  . they appear in 
numerous scholarly works dealing with the palestine question. i urge those 
who have access to original sources , to verify the authenticity of the 
source and post here their finding , adhering to the truth whatever it be. 
thanks. 
elias davidsson 


quotations from zionist leaders 

1. there was no such thing as palestinians 
 ( golda meir , prime minister of israel , london sunday 
times , 15 june 1969) 

they certainly never called themselves palestinians 

3. when we have settled the land , all the arabs will be 
able to do about it will be to around like 
cockroaches in a bottle. 
 ( raphael , israeli chief of staff , new york times , 14 
april 1983) 

coming from a soldier that ca n't surprise you. is now in 
charge of , and there 's a reason why he only gets a few votes 
every year they only elect him because he is squeaky clean , no 
corruption .  . 

4. the palestinians are beasts walking on two legs. 
 ( menachem begin , prime minister of israel in a speech to 
the knesset , 
quoted in ,  begin and the beasts , new 
statesman , 25 june 1982) 

i'm ignorant .  . what 's new statesman 

5. both the process of of the palestinians 
and the removal of the poor must be carried out 
and . 
(dr .  . theodor , the complete diaries , press , 
1960 , i. , p . 88) . 

oh , those crafty jews again ! when will you learn , anti semite from 
iceland .  . 

6. between ourselves it must be clear that there is no 
room for both people together in this country .  .  . the . only 
solution is a palestine .  .  .  .  . without . arabs .  . and there is no 
other way than to transfer the arabs from here to the 
neighboring countries , to transfer all of them not one 
village , not one tribe , should be left. 
(joseph weitz , jewish national fund , administrator 
responsible for zionist colonization .  . davar , 29 september 
1967) .  . 

let 's face it , in 1967 , what other view was there 

7. we shall try to spirit the population the 
palestinians across the border by procuring employment 
for it in the transit countries , while denying it any 
employment in our own country 
 ( theodor , the complete diaries , press , 1960 , 
i , p . 88) . 

the could mean anyone , big guy. grow up. i hate 
your brackets .  . 

8. zionists  .  .  . looked . for means .  .  . to . cause the tens of 
thousands of arabs who remained in the galilee to 
flee .  .  . i . gathered all the jewish , who have contact 
with arabs in different villages and asked them to 
whisper in the ears of some arabs that a great jewish 
reinforcement has arrived in galilee and that it is going 
to burn all of the villages of the  . they should 
suggest to these arabs , as their friends , to escape while 
there is still time .  .  .  . the . tactic reached its goal .  .  .  . wide . 
areas were cleaned .  . 

 ( yig'al alon , sepher ha , in hebrew , ii. p . 268 . , 
quoted in , from haven to conquest , ips ,  . 

they gave them advance warning. not like the plo , eh 

10. jews must expel arabs and take their place 
(david ben gurion , 1937 , quoted in , ben 
gurion and the palestine arabs , oxford university press , 
1985 , p. 89 ) 

yeah , yeah. more brackets .  . am i too picky 


11. we must do everything to ensure they the 
palestinian refugees never do return 
(david ben gurion , in his diary , 19 july 1948 , quoted in 
michael bar , ben gurion the armed prophet , 
prentice hall , 1967 , p . 

bracket man. 

12. the country was mostly an empty desert , with only 
a few islands of arab settlement 
 ( shimon peres , minister of defense , quoted in david 's 
sling the arming of israel , and nicholson , 
1970 , p . 

that was the truth. were you there , elias 

13. all this story about the danger of extermination of 
jews has been blown up .  .  .  . to . justify the annexation of 
new arab territories 
 ( mordechai , israeli cabinet minister , al 
, 14 april 1972) 

so the holocaust never happened , eh elias 


14. neither jewish ethics nor jewish tradition can 
disqualify terrorism as a means of combat 
 ( yitzhak shamir , , summer 1943 journal of the 
lehi , the stern gang , translated from the israeli daily 
al , 24 december 1987 

lehi always warned in advance. not the plo , buddy boy. 

14. the domination of jewish agriculture by arab 
workers is a cancer in our body 
(a .  . , israeli minister of agriculture , ha'aretz , 13 
december 1974) 

it was true ! why should jews be unemployed we say that in 
america , jerky .  . 

15. there can be only one national home in palestine , 
and that a jewish one , and no equality in the partnership 
between jews and arabs 
 ( montague david eder , president of the zionist 
federation of great britain , , 
in , comp. , palestine papers 1917 1922 , 
seeds of conflict , george , 1973 , p. 135 ) 

i firmly believe that today. 

16. i hope that the jewish of palestine will be 
as great as jewish energy for getting palestine 
(dr .  . chaim weizmann , first president of the state of 
israel , excerpts from his historic statements , writings 
and addresses , jewish agency for palestine , 1952 , p . 

you do n't understand metaphor ,  . 
and your quotes lead nowhere .  . not only do i doubt there actuality , 
but i guarantee they were compiled by some neo nazi group. 

but i love your pseudo intellectual approach. it makes you 
sound even dumber than your conclusions .  . 

 . 

peace , 
pete 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 20 

in article  ( tsiel ohayon ) writes 

does anybody know how many jews , arabs , christians and others have died 
in terrorist attacks and wars over these 45 years due to arab rhetoric and 
the number is probably close to 100 , 000 at least. 

all these lives wasted because the arabs did not accept the partition plan 
in 1947 .  . 

well over 100 , 000 in lebanon alone. 
1 , 000 , 000 2 , 000 , 000 in the iran iraq conflict , even if iranians 
are n't arabs , strictly speaking .  .  ( they seem to hate the zionists at 
least as much as anyone else in the neighborhood. is there some 
correlation perhaps between hating israel and killing off your own 
people ) 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 206 
nntp posting host rac2 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 

fine. now if your opinion is n't convincing anyone , and it 's getting 
refuted regularly by the facts (which is the case) , is n't it likely that 
your opinions need some revision 

as i said , i do not want to convice anyone , so , why should my opinions 
convince anyone 
i do not believe that my opinions are refuted by facts. 

then you have n't been paying attention to the arguments levelled against 
them. they have been , over and over again. they will be again. 

so far , you have presented your opinions as opposed to mine. i would 
hardly take them as facts. 


maybe view of a dictionary is the problem here. one thing is the 
accepted meaning of a word by a dictionary , and sometimes a completely 
different thing is what that word came to mean after a long time. 

hey , what do you think dictionaries are for you quite obviously need 
one. a good dictionary gives both , and you well know it. 

i could give you hundreds of words in my mother tongue  ( spanish ) , that 
are use and you will never find in a dictionary .  . even more , i 
could show you a lot of meanings that words in spanish have different 
from those in the dictionary .  . 

ok. tell me how many people in zionist movements define a jew in a 
different way , and how many are who define jew based on a religious way. 

i do n't think that data exist on this directly .  . 

and guess why. is n't it curious that we do not know how many people define 
in how many different ways the term jew , which is the basis of the movement 
itself 
so , the evidence shows that up to now , jew , when considered in terms of israel , 
the law of return and jewish nationality is defined in terms of religion and 
not of cultural identity , even if 80 of those defined as jews in isreal 
are not religious .  . 



in the same way i believe that irish have a right to nationalism but i do 
not support the bombing and killing of the ira , i believe that jews have 
a right to nationalism but i do not support zionism as it is right now. 

comparing the actions of israel to that of the ira is like comparing 
those of the us to those of chile under  ( for example) , with the 
ira in the role of  . you really need to get your history 
straight. you also need a basic dictionary .  . 

you need to start reading before answering .  . 
my point was that because some movement claims to be nationalistic , it 
does not mean that i consider it to be nationalistic .  . i did not 
israel to the ira .  . i think that you are starting to put words on my 
mouth and that is wrong. 

that is no problem. but once again you are defining zionism as one 
movement. you are implying that it is monolithic .  . you know this is 
not and has never been the case. 

that is a problem. i am saying that i do not support zionism as it is 
now. i believe that among the people in the soviet communist party some 
might even had been inspired by noble ideals .  . does that change the 
final results of what happened in the ussr 
in the same way , even if the zionist movement is not homogeneous , it 
does not matter. what matters is the result. 

i never said that zionism is monolithic .  . if you are going to attribute 
me things , present the quotes where i said that. 

you do n't say it directly .  . you implied it , and i showed explicitly 
where and how you implied it. now you 're trying to wriggle out of it. 
wo n't wash , and you know it. 

i never said it directly nor indirectly .  . i am not talking about individuals 
who defined themselves as zionists here. i am sure most of them are good , 
honest and caring people. i am talking about the results of the zionist 
movement. i am talking about a movement whose actions resulted in a 
law of return with a religious definition of jew , a country that defines 
nationality based on religion. i am talking about something i consider 
a form of racism such as based on religious belief .  . 
after all , if arabs in israel cannot serve in the army is becasue they 
were not born in the right religion. 


what you said is that judaism is defined according to religious 
standards. now this can have several different meanings , and you know 
it. one of the meanings that it can have is to say that only those who 
are religious are defined as jews . another is to say that only those 
who meet the religious definition of a jew is one. and there are 
others. i'm not twisting your words. i'm trying to make you aware that 
your words do n't mean what you think they do. 

i had never heard the definition only those who are religious are defined as jews .  . 
i had always seen the definition a person is a jew is his her mother is was 
a jew , and if such person does not convert , although i had seen people 
argue about the last part. 


i am not talking about the debate. i am talking about how things are right 
now. when the debate is over , i 'll see what happens. 
right now , things are like they are. 
let me ask you one thing. i understand that israel between 
citizenship and nationality .  . suppose  ( m(ale ) and  ( f(emale ) have a child in 
israel .  . which nationality will the child 's id show , according to each one 
of the following cases 

actually , it does n't .  . and the citizens  rights are exactly the same in 
both cases , anyway. 

so , there is no difference between citizenship and nationality in israel 
or what do you mean by actually , it does n't 


a) f and m are both jewish .  . 

jewish 

b) f is and m is not. 

jewish 

c) f is muslim and m is jewish .  . 
d ) f is christian and m is jewish .  . 

it 'll depend on what religion is practiced in the house. the original 
law of return would still admit such a person if they were jewish , if 
memory serves .  . 

so , it follows a religious definition and not a cultural one. that is what 
i call a form of racism .  . 


i do not know why you are so touchy .  . i never said that you did not support 
palestinian self determination .  . i just gave an example of hypocrisy .  . 

no you did n't .  . you had to twist the definition of the word 180 degrees 
in order to do so , and everyone else knows it. i'm not being touchy .  . 

you do not need to assume the representation of everybody else to 
make your points. you should assume that you are just talking for yourself. 
about the other stuff , i still believe that the example was a valid one. 
it would be a hypocrisy to say that one supports nationalism for all and 
then support zionism and then disregard the palestinian 's right. 


i never 
said that someone in this net is guilty of it. it was just an example. nothing 
more , nothing less than that. why did you have to clarify what you think 

because what you gave was not an example. it was an example of how 
the definition of a word can be twisted around 180 degrees. 

it was an example. you are trying to justify something nobody has 
talked about. 


first , you should know that words have more meanings than those given in 
the dictionary .  . 

oh , so now what are dictionaries for 

reference. 



it 's not nonsense. when people read what you write , they have to try to 
associate a meaning to those words. dictionaries give the meanings of 
words , do n't they 

yes , but not all of them. a language is something that evolves all the time. 


it seems that you cannot answer to the ideas given by others without insulting 
others. sad. 

not at all. what i cannot abide is utter when you 've been 
proven completely wrong. 

not really. i posted in another post the definition of zionism .  . and , in 
this post you have showed for me what i was telling you from the 
begining .  . zionism is a form of racism , even if most zionists are not 
racist in their individual and private lifes .  . a movement that ask 
for a state and national rights for a people , and then in practice , 
that people are defined according to religion is , for me , racist like. 



i never put even one syllable in your mouth. you have tried to prove 
this and you failed. 

you did it. next time be more careful. 

ha ! there 's nothing resembling fact in what you 've said. i never added 
anything to what you said. 

do you know the difference between opinion and fact 


eric s. perlman 
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder 

aap 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject traditional and historical armenian fascism and barbarism .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 78 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

it was five years ago that karabakh voted overwhelmingly to seperate 
from azerbaijan , why is the un not enforcing their will 

is that how the mind of a compulsive liar works the scenario and 
genocide staged by the armenians 78 years ago in x soviet armenia 
is being reenacted again this time in azerbaijan .  . there are remarkable 
similarities between the plots , the perpetrators , and the underdogs .  . 

the stories of survivors of karabag massacre 

69 year old hatin nine telling 

  my twin grandchildren were cut to pieces in front of my eyes. they told 
me we wo n't kill you. but the babies have to die in front of your eyes . '' . 

72 year old 

  our turkish village in town was blown up in two hours. 
while killing children and babies mercilessly they said you are 
turks , you must die . '' . 

28 year old 

  they my 3 year old daughter in her stomach in front of 
my eyes . '' . 

are these stories lies have the eye witnesses been day dreaming 
were these stories forged by turkish journalists in the region 

the nonsense of such a claim is clear from the writings of british 
journalists , too. two days before we had quoted from a sunday times 
article. they british reported the events in karabag even before 
turkish journalists .  . what is more here are the pictures. pictures 
of people who were , whose eyes were gouged , ears cut off. 

even the armenian radio could n't claim these lies .  . they are saying 
exaggeration .  . that means '  somethings   have happened but the 
situation is not as bad as reported .  . perhaps that village of 
town was destroyed in 4 hours , instead of 2 .  .  .  . or 's 
3 year old daughter was in her chest instead of stomach .  .  .  . 

the massacre is clearly seen with all its dimensions .  . the effects of 
this massacre on karabag and environs cannot be reduced by any word. 

some of the western press  , led by some french newspapers , ability 
to   close their eyes   is nothing but complicity in this massacre .  . 

yesterday we gave samples from le figaro .  . until yesterday 's print 
no news about the real events in karabag were printed .  . so were the 
french tv channels .  .  . the subject they considered related to karabag 
was   the necessity of protecting armenians against azeri attacks . '' . 

the age we are living in is termed a human rights age. there are lots 
of organizations such as united nations and  ( csce(conference on security 
and cooperation in europe) , and rules , all designed to fight against human 
rights violations .  . international reactions must be made with international 
cooperation .  . with support of everybody and every organization claiming 
to be civilized .  . 

could there be a more serious human rights violation than that of the 
right to live and with such levels of barbarity and cruelty where 
is the cooperation where are the reactions and the intellectuals , 
journalists , writers , tv stations of certain western countries such 
as france who are fast to claim leadership of human rights 
where are you 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 91 

in article  ( red herring ) writes 

13th ss divison , made of bosnian muslim volunteers , did 
quite a job in the former yugoslavia during wwii .  . these folks are now 
in their 60 's 70 's .  . makes me wonder how many of them occupy positions 

that is the result of watching anti muslim  sdpa  nazis crooks idiots 
too much. still covering up the crimes of your fascist armenian grandparents 
and nazi armenian parents not a chance. as early as 1934 , k. s. 
asserted in  patriotism perverted  that the armenians 

 lean toward fascism and hitlerism . ' . 1 

at that time , he could not have foreseen that the armenians would 
actively assume a pro german stance and even collaborate in world 
war ii. his book was dealing with the armenian genocide of the muslim 
population of eastern anatolia .  . however , extreme rightwing ideological 
tendencies could be observed within the long before 
the outbreak of the second world war. 

in 1936 , for example , o. zarmooni of the  tzeghagrons  was quoted 
in the  weekly ' 

the race is force it is treasure .  . if we follow history we shall 
see that races , due to their innate force , have created the nations 
and these have been secure only insofar as they have reverted to 
the race after becoming a nation .  . today germany and italy are 
strong because as nations they live and breath in terms of race. 
on the other hand , russia is comparatively weak because she is 
bereft of social sanctities .  . 2 

1 k. s. ,  patriotism perverted , '  ( boston , press 
1934 ) , preface .  . 
2  weekly , ' friday , april 10 , 1936 , 'the race is our 
refuge  by o. zarmooni .  . 

in april 1942 , hitler was preparing for the invasion of the caucasus .  . 
a number of nazi armenian leaders began submitting plans to german 
officials in spring and summer 1942 .  . one of them was 
, son of a former ambassador of the armenian republic in baku .  . 
wrote a letter to hitler , asking for german support to his 
armenian national socialist movement and suggesting the 
creation of an armenian ss formation in order 

to educate the youth of liberated armenia according to the 
spirit of the nazi ideas. 

he wanted to unite the armenians of the already occupied territories 
of the ussr in his movement and with them conquer historic turkish 
homeland .  . was confined to serving the nazis in goebbels 
propaganda ministry as a speaker for armenian and french language 
radio broadcastings .  . 1 the armenian language broadcastings were 
produced by yet another nazi armenian chanth .  . 2 

1 patrick von zur  ( muehlen ) , p. 106 .  . 
2 enno meyer , a. j. ,  rhein und , 900 
jahre deutsch , '  ( heinz 
verlag oldenburg 1988) , pp. 124 and 129 .  . 


the establishment of armenian units in the german army was favored 
by general dro (the butcher) .  . he played an important role in the 
establishment of the armenian  legions  without assuming any 
official position. his views were represented by his men in the 
respective organs .  . an interesting meeting took place between dro 
and ss heinrich himmler toward the end of 1942 .  . 
dro discussed matters of collaboration with himmler and after 
a long conversation , asked if he could visit pow camp close to 
berlin .  . himmler provided dro with his private car. 1 

a minor problem was that some of the soviet nationals were not 
 aryans  but   according to the official nazi philosophy .  . 
as such , they were subject to german racism .  . however , armenians 
were the least threatened and indeed most privileged .  . in august 
1933 , armenians had been recognized as aryans by the bureau of 
racial investigation in the ministry for domestic affairs .  . 

1 meyer , , ibid. , pp. 112 113 .  . 

need i go on 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( kuram t narayana ) 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
nntp posting host cs . psu . edu . 
organization penn state computer science 
lines 74 

in article michael sells m writes 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
from , 
date wed , 12 may 1993 15 50 31 gmt 
in article , 
writes 
s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious 
bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. 
muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. 

this kind of generalization is utterly inappropriate .  . some 
bosnian muslims cooperated with the nazis in world war 2. other bosnian 
muslims risked their lifes to hide jews from the nazis and , and 
those jews who survived the war remember that. in fact the jewish leader 
in sarajevo has remained there saying he wants to repay the debt to the 
bosnian muslims that saved so many jewish lives in ww2 .  . 

similarly , some serbs are doing to muslims now. this is a group of 
serial killers , rapists , and thieves who have control of the vast 
yugoslav army arsenal .  . many other serbs oppose these atrocities .  . as one 
of serbian heritage who condemns emphatically the genocide being carried 
out against muslims by both and forces , i condemn your 
generalization about bosnian muslims and about serbs .  . 


this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... 

every place on earth is the scene of a saga of mutual hatred and 
destruction .  . the holocaust was not a fresh case. it was another 
chapter in a 900 year history of attacks on jews in europe .  . that did n't 
make it acceptable .  . and balkan history does not make the genocide against 
bosnian muslims acceptable .  . 

not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . 

standing by and allowing well armed criminals to slaughter bosnian muslim 
civilians , while enforcing an arms embargo against the bosnian muslims is 
not only religious bigotry it is direct complicity in mass murder .  . 


it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 

you tell us a region on earth that does have a long history of war. nato 
is the largest military police force in the world. it was not 
helpless .  . it could have stopped the carnage a year ago. 





regards , 

mike .  . 

michael sells , department of religion , college 
, pa 



from  ( danny keren ) 
subject re benjamin franklin  ( iii ) 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 19 
nntp posting host cs . brown . edu . 

so , mr. salah is still claiming stalin was a jew 

this thread began on sca , when he and another guy claimed both stalin 
and lenin were jews .  . when i posted evidence from books and the britannica 
showing they were christians , someone made the  ( correct ) remark that 
lenin 's maternal grandfather was a jew who converted to christianity .  . 

to counter the fact that stalin was a christian who , during his youth , 
was trained to be a priest , mr. salah wrote yes , it says he was trained 
to be a priest , but not for what religion !  ( btw , stalin developed 
strong antisemitic feelings later in his life) .  . 

mr. salah seems intent on trying to spread hate against jews by posting 
antisemitic forgeries and trying to prove that certain notorious 
people were jews , even if they were not. 


danny keren .  . 


from  ( joachim martillo ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
summary mohammed is a moron .  . 
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma 
lines 44 

in article  ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) writes 

muslims helping the nazis where on earth do you come up with such 
do you have proofs if not , you should publically apologize 
for such a statement. 

what a dope ! there is no value for mohammed to be here 
at a western university .  . third and islamic brain rot has 
made it impossible for him to acquire and analyze facts appropriately .  . 

the history of the efforts of the mufti of jerusalem to serve the 
nazis in the south balkans and set up muslim ss divisions is 
well documented .  . in general , nazism and the leader principle 
well among muslim peoples .  . khomeini 's concept of the 
is a recent example of such resonance .  . in fact , totalitarianism is 
etymologically a reasonable translation islam .  . 

to be fair , the mufti did not succeed in getting large numbers of 
muslims to join the ss. but the rather small muslim ss unit did 
manage to commit attrocities disproportionate to it size. there were 
also muslim people who were less than enthusiastic about the attempt 
of muslim leaders to entice muslim people to serve the nazi cause 
actively .  . and the turkish government ignored practically all nazi 
even though an alliance with the nazis against the soviet 
government would have made a great deal of tactical sense. 

last time i heard , the nazis themselves in 
needing no body to carry their politics and ideologies .  . and if your statment 
were true , do n't you think israel would of used it to point to what a muslim 
neighbor  ( palestine ) could do to them if they allowed it to be the jewish 
lobby and power is very strong , and if what you said is true , we would of 
heard it from them before you could come up with it. 
and you dare say that you are taking no sides ! ! 

yes , the typical primitive muslim psychotic 
behavior upon hearing or reading a fact start whining 
about the jews .  . what a jerk .  . 

mohammed 

you should go back to your mindlessly stupid 3rd world country. your 
brain has no business in a civilized first world country. 

joachim carlo santos 

from  ( tippu hassan ) 
subject jewish and muslim relations in bosnia .  . 
organization , university of wollongong 
lines 66 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sheep . uow . edu . au . 


found this in soc . culture . pakistan . 
might be of interest .  .  .  .  .  . am posting it without the permission of the original poster. 
hope he she doesnt mind. 


by lance gay , scripps howard news service 

sarajevo , bosnia herzegovina in this land of historic hatreds , a tiny 
jewish community is serbian shells to repay a 50 year old debt to 
muslims who saved jews from the holocaust .  . 

, president of the jewish community of sarajevo , says he 
and about 1 , 000 other jews chose to remain in sarajevo , rather than leave 
for israel , to keep a feeding center in the medieval old town district 
running. 

said that was partly in gratitude to the muslims who hid jews during 
the nazi occupation and partly to keep intact the centuries old presence of 
jews living in sarajevo .  . 

with guns are defending bosnia , but i fight in bosnia by keeping 
people alive , '' said. 

as a student of balkan history , said he saw this war coming and 
had ready plans to evacuate children and the elderly .  . a year before the war 
erupted here last april , said the jewish center began 
stockpiling supplies , ensuring everyone had passports and arranging for 
places in israel and europe for the  . 

they were so well prepared , he said , that only five days after the 
shooting began the first plane left. of about 2 , 000 jews in bosnia 
herzegovina , he estimates half have left. many of those who stayed behind 
work in sarajevo 's downtown synagogue , which has been turned into a 
wartime feeding center that has so far given away 380 , 000 meals .  . 

the center , which has been shelled several times along with most of 
sarajevo , also runs a radio station , mail center and distributes food 
packages sent by jewish organizations around the world. 

while muslims and jews are fighting each other in the mideast , jews here 
say there 's a long tradition of cooperation , inter marriage and 
tolerance between the two communities in sarajevo that goes back to 
centuries of turkish occupation .  . 

sarajevo 's jews trace their ancestry back to their expulsion from roman 
catholic spain in 1492 .  . the community numbered more than 14 , 000 before 
world war ii. but only 10 survived the holocaust which was carried out 
by the pro nazi in yugoslavia .  . many of the survivors were 
hidden by muslim families in  . 



sharon 
framingham , ma usa 
e mail 



 . 




hassan 


from (the gentleman loser ) 
subject illegal postings from at ucdavis 
summary apology from real account holder 
originator 
organization university of california , davis 
lines 38 


to all the readers of talk . politics . mideast . , alt . flame . , alt . stupidity . 

i am posting this message on behalf of a staff member at ucdavis whose 
account had been broken into and used to post offensive messages to 
all these groups. 

dave 

begin included message from 


please be advised that the  ( person(s ) sending to you the inflammatory 
remarks you have been receiving have been doing so by illegally accessing 
my account. 

our campus information technology security group has cut off my account 's 
access to this hacker , and every effort is being made to track down this 
person. 

i apologize profusely that you have been subjected to the derogatory 
comments made by this person and i detest that my name was attached to 
them. 

thank you to those of you who alerted our campus security about the nature 
of this problem. 

sincerely , 
p. 


    
(o o) 
ooo ( ) ooo 
david mein schatz , es ist soweit .  . unsere liebe ist vorbei .  . 
ich nicht von dir  . 
news administrator liebe und , sind sich so nah .  . eco 


from  ( hamid reza daniali ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
originator 
nntp posting host dali . mcrcim . mcgill . edu . 
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 11 


in article , (edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

israel happy 45th birthday ! 


anybody has any information about the number of the people have been killed 
by israel during these 44 happy year 

hamid 

from  ( josip loncaric ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 79 
nntp posting host orbit . src . umd . edu . 

in article writes 

please , do n't be offended at this question who are the muslims in the 
bosnian context 

bosnian muslims are citizens od bosnia herzegovina who identify themselves 
with bosnian muslim cultural and religious tradition .  . 

i know that a moslem muslim is a believer in islam .  . islam 
is a religion and it is practised in many parts of the world. but it is not 
, yes definitely not , an group. ok ! so , these bosnian muslims , who 
are they to which ethnic group do they belong what  ( language(s ) do they 
speak do they have a different language from that of the serbs or croats 

in bosnia , muslim is not merely a religious category , but an ethnic 
one as well. actually , here are the two contradictory arguments 
made by people on this subject 

(1) there is only serbian and nationality , and bosnian muslims 
are simply croats and serbs of islamic faith. 

(2) bosnian muslims are a separate nationality since they do not feel 
themselves to be croats nor serbs .  . 

in 1968 , argument (2) was accepted by former yugoslavia as valid , 
and (1) was soundly rejected .  . the reasons are pragmatic even if 
bosnian muslims are croats and serbs who converted to islam under 
turkish rule centuries ago , none of the present generation has any 
clue what was their ancestor 's actual nationality .  . in fact , although 
bosnian muslims have felt drawn to or serbian national 
allegiance , most of them feel they have a separate cultural and 
historic identity .  . so , arguments like yes , but your ancestors were 
croats or serbs carry very little weight. regardless of what 
their ancestors might have been , as long as bosnian muslims feel 
that they are a separate national group , that ends the debate. 
what outsiders say is simply not relevant .  . 

the way the western press use the word  muslim  in this bosnian debacle has 
kept me wondering when the meaning of muslim moslem i knew from childhood was 
changed in the dictionary .  . this is just a question. no flames intended ! 

in the case of former yugoslavia , the date is 1971 , when muslim nationality 
appeared as a census category for the first time. this was the result 
of a sequence of decisions over the past decade , from recognizing 
as an ethnic group  ( 1961 ) to february 1968 resolution  ( in b h ) 
declaring that muslims are a separate nation , to formal endorsement 
of this in january 1969 , and eventually to the 1971 inclusion of 
muslim nationality choice in census forms. 

for comparison , in 1948 census there were three national categories 
available to muslims in bosnia herzegovina 

serb muslims 71 , 991 
croat muslims 25 , 295 
muslims , ethnically undeclared 788 , 403 

this clearly demonstrates that muslims feel themselves to be their own 
nationality .  . only a tiny minority felt able to choose serb or croat 
nationality .  . census results show that bosnian muslims have 
consistently opted for a third category in 1948 they chose undeclared , 
in 1953 they chose , in 1961 both and 
ethnic group , and in 1971 , 1981 and 1991 they chose muslim nationality . 

perhaps the term bosnian muslim nationality is too confusing for 
the rest of the world. but , in the present context , we are talking 
about muslims as nationality not as a religous group within some 
separate national identity .  . the reasons are mostly historical and 
cultural .  . religion plays a smaller role , as a part of culture in general , 
because the area is simply not known for religious fanaticism .  . political 
fanaticism , yes religious fanaticism , no. group security and survival 
dominate people 's thinking not fine points of theology .  . in fact , 
bosnia herzegovina is as well known for religious tolerance in peacetime 
as it is known for terrible carnage in wartime .  . 

sincerely , 
josip 




from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 10 

center for policy research writes 

anti israel rantings deleted 

as my father says in russian , pol , or roughly 
translated half a jew is an anti semite and a half. now , mr. davidsson , 
i know what he means. 

ed. 


from  ( tim clock) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 28 

in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
in article  ( tim clock) writes 

tell them to stay home ) sorry , terrible attempt at there. 

alternative hell , i do n't know. but .  .  . its . perfectly possible to have 
objections to a particular policy while feeling that there is no 
alternative choice . 

sealing off the gaza strip has the interesting side effect of 
demonstrating the non viability of gaza as an independent state. 
where are all of these people going to go to find work if they are 
separated from israel if they complain about having to show id cards 
on the way to work , how will they feel about showing passports on the 
way to work 

throughout the years of the israel arab palestinian conflict , the internal 
palestinian has found itself essentially relegated to the 
lower of the economy. given the major kinds of positions required 
by the israeli and the palestinian economy , there are essentially two 
different ones existing side by side are n't holding down many of the 
skilled positions .  . so , when gaza has to operate on its own , there are 
few residents trained to fill the need for middle and upper management. 

tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 20 

in article  ( hamid reza daniali ) writes 

in article , (edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

israel happy 45th birthday ! 


anybody has any information about the number of the people have been killed 
by israel during these 44 happy year 

hamid 


what 's this another idiot from mcrcim . mcgill . edu . or are these all 
the same dope using different accounts 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization computer science department , university of new mexico 
lines 75 

in article  ( joachim martillo ) writes 
in article  ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) writes 

muslims helping the nazis where on earth do you come up with such 
do you have proofs if not , you should publically apologize 
for such a statement. 

what a dope ! there is no value for mohammed to be here 
at a western university .  . third and islamic brain rot has 
made it impossible for him to acquire and analyze facts appropriately .  . 

and is there a reason or value for such a brainless shit for brains asshole 
to be  . you are a self hating bastard. neither your name nor your 
ideas , which i 've come across before and thought were too stupid and 
to respond to , prove your first claim and civility .  . 


the history of the efforts of the mufti of jerusalem to serve the 
nazis in the south balkans and set up muslim ss divisions is 
well documented .  . in general , nazism and the leader principle 
well among muslim peoples .  . khomeini 's concept of the 
is a recent example of such resonance .  . in fact , totalitarianism is 
etymologically a reasonable translation islam .  . 

to be fair , the mufti did not succeed in getting large numbers of 
muslims to join the ss. but the rather small muslim ss unit did 
manage to commit attrocities disproportionate to it size. there were 
also muslim people who were less than enthusiastic about the attempt 
of muslim leaders to entice muslim people to serve the nazi cause 
actively .  . and the turkish government ignored practically all nazi 
even though an alliance with the nazis against the soviet 
government would have made a great deal of tactical sense. 

give me sources to read it or shut up. you think i will take such an 
ignorant as yourself on his words 


last time i heard , the nazis themselves in 
needing no body to carry their politics and ideologies .  . and if your statment 
were true , do n't you think israel would of used it to point to what a muslim 
neighbor  ( palestine ) could do to them if they allowed it to be the jewish 
lobby and power is very strong , and if what you said is true , we would of 
heard it from them before you could come up with it. 
and you dare say that you are taking no sides ! ! 

yes , the typical primitive muslim psychotic 
behavior upon hearing or reading a fact start whining 
about the jews .  . what a jerk .  . 


there is nothing primitive about islam except in your mind. i do read and 
live daily with facts , and i only ask them to prove themselves. 
the last time i checked , this was truly a 1st civilized approach to 
facts and figures. i did not whine about the jews , i merely stated a fact 
thet is strange to nobody .  . as far as me being jerk , fuck you. (sorry to 
other people that read this) .  . 

mohammed 

you should go back to your mindlessly stupid 3rd world country. your 
brain has no business in a civilized first world country. 

i am at home fuck face. my name does not mean i am from somewhere else , 
except in your stupid brain. and while we are at names , 
yours does not particularly seem to be 1st  . what 's that 
arabic as i said you must be ashamed of what you are. you must 
really hate yourself do n't you ass hole 

mohammed 


joachim carlo santos 




from  ( hamid reza daniali ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
originator 
nntp posting host ice . mcrcim . mcgill . edu . 
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 34 


in article , 
(edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
in article hamid reza 
daniali writes 

you deliberately deleted a line ! i do n't remember how wrote it , but i remember 
what he wrote. he wrote 

happy 45 birth day of israel ! 

and i 


hamid anybody has any information about the number of the people have been 
hamid killed by israel during these 44 happy year 

not sure. but the number of israelis killed defending israel is a little more 
than 17 , 000 in the last 45 years and 61 , 000 injured .  . 


is this means that the number of the people have been killed by israel are so 
high that you can not keep the track of , or this is also a part of zionism 
ideology that you do n't need to keep the track of the people you kill 
just kill ! 

hamid 


you must try to make a mockery out of everything , do n't you pathetic .  . 

ed. 


from center for policy research 
subject zionists reject non jews .  . news 
nf id n cdp 000 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 11 05 23 00 1993 
lines 50 


from center for policy research cpr 
subject zionists reject non jews .  . news 


ethiopian jews and not quite jews 

the israeli press has published items about ethiopian 
jews waiting in camps in for immigration to 
israel , who are dying of starvation .  . the following are 
excerpts from an interview with the former general 
director of the project for development and welfare 
of ethiopian jews , friedman  ( hadashot , 21 april 
1993) , who has stated that there are people dying in 
, but they are converts to christianity 

published the item about the dying jews after 
viewing a video tape filmed last week in  . 
how do you know that they are actually converts to 


if there are jews on the tape , then i do n't know what to 
say. i am speaking from experience when i say that those 
who remained in ethiopia are christians .  . i know that 
there have previously been things published in the press 
by interesting parties , and there is no connection 
between them and reality. 

what interested parties 

ethiopian immigrants who want their christian relatives 
to come here. 

what to you recommend that ethiopian children in israel 
do , when their parents and the rest of their relatives 
remain in ethiopia 

i ask if it is the job of the state of israel to bring in the 
40 relatives who stayed in ethiopia .  . well , my answer is 
that it is not. it would be a better solution , economically 
as well , for that young man to buy a one way ticket to 
ethiopia and reunite with his family there. 


publ. by the other front , 
alternative information center 
jerusalem , israel 
28 april 1993 



from (joseph askew ) 
subject re dir yassin 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 156 

in article  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

from myths and facts , by leonard j. davis , near east research inc. , 
1989 

great , someone will be posting from  protocols of the elders of zion  next 

unlike the plo 's almost exclusive focus on civilian targets , 

at this time the plo did not exist and would not for the next 20 years. 
you knew that did n't you perhaps you might want to add up all the jewish 
civilians killed during the 48 war. i 'll opt for the massacre at deir yassin .  . 
which do you think is the greater 

in 1983 , however , eric silver of the guardian  ( britain ) 
interviewed a survivor , , who testified that 116 out 
of a population of 800 1000 were killed. 

while we are talking about this man i have included more of his testimony 
that harry naturally does not use nor does myths and facts. i wonder why. 
no doubt he was lying right harry 

the reason was mainly economic .  . that is 
to capture booty in order to maintain 
the bases which we had then established 
with very poor resources. the main idea , 
despite this , remained the conquest of 
the village by force of arms , something 
which was then unknown in the country , 
and became a turning point in jewish 
military operations 

yehuda , archives testimony 

apart from the military discussion , the 
lehi put forward a proposal to 
date the residents of the village after 
the conquest , in order to show the arabs 
what happens when the and the lehi 
set out together on an operation , and for 
another main reason it would cause a 
great uproar throughout the land and 
would be an important turning point in 
the course of the battles .  . the clear aim 
was to break the arab morale and raise 
somewhat the morale of the jewish 
nity in jerusalem , which had been hit 
hard time after time , especially 
by the of jewish bodies which 
fell into arab hands 

yehuda , archives 
testimony as quoted by yisrael segal in 
the deir yassin file , published by 
19th january 1983 

so it was n't like the holocaust more like a warning , a punishment .  . 
collective and inflicted on unarmed innocents just not as through. 

when it comes to prisoners , old people 
and children , there were differences 
of opinion , but the majority was for 
liquidation of all the men in the village 
and any other force that opposed us , 
whether it be old people , women or children 

cohen 
commander of the attack on deir yassin , 
(j . a . t . ) . 

let me put in some words here 
a. premeditated 
b. murder 
what do you say about the eyewitness testimony of the man in command 

we had prisoners and before the retreat 
we decided to liquidate them. we also 
the wounded , as anyway we could 
not give them first aid .  . in one place 
about eighty arab prisoners were killed 
after some of them had opened fire and 
killed one of the people who came to give 
them first aid .  . arabs who dressed up 
as arab women were also found , and so 
they started to shoot the women also who 
did not hurry to the area where the 
prisoners were concentrated 

(j . a . t . ) . 

shooting prisoners , the wounded , as a warning to hurry sounds very 
familiar to me , how about you heard of other people other places doing 
these things 

in one case the family only 
one out of twenty five survived .  . in 
another house they caught the sixteen 
year old son fuad .  . his mother was holding 
him. they killed him with a knife .  . the 
mother spent twenty years after that in 
a mental hospital. a young woman and her 
two year old baby were shot in the 
street. their bodies were left there. 
they moved to the centre of the village 
and started to kill everybody they saw or 
heard , as soon as anybody opened his 
door. they were using bombs grenades , 
machine guns , submachine guns. my cousin 
escaped with bullet holes in his clothes. 
one of the officers put his machinegun 
through a window and started shooting 
outwards , killing everybody who moved .  . 
they killed my uncle , ali hassan , 
and my aunt fatima .  . she heard him call 
 help  . she ran to him and they killed 
her. another neighbour , 
heard some voices and came out. they killed 
him too. his son muhammad , who was 
about seventeen , heard his father call 
him and went to the same place. they 
killed him. his mother heard her son cry 
for help. she ran out and they killed 
her. that was near my house. i saw this 

muhammad arif 

funny how  myths and facts  does not see fit to include this too after all 
if he is reliable enough to report casualties why not the actual events what 
do you say about this harry 

in the exchange that followed four men 
were killed and a dozen were wounded .  .  . 
 .  . by . noon time the battle was over and 
the shooting had ceased .  . although there 
was a calm , the village had not yet surrendered .  . 
the irgun and lehi men came 
out of hiding and began to  clean  the houses. 
they shot whoever they saw , women 
and children included , the commanders did 
not try and stop the massacre .  .  . i . 
pleaded with the commander to order his 
men to cease fire , but to no avail. in 
the meantime twenty five arabs had been 
loaded on a truck and driven through 
yehuda and  . at the 
end of the drive , they were taken to 
the quarry deir yassin and 
, and murdered in cold blood 

meir pa il , interview with 4 4 1972 


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades , 
remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief .  . 
disclaimer sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere , 
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on. 

from (joseph askew ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state not quite .  . 
distribution world 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 40 

in article bird . think . com .  ( shai guday ) writes 
in article , (joseph askew ) writes 

there are arabs in cabinet but look how long it took and to what 
insignificant positions they are assigned ! and this is based solely 
on race not political belief or security as jewish members of the 
same party have always been welcome just not their fellow arabs .  . 

first of all , the arab standing in any party , or as any party , is solely 
dependent upon the amount of political power they can wield effectively .  . 

it is not a question of an individuals standing .  . when a party puts up an 
arab for a cabinet post and that arab is rejected but the position is given 
to a jew from the same party we are not talking about power but racism .  . 
would you care to deny this has happened on several occasions with labour 


in the past , they have not been effective at votes and forming 
a single bloc in the knesset .  . on the few occasions when this was done , 
some of the parties took stands that were extremist , and 
themselves from forming a coalition and participating in the cabinet .  . 

not their party them as individuals . even when they belong to nice 
peaceful zionist mainstream parties they are not welcome. arabs are 
excluded on security grounds which are just an excuse. it 
sure looks like racism to me. 

arabs are excluded from cabinet , even when they do the things you 
suggest , because they are arabs .  . unless of course you have a better 
reason i am happy to listen to any good reason why a leftist jew 
is less of a security risk than a leftist arab from the same party. 
look at the present cabinet .  . 

joseph askew 


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades , 
remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief .  . 
disclaimer sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere , 
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on. 

from  ( khalid chishti ) 
subject please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 46 
nntp posting host hw . stratus . com . 


i appeal to to all of you to show up in washington dc .  . this saturday to 
participate in a peaceful demonstration for the sake of humanity ! ! this is a 
critical point in the history of world and we can make a change otherwise things 
will not change there in bosnia .  .  . rapes killings ethnic cleansing will 
go on as a norm in the days to follow. the un will get to the towns after the fall 
of thousands of inocent civilians  ( like in just the past weekend ! ) .  . it happened 
to the jews in 1940 's , it 's happening to the muslims today and who will be the next 
victim 

since the europeans want to remain indifferent in this issue , time has come for us to 
take a leadership role to stop these crimes against humanity .  . time is now and 
this is for real folks , the people of new england bosnian relief committee seriously believe 
that clinton 's adminstration will stop supporting the bosnian cause without sustained 
public pressure. i just called sen. john kerry 's office and they are saying that 
he (the senator ) is waiting for president to take a decision , means that he will wait and 
join the band wagon later if it ever moves ! 

please do n't rely on others to take part in this demonstration you as an individual 
will make a big difference. bring your families too , not only you will help a great 
cause but also it will be fun for all. i know of several families from massachusetts 
who are travelling friday night to participate there. contact the local islamic center 
or bosnia relief agency if you want to travel by pre arranged busses .  . the best option 
for students is to rent a car and car pool. please , spread the word around .  .  .  . 



regards , 



if you live in massachusetts and want more info 

call (from new england bosnian relief committee ) 617 623 1973 
or 
new england bosnian relief committee phone no (617) 464 









disclaimer these are my opinions only and has nothing to do with my employer .  .  .  . 

from (peter freeman ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to (peter freeman ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 36 

in article (steven berson ) writes 
( andi beyer ) writes 

virginia.edu is true to its founding father , thomas 
jefferson the author of the bill of rights , in allowing freedom 
of speach .  . sorry you guys in israel have a hard time with the 
concept. 

jefferson was not the author of the bill of rights. my history 
books are n't here , but jefferson might have been in the group 
that did not think that enumerating rights was necessary. 
cheers , 
steve 


steven berson ucla computer science department (310) 825 3189 
los angeles , ca 90024 1596 


! ! mr. jefferson would be clearly disappointed in your designation of 
him as author of the bill of rights. and your reference to those 
in israel was and inappropriate .  . 
the of independence of 1776 was written by thomas jefferson .  . 
in 1787 , the constitution was drafted by 55 men in philadelphia .  . 
in , the bill of rights was added. well , maybe jefferson 
would be  . 

as to you guys at uva , your right , not all of you are anti jewish , 
or self hating .  . but when i visited charlottesville , i noticed 
a distinct lack of diversity , from which i must assume you garner 
your inability to perceive the reality of the outside world. 


p 



from  ( ilyess bdira ) 
subject upi does it again  ( two israelis , four arabs killed in gaza 
keywords international , non usa government , government , fighting , civil rights , social issues , shooting , trouble 
nntp posting host bohr . ece . concordia . ca . 
organization ece concordia university 
lines 52 

in article israel  ( upi ) writes 
gaza city , israeli occupied gaza strip  ( upi ) palestinian gunmen 
sunday shot and killed two israelis who entered gaza to buy cheap 
produce , and two arabs who were assisting them. 
elsewhere in the crowded strip , israeli troops killed a 18 month old 
infant and a 12 year old boy during rock throwing clashes at two refugee 
camps .  . 
can anybody guess this from the title 

not me , i thought that a clash between israelis and arabs resulted 
in four deaths on one side and two on the other. 

the drive by shooting outside the jewish settlement of in 
southern gaza prompted prime minister rabin to warn israelis 
they were their lives   by doing illegal business in the 
occupied territories .  . 

how about being illegally settled there 
i am not sure about the signals the israelis are sending , one day 
they are willing to accept a jordan west bank federation , the other 
they do not recognize the west bank as occupied territory  ( neither 
did the u.s , the honest ) 
 ( details of the killings omitted , plo , hamas graffiti both claim responsability ) 

the israelis had entered gaza in a car driven by the man from hebron , 

now do n't tell me that this could not be an israeli spy .  . 
we will know later. 

which carried the easily identified blue license plates of arab vehicles 
in the west bank. when israelis enter gaza with their own cars , which 
carry yellow plates , they are usually stoned and burned by angry 

palestinian residents .  . 
now the upi shows its ugly face once and for all. 
usually 
it happened once this year , once last year. out of possibly thousands 
or more. man how low can you get. 

for those of you bigoted enough not to see what is transmitted here , i will 
tell you something that is at least as close to the truth as the above 
babies children who venture outside their homes are usually shot and killed 
by the israeli soldiers .  . 
.... 
army officials said the joint operation by members of the plo tied 
fatah hawks and the hamas connected brigade , arose from their 
anger at the army 's killing of six from each group over the 
past month. 
the groups sprayed graffiti on walls in khan yunis , calling the 
attack act of revenge   for the killing of their comrades .  . 



from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re remember those names come election time. 
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 26 

in anwar  ( anwar mohammed ) writes 

i said 
in article nelson (peter nelson ) writes 

besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement 
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , liberia , angola , or 
(it appears with the khmer rouge 's new campaign ) cambodia .  . non whites 
do n't count 

hmm .  .  . some . might say kuwaitis are non white. ooops , i forgot , kuwaitis are 
oil rich , loaded with petro dollars , etc so they do n't count. 

 .  .  . and . let 's not forget somalia , which is about as far from white as it 
gets .  . 

not according to reports i have read. it seems that the somalis think 
of our african american marines in less than complimentary terms , using 
gestures that signify a word i refuse to use. seems that even when you 
try to help people , they still insult you. 


that 's two in a row , care to try for more 

reb 


from center for policy research 
subject help palestinian education 
nf id n cdp 000 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 15 04 57 00 1993 
lines 104 


from center for policy research cpr 
subject help palestinian education 


how to help palestinian education 

(from  educational network  , no. 11 , april 1993 , 
publ. by ramallah friends schools , p.o.box 66 , 
ramallah , west bank , via israel 
tel. 972 2 , fax. 972 2 956231 ) 

many of our readers have written to us asking how 
individuals and organizations can help palestinian 
education. we have compiled a list of suggestions to guide 
you. if you are interested in pursuing one or more of 
these suggested activities , the educational network can 
aid you by coordinating the initial contacts , following 
up , and providing any other support you may need. 

1. link your teachers  union with a teachers  union here 
linkage should be based on a shared 
enterprise .  . 

2. get your union to actively support the right of 
palestinian teachers in the occupied territories to form 
unions 

a. through the international labor organization  ( if your 
union is a member ) 
b. contacting other international unions which have 
supported our right to form a union we can supply 
names and addresses .  . 

3. establish a scholarship fund for one or more 
palestinian students to study at a palestinian university 
or school or establish a scholarship fund for a 
palestinian student or teacher to study at a university 
abroad .  . 

4. reproduce and publish information about palestinian 
education 

a. for your union membership 
b. for the outside community. 

the educational network can supply up to date 
information and statistics. 

5. send of teachers to visit the occupied 
territories during periods when our schools are in 
session. 

the network can arrange an , make hotel and 
local travel arrangements , and provide a guide for the 
visit. 

6. sponsor palestinian teachers to visit your city for an 
educational tour 

a. to see schools and speak with educators in order to 
learn about progressive ideas and 
experiences 

b. to speak about the conditions of palestinian 
education. 

the network will coordinate from palestine .  . 

7. establish teacher exchange programs for one year in 
which a palestinian teacher from a private school teaches 
at a public or private school abroad while a teacher from 
that school spends a year in a palestinian private school. 

8. send an experienced educator to the occupied 
territories to give workshops  ( all day workshops or two 
day workshops ) on innovative teaching techniques. 

the network will pay for the person 's food , lodging , and 
travel while in palestine , and will serve as guide. 

9. set up a pen pal program with a palestinian school in 
either english or french .  . 

10. set up a sister school program with a palestinian 
school which would actively involve teachers as well as 
students at both schools a great tool for building 
international understanding and mutual sensitivity .  . 

11. keep the educational network informed about 
important educational conferences so that we can send a 
palestinian teacher to attend .  . 

12. send to the educational network articles or other 
writings or books dealing with innovative approaches and 
ideas in the field of education so that we can then 
disseminate the information locally .  . 

13. support an educational development project in the 
occupied territories .  . 





from v . 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
organization at t 
summary thanks for the references. 
lines 35 

in article ,  ( jim eggert g41 ) writes 
.... 
and in article v . writes 

i 've read most of the history books dealing with this period , 
good and bad , and while it is possible that i missed one or two , 
none of those i 've read documents any of mosques .  . so i 
think that this remarkable claim requires specific documentation .  . 

jake demands , and adam requires specific documentation 
of the of mosques in jerusalem .  . if either of them had been 
reading t . p . m . for a while , they would already have seen such 
documentation .  . for the or newcomers , however , here are the 
references. 

thanks for posting the references. i do not normally read t . p . m .  . , 
and i posted my request for references because jim 's article 
was cross posted to soc . culture . jewish .  . allegations of jewish 
disrespect for the objects and buildings of other religions are 
one of antisemitic stereotypes that western culture , and 
rumors of church and host probably caused more pogroms 
than blood libel .  . the stereotypes that our culture create 
cognitive illusions that those stereotypes .  . therefore any 
claim that appears to a stereotype should be treated by 
decent people with utmost suspicion until and unless documented .  . 
if such a claim is cross posted to a news group in which it has 
not been documented before , such as s . c . j . , a reference should be 
given the first time it appears .  . now that the claim has been 
documented , i regard the whole episode as disgusting and 
shameful .  . especially so because the official who failed to 
provide proper temporary facilities for the evicted 
was probably jewish , and as a jew i know that he should have 
known better. 

adam v 

from  ( jim eggert g41 ) 
subject re news that i missed 
in reply to 's message of 14 may 93 17 16 57 gmt 
lines 7 
reply to 
organization mit lincoln lab group 41 




in article  ( gennady feygin ) writes 
actually judea and samaria are proper geographical names , just like 
asia minor or lake michigan .  . ... 

another name for this region is cis jordan .  . 

jim  ( jim eggert ) 

from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject saudi clergy and their western supporters vs human rights. 
keywords international , non usa government , government , civil rights , social issues , politics 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 92 

 ( dave bakken ) writes 

in article ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes 

so how would have you defended saudi arabia and rolled 
back the iraqi invasion , were you in charge of saudi arabia 

all muslims knew that the whole thing was set up to destroy iraq , not 
to liberate kuwait , the people who were killed by the invasion are 
more  ( many many more) , than the ones that were killed by the iraqis 
in their smaller invasion .  . i lived in the west , and i have seen how 
your media prepared you  ( helpless naive americans) for a war against 
iraq even before the artificial conflict between iraq and kuwait that 
led to the invasion , as the cia correctly predicted  ( and pretended to 
be surprised not to know) .  . 
it just happened that saddam was so and so arrogant and stupid. 

what would i have done most muslims would choose 300 dead kuwaitis over 
200 , 000 dead iraqis and 1000 dead kuwaitis .  . the first case would happen 
if no western intervention happened , and the second case was a direct 
or indirect result of western  . 

human rights in kuwait what about human rights in iraq why the west 
gave saddam a green light to slaughter his own people i will give my 
reason because the rich kuwaitis do not mind to be your , so 
they deserve some democracy , but iraqis might not , so they do n't .  . 

as simple as that , whether or not you want to admit it. 

i think that it is a very good idea to not have governments have an 
official religion  ( de facto or de jure ) , because with human nature 
like it is , the ambitious and not the pious will always be the 
ones who rise to power. there are just too many people in this 
world  ( or any country ) for the citizens to really know if a 
leader is really devout or if he is just a slick operator .  . 

not necessarily the best solution , my view of an islamic state  ( and 
that of that your media made you hate) includes all the benefits 
of a secular state minus the injustices .  . did you ever read a book by 
rashid al  ( tunisia ) , hassan  ( sudan ) you only know 
about them from your self censured , self controlled media. 

if they make this kind of campaign against such a moderate thinker as 
is , and keep quite about such an extremist muslim scholar as bin 
of saudi arabia is , it just does not encourage any moderation in 
our arab world. 

you make it sound like these guys are angels , ilyess .  .  ( in your 
clarinet posting you edited out some stuff was it the following ) 

no it was not that , it was just some irrelevent stuff that i took out 
to go around the copyright ( )) 

i ceased to take the times seriously. in issues concerning islam 
it has become one of the biggest enemies  ( although less than the other 
daily since mortimer took it over) .  . it lies , selects facts that 
fits its agenda and even prints racist and open anti muslim editorials .  . 

what they claimed in that articles is a bunch of lies because while 
the selected facts are true about some of those persons , the other members 
are actually defence lawyers and university science professors who wanted 
to fight corruption , uncover atrocities against opposition activists and 
minority , and generally increase awareness about the rights of all 
citizens .  . the only thing that is common between those people is their concern 
for the deterioration of human rights since the saudi clan took a green 
light from america  ( after the gulf ) to do whatever is necessary to stay 
in power. 


do you know that all of the saudi ulema have been taught the same things 
the ones in the official are as conservative as the ones that are 
opposing it. some of the members of the human rights are more 
pro women and wanted to defend them , and that is precisely one reason that 
bin 's implied for the illegality of this committee 
and for his claim that it represents outside interests 

there is a human rights issue in saudi arabia , and you and ny times chose 
to ignore the main issue and select some of the members of that committee 
and actually defend the actions done against them  ( including banning them 
from their jobs. 

what a hypocricy .  . i am not surprised really , this is not the first time. 

the official ulema are the most extremist anti women meat heads in saudi 
arabia , the west continues on its campaign to discredit itself in the 
muslim community , by supporting them. well after bosnia , i guess it has 
zero credibility to begin with , so what the heck .  . 

lam ma shi it  ( if you feel no shame , then do whatever 
you want ,  . 
 ( actually a better translation of the meaning would be if you do not 
feel ashamed (from god) , you will do whatever you want) 

from s . 
subject europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization at t 
lines 10 


i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 


mohamed 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re labour 's enclaves policy . important . 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 13 

in article center for policy research 
 ( in real life , elias davidson ) quotes 

israel shahak 

a nutcase quoting a crackpot .  . 

next time , post this to rec . humor . , or perhaps alt . conspiracy .  . 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( hamid reza daniali ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
originator 
nntp posting host dali . mcrcim . mcgill . edu . 
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 44 


in article ,  ( jake livni ) writes 
in article  ( hamid reza daniali ) writes 

in article , (edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

israel happy 45th birthday ! 


anybody has any information about the number of the people have been killed 
by israel during these 44 happy year 

hamid 


what 's this another idiot from mcrcim . mcgill . edu . or are these all 
the same dope using different accounts 


i asked some simple questions at different  . i do n't understand why 
some people insulted me for those simple questions ! 
anyway , i did n't reply to them with the same language and i wo n't , because 

1. there is no need 
2. there is no benefit 
3. i do n't have time to reply to those 

by the way , do you want to know who am i i am not a nationalist arab of 1967 .  . 
i am not a arab of 70 's .  . are you sure that you want to hear 
my name i am a muslim fighter .  . i am the same child who 
fight with your armed soldier with stone ! i am the same guy who wants to 
bring justice to palestine , i am the same fighter who wants to kicked israel 
out of south in the same way of the 1982 .  . i am the son of khomeini .  . 
i am honored to be a  .  .  .  . do n't you know me ! ! ! just ask rabin 
he knows me ! 

hamid 



jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 51 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
writes 
in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
writes 

all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many 
others suffered physically .  . 


do you have a problem with the language i said 
everyone suffered emotionally because they with the 
victims of holocaust .  . i was n't implying that anyone suffered 
more than the actual victims .  . 

quite a few people could n't have cared less about what 
happened to the jews of europe .  . if they had cared , they would have 
done something. 

what is wrong with you guys regardless of what one 
says you keep hearing what you want to hear. 

maybe its because many of us , who have been on usenet for 
several years remember tripe like this being posted 



for all those interested , i would like to inform all that netanyahu 
 ( leader of the israeli likud party) will be interviewed on cnn tonight on 
larry king live. 

did n't this guy go crying on the zionist tv confessing 
that he committed , and was cheating on his wife .  .  . 

a typical jew leader , huh 

this was posted fairly recently. there has been much more 
racist stuff in the past. why are we expected to listen to it and 
remain calm i do n't think that listening to racist or anti semetic 
is an incitement to calm debate. 

perhaps you do n't mean to be coming off as highly offensive .  . 
however , the way you have posted seems to be typical of those who have 
an irrational dislike for israel and jews .  . perhaps if you took a 
close look at what you 've posted thought a bit about the 
tone you 've used , you would see why people are reacting the way they 
are. 

adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( yigal arens ) 
subject lying about torture 
organization usc information sciences institute 
lines 54 
distribution world 
nntp posting host grl . isi . edu . 

ot , april 9 , 1993. excerpt .  . 

each one and his own nevo 

( a reference to general el nevo , shamir 's military secretary .  . 
irrelevant to this excerpt . ) . 

by a 

. . . 

in mid '91 found itself in the center of another storm ... . 
a year and a half earlier , sheikh ali , 27 , a member of the 
islamic jihad , died at the installation in gaza prison .  . the 
two interrogators who were responsible for his death were put 
on trial .  . in september '91 the supreme court rejected their appeal and 
sentenced them to 6 months in prison .  . as far as is known , this was 
the first time in israel 's history that operatives were sent to 
prison .  . the supreme court unanimously rejected the warning by the 
director of that the sentence will be detrimental the 
effectiveness of other interrogators .  . ... the judges in the case 
were ... barak , goldberg , and matza .  . 

when they realized that they were on their own , the interrogators 
agreed to talk. deputy state attorney rachel sp was placed 
in charge of investigating the affair .  . she ... questioned the 
directors of all divisions .  . she investigated only the matter 
of the death in gaza prison .  . she discovered that not only torture , 
but also the culture of lies , which judge landau had described in 
his report of two years before , were still very much in existence .  . 
nothing had changed. 

the report was classified and was seen by only some ten people , among 
them the prime minister , the people at the top of the judicial system 
and judge landau .  . the director of claimed that he did not 
know. after all , they were dealing only with a single jail and with 
low ranking people. the system bit the bullet and accepted the 
explanation. one of 's high ranking officials was transfered 
from his very high position to a less high position. 

. . . 

the culture of lies referred to above is the interrogators  
policy of lying in court when denying claims that they were 
tortured in the course of interrogation .  . the landau commission sought 
to correct this problem by legalizing a list of torture methods 
thus eliminating the fear that a detainee might be released if those 
methods were used to extract a confession .  . the fact that the need to 
lie still persists would seem to indicate that is not sticking 
to the approved torture methods. yigal 

yigal arens 
usc isi tv made me do it ! 


from  ( tim clock) 
subject re zionist leaders  frank statements 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 43 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

and , if you are jewish , you are a self hating jew .  . there can 
be no doubt of this. 

there are doubts about it. why do n't you define what self hating jew means 
i found the idea itself of being a self hating jew to be one of those 
i hope you can come up with a definition in itself .  .  .  . 

try coming up with your own definition of any or all self hating peoples .  . 
to me , any who reject their culture to the point where they only see the 
absolute negatives of that culture  ( generally , or regarding a particular 
event ) and accept only those views purely opposing aspects of that culture 
 ( thus , selective belief in and use of historical facts and a complete ignoring 
of context results) hate their culture. that certainly describes elias , 
since he has no intention of recognizing that , alongside the palestinian 
experience and perspective , there exists also that of israelis .  . 

who is a jew a person whose integrity when 
by the knowledge of wrong done to other people. 
a. j. 

that is why i get moved when i see the israeli army killing people in 
the occupied territories as much as i get moved when i see a 
people in israel .  . 

aap 

and , this is precisely why israeli society has been tremendously harmed 
by the actions it  ( its government) has felt it had to take in response 
to an other perceived as a threat .  . just as with you , there has long 
been a strident and emotional debate about the pain israelis feel when 
forced to balance desires for survival and moral beliefs .  . the trauma 
of having to make that choice is made worse by the fact that neither 
can be conveniently brushed aside  ( as a result of a reasoned political 
debate ) for the sake of the other , only reshaped .  . 


tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( behzad sadeghi ) 
subject stop all the cross postings 
originator 
nntp posting host phoenix . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 14 

do not , and i repeat , do not , cross post the following subjects to 
soc . culture . iranian . 

re jews supports serbs 
re arab leaders and bosnia 
re in bosnia 
re the stage is being set 

that 's all we need here more bigotry and hate ! believe me , 
we have already reached our quota for the year. try again 
next year. 




from 
subject re news that i missed 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 276 

nntp posting host po4 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 


some articles on the topic 


rtw 12 23 gulf arabs demand iran withdrawal from islands 

(eds updates with end of summit details , quotes ) 
by 
abu , dec 23 , reuter gulf arab states , emerging from a summit 
that restored 
their unity after almost three months of crisis , piled pressure on iran 
on wednesday to 
reverse its virtual annexation of a strategic gulf island. 
they issued a statement after a three day gulf cooperation council 
summit saying iran 
had to show proof of its good intentions by 
measures that rocked 
gulf stability and security. 
the leaders avoided the anti iranian rhetoric of recent statements 
by egypt , which 
engineered a last minute settlement of a border row between saudi arabia 
and that 
allowed all members to attend the summit .  . 
egypt said its fears about iranian intentions in the region and 
's alleged 
encouragement of moslem fundamentalist unrest were largely behind 
president hosni 
mubarak 's mediation .  . 
the gcc statement stressed that developing relations between the 
gulf arab states and 
iran is linked to confidence and to measures iran might take 
in line with its 
commitment to the principle of good and the respect of 
the and 
territorial integrity of the region 's states. 
it denounced iran 's measures on the island of abu musa , which it 
shares with the 
united arab , and the continued occupation of the greater and 
lesser 
islands .  . 
iran earlier this year extended its control over abu musa beyond a 
small garrison it 
established there in 1971 under an agreement with the uae of  . 
it has since rescinded orders expelling foreigners who worked on the 
island for the 
uae government. but diplomats say it continues to exercise its authority 
over the whole 
island , which the uae as as virtual annexation .  . 
the were occupied by the former shah of iran in 1971 and the 
uae has since the 
abu musa crisis erupted insisted that they have to be returned as part 
of a general 
settlement .  . 
the gcc leaders called on the u.n. to maintain sanctions against 
iraq for not fully 
implementing security council resolutions following its 1990 invasion of 
kuwait .  . 
they endorsed once again the damascus declaration , a pact signed 
with egypt and 
syria after their troops took part in the u.s. led alliance that drove 
iraqi troops out of 
kuwait .  . 
but delegates said the leaders were unable to agree the details of a 
fund they 
announced they would create at their last summit in kuwait last year 
which would have 
helped egypt 's and syria 's economic development programme .  . 
they said the leaders could not agree on a breakdown of 
contributions from each state 
although the total amount had been scaled down to 6 billion from the 
10 billion agreed 
last year. 
the fact that the leaders of all gcc states saudi arabia , 
, kuwait , and 
attended the summit was seen as a major achievement although 
their unity was only 
maintained with outside help. 
most were not too worried for the moment about the slow 
progress of the 
conservative rulers discussions on a future security structure for the 
region that boasts 
the bulk of global oil and gas reserves .  . 
the leaders were unable to choose between two proposals .  . 
one put forward by a summit committee headed by 's sultan 
to create a 
100 , 000 man rapid deployment force that could rush to defend any member 
against external 
aggression , such as iraq 's invasion of kuwait .  . 
another was a saudi supported plan to expand the existing 10 , 000 man 
peninsula 
shield force which had so far played a largely symbolic role and is 
commanded by a saudi 
general. 
little headway was made on plans for a common market 
although the summit 
called for concrete proposals to be submitted to next year 's summit due 
to be held in 
saudi arabia next december .  . 
reuter ya 



rtw 12 23 gulf leaders end summit 

abu , dec 23 , reuter gulf arab states ended a three day 
annual summit on 
wednesday with an appeal to iran to end its occupation of three 
strategic gulf islands as 
a condition for restoring friendly ties across the gulf .  . 
a joint statement issued after the summit , marked by relief over the 
settlement of a 
row between two gulf cooperation council members , also called for 
continued u.n. sanctions 
against iraq .  . 
it said baghdad had failed to implement key security council 
decisions following the 
expulsion of its troops from kuwait early last year. 
the summit broke no new ground on steps to achieve a gulf common 
market , but called on 
officials to present a plan for common external tarrifs for all six 
members to the next 
summit which will be held in saudi arabia in december 1993. 
the statement stressed that developing relations between the gulf 
arab states and iran 
is linked to confidence and to measures iran might take in 
line with its 
commitment to the principle of good and the respect of 
the and 
territorial integrity of the region 's states. 
it denounced iran 's measures on the island of abu musa , which it 
shares with the 
united arab , and the continued occupation of the smaller 
islands , the greater and 
lesser  . 
it expressed deep regret and extreme concern for the unjustified 
iranian measures 
which contradict a proclaimed wish to develop relations and called on 
iran to rescind 
those measures and end the occupation which it said was shaking peace 
and stability in 
the area. 
iran earlier this year extended its control over abu musa beyond a 
small garrison it 
established there in 1971 under an agreement with the uae of  . 
it has since rescinded orders expelling foreigners who worked on the 
island for the 
uae government but diplomats in the region say that its security forces 
continue to 
exercise their authority over the whole island. 
the uae has seen this as virtual annexation .  . 
the were occupied by the former shah of iran in 1971 and the 
uae has since the 
abu musa crisis erupted insisted that they have to be returned as part 
of a general 
settlement .  . 
reuter ya 


rtw 12 26 1441 iran hints it ready to go to war over islands 

(eds updates with statement ) 
nicosia , dec 26 , reuter iran told its gulf arab neighbours on 
saturday it was ready 
to defend militarily three disputed islands , reminding them of its 
eight year war with 
iraq .  . 
our eight year defence  ( in the 1980 88 iran iraq war) has proved to 
the world that 
our brave nation will never hesitate to defend the sovereignty and 
safeguard the 
territorial integrity of iran , iran 's supreme national security council 
 ( snsc ) said. 
a meeting of the heads of the six nation gulf cooperation council 
voiced full support 
on wednesday for the united arab  ( uae ) in its dispute with iran 
over the gulf 
islands of abu musa , greater and lesser  . 
the move has triggered strong iranian criticism and warnings .  . 
besides the uae , the gcc 
also groups , kuwait , , and saudi arabia .  . 
iranian president akbar , who chaired the 's 
meeting on 
saturday , said during his friday prayer sermon at university 
iran is surely 
stronger than the likes of you. to reach these islands one has to cross 
a sea of blood. 
the , quoted by the official iranian news agency received 
in cyprus , also 
criticised the gcc and described its support of the uae as irresponsible .  . 
no country will ever be able to covet even an inch of iranian soil , 
said the  . 
earlier on saturday , the english language times , believed to 
be close to the 
foreign ministry , said the uae should be aware that iran 's 
self restraint had certain 
limits .  . 
it dismissed a uae claim to the islands as unfounded and said a 1971 
agreement to 
share abu musa with the uae of still applied .  . 
the idea of abu officials that would always refrain 
from responding to 
the blows inflicted by them was childish , times said. 
said the newspaper was commenting on the gcc statement which 
urged iran to 
reverse what it says is the annexation of abu musa island and to pull 
out of the two other 
islands .  . 
iran says the islands near the entrance to the gulf have 
historically belonged to it. 
the dispute flared this year after iran tightened its control over abu musa .  . 
reuter af 

rtw 12 28 1011 paper wants iran revive claim to 

, dec 28 , reuter radical iranian newspapers , angered by gulf 
arab claims to 
three disputed islands , are hitting back with demands that revive 
its claim to 
and consider improving ties with iraq .  . 
president akbar and senior officials strongly 
condemned a statement 
last week by leaders of the gulf cooperation council  ( gcc ) backing the 
united arab 
 ( uae ) in its dispute with iran over the gulf islands .  . 
but the newspapers salam and demanded that go 
further than 
restating its resolve to defend its sovereignty over the islands of abu 
musa , greater 
and lesser  . 
it is not very clear why the sheikh of has joined the 
others , 
said. the gcc groups , kuwait , , , saudi arabia and the uae .  . 
if historical records are to be the criterion , the sheikh of 
should go about 
his own business and the rule of iranian people in , which 
belonged to iran until 
1970 , should be re established , the paper said. 
it is fitting for the foreign ministry to raise the question of 
iran 's sovereignty 
over  .  . and . start a serious and effective drive to end the 
separation of 
from iran , it added. 
the late shah of iran relinquished iran 's claim to in 1970 , 
a year before the 
island became an independent state. 
iranian leaders since the 1979 islamic revolution have carefully 
avoided raising the 
issue although it is occasionally brought up in the press during 
periods of 
tension with conservative arab states across the gulf .  . 
salam newspaper said the gcc stand showed that the policy of 
pro western 
gulf arab rulers had  . 
no matter how much you smile at on the southern coast of 
the persian gulf , it 
is the united states and the west which speak the last word , it said. 
they (the sheikhs ) are nobody , salam said , adding that iran should 
revise its policy 
towards its neighbours , especially its former war enemy iraq .  . 
disregarding the logical potential of expanding ties with 
iraq .  .  . and . going along with 
some saudi backed trends among the iraqi opposition have played a role 
in the formation of 
the current situation , the paper said. 
ties between iran and iraq , which fought a war from 1980 to 1988 , 
improved briefly 
after iraq invaded kuwait in 1990. 
but , which denounced the invasion and remained neutral in the 
ensuing war , 
again called for president saddam hussein 's overthrow when he suppressed 
a shi'ite moslem 
revolt which swept southern iraq after his 1991 defeat in kuwait .  . 
reuter mz 




from (peter freeman ) 
subject re the fraud of elias davidsson 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to (peter freeman ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 18 

in article writes 
mark ira kaufman writes 
it is your responsibility for posting quotes in context. your 
phony  research center  is the source of the most , 
out of context , agenda ridden , and propaganda that i 
have ever seen. 

take a look in the mirror , mark. 
whatever. 
anyway , elias should take a look at my quotes to find real , effective 
ways of getting your point across .  . notice that all the quotes are 
recent .  . buy a clue , nazi man from up north .  . 

pete 





from  ( mohammed f. hadi ) 
subject re egypt call for fighting fundamentalists , objects to pro bosnian steps 
keywords international , united nations , government , non usa government , fighting 
nntp posting host rintintin . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 35 

in article ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes 
islamabad  ( upi ) representatives from 51 islamic nations were 
considering tuesday a request from bosnia herzegovina for 260 million 
and weapons to fight the bosnian serbs .  . 
.... 
the only commitment so far is 20 million from saudi arabia , which 

thanks saudia for the pocket change. 
compare that to the liberation of and to what they gave to some 
weird causes .  .  . o.k at least they are paying .  . 

damned if you do and damned if you do n't ! 


has already donated 100 million to bosnia herzegovina .  . 
sources on the political committee said delegates were in agreement 
on the need to help the bosnian muslims , but the request for weapons had 
delayed a decision. 
may interpreted as violating the united nations  embargo on 
supplying arms to bosnia , '' warned egyptian foreign minister amer 
moussa .  . 

mr. moussa was not worried about international law when he tortured 
to death many of his citizens and when he shot people praying in a mosque , 
or when he is causing trouble to his neighbor just becasue the cia says so. 
why does n't he just shut up , he wo n't be involved in any bosnian effort 
anyway , or does the west have to be represented even in an islamic conference 

just for the record , egyptian troops were one of the first to be 
stationed there. i ca n't remember the exact date but it was late last 
year. in fact , they lost at least one man there as far as i know. 





from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re mosque in jewish quarter  ( was re israeli destruction of .  .  . ) . 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 25 

in article (david f. skoll ) writes 

when i was in jerusalem a couple of years ago , our guide told 
us the story of that mosque not sure if it was true. 

apparently , it was built by a jewish convert to islam .  . he had 
had a dispute with his neighbours , and built the mosque to 
annoy them. it 's a cute story , but not sure if it 's true .  .  .  . 

if he gives you the same story explaining the presence of several 
synagogues in the moslem quarter , then the story becomes suspect .  .  .  . 

in reality , the old city was not as in the past as it 
became after 1948 .  . in pre israel jerusalem , there were many jews in 
what is now called the moslem quarter .  . there are postal and telephone 
directories from that time to prove it. it 's really rather 
interesting to hear arabs there claim that a house or store has been 
in the family for centuries even when there are clear photos and 
documents that show a jewish owned business at the same location just 
a few decades ago. 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from (steven berson ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
nntp posting host surya . cs . ucla . edu . 
organization ucla , computer science department 
lines 15 

 ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

... mr. mamaysky 's proposal to forbid any action which serves to promote a 
morally incorrect action omitted for brevity ... 

i prefer the freedom granted in the first amendment of the us 
constitution to an arbitrary definition of universal morality .  . 
steve 
p.s. i can elaborate in e mail if this is n't clear 
p.p.s. i'm very sorry about misspelling your name 


steven berson ucla computer science department (310) 825 3189 
los angeles , ca 90024 1596 


from (david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti armenian human rights violations in azerbaijan 024 
summary when we finish with the armenians , we 'll go after the russians ! 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 316 



there 's no room for christians here ! and when we 
finish with the armenians , we 'll go after the russians ! 



deposition of karine 1 

born 1963 
teacher 
boarding school no. 1 

resident at building 2b , apartment 21 
block 41a 
sumgait azerbaijan 

this is my fate i had everything , we were a happy family , and now , at 25 , 
i 've become a widow , i'm left to raise my three children alone the third , not 
yet two months old , was born in yerevan .  . igor and i had thought that if it was 
a girl we would call her raisa , after my mother in law , and if it was a boy , 
we 'd call him , after igor 's grandfather .  . i had a girl , and i , without 
igor , named her raisa , in honor of her dead grandmother .  . 

our family and the had been neighbors since 1965 .  . igor and i grew 
up together , we were friends from childhood on. we got engaged when i was 16. 
in 1981 , when i was 18 , we were married. two children were born to us in 
sumgait .  . my daughter is now 6 years old , her name is , and my son , 
, is four and a half. 

first i shall tell what happened on february 27. that day on my way home from 
work i passed lenin square , where about 1 , 500 people had gathered .  . there were 
members there , and pioneers children 's organization , and there were 
both party members and non party people there as well. all of them were 
shouting , there 's no room for christians here ! and when we finish with the 
armenians , we 'll go after the russians ! and some even cried out , death to 
the armenians ! absurd rumors had been circulating about town. i became 
frightened .  . i came home , , and told about everything i had seen 
downtown .  . my family could n't believe it. my father in law 
, was n't home , he was at an azerbaijani wedding. by eight o'clock he 
returned and had barely finished parking the car when his rear window was 
smashed with a rock. he got out of the car but there was no one there. well i 
was telling him everything , too , and he said , what , is there no longer any 
government that same day igor said , papa , something terrible is happening 
in the city. and he said , we 'll stay at home , no one will drive us from our 
own home. 

the day passed. on february 28 , that was sunday , we did n't go out. we called 
our relatives and asked them all kinds of questions , and they all said the 
same thing. sometime around evening they started smashing the car of an 
armenian from the neighboring building. ira , my brother in law 's wife , and i 
called the police they 're wrecking a car , help. we called and called , and 
nonetheless they did n't come and they did n't do anything. 

on february 29 , on monday , even though there were troops in the city , we were 
afraid to go to work. i called the school i had the keys to the classroom .  . i 
told the senior teacher that he should send someone for the keys , i would n't 
be coming in. he agreed , and even said , fine , do n't come in , we understand 
what 's going on in town , do n't come in. 

before that , on the 28th , the family came over. they came to my 
father in law and said , uncle sergey , they broke our windows , bad things are 
happening in town. uncle misha even said , with my own eyes i 
saw them chasing naked girls through the streets. i do n't know , he said , we 
should leave town. well on the 29th we were already trying to decide where we 
should go , thinking we 'd go to our dacha .  . we got a couple of bags together , 
clothes , food , the bare essentials .  . and then somewhere around 4 45 the 
building manager came by and said , uncle sergey , the situation in town is 
bad , do n't go out. my father even opened up to him and said , maybe we 'll 
drive to the dacha , it 'll be safer there. no , he said , it 'll be worse 
there , you 'll be safer at home. he said do n't be afraid , if something happens 
i 'll send people to save you. 

after he left about 15 minutes passed and about 200 people burst into our 
courtyard .  . all of us were at home at the time igor and i and our two 
children , ira and and their daughter , my sister in law ira , and my 
mother and father in law. and the family , there were three of 
them , uncle misha , , and their daughter marina .  . now when they started 
breaking down the door i remember and igor told us , go in that room 
and close the door. close the door and calm the children so they wo n't hear 
that there 's anyone home. the children started crying. suddenly ira , my 
brother in law 's wife , suggested , let 's run out onto the balcony .  . we the 
two daughters in law and the children , and and marina raced out 
onto the balcony .  . my sister in law and my mother in law ran in and said , 
quick , over to the other balcony , or they 'll kill you all. we lived on the 
second floor. we needed to cross over from our balcony to our neighbor 's .  . at 
first we could n't manage it. the balcony looked onto the street. at that time 
people were coming home from work , and many just stood there , watching. i 
pleaded and begged please , call someone , have someone come ! i even started 
shouting .  . i 'll throw down the children , i 'll throw them down , you catch them 
and take them somewhere , so at least the children will survive. either they 
were afraid or . . . i do n't know what. they looked as though they were 
watching a movie. some of them started throwing stones at us. i 'll say it 
again , these were n't the bandits , these were people from the other part of the 
building and from our entryway , they were just regular people ,  . a 
bus even stopped .  . i remember a man 's voice saying the armenians were climbing 
over to the other balcony .  . ira , my sister in law , helped us get the children 
over there. i was pregnant , about seven months pregnant. no , it was n't yet 
seven , it was six and a half. i climbed over too. i think went first 
you know , i just do n't remember it all that well. went first , i think , 
and 's wife ira and i had the children , and they were all screaming and 
crying. my said , mamma , do n't throw us over the balcony , we 're 
afraid ! was crying , and and were crying too. 
did n't even want to climb over. she shouted , i'm staying with grandmother , 
i'm staying with grandma ! she loved her grandma , more than she loved me. and 
my mother in law shouted , oh no , 's still there , she 's still there , 
save , too ! ira helped us climb over , with coming last. ira 
helped us and went back inside. 

we started pounding on the neighbor 's balcony door. i pounded with my fist , 
, open the door , open it , please ! she did n't open it. no , go away , go 
anywhere , go , i'm not opening the door. she was our neighbor , we were 
friends , we never refused her anything , ever ! and apparently she thought we 
were going to break the windows , and she opened the door. she opened it and 
said , karina , karina , go away , go anywhere , just do n't stay here , they 'll 
kill us , too , because of you. i begged , please , at least take the children , 
we 'll leave , we 'll go back. no , she said , you have to leave. her sons ran 
in , one had a knife .  . 's brother , he 's around 18 , shouted at us get out 
of here , leave , i 'll kill you with this knife ! i became terrified , i took the 
children and went out in the entryway and went down a few stairs .  . i went down 
and heard a loudspeaker .  . it was in the courtyard the armenians must be 
killed , they 've taken all the best places , all the best apartments ! one of 
them said , let the armenian blood flow , none of them should survive ! when i 
heard that i went upstairs and started knocking on doors. no one opened their 
door for me ! not on the third floor , or the fourth .  . i could n't see any 
longer. ira came upstairs later. i even thought that they had let her stay , 
that they would save her. 

my head was spinning .  . they were killing my family , and here i was in the next 
entryway with two children. was four , and was five and a 
half. they were crying , mamma , we 're scared ! they were so frightened that i 
did n't even know how to calm them , should i try to calm them or myself it was 
awful. but on the third floor a man did open his door. i asked , open up , let 
me inside ! he opened the door slightly and said , no ! no and that was it ! 
he said it so no ! i went up to the fifth floor. i pounded my fists 
on the door with all my might .  . he opened up , the man of the house , and stood 
there , looking at me. i was ready to get down on my knees .  . i almost did get 
down on my knees .  . please , i beg of you , at least take the children. he 
was n't an azerbaijani , he was a lezgin .  . i do n't even know how , but he let me 
inside. and when i went in , was already there. two minutes had n't 
passed when ira and came up the stairs .  . was crying. he did n't want 
to open the door. and again i started pleading , please , open the door , it 's 
our ira and ! open the door ! and he said , no , i'm afraid. i said again 
and again , please , open the door , please ! he looked at me. he looked at me 
for a long time and then opened the door after all. ira came in with  . we 
threw ourselves into each other 's arms , crying. then the man locked us into 
the bathroom. we sat there for a long time. through the door he told us , calm 
the children , and calm yourselves down , too. 

calm down this man was hiding us , but what of our family when i was still in 
our apartment i had sensed that none of us would come out of this alive. i 
said , igor , , let 's say farewell .  . and turned around and looked at 
me as if to say , is that some kind of joke all the same i thought they would 
kill all of us. igor looked at me , too . . . but it was already too late ! they 
started pounding on the door , igor was standing next to the door. before that 
he had told us , go lock yourselves in that room and sit tight. he thought we 
were in the room. but before we went out onto the balcony we went to them 
, igor , let 's say farewell .  . igor did n't think we could climb over to the 
other balcony .  . and we did get over there , and i myself ca n't believe we were 
able to save ourselves. 

igor put on a helmet , and had his coat on , and he put on a fur hat. all 
the men igor , , their father , and misha they all stood next 
to the door. they thought they would pound on it a while and leave. but from 
the other side of the door they ordered in azerbaijani open the door ! we 
were all silent , waiting. someone outside the door said , they 're home , 
they 're in there , break down the door ! and i remember my father in law 
whispering , they 're going to break it down now , it 's coming down now . . . 

he had something in his hands , i think it was a knife if they got in , we were 
going to defend ourselves. in the hall near the door there were two metal 
chair legs. from outside the door they said , we 're counting to five , open 
up ! but we were all quiet , we did n't answer them. we made like no one was 
home. we figured they 'd leave , they 'd get tired and leave. my father in law 
had said , it 's not possible they 'd come into my home. how can that be 
everyone knows us , all of sumgait knows our family , we are on good terms with 
everyone. and indeed a day did not pass that there was n't an azerbaijani 
guest at our table. we had a nice dacha , everyone would get together there 
often , azerbaijanis liked being with us there too. but now we had to save 
ourselves , we had to flee from our own home. ira , i remember , said , i'm not 
leaving here , my brothers and my parents are here , i'm going to fight 
alongside them. that 's just what she said. she picked up a knife and said , 
if they open the door and come into the apartment then i'm going to fight 
alongside my family , i'm not going anywhere. 

we were at 's when they broke into our apartment. we heard fighting and 
shouting .  . the noise was terrible. and when we hid upstairs on the fifth floor 
at the lezgin 's apartment , you could hear everything up there , too. even ira 's 
voice. i remember her calling her mother several times. she called her for a 
long time . . . i started pounding on the door in the bathroom open the 
door , what are they doing to ira , who 's shouting , that 's ira shouting , that 's 
her voice ! but the lezgin said , it 's nothing , calm down , no , it 's not in 
your apartment. he was lying to me so i 'd calm down. two hours went by and 
the lezgin opened the door and said , karina , igor got away , calm down. he ran 
away. he saw igor break away and run off with his own eyes. they killed him 
outside , next to the building. 

while we were in the bathroom i experienced every possible human terror .  . the 
way ira shouted ! she shouted , save me , mamma , save me ! . . . mamma , mamma ! 
she repeated it several times. there was a wild din .  . there were very many 
people there , all of them shouting , all of them , howling , 
whistling you just ca n't imagine what was going on , what the roar was like. 

apparently , after they had killed ira those murderers came into the entryway 
where we were hiding and came upstairs , all the way up to the fifth floor. i 
do n't know if they were just looking for any armenians or for us in 
particular , but i think they were looking for us because when we had climbed 
over the balconies someone on the street was saying that the daughters in law 
were climbing over the balconies .  . and after we heard ira we heard them coming 
up the stairs in the entryway and on the doors. i thought those were 
our last moments , and started saying good bye to my children , kissing them. 
they were sleeping. i woke them up ! , wake up ! and i tell 
ira ira , if something happens , we 'll throw ourselves off the balcony .  . we 
were on the fifth floor. apparently our lezgin neighbor had opened the door 
too , because later he said , i opened the door and told them there were no 
armenians inside. and after they all left our neighbor went out on the 
balcony himself to see they were gone. 

we were n't friends with those lezgin neighbors , we only knew each other from 
the building. but the people we were friends with would n't even consider 
hiding us. 

the lezgin let us out of the bathroom. they had a candle burning .  . he said , 
karina , there 're no lights on in our block. the whole block was dark , the 
whole block ! it 's a huge block , too. the lezgin said , i'm afraid to keep 
you until morning , i'm afraid of the neighbors , they might kill me for saving 
you. i said , what are you saying , we 'll leave now. but we ca n't just leave 
with the children in the middle of the night. give us time to find somewhere 
else to hide .  . he said , well ok , go look. i asked ira , ira , do you want to 
go ira said , no , i 'll stay with the children , karina .  . i said , fine , then 
i 'll go. and i went downstairs together. it was very dark. no one 
was in the courtyard .  . it was dark , pitch black. l was afraid to go out at 
after seven , igor always met me after work and accompanied me home , i never 
went out alone. and now here i was out in the middle of the night and after a 
slaughter like that , too. it was probably after eleven .  . later i called the 
boarding school and my director answered. he said , karina , where are you i 
did n't know , i was calling from a public phone outside and did n't know where i 
was. i got confused and hung up the receiver .  . from him i only found out what 
time it was , i asked him , what time is it he said 11 20 , i think , but i 
do n't really remember. so anyway and i went out into the courtyard .  . i 
look and see what appears to be a person not far from our apartment. and there 
was the smell of something burnt .  . i became horrified .  . i looked at the corpse 
for a long time. it was either ira or  . i only saw one of them , 
grabbed my hand and squeezed it hurry up , let 's go . . . hurry up , come on , 
what are you turning around for i turned around and saw a large truck , it 
must have belonged to the bandits , because they came to kill us in a truck 
like that. we lived in the third entryway , and that truck was next to the 
fourth .  . we walked quickly , holding hands. i thought , if i go to the police 
then they 'll put me away. i could n't count on them. before i reached the 
police station i saw a military vehicle. we went over and i said , soldier , in 
block 41 , i do n't know if they 've killed people or injured them we need to 
save them ! and he said , go to the police station and tell them everything. 
i said , i'm afraid to go there , i'm afraid of them. he said , do n't be 
afraid. 

we went to the police and they wrote down the address , and the military 
vehicle went to our building. i did n't go with them , they left me at the 
police station. i gave the addresses of my mother and my brothers so that 
they 'd rescue them , too. i did n't know where they were or what had happened to 
them. 

after a while they brought my children and ira and  . first they took us 
to the kgb , that was at two or three in the morning. then around five they 
took us to the city party committee , and there were very many people there , 
very many. i was pregnant and was wearing nothing but a dress. was 
only wearing a shirt , and had a little dress on. no coat , no boots , 
nothing ! and we sat there for three whole days in the city party committee .  . 

the lezgin had told me that igor escaped .  . and i thought that he was probably 
alive. but then after two and a half days , they took us , the armenians of 
sumgait , to  . on march 6 some people from the central committee came 
and told us , karina , ira , we need you , come with us to the city party 
committee .  . my mamma had come to , and she had been looking for me for 
six days. , my brothers , and my uncle .  . we went to the city party committee 
and waited there in the courtyard .  . i was wearing nothing but a dress , and ira 
had only a dress on as well. there was a strong wind on march 6. an hour went 
by. and then one of the told us , karina , ira , gather your 
courage .  . would you like to go to the burial i said , what , did they really 
kill all of them ! he said , let 's look. he had a long list , and he started 
reading them off igor , my husband , eduard , my brother in 
law , , my sister in law , , my father in law , 
and raisa , my mother in law. he read off all their names and said , 
get in the car , let 's go to the burial .  . 

we buried our family. i could n't believe it at the time , i could n't conceive 
of it or imagine it . . . and even now i think how shall i explain it to my 
children when they 're older 

my children were very attached to their father and their grandfather and 
grandmother .  . did n't love me the way she loved her grandfather and 
grandmother , they spoiled her. would always announce , my grandma is 
better than anyone ! now , even though she is getting used to my mother , it 's 
difficult for her , and once she told her you 're a bad grandmother .  . 

i do n't know why , i asked her , , where 's papa and she said , they 
killed him. she knows , she understands it all. and recently i 
severely for something , and he started shouting at me , when papa 
comes i'm going to tell him everything ! 

july 26 , 1988 
boarding house 
near the village of 
district 
armenian ssr 
reference 

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan , 
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel , forward by 
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. , ny , page 318 324 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( jim eggert g41 ) 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
in reply to 's message of tue , 11 may 1993 17 32 27 gmt 
lines 14 
reply to 
organization mit lincoln lab group 41 



in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
you appear to be referring to moshe  . how do you know that the 
evicted were not provided with something else in fact , 
this thread indicates that they were on land that they did 
not own but received compensation for their loss , anyways ! woe to 
jews when they feel that recovering land that has been taken from them 
by force  ( with ethnic cleansing of any remaining jews) is 
disgusting and shameful . 

does anyone have a reference to the claim that the arabs in the 
district were i have n't seen this in the books 
i have read. i have n't seen the opposite , either .  .  .  . 

jim  ( jim eggert ) 

from (richard d thorne ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 18 


andi beyer writes 

what is a shame is that in austria , daily reports of 
the inhuman acts commited by israeli soldiers and the blessing 
received from the government makes some of the holocaust guilt 
go away. after all , look how the jews are treating other races 
when they got power. it is unfortunate .  . 


this can be turned around. the who should feel guilty about 
their actions during wwii , but do n't , justify their anti by making 
every israeli action into an atrocity .  . the , germans and other 
europeans have extensive trading relations with the arab block being 
pro arab is good for business. i do n't think that ethics has a thing to 
do about it. 

richard thorne 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re baltic states and realism and   drivel 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 131 

in article  ( mikhail s. verbitsky ) writes 

what is the mental disease when the patient repeats 
the same sentence over and over as a response to 
any kind of outside intrusion mutlu has similar 
symptomatic , anyway. the only difference is that 
he has a bigger database. 

with your level of understanding , my dear friend mutlu probably 
thought that he 'd be nice and help you genocide apologist to get 
the point. besides , all your article reflects is your abundant 
ignorance .  . ignorance is probably the main reason why you historical 
revisionist are in such a mess. you even make nazi criminal armenians 
laugh. 


in soviet armenia today there no longer exists a single turkish soul. 
it is in our power to tear away the veil of illusion that some of us 
create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial 
life support system of an imagined  ethnic purity  that some of us 
falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats 
in this alien land. 
 ( sahak 1920 preserving the armenian purity ) 


an appropriate analogy with the jewish holocaust might be the 
systematic extermination of the entire muslim population of 
the independent republic of armenia which consisted of at 
least 30 40 percent of the population of that republic .  . the 
memoirs of an armenian army officer who participated in and 
eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in 
1926 with the title  men are like that . ' . other references abound .  . 
 ( rachel a. the jewish times june 21 , 1990) 


1. men are like that by leonard a. hartill , bobbs co. , indianapolis , 
1926 

memoirs of an armenian army officer translated to english and 
published by a member of american near east relief organization. 
gives the whole account of the genocide of all turkish and moslem 
people in armenia organized and executed by armenian government and 
army .  . also gives account of countless other massacres and atrocities 
against the turkish people in armenia .  . 

2. adventures in the near east by a. rawlinson , 
dodd , meade co. , 1925 

eyewitness account of the same genocide by a british army officer .  . 

3. world alive , a personal story by robert dunn , 
crown publishers , inc. , new york , 1952 

another eyewitness account of the same genocide by an american 
officer .  . 

4. from to serves and by aharonian , 
the armenian review magazine , volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) through 17 
 ( spring 1964) 

memoirs of the chief armenian delegate to the paris peace conference 
were published in the armenian review magazine in 13 articles from 
volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) to volume 17  ( spring 1964) .  . these memoirs 
include an interview between aharonian and british foreign minister 
lord curzon in which above mentioned genocide was discussed .  . the 
official report mentioned by lord curzon is the report of british 
high commissioner to , sir oliver  . 


 kill turks and kurds wherever you find them and in 
whatever circumstances you find them. turkish children 
also should be killed as they form a danger to the 
armenian nation . ' .  ( hamparsum boyadjian 1914) 1 

1 m. , history of the , p. 85 .  . 


source , richard g. armenia on the road to independence , 1918 .  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , 1967 , p. 13. 

the addition of the kars and batum oblasts to the empire increased the 
area of to over 130 , 000 square miles. the estimated population 
of the entire region in 1886 was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom 940 , 000 (20 percent) were 
armenian , 1 , 200 , 000  ( 25 percent) georgian , and 2 , 220 , 000 (45 percent) moslem .  . 
of the latter group , 1 , 140 , 000 were tatars .  . paradoxically , barely one third 
of 's armenians lived in the erevan , where the 
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds .  . erevan 
, the administrative center of the province , had only 44 , 000 armenians 
as compared to 68 , 000 moslems .  . by the time of the russian census of 1897 , 
however , the armenians had established a scant majority , 53 percent , in the 
it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent , or 670 , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000 
inhabitants .  . this impressive change in the province 's ethnic character 
notwithstanding , there was , on the eve of the creation of the armenian 
republic , a solid block of 370 , 000 tartars who continued to dominate the 
southern districts , from the outskirts of to the border of persia .  . 
 ( see also map 1. historic armenia and map 4. administrative subdivisions of 
transcaucasia) .  . 

in 1920 ,  0  percent turk .  . 

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

ohanus 
men are like that 
p. 202 .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject re freeman 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 10 
reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to angmar . alfalfa . com . 's message of 23 apr 1993 03 25 18 0500 

frank benson 
watch your language asshole ! ! ! ! 

another spelling flame 

are n't you the guy who threatens people on talk.politics.guns 2nd 
amendment yea , 1st amendment nay .  . 

how 'd you arrive on tpm in a fruit basket 


from  ( tim clock) 
subject re egypt call for fighting fundamentalists , objects to pro bosnian steps 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
keywords international , united nations , government , non usa government , fighting 
lines 14 

in article  ( mohammed f. hadi ) writes 
in article ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes 
islamabad  ( upi ) representatives from 51 islamic nations were 
considering tuesday a request from bosnia herzegovina for 260 million 
and weapons to fight the bosnian serbs .  . 

all right ! let 's hope they get off their rear ends and do something 
because the un clearly is content to sit on its .  . 


tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from (joseph askew ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state not quite .  . 
distribution world 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 182 

in article bird . think . com .  ( shai guday ) writes 
in article , (joseph askew ) writes 

please cite specific examples where an arab party member was rejected 
while a jewish party member was accepted. 

if you look at the bottom of this article you will see that i have very 
kindly dug up one of yigal arens previous postings  ( entirely without his 
permission , i hope he does n't mind) containing translations from ha 
detailing just such a case. perhaps you think that ha lies would 
you like to provide me with an assurance that this practise never occurs 

if you examine these i am 
sure you will discover that the arab party member did not have the power 
base that his jewish counterpart had. 

right , arabs have been voting in israel for how long and in all that time 
not one arab ever gained enough of a personal following to get his fellow 
party members to put in a ministry this is about as likely as 
wings and flying to rio .  . what basis do you have for explaining this odd 
failure you seem very confident that you are right , exactly how do you 
know , why are you sure 

once again , if for arguments sake , all the arab israelis were to vote 
for labor at the next election , you can rest assured that the number of 
arab mks and cabinet members would increase proportionately to the 
power shift .  . 

exactly what basis do you have for saying this when the labour party 
has never put an arab into a cabinet post and insists its coalition 
members do the same why and on what basis are you reassuring me in 
the face of 50 years of discriminatory practise 

you are overlooking the fact that they wield political power 
as individuals based upon a wider collective power base. 

hey what as i said even when their party puts them up they get knocked 
back. it surely could n't be because they are arabs is it 

the reasoning i see at work is purely political .  . as far as security 
goes i think that some serious gaffs were made by right wing jews 
as well e.g. sharon .  . 

well yes , but security is the reason most often given by people who 
want to make excuses .  . i merely thought it would crop up and so 
pre empted it. 

start of article  ( all in .... are mine not dr. arens ) 

comments in square brackets are mine yigal 

from the other front , july 29 , 1992. translation of ha'aretz article. 

racism in the knesset 


coalition requirements on one hand , and the presence of progressive mks 
from in the coalition on the other , have compelled rabin and 
his friends to change , to some extent , their attitude towards the arab 
public and their representatives in the knesset .  . although he did refuse 
to view them as partners , taking part in the coalition and joining the 
government , he did agree to meet with them and to give them a document 
of intentions which included a commitment to work towards a decrease in 
the discrimination between jewish and arab citizens . decrease what ! ! 
but posters have told us time and again that such discrimination does 
not exist at all ! is rabin , too , a closet self hater yigal . 

however , racism has not disappeared .  . when the knesset sat to consider 
who would staff its various committees , a request was made to put an mk 
from the communist party , one of the arab parties yigal on 
the state comptroller 's committee .  . and oh , did that ever stir up a 
storm including in the ranks of labor since many knesset members 
find it unthinkable that an arab mk sit on one of the important house 
committees .  . security secrets are liable to fall into their hands .  .  .  . 

this attitude which until recently had not even aroused criticism , 
being so natural and so deeply upon people 's hearts holds 
that there are knesset members who , despite having been elected by tens 
of thousands of votes , are not entitled to be full partners in the body 
which represents the people of israel .  . we are not speaking here of 
political discrimination which would be bad enough in itself but 
of racial discrimination .  . the proof one of the compromises proposed 
was that mk an arab yigal should be replaced by 
a jew yigal from the same party. it was not the member 's 
party which was considered unfit , but his race .  .  .  . 

here is a documented case in a respected israeli newspaper .  . 

it is worth noting that for the first time since the state 's founding , a 
public debate has arisen on this subject , as witness the following 
article 


a test of self confidence 

by on levi , ha'aretz , july 26 , 1992 

revelations of discrimination against arabs have become such an integral 
part of our daily routine that there is not much effort made to deal 
with them. do you hear that , please contact this levi fellow 
and explain to him how little he knows about israel .  . please ! yigal . 
except that sometimes the demon bursts out from behind the government 's 
window dressing , and then the phenomenon is seven times more serious. 

last week provided two more such examples the israeli knesset is 
finding it very difficult to allow arab representation on its more 
important committees and israel television is finding it no less 
difficult to give a platform to arabs from the territories .  . seemingly 
two entirely different matters , but in fact they are one and the same. 

the 13th knesset proved last week that , even though one third of its 
members are new faces , it has not renewed its own face at all , at least 
on one issue. parliamentary traditions may be and 
parliamentary traditions may become obsolete , and only one tradition 
endures forever no arab shall set foot in the more important committees 
of the house. there has never been and never will be an arab mk on the 
external affairs and defense committee or on the finance committee .  . 
worlds have been overturned over the question of whether or not to 
give arabs , for the first time , a place on the state comptroller 's 
committee .  . 

the arguments are old and well known in all three of the above 
committees innumerable secrets are revealed and woe unto us if an 
arab should hear them. one must not make light of such arguments , but 
their significance should also not be exaggerated .  . every arab mk is not 
spending all his time waiting for the moment to hand over 
information from the knesset committee room to black panther 
headquarters in and not all the aforementioned committees are 
continually occupied in the discussion of top secret matters , which 
could safely be revealed , for example , to mks supportive of the jewish 
underground , but not to an arab mk from the likud , labor , or even from 
 . 

the arabs themselves would probably membership in the subcommittee 
on secret service matters , but what would happen , one may ask , if mk 
were to hear , god forbid , a review of the foreign minister 
in an open meeting of the foreign affairs and defense committee , or even 
a review of the army chief of staff which , in any case , are regularly 
leaked to the next edition of the news. and what would happen if mk 
were to report on what he had seen with his own eyes at 
al 

their non participation in important committees and that of their 
colleagues , creates an intolerable situation , where arab members of the 
elected house have only semi positions .  . they are good enough for 
addressing plenary sessions , and for voting for or against the 
government and participating in the deliberations of the immigration and 
absorption committee .  . but they must not , for example , participate in 
the process of formulating the state budget in the finance committee or 
in the allocation of resources to local authorities .  . in any case , they 
have little part in that. 

labor 's dependence on the support of the arab parties has brought about 
some improvement mk , will , it seems , participate in the 
state comptroller 's committee .  . earlier , there had been a ridiculous 
attempt made to dictate to who their representative should be , 
and thus to prevent the arab from entering this dubious holy of , 
but it soon became clear that there was no legal or constitutional 
backing for such a step. 

but not to worry even now the jewish mind is devices. the 
new committee chair , , has already announced that he will set up 
aplenty for his committee .  . thus he will decide where it 
is permissible for to participate and where not. a solution 
such as this could , by the way , also have been adopted for the rest of 
the committees , thereby completely eliminating the fear of state secrets 
being leaked to the enemy and removing the stain of discrimination from 
the knesset .  . 

. . . 

end article 

do you accept that as documentation 

joseph askew 


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades , 
remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief .  . 
disclaimer sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere , 
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on. 

from  ( tim clock) 
subject re genuine admission from a genuine homosexual 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 15 

in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

i must finally admit the total truth that is central to the 
core of my being. 

your insinuating itself into my kosher rectum always will. 

mark 

what say you and nick go somewhere else with this yard crap. 

tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from (david f. skoll ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization dept. of electronics , carleton university 
lines 26 

(please note followup ) 
in ( andi 
beyer ) writes 

you guys are funny. it 's funny to see people lose control and 
start the name calling when they realize they have no point. 

comparing israel to nazi germany is name calling of the lowest kind. 
please do n't be disingenuous .  . 

they civil libertarians would support the 
jews against the nazis or anyone else who tries to oppress them 
and they would support the arabs against the israelis and any 
other such oppressive regimes  ( iraq etc . ) . 

do civil libertarians make no distinction between the nazis and 
israel would you say that the iraqis are like the nazis 

if you do not make such distinctions , then all injustices are 
equally evil , and the world is a completely evil place. in that 
case , we may as well give up right now. 


david f. 

from  ( eric s. perlman ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
nntp posting host qso . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 194 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 

so far , you have presented your opinions as opposed to mine. i would 
hardly take them as facts. 

because you do n't agree with them , hmm 

no , because a fact and an opinion are two different things. what you are 
expressing here are opinions , not facts. 

in the abstract , what you 're saying is true. but the facts happen to 
agree with me , and disagree completely with you. 

i could give you hundreds of words in my mother tongue  ( spanish ) , that 
are use and you will never find in a dictionary .  . even more , i 
could show you a lot of meanings that words in spanish have different 
from those in the dictionary .  . 

we 're talking about the latter , not the former .  . and what you 're talking 
about is slang in the latter .  . that clearly has never been the case 
here. 

no , i am not talking about slang .  . i am talking about different uses of the 
same language in different places. 

listen ,  . i'm going to count on the supposition that you think 
through the opinions you have something which is , by the way , against 
my better judgment based on what i 've seen from you to date. we are 
agreed , are n't we , that dictionaries are reference books for the usage 
of a given language , and in particular for the meanings of the words and 
phrases which comprise that language now , you are using meanings 
completely different from , indeed in some cases diametrically different 
from , those given in the dictionary .  . as a reference book , a dictionary 
contains those meanings in both past and  ( as much as it can) in current 
use. that 's also why they are updated so often. now , if you are saying 
things which you give different meanings than the dictionary does , and 
using non standard meanings about every word , what is your chance of 
being taken at face value .  .  .  . 

just about none. just about no one will take you that way because the 
words mean something different to them. it 's quite clear to me from 
the response this thread has been getting that that is exactly what is 
happening. ponder that. 


and guess why. is n't it curious that we do not know how many people define 
in how many different ways the term jew , which is the basis of the movement 
itself 

no , probably because the question has n't been asked gee , i hate it 
when people draw conclusions without information , do n't you 

i hate people who cannot read. i did not draw any conclusion .  . i just 
said that it is curious , considering how heterogeneous the movement is. 

what you did was ask a leading question. in english idiom , the phrase 
and guess why .  .  .  . in the way you used it is a loaded question , with 
only one answer expected. 

i also take offense at being told i cannot read by someone who is 
obviously having trouble with the subject himself. mr. , i am a 
phd candidate in my field. one does not get to phd candidacy if one 
cannot read. 


the law of return and jewish nationality is defined in terms of religion and 
not of cultural identity , even if 80 of those defined as jews in isreal 
are not religious .  . 

for the time it is not defined in terms of religion. 
this has been proven to you over and over again. 

no , it has not. the law of return defines a jew as someone who has a 
jewish mother and has not converted to another religion. that is 
pretty the same as the religious definition .  . 



that is a problem. i am saying that i do not support zionism as it is 
now. i believe that among the people in the soviet communist party some 
might even had been inspired by noble ideals .  . does that change the 
final results of what happened in the ussr 

are you now wishing to compare the ussr and israel or what israel 
does not practice cruelty .  . 

now i understand. you are unable to make abstractions .  . you cannot 
get the idea from a text and you take everything literally .  . 
bad thing. 

balderdash .  . you know this is false .  . i would be able to make the 
abstraction if it bore any resemblance to the facts of the matter. 
yours did not. the analogy is utterly inapplicable .  . 

i would n't be in the field i'm in astrophysics if i could n't make 
abstractions and speculate about the general grand scheme of things. i 
also would n't be in education which i am  ( and my students give me 
rather good reviews i 'd add ) if i could n't draw such analogies .  . 

about israel not practicing cruelty , ask those palestinians in israeli 
prisons , those who were tortured , those whose houses had been blown 
by the army .  . 

the vast majority of palestinians in israeli prisons are n't tortured , 
and their houses were n't blown up by the army .  . in fact , you 've seen me 
protesting such measures on this net before. are you now trying to 
intimate my agreement with them 

i never said it directly nor indirectly .  . i am not talking about individuals 
who defined themselves as zionists here. i am sure most of them are good , 
honest and caring people. i am talking about the results of the zionist 
movement. 

in other words , you are taking that as a monolith , and ignoring the 
within it , disagreement that is expressed freely , and is 
widely based .  . just as bad. 

can you read or are you just typing at random 

do you know the meanings of the words you use or do you expect the 
reader to read your mind i can read just fine thank you. and i do n't 
need someone who is obviously having some troubles with a tongue which 
is n't his native one telling me how to read the words in my own native 
tongue. if it were spanish , i 'd ask you. 

i am talking about a movement whose actions resulted in a 
law of return with a religious definition of jew , a country that defines 
nationality based on religion. 

then you 're not talking about the movement as it exists today , as i 've 
been trying to tell you. please read the arguments i 've given you ! if 
you can still say this after reading them you need to read them again. 





i am talking about something i consider 
a form of racism such as based on religious belief .  . 
after all , if arabs in israel cannot serve in the army is becasue they 
were not born in the right religion. 

arabs in israel not only can but do serve in the idf .  . as you well 
know. 

they can serve , it is true , but they are not allowed to do the all the 
same things as the israeli citizens who happen to be jews .  . 

yes , they are. as you well know. 


ok , fine. now we know what you 're talking about. but do you see my 
point about how your words could easily have been taken differently 

it is not we , it was you as in the second person in singular , who cannot 
understand a text if things are not explicitly said. 

balderdash .  . see above. once again , you have a lot of gall and 
absolutely no right to lecture a native speaker of a language , who is 
well educated in it , in a language which is n't your own native tongue 
and with which you 're obviously having problems. 


so , there is no difference between citizenship and nationality in israel 
or what do you mean by actually , it does n't 

i mean exactly that. arab and jewish citizens of israel have the same 
rights. 

if there is no difference between them , why keeping them in id 's 
better yet , are you going to tell me that there are no differences in 
social life between arabs and jews 

social life is one thing , legal status is another. once again , this is 
a leading question. 

so , it follows a religious definition and not a cultural one. that is what 
i call a form of racism .  . 

no , because the jewish religion and culture are intimately , 
intertwined .  . if one renounces judaism , one renounces judaism .  . 

i do not believe that this is true. 

final question is it possible to be both jewish and muslim jewish 
and christian your response will be enlightening .  . 



how sad to see a model of decorum and tranquillity become like any other sport 
a battleground for rival ideologies to slug it out with glee .  . tim rice , chess 
eric s. perlman 
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder 

from  ( nick jovanovic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization yale university science engineering  ( unix(tm ) , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 58 
distribution world 
nntp posting host minerva . cis . yale . edu . 

in article ahmed  ( shakil ahmed ) writes 

in article , 
 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

muslim in ex yugoslavia was a nation not a religion. in fact , not 
all muslims in b h are followers of islam .  . therefore , there do  ( did ) 
exist in ex yugoslavia christian muslims .  . 

yeah ! that 's it ! ) you 've really yourself this time nick .  .  .  . 
do n't forget the davidian muslims ... ) 

islam is not a race. it 's a religion. you can be white , black , 
or alaskan .  . 

this does not change the fact that muslim is a legal and political 
term defined constitutionally in former yugoslavia , and therefore has 
meaning and consequences entirely independent and immaterial of 
any religious considerations .  . 


it is a 
civil war in which the terms of secession are being negotiated with guns 
instead of pens .  . the croat , muslim , and serb political leaders all 
chose to fight over the terms of secession instead of compromising and 
peacefully negotiating secession agreements .  . 

terms of secession you are , of course , joking , right nick nobody 
chose to fight. bosnia and croatia were internationally 
recognized nations when the serbs attacked and started on their 
well documented genocide .  . that makes them an outside aggressor .  . it 's 
a simple genocide , a classical example of ethnic cleansing .  . there is 
no question of civil war .  .  .  . 

you only wish it were so. 

more than 2 , 000 , 000 residents of croatia and b h have not accepted the 
terms of secession which and unilaterally forced upon 
them. croats and muslims may have a right to negotiated secession but 
they do not have a right to grab the entire territories of the former 
yugoslav republics of croatia and b h. 

oh , btw , yugoslavia was internationally recognized when it was 
destroyed by , , milosevic , and the international 
community led by germany .  . if yugoslavia 's borders could be changed 
against its will , then certainly croatia 's borders and b h 's borders 
can be changed as well. 

as i have stated many times the civil war in ex yugoslavia will end 
when the terms of secession  ( borders , etc . ) . for croatia and b h are 
finally agreed upon .  . serbs , croats , and muslims will all have to 
make territorial concessions to reach such an agreement .  . 

nick 





from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject armenia will not get away with the turkish genocide 's cover up. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 118 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

you know it is true do n't you 

well , apparently we have another son of dro 'the butcher  to contend with. 
you should indeed be happy to know that you rekindled a huge discussion on 
distortions propagated by several of your contemporaries .  . if you feel 
that you can simply act as an armenian governmental crony in this forum 
you will be sadly mistaken and duly embarrassed .  . this is not a lecture to 
another historical revisionist and a genocide apologist , but a fact. 

i will dissect article by article , paragraph by paragraph , line by line , 
lie by lie , revision by revision , written by those on this net , who plan 
to  prove  that the armenian genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds is 
nothing less than a classic un redressed genocide .  . we are neither in 
x soviet union , nor in some similar ultra nationalist fascist dictatorship , 
that employs the dictates of hitler to quell domestic unrest .  . also , feel 
free to distribute all responses to your nearest asala sdpa arf terrorists , 
the armenian pseudo scholars , or to those affiliated with the armenian 
criminal organizations .  . 

x soviet armenian government got away with the genocide of 2.5 million 
turkish men , women and children and is enjoying the fruits of that genocide .  . 
you , and those like you , will not get away with the genocide 's cover up. 

during the first world war and the ensuing years 1914 1920 , 
the armenians through a premeditated and systematic genocide , 
tried to complete its centuries old policy of annihilation against 
the turks and kurds by savagely murdering 2.5 million muslims and 
deporting the rest from their 1 , 000 year homeland .  . 

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance 
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people. 
this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians , government 
and international political leaders , such as u.s. ambassador mark 
bristol , william langer , ambassador , james barton , stanford 
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , , nalbandian , 
ohanus , jorge blanco , general , general 
, general , general , , 
, , , general hamelin , rawlinson , 
aharonian , dr. stephan eshnanie , , general , arfa , 
dr. hamlin , nubar , , , rachel 
, halide , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul and many 
others. 

j. c. , professor of government emeritus , former director of 
the middle east institute  ( 1971 1984 ) , columbia university .  . 

bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history , 
princeton university .  . 

halil , university professor of ottoman history member of 
the american academy of arts sciences , university of chicago .  . 

peter golden , professor of history , rutgers university , newark .  . 

stanford shaw , professor of history , university of california at 
los angeles .  . 

thomas naff , professor of history director , middle east research 
institute , university of pennsylvania .  . 

ronald jennings , associate professor of history asian studies , 
university of illinois .  . 

howard reed , professor of history , university of connecticut .  . 

, distinguished university professor of political 
science , city university graduate school , new york .  . 

john woods , associate professor of middle eastern history , 
university of chicago .  . 

john masson smith , jr. , professor of history , university of 
california at berkeley .  . 

alan fisher , professor of history , michigan state university .  . 

levy , professor of history , brandeis university .  . 

andreas g. e. , professor of history , university of california 
at los angeles .  . 

kathleen burrill , associate professor of turkish studies , columbia university .  . 

davison , professor of history , george washington university .  . 

walter denny , professor of history , university of massachusetts .  . 

caesar farah , professor of history , university of minnesota .  . 

tom goodrich , professor of history , indiana university of pennsylvania .  . 

tibor kun , professor emeritus of turkish studies , columbia university .  . 

justin mccarthy , professor of history , university of louisville .  . 

jon , professor of history , portland state university (oregon) .  . 

robert olson , professor of history , university of kentucky .  . 

madeline , professor of history , university of maryland .  . 

james stewart robinson , professor of turkish studies , university of michigan .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . so . the list goes on and on and on .  .  .  .  .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



subject re heir  ( re just say no to abrahamic religion ) 
from  ( manoj ghayalod ) 
organization university of cincinnati 
lines 19 

in article  ( chris metcalfe ) writes 
in article  ( joachim martillo ) writes 

to be fair , traditional jewish and christian thinking is actually 
quite similar to islamic thinking on these issues. modern civilized 
westerners should strive for the complete of all 
abrahamic  . 

joachim carlo santos 

sieg heil ! 
heil ! , or do you prefer 
heil ! or 
heil santos ! or 
heil carlo ! or 
heil joachim ! this i would suggest against , it sounds too informal , mein 
! 

manoj 

from  ( godada shi ) 
subject without justice can n't last re last opportunity for peace 
organization umass lowell computer science 
lines 63 

in article  ( ram tiwary ) writes 
as the the peace talks resume in the middle east , i would humbly 
like to make some personal observations as to their prospects of success 
or failure and what 's at stake .  . 

the present talks were suspended for over 4 months after the 
israeli expulsion of more the 400 palestinians for alleged links with 
the extremist islamic organisation hamas .  . the future of the talks was 
in the balance and their was only guaranteed after some 
concessions by israel .  . now that all the parties are back to the 
negotiating table , the stakes as i see is are indeed high and the future 
stability of the region and perhaps the world is in the balance. 

the of the talks was followed by a goodwill gesture 
by israel involving the return of 30 exiled palestinians from jordan to 
the occupied territories .  . these , however were not the palestinians 
expelled in december .  . the group constituted intellectuals and 
professionals who had been exiled after the '67 war for the political 
stand which was then regarded as dangerous. 

the choice of these arabs , who support the peace talks , 
illustrates the dilemma now faced by israel .  . its arch 
enemies , ie plo and its backers now seem willing to talk peace while a 
new wave of islamic sweeping the middle east has seen the 
rise of an even more foe under the banner of hamas .  . 

while israel continues to refuse to talk to the plo , labelling 
it a terrorist organisation , the window of opportunity for peace is 
narrowing by the day. if the present talks are allowed to deadlock 
without agreement for a long term and lasting peace that taken into 
account the interest of all involved , the chances of peace will indeed 
 . the plo , by its decision to rejoin the talks , has its 
reputation on the success of the talks .  . the longer the talks continue , 
and they started 1 and half years ago , without any tangible progress , 
the further will the plo support in the territories erode .  . 

what is urgently needed is some dramatic gesture , worked out by 
israel with us approval that could spur the peace process and force the 
arabs and palestinians to reciprocate .  . vague promises as to interim 
government and return of territories is evidently too little too late to 
be any good. you might ask why must the israelis and not the arabs make 
the first substantive moves .  . the answer must lie in the support 
at best that the talks receive among the mass of arab people and the 
fact the israel holds the most important cards , namely land. 

if a land for peace agreement can be reached , and real soon , the chances 
of a comprehensive peace treaty is good. the arabs , once and for all , 
recognise israel 's right to exist inside secure borders , and isreal 
would in turn recognise the legitimate right of the palestinians to self 
and statehood .  . with peace guarantee by air tight 
treaties , the region can then hope to dwell on the economic and social 
well being of its population , rather than prepare for the next war. 



ram the alternative to peace is not 
department of civil engineering war , it is annihilation .  . 
national university of singapore 






from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 18 

writes 
in article 
( andi beyer ) writes 

the jews that were stranded on the polish border since 
no country accepted them are like the arabs stranded on the 
border .  . no trials , no hearing , just expulsion based on 
guilt due to race. 

not due to race. due to membership in an organization which 
publically proclaimed it would destroy the state which expelled them 
and furthermore kill a large segment of the citizens of that state , 
based on race. 


actually that 's only what the israeli government 
claims .  . there were no trials held (which is a key thing in a 
free country like the u . s . ) .  . 

from  ( manfredo tichauer ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization the private site of manfredo tichauer 
lines 78 



writes in 
message id 
date mon , 26 apr 1993 20 27 14 gmt 


first , the following two quite normal phrases 

why did not anyone venture to answer andi 's question in an intelligent 
and unoffending manner 

now will we please start having some intelligent conversation 


and then he shows us what he means by intelligent and unoffending manner 
and intelligent conversation 

i have never seen such immaturity among semitophiles .  . 

 .  .  . deleted . lines .  .  .  . 

the only ones guilty here of not backing up there viewpoints 
with fact are the israelophiles .  . 

 .  .  . deleted . lines .  .  .  . 

you all are an insult to you race ! assuming you are also semitic 

 .  .  . deleted . lines .  .  .  . 


later he reveals the truth 

... i mention this not because i'm anti semitic i'm part jewish ..... 

 .  .  . deleted . lines .  .  .  . 

he is an anti semite  ( call it anti jew ) , maybe because he 
is part jewish (e . g .  . his mother might have dated a jew who 
did n't marry her , and so she got a little bastard whom she taught 
 . 

he is also a coward since he does n't dare to sign with his name. 
at the end he signs with a highly intelligent and intellectual 
phrase 

pissed off at immature , 
closeminded , self righteous 
semites 



writes in 
message id 
date mon , 26 apr 1993 20 34 25 gmt 

you know ed , ... you 're right ! andi should n't be comparing 
israel to the nazis .  . the israelis are much worse than the 
nazis ever were anyway. the nazis did a lot of good for 
germany , and they would have succeeded if it were n't for the 
damn jews .  . the holocaust never happened anyway. ample 
evidence given by george schafer at harvard , dept. of history , 
and even by randolph higgins at nyu , have shown that the 
holocaust was just a semitic conspiracy created to obtain 
sympathy to for the creation of israel .  . 

the nazis might also have sent this bastard to the gas chambers 
because of his part jewish ness  ( only that he is not aware of it) .  . 

ps i wonder what kind of educational institution is 
could it be the free kkk university of virginia ) 


manfredo tichauer m. email 
14 voice ( 49 40 ) 27 . 42 . 27 . 
2000 hamburg 60 germany fax ( 49 40 ) 270 . 53 . 09 . 


from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject who does the land belong to  ( was re jews shoot muslim infants ) 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 70 
distribution world 



reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 23 may 1993 13 29 19 gmt 

lovely arguments .  . but do we write about historical ownership of any 
place palestine , pakistan , cyprus , aegean islands  ( and the oil that 
may lie beneath them) , whatever for any reason other than 
justification for stomping others 

does it truly matter whose ancestor lived where 20 , 200 , or 2000 years 
ago more than how you treat the land and each other 

who is wise enough to decree that a person 's right to life , liberty 
and pursuit of happiness in a particular place depends on accidents of 
birth who can even be sure about the precise tracks of the sperm 
that the people we wish to despise 

imho , the american indians have it right. we belong to the earth , it 
does not belong to us. failure to understand that is a good way to 
cause all the way around. my guess is that once we trash our 
environment sufficiently we shall die along with it the baby eating 
and killing its mother , then dying for lack of milk. 

death and disease do not respect national boundaries , not as toxins , 
disease vectors , lost farmland forest cover water supplies , 
nor any other way. when we fight over which national group owns which 
piece of turf , we are merely contending for the best vantage point 
from which to kill others , our land and eventually ourselves. 

that is something of which to be proud. very proud. makes me glad to 
be human. 


i'm not mindlessly rejecting all nationalism .  . maybe it 's fair to ask 
whether a recent immigrant deserves a share of the infrastructure that 
all my ancestors  ( hah ! ) labored to produce .  . but it 's an artificial 
distinction is the recent immigrant , even a refugee , less likely to 
contribute to the next generation 's legacy than anyone else in 
history the reverse is often the case recent immigrants strive 
hardest .  . if nothing else , they fill open  ( eco(l n)ogic ) niches .  . 

then again , my tribe is infinitely better than your tribe , so i can 
understand you all have nothing but plot to knock me off. while i , of 
course , will make sure it does n't happen , even if i must shoot muslim 
infants  ( or bash jewish ones against the walls of schoolhouses ) to do 
so. that 'll prove my moral superiority , by golly , as well as the 
rightness of my cause. 


clearly , there is no higher purpose in life than killing others 
because they are not like you. i would never get in the way of such 
fun. 

let 's see 
soc . culture . turkish . why do n't you turks go back to lake 
where you came from , and leave the land to the 
greeks , who stole it fair and square from the 

soc . culture . pakistan . why do n't you guys redistribute 
yourselves over india , as god meant for you to do 
soc . culture . jewish . , soc . culture . arabic . we stick together , 
fight together , die together. we are brothers , and 
inseparable .  . 
talk . politics . mideast . oh well , had to be there. 

oded 
planning on being a , as soon as i finish my 
present assignment .  . 


p.s. i ca n't get a semi decent death threat anymore 

p.p.s. yeh , the native americans had it right. we had to kill them 
off to keep their from spreading .  . 

subject re desertification of the negev 
from  ( amos shapira ) 
organization inst. of comp. sci .  . , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel 
nntp posting host shuldig . cs . huji . ac . il . 
in reply to center for policy research 's message of 25 apr 93 05 25 pdt 
lines 48 

center for policy research writes 

here you give positive , accurate facts about what happened to the 
and the land 

after the creation of the state of israel , 80 percent of the negev 
bedouin were expelled to the sinai or to southern jordan .  . the 
10 , 000 who were allowed to remain were confined to a territory of 
40 , 000 hectares in a region were annual mean was 150 
mm a quantity low enough to ensure a crop failure two years out 
of three. the rare water wells in the south and central negev , 
spring of life in the desert , were cemented to prevent bedouin 
shepherds from roaming .  . 

a few bedouin shepherds were allowed to stay in the central negev .  . 
but after 1982 , when the sinai was returned to egypt , these 
bedouin were also eliminated .  . at the same time , strong pressure 
was applied on the bedouin to abandon cultivation of their fields 
in order that the land could be transferred to the army .  . 

and now you say noone knows anything about what happened there 

no reliable statistics exist concerning the amount of land held 
today by negev bedouin .  . it is a known fact that a large part of 
the 40 , 000 hectares they cultivated in the 1950s has been seized 
by the israeli authorities .  . indeed , most of the bedouin are now 
confined to seven development towns , or , established 
for them. 

(the rest of the article is available from elias davidsson , email 


so what you basically say is that we know for sure that nothing good happens 
there now , we know for sure that the before the jews arrived 
and that they were driven away by the jews , noone on earth knows about 
what the jews did there. 

is that what you said could you proove any of the nonsense you wrote 

btw , try asking in sinai how they mis the israelis .  . not to mention 
that there are enough in the idf to have at least one full 
brigade of them. 


amos shapira  ( jumper extraordinaire ) it is true that power corrupts , 
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better ! 
jerusalem , israel 
the demon to his son 

from  ( satya prabhakar ) 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
nntp posting host cs . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota , minneapolis , csci dept. 
lines 38 

michael sells m writes 

this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... 

every place on earth is the scene of a saga of mutual hatred and 
destruction .  . the holocaust was not a fresh case. it was another 
chapter in a 900 year history of attacks on jews in europe .  . that did n't 
make it acceptable .  . and balkan history does not make the genocide against 
bosnian muslims acceptable .  . 

i guess that it was not acceptable because germany also chose 
a path of aggression simultaneously that put the interests of 
other countries in peril .  . i wonder whether us or other countries 
would have risked themselves if only jews were persecuted and 
hitler had no imperialist ambitions .  . (i am no student of history 
and i am just asking questions . ) . 

if even for a moment you think that i am ethnically 
motivated violence and killings , you are dead wrong. let me 
assure i am not. my only question is this do powerful countries 
have a moral obligation to in other countries if 
their own interests are not threatened .  . i cite an essay by 
charles krauthammer in the time  ( this week) that discusses 
this issue eloquently .  . 

for example , did us and other european countries abandon their 
moral when they chose not to send military troops 
to bombay when hindus , in a rare fit of rage , killed 
many muslims recently. i think not ! 

under what conditions should us interfere in countries , 
is an abstraction one must clarify before resorting to 
accusations of religious bigotry and such. 




from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 79 
nntp posting host rac2 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( adam l. schwartz ) writes 
in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
3) if i decided to go back to the land from which my relatives had been 
expelled 2000 years ago , but first i convert to any other religion , can i 
apply to the law of return as a member of the jewish nation or should i 
apply as someone whose mother is jewish 

i'm not sure about this but i hope the answer is that you ca n't apply under 
the law of return. by conversion , you 've elected not to be a part of the 
jewish nation .  . 


which was my point. by converting to another religion i do not loose 
my cultural identity , i just loose my religious identification .  . 
i consider that defining the belonging to a nation that claims the 
right to have a state based on religious belief is a form of racism .  . 


5) what has change in me between the day before and the day after i converted 
to loose my being part of the jewish nation 

at the moment you converted , you officially to the world that you do not 
consider yourself to be part of the jewish nation .  . so , why should the jewish nation 
consider you to be a member 

to be a part or not of the nation is defined by my culture and not 
by my religion. actually , if i am an atheist , which is in fact like 
converting into a non jewish in terms of religion , i am still considered as 
part of the jewish nation .  . 
i can be proud of my jewish culture while not giving any importance to the 
jewish religion. or , even more , i can be proud of my jewish culture while 
still be convinced that the real god is another one. 
i do not know anyone who lost his to the american nation 
because he changed of god. 


suppose my father is arab .  . suppose he was born in palestine , in some place 
which now is part of israel .  . suppose that his father , and his grandfather as 
well as 20 or 30 generations before him were born in that place. 
now suppose there is a war of independence and my father , scared by all the 
fighting going on , tries to take his family to a place more secure , among 
people he knows , who speak a language he understands , who worship the same 
god. now , suppose that that place is some other arab country. 
and , now suppose that the war is over and that there is a new country created 
where my father used to live , and that that country is called israel .  . 
and , that in that country , jews from all over the world are received. and 
that people whose family left thet country 200 generation ago are recieved and 
granted full citizenship .  . 
should i , if i decided to go back to my father 's land , where he was born as 
20 or 30 generations of my family were born , have the right to go back and 
ask to be recognized in the same way those who are returning after 2000 
years 

no. as a result of wars brought by the arabs against the jews in an attempt to 
annihilate israel , the arabs have lost their claim to land there. attacking israel 
is was illegal and they now have to pay the price. do i feel sorry for the 
palestinians yes i do. but i blame the arab nations for their problems , not 
israel .  . 

i still believe that we should never the actions of states with 
the individuals who happen to live there. 
in the same way that i do not think it is right to blame all israelis for the 
human rights violations of israel , i do not think that we should assume 
that all arabs are guilty of the actions of the arab states. 
some people fled their homes because they were scared. now they are in 
there , still suffering for what they are not responsible .  . 
and , remember that we also were told the same at some point. we ended in 
the diaspora .  . and , of course , i am not for doing to others what i did not 
want done to me. 


adam schwartz 



alberto a. 




from  ( srinivas sunder ) 
subject re the stage is being set 
organization center for reliable and high performance computing , university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host crhc . uiuc . edu . 

in article , () writes 
after reading plenty of categorical remarks claiming the arrival of the 
restoration of , could anyone 1) define , 2) indicate 
what colonial countries remain , 3) indicate what changes indicate that there 
is a restoration in the making 

i 'll leave questions 1 and 2 to be answered elsewhere , but on question 3) 
something in the today might be an example of the restoration might be. 
namely , that the clinton administration is considering asking the un to 
establish a police force for haiti .  . 

i did n't hear any thing that said that the current govt. of haiti asked for it , 
nor is there any real precedent  ( barring somalia ) for the un getting involved 
in internal conflicts .  . 

that might also answer question 2) .  . the neo colonial countries are a diffuse 
lot the un  ( security  . 

and while i am at it , i 'll take a stab at 1) the new , as defined in 
most articles i have read , would entail something of the nature of 
under the un sec. council , democracy , aid , education , free markets , free press 
and then out for the , now assured that there is a civilized 
country that they have left behind. 

note i do n't support this idealized concept , simply because i think it is a 
lot of hogwash .  . 


srinivas 

if the university of illinois shares these views , i 'd be surprised. 
they are n't that smart generally ) .  . 


from  ( naomi rivkis ) 
subject re banned game 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 79 

in article  ( william bruvold ) writes 
in article writes 

no , it 's an example of things are nowhere near as bad as you characterize .  . 
the united states police kill as many blacks as israel kills palestinians , 
even though the us black population , while admittedly larger , is n't engaged in 
a civil war to attempt to destroy the government .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


this probably should not be in this newgroup but mr frank is wrong 
to use words like civil war or destroy the government in 
discussing the conflict in the occupied territories . 

 ( re the newsgroup followups set to talk . politics . mideast . where this 
belongs . ) . 

this may make the term  civil war  dubious , but it does nothing to the 
phrase  destroy the  . an occupying government is still a govern 
ment , and the palestinians have made it quite clear that their goal is 
not simply to prevent it from occupying the territories that do n't con 
fer citizenship (which is your own determination of the distinction ) but 
to wipe it out entirely  ( and , not incidentally , the entire jewish population 
it rules with it) .  . this is an intent to  destroy the government  , no 
matter where the government happens to be from. 

if the 
current government in isreal would be willing to let all adult individuals 
who are capable to 
vote in elections within the defacto boundaries of the isreali 
state , a requirement for being called a democracy in my opinion , 

was n't a requirement for democracy in athens .  . for that matter , is n't 
a requirement for the term democracy in the united states , which does n't 
let non citizens vote either. both the united states and israel have 
processes whereby it is possible to acquire citizenship , with a great 
deal of effort and a modicum of screening it 's just that it is n't 
automatic for living in the territories .  . it is n't automatic for living 
in new york , either. 

that said , suit yourself. having never considered democracy the ultimate 
in good in this world , i could care less if you feel like calling israel , 
or america , or anywhere else , a democracy .  . personally , i withhold the 
term from israel for the same reason i withhold it from britain .  .  .  . the 
parliamentary system is a serious handicap .  . 

then mr. frank would be correct. as the current government neither 
is willing to 
the vast majority of individuals in the territories or to 
allow these people to have the right to self determination it is not 
a civil war or their government , rather it is to a foreign 
occupier .  . 

again , suit yourself. in which case israel is not attacking its own 
people , it is fighting a war on foreign soil , in which case the residents 
are entitled to play rough , yes but israel 's allowed to get just as 
rough , within the bare limits of the rules of war. this includes , among 
other things , the right to shoot or bomb anyone a national of the 
try in question who is fighting them (which permits mass frontal assault 
on all rock throwers ) , along with the right to take out any installation 
of military importance  ( certain villages with too good can 
be handled by aerial bombing , as can since they count as supply 
lines to the enemy ) , and the right to do anything whatsoever to whatever 
constitutes a government that they can lay hands on  ( if hamas is trying 
to set up as the ruling party , let them  . 

if this is not the scenario you want , i recommend you go back to calling 
it a civil war. civil wars have to be handled nicer .  . you cannot say the 
palestinians are a nation fighting a resistance war against a foreign 
nation and still call israel a government who is treating its own people 
cruelly .  . if the palestinians are fighting a war against a foreign country , 
so is israel , and the gloves come off . 

naomi 



yes , it is bread we may the source of peace 
fight for , but we fight naomi in the heavens bring peace 
for roses too. to us , and to all israel .  . 

from  ( nick jovanovic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization yale university science engineering  ( unix(tm ) , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 25 
nntp posting host minerva . cis . yale . edu . 

in article  ( senad arnautovic ) writes 

it is the croats that were divided , at least 70 , 000 were left in serbian 
province of  . it is the muslims that were divided , 200 , 000 
left in the region of that now belongs to serbia .  . 


if croats are now divided , it is because croatia from yugoslavia .  . 
croats in croatia , b h , and serbia were in one country yugoslavia 
until they divided themselves. 

if muslims are now divided , it is because b h from yugoslavia .  . 
muslims in croatia , b h , and serbia were in one country yugoslavia 
until they divided themselves. 

that croats and muslims in yugoslavia decided to divide themselves does 
not give them the right to divide serbs in yugoslavia .  . 

croatia and b h shoulder the burden for dividing their own nations among 
various unstable countries. 

nick 




from  ( joshua aaron klein ) 
subject re muslims accepting sheep status. 
organization amherst college 
lines 14 
nntp posting host amhux3 . amherst . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

ilyess b. bdira wrote 
on the other side of the coin , give me an instance where the muslims 
killed non muslims , raped their families , and burned their houses , just 
for the sake of it when they were a strong majority .  . of course there have 

hmmm .  .  .  . what about the genocide conducted by the ottoman empire 
the armenians living in turkey .  . 



joshua klein internet addresses 
amherst college 
amherst , ma 


from  ( erol esen ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host mozart . cs . colostate . edu . 
organization computer science department , colorado state university 
lines 45 

in article writes 
in a previous article ,  ( josip loncaric ) wrote 

actually , just after the first world war , many muslims were killed by serbs .  . 
under serbian led regime between the two world wars , many croats were 
also killed  ( especially during the dictatorship introduced on jan. 6 ,  . 

josip , 

please , do n't be offended at this question who are the muslims in the 
bosnian context i know that a moslem muslim is a believer in islam .  . islam 
is a religion and it is practised in many parts of the world. but it is not 
, yes definitely not , an group. ok ! so , these bosnian muslims , who 
are they to which ethnic group do they belong what  ( language(s ) do they 
speak do they have a different language from that of the serbs or croats 
the way the western press use the word  muslim  in this bosnian debacle has 
kept me wondering when the meaning of muslim moslem i knew from childhood was 
changed in the dictionary .  . this is just a question. no flames intended ! 




mr. , 
muslims in the bosnian context are in fact turks ... in fact , correct 
me if i am wrong , serbs are attacking bosnians with their battle cries 
death to the turks ! . 

is this so shocking years of communism apparently suppressed their 
hatred and anger towards the turks .  . but such hatred is obviously one that 
dies hard. 

serbs must understand , turks are no longer the good old world 
has come to know by propaganda after propaganda .  . 

serbs must further understand that barbarism does not work. 

serbs must even further understand that barbarism would one day have 
to face counter barbarism .  . so , i urge those people serbs to stop 
killing bosnian women and children. and they must never forget that 
turks in the motherland are watching .  .  . patiently .  . 

cordially , 




from  ( amos shapira ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 

u 
organization inst. of comp. sci .  . , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel 
lines 42 
nntp posting host shuldig . cs . huji . ac . il . 
in reply to 's message of 26 apr 93 22 22 28 gmt 

 ( anas omran ) writes 

 ( tim clock) writes 
 ( amos shapira ) writes 
 ( anas omran ) writes 

eh could you please give me details about an event where a neutral 
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli soldier 


there are many cases , but i do not remeber names. the shot and killed 
a un observer in gaza in the first half of intifada .  . 

that does n't answer my question can you give a proof that it is an official 
policy of any israeli government to kill neutral observers or un personel 
or others like them 

i was n't sure that your original statement was wrong and was prepared to 
recieve proofs that you are right  ( since i do n't follow the events closely) .  . 
your last response made me pretty damn sure that at least you ca n't give such 
a proof , and you made your original statement without much ground to put it 
on. 

i believe that most of the world has seen pictures of israeli soldiers who 
were breaking the cameras of the reporters , kicking reporters out , 
confiscating 
cassettes , and showing reporters militery orders preventing them from going 
to hot areas to pick pictures and make reports. 

even if it 's true  ( and in this case i 'd take it without asking you to prove it) 
it is still far from killing reporters .  . also whenever that happened i 'll bet 
it happened as individual actions by certain soldiers and not as a policy of 
the government (e . g .  . see the case where a colonel was sentenced for 
giving orders to kick arabs , as far as i remember) .  . 

bye , 


amos shapira  ( jumper extraordinaire ) it is true that power corrupts , 
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better ! 
jerusalem , israel 
the demon to his son 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re jews shoot muslim infants 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 37 

in article writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 

palestine was a name given to that same area after the jews already 
had their own governments there for a very long time. 
nationality is a recent political invention , no more than a few 
decades old. this is what the jew jake says to that ! 

this may be true but i think we jews dismiss palestinian nationalism at our 
peril .  . its newness does n't obviate its reality. 

besides , israeli nationalism is a new as well. 

israeli nationalism  ( also known as zionism ) is the nationalism of the 
jewish people. the jewish people are not a new phenomenon at all. 

nationalism is the nationalism of arab people. arabs have 
been around for a long time. they already have some 2 dozen states , 
large and small , covering 98 of the middle east .  . 

more specifically , nationalism is the nationalism of arabs 
from the region of palestine , just as egyptian nationalism is the 
nationalism of arabs from the region of egypt .  . one state 
already exists in what was once known as palestine it is called 
jordan .  . 

there is no justification in carving out a second and tiny 
state out of the only jewish state , itself very , very small , just as 
there is no justification in carving out another american state out of 
mexico .  . 




jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 27 

in article writes 
in article (edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

it is important to note that there remains at least one mosque in the 
jewish quarter of the old city , at least according to my map. you 
might be able to find it just north of the synagogue .  . is this 
mosque really still there 

yes , it is. i have taken photos of it 's  . 

was this mosque built by too 

dunno. 

one should compare this treatment with the one given synagogues in the 
jewish quarter in 1948 , when it fell under arab dominion .  . 22 of the 
27 synagogues were burned down by mobs , and the other 5 were razed by 
the jordanian army .  . i think that in comparison the israelis have done 
an excellent , but certainly not perfect , job at maintaining arab 
mosques .  . 

this does n't sound like eye for an eye anymore. changed your tune 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( brendan d mckay ) 
subject re dir yassin 
nntp posting host virginia 
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny 
lines 50 

in article  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

from myths and facts , by leonard j. davis , near east research inc. , 
1989 

pp. 108 109 

unlike the plo 's almost exclusive focus on civilian targets , the 
100 troups from the irgun and stern group that struck at deir yassin 
on april 10 , 1948 , targeted the village for its military importance .  . 
deir yassin was on the road to jerusalem , which the arabs had 

since facts and myths does n't even know where deir yassin was , 
why should we pay any attention to the rest of what it says 

blockaded , and it housed iraqi troups and palestinian irregulars .  . 
snipers based in deir yassin were a constant threat to jewish citizens 
in jerusalem .  . 

arab civilians were killed at deir yassin , but that attack does 
not conform to the propaganda picture that the arabs have tried to 
paint. the number of arabs killed was generally reported to be about 
250 .  . in 1983 , however , eric silver of the guardian  ( britain ) 
interviewed a survivor , , who testified that 116 out 
of a population of 800 1000 were killed.  about three days after the 
massacre , ' explained ,  representatives of each of the five 
clans in deir yassin met at the moslem offices in jerusalem and made a 
list of the people who had not been found (alive) .  . we went through the 
names. nothing has happend since 1948 to make me think this figure 
was wrong . ' . 

this account from eric silver is the only valid point that m f makes .  . 
you can find it together with other evidence and analysis in 
silver 's biography of begin. also in silver 's book you will find 
documentary evidence that nearly everything else in m f 's account 
is pure bullshit .  . 

unlike the plo 's deliberate attacks on civilians , the killing of 
civilians at deir yassin was not premeditated .  . the attackers left open 
an escape corridor from the village and more than 200 residents left 
unharmed .  . after the remaining arabs feigned surrender and then fired 
on the jewish troops , some of the attackers killed arab soldiers and 
civilians indiscriminately .  . independent observers told the guardian 
that among the bodies they found arab men disguised as women. 

this is pretty disgusting .  . the guardian was told of one or two 
feeble old men who dressed in women 's clothing in a pathetic 
attempt to escape death. see silver 's book. 

brendan .  . 

from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject re to all my friends on t . p . m .  . , i send greetings 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 1 
reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 6 may 1993 22 47 00 gmt 

this is an outrage ! i do n't even own a dog. 

from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
nntp posting host bellini . berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley erl 
lines 40 

in article ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 
i have never seen such immaturity among semitophiles .  . this 
andi beyer character shows no signs of anti semitism .  . 
ok , you 've already disqualified yourself  ( who ever you are) from 
being objective .  . 

you all are an insult to you race ! 
assuming you are also semitic 

jews are a people with a common cultural heritage , religion , and history. 
we are not a race. 


now i have a comment concerning israeli terrorism 
during the 1930 's and 1940 's .  . the , and other branch 
off militant groups , did fight the british do get them out of 
palestine .  . yet i fail to see how this israeli form of 
terrorism was better than the terrorism practiced now by the 
arabs .  . these jewish terrorist groups killed innocent british 
soldiers 

you do n't see a difference between killing british soldiers  ( who were 
preventing jews who tried to escape the nazis from entering the 
british mandate ) and arab terrorist who kill civilian men , women , and 
children ! 


i mention this not because i'm anti semitic i'm part 
jewish 

that 's on atleast two counts. first of all , even if you identify 
yourself as completely jewish that does n't rule out the possibility that you 're 
a self hating anti semite .  . one can always find jews who are uncomfortable with 
their identities  ( since they only want jews to be victims ) and are 
willing to speak up for their enemies .  . secondly , the strength or weakness of 
your arguments does not depend on your identity .  . 

adam schwartz 
(not affraid to sign my name) .  . 


subject re the mufti again meanwhile they support the genocide of bosnians .  . 
from kayman 
organization city university of new york university computer center 
supersedes 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( nick 
steel ) says 

in article kayman 

writes 
so why not condemn the mufti for his nazi leanings , and ... 
while also condemning the similarly genocidal killing of 
innocents , muslim or not , in herzegovina hatred and bigotry 
remain just that , no matter who practices them. 

indeed , just like the ugly hatred spread by and 
, right or they are exempt from condemnation , and allowed 
to hate 

no , fool , not at all like hatred of one 's sworn enemies , enemies who 
have said time and again that they mean to kill you , and have , by 
innocent men , women and children , shown that they really mean it. 

the late rabbi never hated anyone merely for having been born into a par 
group , but he  ( and i) hate and would will kill anyone who comes 
to kill jews .  . i recall very well rabbi 's words to the iraqis at a 
demonstration you want peace here is our hand  ( holding out an open 
hand ) ! you do n't want peace here is our hand  ( holding out a fist ) ! 

i know you 'll answer me indirectly , it does n't bother me a bit. 
keep it up. 

indirectly the wonder of it is that i bother answering the likes of you 
at all ! 

steel  ( who 's never pissed off) .  . 



 .  .  . . 

 .  .  . 

k. on the internet) 

from  ( javed ahmed khan) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( javed ahmed khan) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( satya 
prabhakar ) writes 
s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 

in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 

war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 



i dont think you 're correct here. there have been no reports of the bosnians 
muslims supporting the nazis in their genocide against the serbians .  . the fact is 
that the croat govt. using their secret police  ( called the , i think) 
were the prime agents of the nazis in yugoslavia against the serbs .  . 







 . 

from  ( josip loncaric ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 48 
nntp posting host orbit . src . umd . edu . 

in article  ( javed ahmed khan) writes 
in article ,  ( satya 
prabhakar ) writes 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 

in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 

war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 


i dont think you 're correct here. there have been no reports of the bosnians 
muslims supporting the nazis in their genocide against the serbians .  . the fact is 
that the croat govt. using their secret police  ( called the , i think) 
were the prime agents of the nazis in yugoslavia against the serbs .  . 


actually , just after the first world war , many muslims were killed by serbs .  . 
under serbian led regime between the two world wars , many croats were 
also killed  ( especially during the dictatorship introduced on jan. 6 ,  . 
some croats formed a resistance movement  ( insurgents ) and 
were forced into exile , to fascist italy , which sheltered them. in exile , 
they practiced a terrorist approach to liberating croatia while croats in 
croatia followed the approach of peaceful negotiations under the leadership 
of  . after the axis powers took control in the second world 
war , refused to collaborate , so were brought in 
to run the newly formed puppet state. this state included both croatia and 
bosnia herzegovina , and its ideology saw muslims as the best croats 
( flowers of people ) .  . some muslims in bosnia herzegovina 
therefore joined  . however , even more others did not they 
joined tito 's partisans .  . the membership peaked at 
less than 1 of croat and muslim population of that area at that time. 

after wwii , muslims were still considered a religious minority descended 
from croats or serbs who converted to islam centuries ago. but , in 1968 , 
it was decided that forcing muslims to declare their nationality as 
either serbs or croats is not a good policy. , the current 
president of the rump yugoslavia , was strongly opposed , and sought to 
prevent the category muslim  ( in an ethnic sense) from appearing on the 
next census .  . he was criticized and expelled from the party. so , since 
that time , bosnian muslims are considered a separate nationality , although 
some still deny this and insist that they choose either serb or croat 
nationality .  . 

sincerely , 
josip 



from (david davidian ) 
subject stretching from the adriatic sea to the great wall of china 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 22 

in the following report turkey eyes regional role ankara , turkey  ( ap ) 
april 27 , 1993 , we find in the last paragraph 

although premier criticized 's often 
brash calls for more turkish influence , he also has spoken 
of a of turkic peoples stretching from the adriatic 
sea to the great wall of china .  . 

who does think he is fooling it seems at both ends of his envisioned 
pan turkic empire the balkans and the caucasus turkey 's fascist boasts 
are being pre empted .  . 

i would suggest turkey let the world feel some of their grey wolf teeth , and 
attempt to stretch from the adriatic to china ! turkey will have cried wolf 
just once too much ! 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from david 
subject re error condition re 
originator 
reply to 
organization nysernet 
lines 4 



i want to subscribe , i am located in israel and my name is david 


from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject the mufti again meanwhile they support the genocide of bosnians .  . 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 24 

let me remind all of those muslim haters out there who like to 
mention the mufti 's cooperation with germany as a reason to let muslims 
be slaughtered everywhere in the world of the following facts 

1)why ) blame the muslims for what the nazis did and forgive italy , the croats , 
and many other europeans for being real allies to hitler 

2)why ) blame muslims for supporting germany the enemy of their enemy 
at the time  ( britain who colonized most of the middle east and was responsible 
for most atrocities against muslims in the region ) and forgive germany itself 
eventhough it is the one who created nazism 

3)as ) far as muslims are concerned there was no difference between 
nazi germany , and colonialist britain france in 1940 .  . they were 
all racist , anti arab , and full of arrogance and hate. wwii and the wars 
in algeria , sudan , and other places proved that very clearly .  . even anti 
semitism was not more spread in germany than in france or britain , it just 
happened to be official policy in germany .  . 

and we will forgive you , just set our countries free. 

so any arguments about wwii behaviour coming from the people who 
killed millions in that war (from either side) is just plain laughable .  . 
enough said. 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 19 

in article  ( tim clock) writes 

tell them to stay home ) sorry , terrible attempt at there. 

alternative hell , i do n't know. but .  .  . its . perfectly possible to have 
objections to a particular policy while feeling that there is no 
alternative choice . 

sealing off the gaza strip has the interesting side effect of 
demonstrating the non viability of gaza as an independent state. 
where are all of these people going to go to find work if they are 
separated from israel if they complain about having to show id cards 
on the way to work , how will they feel about showing passports on the 
way to work 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from anwar  ( anwar mohammed ) 
subject re zionism 
nntp posting host gs135 . sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 47 


i really do n't know how you can possibly maintain this hypocritical 
stance .  . 

on the one hand , you imply that there is a conspiracy of arab americans 
that warrants the illegal gathering of information on them (ie .  . auto license 
registration information in california) and other forms of monitoring , including 
blatant attempts by paid adl agents to discredit an american arab 
organization by trying to distribute nazi propaganda .  . furthermore , 
you attempt to rationalize this through crude stereotyping by pointing 
to the wtc bombing , in which arab americans had no involvement .  . 

on the other hand , you publish this excerpt , which seems to rail 
against notions of a racial  ( jewish , in this case) conspiracy and 
stereotypes .  . 

if you really are n't the hypocrite you appear to be , please explain 
yourself. 


in article (edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
the following flyer was distributed at aipac 's 34th annual policy conference 

because when we 're not in israel , we 're told to go back where we came from and 
when we come back to israel we 're told to go back to where we came from and 
when we 're vocal we have too much influence and when we are quiet we can afford 
to be because we we control everything anyway and when we buy something we can 
afford to because jews are so rich and when we do n't buy something it 's because 
we 're cheap and because when we are poor we 're called dirty jew and ignorant 
and when we 're not we 're called called rich jew and jap and when we are visibly 
organized it 's because there is a secret jewish conspiracy and when we 're not it 
is because there is a secret jewish conspiracy and because we 're told we 're not 
a people and when we say we are we 're still told that we 're not and when we 
marry our own people we 're called racist and we do n't we 're contaminating 
someone else 's race and because we 're under fire from the left and from the 
right and because there are whites who hate us for not being white and because 
there are non whites who hate us for being white and because anti semitic 
incidents are rising every year but we 're told that anti semitism does n't 
exist or that we 're paranoid and because we 're told to shut up about the 
holocaust and yet holocaust revisionism is every year and when we are 
obnoxious we 're called japs and when we are nice we 're told we do n't act 
jewish and because anti semitism is now world wide and because our people is 
not yet free and because we do not have to complete the work but neither are 
we free to desist from it for these reasons and many many more we are part of 
the jewish national liberation movement zionism .  . 



from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 72 
nntp posting host rac3 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 

in a word utter and complete horse puckey .  . look the term up in the 
dictionary .  . 


ok. lets look into this. 
according to my dictionary , 
zi on ism an international movement orig. for the establishment of a jewish 
national or religious community in palestine and later for the support of 
modern israel .  . 

now , i do not support the establishment of nations based on religious 
principles , while i support the establishment of nations based on cultural 
identities .  . 

so. here are some questions i have to ask for anyone to answer. my point 
is what someone said long time ago in politics , like with men , it is important 
to between what they say they do and what they are actually 
doing. 

1) my mother is jewish  ( and so is my  . if i apply for the law of 
return , do i get in as a jew trying to return to his land , from which my 
family was expelled about 2000 years ago 
2) if i go back , which nationality would my id show 
3) if i decided to go back to the land from which my relatives had been 
expelled 2000 years ago , but first i convert to any other religion , can i 
apply to the law of return as a member of the jewish nation or should i 
apply as someone whose mother is jewish 
4) which nationality would show my id in case 3) 
5) what has change in me between the day before and the day after i converted 
to loose my being part of the jewish nation 
6) suppose i want to get married to my current wife , who is non jewish in 
israel , how do i do it 
7) how would my situation change if i decided , after going back to 
israel , to convert to islam 


now , here is one more question. i do believe that most people in a country 
do not care about politics. they just want to be left alone. 
suppose my father is arab .  . suppose he was born in palestine , in some place 
which now is part of israel .  . suppose that his father , and his grandfather as 
well as 20 or 30 generations before him were born in that place. 
now suppose there is a war of independence and my father , scared by all the 
fighting going on , tries to take his family to a place more secure , among 
people he knows , who speak a language he understands , who worship the same 
god. now , suppose that that place is some other arab country. 
and , now suppose that the war is over and that there is a new country created 
where my father used to live , and that that country is called israel .  . 
and , that in that country , jews from all over the world are received. and 
that people whose family left thet country 200 generation ago are recieved and 
granted full citizenship .  . 
should i , if i decided to go back to my father 's land , where he was born as 
20 or 30 generations of my family were born , have the right to go back and 
ask to be recognized in the same way those who are returning after 2000 
years 

then , finally , people ask me how i would define a jew , but that is irrelevant .  . 
i am not talking about how i would define a jew , but about how people in 
zionist organizations , and more important , in israel , define a jew .  . 
how would those who are zionist define a jew 





eric s. perlman 
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder 


aap 


from  ( santanu bhattacharyya ) 
subject re stop all the cross postings 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 16 

 ( behzad sadeghi ) writes 
do not , and i repeat , do not , cross post the following subjects to 
soc . culture . iranian . 

re jews supports serbs 
re arab leaders and bosnia 
re in bosnia 
re the stage is being set 

that 's all we need here more bigotry and hate ! believe me , 
we have already reached our quota for the year. try again 
next year. 



what on earth do the above topics have to do with 

from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
organization university of virginia 
lines 16 



bull shit. there is no reason in the world why we ca n't say that 
taking views analogous to the kkk 's or some such organization is 
wrong. there is no reason why some morality may not be legislated .  . as 
it is we do not allow theft , or murder , or rape .  . why should we allow 
hateful whose only purpose is to stir anger and violence .  . 

harry .  . 
actually , you 're wrong as well. the kkk is allowed to 
march and any attempts to curtail their freedom is rejected 
 ( actually i believe the aclu won a case for them last year) .  . 
morality should not be in a free country like 
the u.s. 
i 'll post something on tj and uva under uva for those 
bashers .  . 

from nxt09 . cso . uiuc . edu .  ( nizam arain ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 44 

joachim writes 

what a dope ! there is no value for mohammed to be here 
at a western university .  . third and islamic brain rot has 
made it impossible for him to acquire and analyze facts appropriately .  . 


yes , the typical primitive muslim psychotic 
behavior upon hearing or reading a fact start whining 
about the jews .  . what a jerk .  . 

you should go back to your mindlessly stupid 3rd world country. your 
brain has no business in a civilized first world country. 

joachim carlo santos 

if you were to substitute the word jew jewish in this posting where you 
see the word muslim islamic , switch joachim and mohammed 's names around , 
and then repost this , you would get a flood of messages attacking the author 
as an anti semite .  . and rightly so. the author of this crap is a racist , pure 
and simple. he obviously has no qualms about being open with it , either , 
unlike some other arab and bashers on the net. 

now , i for one , am not going to look at joachim 's posting and infer from it 
that all jews think this way. sure , there might be some , but this view is not 
a part of judaism , and it is stupid to believe that all jews' minds are this 
twisted .  . however , some muslims might look at joachim 's flame as a 
reaffirmation of their worst fears about jews that they all hate arabs and 
are racists .  . 

for this reason , i am alarmed that not more jews on the net have spoken out 
against what joachim has said. they have the chance to possibly change the 
anti semitic views of some people on the net , to show them that all jews do 
not hate all arabs and muslims , just like all muslims do not hate all 
jews .  . yet they are missing that chance. remember , to many people , silence 
implies consent .  . 

peace. 


nizam arain what makes the universe 
(217) 384 4671 so hard to comprehend 
internet is that there is nothing 
nextmail to compare it with. 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 18 

in article center for policy research writes 

dear folks , 

i am still awaiting for some sensible answer and comment. 

dear elias , 

i counted at least 4 such answers in public  ( plus whatever private 
email replies you may have received ) , yet you refuse to accept 
anything. perhaps you are better off in the private world of the 
center for policy research in iceland where you can define 
sensible in whatever way makes you feel most comfortable. 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject and not only had many moslems been killed , but horrible tortures .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 25 

source adventures in the near east by a. rawlinson , jonathan cape , 
30 bedford square , london , 1934  ( first published 1923)  ( 287 pages) .  . 
 ( memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people) 

p. 178  ( first paragraph) 

in those moslem villages in the plain below which had been searched for 
arms by the armenians everything had been taken under the cloak of such 
search , and not only had many moslems been killed , but horrible tortures 
had been inflicted in the endeavour to obtain information as to where 
valuables had been hidden , of which the armenians were aware of the 
existence , although they had been unable to find them. 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from (david bernstein ) 
subject nobody knows his name 
organization computervision 
lines 15 


i do n't mean to sound disrespectful , but since the majority 
of the contributors  ( and may be even readers ) of this newsgroup seem 
to be muslims , christians and jews , my question could be of some 
interest to any of them. 
it 's my impression that both islam and christianity pay great 
respect to an obscure 1st century jewish from judea galilee .  . why 
they chose this particular jew among all possible jews is a mystery 
to me  ( personally , i prefer woody allen his stories are much juicier ) 
but perhaps it 's an accident of history. 
anyway , it seems that they may be talking about two different 
jews .  . according to the new testament his father 's name was joseph , 
while in qur'an he appears as  . 
who 's right and why the name difference i'm really curious. 
david .  . 

from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re rejoinder .  . questions to israelis 
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan 
lines 40 

in article writes 

bh tsiel , 

bh i would contend that there was shelling from both sides of the border , 
bh starting from the early 70 's .  . certainly the plo did shell northern 
bh israel from the region , but israel did much more shelling 
bh destroying several south lebanese villages .  . at the very least 
bh we can say that both sides exchanged shelling , with occasional 
bh aerial raids by israel on lebanese villages .  . 
bh in any case steve 's characterization that the 1982 invasion was only in 
bh response to years of shelling from lebanon is false .  . israel had 
bh many reasons for invading but mainly it did so to install a government 
bh in lebanon favorable to israel , and it nearly achieved this aim 
bh with the election of el , and his brother , amin 
bh el , but the internal situation in lebanon was too hard 
bh to control and predict so israel had to withdraw , and amin el 
bh had to abrogate the 17 th of may agreement .  . 

basil , 

i was only correcting steve 's statement that were shelling israel 
from the golan , which was absurd .  . 
the fact that israel did much more shelling was in response to palestinian 
shelling from lebanon .  . israel has no intention of keeping an inch of lebanese 
territory .  . israel will continue to fight hizbullah , plo , etc. as long as 
its northern border is not quiet. if the lebanese army can control these 
elements then i think we can see genuine peace on the israel lebanese border .  . 
i remind you that a couple thousand lebanese cross each day into israel to 
work. 
as for the election of , it is true that he was favorable to 
israel , is that why the syrians killed him his brother amin was a syrian 
puppet , if he had not been , he would have been dead by now. 

tsiel 

8 8 
tsiel if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from s . 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
organization at t 
lines 28 

in article  ( nick jovanovic ) writes 
in article michael sells m writes 

... i find it interesting that mr. major finds the genocide of two 
million muslims in bosnia acceptable ... 


now you are actually claiming that 2 , 000 , 000 muslims have been killed 
in b h 


what if we remove one and make it the genocide of two hundred 
thousands muslims in bosnia .  .  . , would that make it any better .  .  . 
and how about the 2 , 000 , 000 muslims who were driven and continue to 
be driven out of their homes .  .  . is that utterly ridiculous claim 
and how about the rapes  ( over 60 , 000 women ) and the concentration 
camps .  .  . the us delegation which visited them reported yesterday 
on cnn that the serbs are giving the muslims 4 biscuits 
and a cup of water a day .  .  . ! ! 
that sure also sounds like an utterly ridiculous claim . ! 

please substantiate this utterly ridiculous claim .  . 

nick 



mohamed 

from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject re news that i missed 
organization subscriber , chicago , il 
lines 12 
nntp posting host localhost . mcs . com . 

in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

why is it , then , that when the british , iranians and uae refer to 
occupied territory , they mean territory in dispute in israel but not 
in their own affairs 

i suppose for the same reason jews call the occupied territory , judea and 
 . it 's called propaganda and if you repeat lies often enough , 
people start to believe it. 

js 

from  ( nick steel ) 
subject west bank and baseball 
organization etc organization 
lines 8 
nntp posting host hal . ai . mit . edu . 


it has be reported that the national baseball league has 
been spotted in the west bank they were recruiting pitchers .  . 


 .  .  . . 

 .  .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject muslim women and children were raped and massacred by the armenians .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 51 

in article  ( eduard wiener ) writes 

culture was in russia proper , not in the ukraine .  . i think 
all these attempts to prove that russians are descendants of 
finns , ukrainians of tatars , bulgarians of , and 
croats of iranians are based more on speculation than evidence. 

 . always has to stick his  asala sdpa arf  made nose into 
every discussion with non points and lies .  . well , still anxiously 
awaiting .  .  .  . 


source , ottoman empire , vol. ii. , p. 188 .  . 

the atrocities and massacres which have been committed for a long time 
against the muslim population within the armenian republic have been 
confirmed with very accurate information , and the observations made by 
rawlinson , the british representative in erzurum , have confirmed that 
these atrocities are being committed by the armenians .  . the united states 
delegation of general has seen the thousands of refugees who came 
to take refuge with 's soldiers , hungry and miserable , 
their children and wives , their properties destroyed , and the delegation 
was a witness to the cruelties .  . many muslim villages have been destroyed 
by the soldiers of armenian troops armed with cannons and machine guns 
before the eyes of 's troops and the people. when it was hoped 
that this operation would end , unfortunately since the beginning of 
february the cruelties inflicted on the muslim population of the region 
of , , , and have increased .  . according 
to documented information , 28 muslim villages have been destroyed in the 
aforementioned region , more than 2 , 000 people have been slaughtered , 
many possessions and livestock have been seized , young muslim women 
have been taken to kars and gumru , thousands of women and children who 
were able to flee their villages were beaten , raped and massacred in the 
mountains , and this aggression against the properties , lives , chastity 
and honour of the muslims continued .  . it was the responsibility of the 
armenian government that the cruelties and massacres be stopped in order 
to alleviate the tensions of muslim public opinion due to the atrocities 
committed by the armenians , that the possessions taken from the muslims 
be returned and that be paid , that the properties , lives , 
and honour of the muslims be protected .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( jens peter christensen ) 
subject apology to 
organization usr users mat  . organization . 
lines 39 
nntp posting host klein . dk . 


i would like to publicly apologize to our 
for playing 

well i am not sure that i feel the necessary remorse .  . 
you and another muslim lady ( hanan ) seems to me to 
be some attempt to charm the west into forgetting what you 
are really saying. 
it is not that we hate muslims but we hate certain things you 
are saying every now and then. and it is depressing to ponder the 
prospects for peace while those are held by your people. 
not that we are better then you , we have our own prejudices 
and vices in the west thank you. but your views are really 
depressing . thus i have fallen in the temptation to tease 
and make a little fun instead of .... 
and have problems to mobilize the necessary remorse ! 

best regards 





jens peter christensen 
associate professor , dr. phil .  . 
department of mathematics e mail 
university of copenhagen 
5 phone 45 353 
dk 2100 copenhagen fax 45 353 

disclaimer except when explicitly stated otherwise any 
message with this signature is the authors purely private 
responsibility .  . 

motto for everyone who has will be given more , and he 
will have an abundance .  . whoever does not have , even what 
he has will be taken from him. 
matthew principle ch . 25 . v . 29 . 


from (enis . surensoy) . 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization at t 
lines 39 

from article , by  ( javed ahmed khan) 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 

in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 

war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 



i dont think you 're correct here. there have been no reports of the bosnians 
muslims supporting the nazis in their genocide against the serbians .  . the 
fact is that the croat govt. using their secret police  ( called the , 
i think) were the prime agents of the nazis in yugoslavia against the serbs .  . 

 . 


first of all , this is not a strife this is a massacre of innocent 
moslem by the christian west .  . 

since ottoman lost the control of balkans , many tens and 
of millions of muslem peoples  ( turks , , bosnians , and others) 
have been tortured , raped , massacred , and driven out of their homes 
by the of both the region and europe .  . some lucky ones 
escaped to relative safety in turkiye .  . the remaining others are being 
finished now by local christians , the usa , and the rest of europe .  . 

the christian west is maintaining a tight arms on the muslem 
peoples of bosnia so they cannot while letting 
christian serbs and croats torture , rape , and massacre the innocent 
moslem peoples of bosnia .  . 

it took christian europe for almost six centuries to achieve this 
objective of theirs and i do not think they will let it up. this will 
go on untill every single moslem person  ( bosnian , turk , , etc) 
is tortured , raped , massacred , and driven out of their homes. 



from (joseph askew ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 32 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( adam l. schwartz ) writes 

i consider that defining the belonging to a nation that claims the 
right to have a state based on religious belief is a form of racism .  . 

although i do n't want to muddy the waters unnecessarily i disagree. any 
discrimination based on religion is not and cannot be racist unless the 
sole qualification for religious membership is racial .  . this is not the 
case for israel although it might get a little closer than , say , islam .  . 
this of course raises the vexed question of church antisemitism .  . jews 
have been heavily discriminated against on the grounds of religion in 
many christian countries. if we take russia as an example jews were 
seriously persecuted but that persecution in the eyes of the church 
and state stopped at the baptismal font .  . officially anyway. if a jew 
converted there were no legal barriers in his way  ( that i know of anyway . ) . 
peter the great 's interior minister came from such a convert background. 
can we then claim that the russian orthodox did not teach antisemitism 
and was not antisemitic similarly for the roman catholic church i 
suspect so as this is not a racial   but one based on belief 
and as is after all a form of racism .  . well maybe not. what is 
antisemitism then if not something racially based i wonder if hitler 
killed converts of  pure  german blood. does anyone know one way or 
the other 

joseph askew 


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades , 
remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief .  . 
disclaimer sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere , 
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on. 

from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject egypt call for fighting fundamentalists , objects to pro bosnian steps 
keywords international , united nations , government , non usa government , fighting 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 43 

it seems that egypt is only interested in fighting wars against its own 
people , while objecting to any steps for bosnia .  .  . i am not surprised , 
who said that mubarak represents egypt  ( hell he does not even represent 
all the criminals of egypt ) 

 ( anwar iqbal ) writes 

islamabad  ( upi ) representatives from 51 islamic nations were 
considering tuesday a request from bosnia herzegovina for 260 million 
and weapons to fight the bosnian serbs .  . 
.... 
the only commitment so far is 20 million from saudi arabia , which 

thanks saudia for the pocket change. 
compare that to the liberation of and to what they gave to some 
weird causes .  .  . o.k at least they are paying .  . 

has already donated 100 million to bosnia herzegovina .  . 
sources on the political committee said delegates were in agreement 
on the need to help the bosnian muslims , but the request for weapons had 
delayed a decision. 
may interpreted as violating the united nations  embargo on 
supplying arms to bosnia , '' warned egyptian foreign minister amer 
moussa .  . 

mr. moussa was not worried about international law when he tortured 
to death many of his citizens and when he shot people praying in a mosque , 
or when he is causing trouble to his neighbor just becasue the cia says so. 
why does n't he just shut up , he wo n't be involved in any bosnian effort 
anyway , or does the west have to be represented even in an islamic conference 

the more i hear about the egyptian regime , the more i understand the 
existence of the there. after all most of its members 
and leaders are former and current victims of government torture , injustice , 
or relatives of victims .  . in some other places they get psychiatric care and 
revenge in the courts .  . but all they got is more of the same resulting in a 
cycle of madness that is initiated by the government with the illicit support 
of the west who is more concerned about the safety of half naked tourists in 
conservative neighborhoods than the dignity , social justice , and safety of the 
majority of the poor oppressed people of egypt .  . enough said. 

to all apologists to the u.s imperialism watch the movie romero (1984) 
three times in a row , that might help.  ( or shall i say 13 times ) 

from  ( amos shapira ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 


organization inst. of comp. sci .  . , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel 
lines 25 
nntp posting host shuldig . cs . huji . ac . il . 
in reply to 's message of 26 apr 93 21 28 46 

 ( jim eggert g41 ) writes 

not exactly the same , but reminiscent of the assassination of count 
, who was the un negotiator during the 1948 israeli war of 
independence .  . he was killed by the israelis .  . seems he was being too 
successful in negotiating a cease fire , which would have worked 
territorially against the nascent israel , compared to continued war. 

that operation was done by a small jewish fraction before the state even 
existed and , as far as i remember , was by most of the jews .  . 

saying that he was killed by the israelis is plain wrong because there was n't 
israel at the time. 

and as far as the jews liked the idea of having part of the land you can see 
their reaction to the un resolution from 29 november , and the arab 's reaction 
too (no , it was n't that the arabs danced in the streets with of jewish 
states invading them but quite the other way around) .  . 

bye , 

amos shapira  ( jumper extraordinaire ) it is true that power corrupts , 
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better ! 
jerusalem , israel 
the demon to his son 

from  ( nick steel ) 
subject re the mufti again meanwhile they support the genocide of bosnians .  . 
organization etc organization 
lines 20 
nntp posting host hal . ai . mit . edu . 

in article kayman writes 
so why not condemn the mufti for his nazi leanings , and condemn all his 
supporters , while also condemning the similarly genocidal killing of 
innocents , muslim or not , in herzegovina hatred and bigotry 
remain just that , no matter who practices them. 

indeed , just like the ugly hatred spread by and 
, right or they are exempt from condemnation , and allowed 
to hate 

i know you 'll answer me indirectly , it does n't bother me a bit. 
keep it up. 

steel  ( who 's never pissed off) .  . 



 .  .  . . 

 .  .  . 

from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of virginia 
lines 88 

writes 
ob in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
writes 
in article ( andi beyer ) writes 

the un has tried many times to condemn israel for its 
gross violation of human rights. 

the un has also failed to condemn gross violations of human 
rights in many other places around the globe and in the middle east , 
thus leading many people to conclude that the un is biased in whom in 
chooses to condemn .  . 

a short , incomplete list of things the un did n't even consider 
condemning 


incident security council response 


2. gassing to death of over 8 , 000 kurds by none 
iraqi air force , 1988 89 
6. 30 , 000 civilians slaughtered by government none 
troops in hama , syria , 1982 
7. killing of 5 , 000 palestinians by jordanian troops , none 
thousands expelled , sept. , 1970 
14. syria kills 23 , 000 palestinians , 1976 none 
16. yemen 13 , 000 killed in two weeks , 1986 none 
17. sudan tens of thousands of black slaves , none 
civil war toll , 1 million killed , 3 million refugees 
19. rumania , 3 , 000 killed , 1989 none 
21. northern ireland none 
22. cambodia (the killing fields , 1 2 million murdered ) none 
27. syrian soldiers slaughter christian soldiers none 
after they surrender , 1990 

adam shostack 

wow , if you were the only source of news around the 
world it would seem that israel is being treated unfairly .  . 
luckily , that is not the case. i suggest reading european 
papers rather than israeli propaganda  ( arab papers would n't 
hurt either to see the propaganda of the other side) .  . anyway 
you are an example of what happens when people chose what to 
read. do n't get me wrong , it is perfectly within your rights. 
just do n't go off acting like you 're objective .  . 

i'm unclear here. are you saying that these events did not 
as you know , the un neither condemned nor expressed outrage at any 
of the events listed (i retained those that reflected policies 
of murder and  . is that an irrelevent fact to you 

while i do expect israel 's abusive policies to be condemned 
where appropriate , are you saying that you do not notice any 
degree of selective morality on the un 's part do you also 
find it convenient  ( and easy ) to blithely ignor particular 
acts simply because the perpetrators do n't happen to be on your 
bad guys list 



tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 
i have to say i think this is the first time there has 
been something posted that opposed me without making personal 
insults .  . tim .  . i think the other people answered 
you on most of the factual  . about the internal 
conflicts policy) .  . 
israel very often gets away with more 
than most other nations  ( due to u.s.  . while i am not 
familiar with every instance i know that the reason saudi 
arabia was not condemned for the pilgrims was that the 
pilgrims were iranian .  . yes , the un is biased but mostly in 
favor of the us and its allies  ( including israel , saudi arabia 
and pakistan ) and against outlaw countries like iran and more 
recently iraq .  . far be it from me to support the repressive 
governments there but i think they get more slack than israel 
for things they do wrong . again the reason some condemnations 
do n't occur lies in the race or country of the victims .  . the 
gassed iraqi kurds got associated with iran in the war and 
since iran was perceived as worse than iraq no condemnation 
resulted .  . the palestinians killed by arab countries involved 
another case of who cares. it seems that until very recently no 
one cared about how many palestinians died anywhere  ( including 
in israel and the occupied  . 
again i appreciate the lack of personal insults .  . 

from (joseph askew ) 
subject re israel not an apartheid state 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 29 

in article  ( adam shostack ) writes 
in article (joseph askew ) writes 

it is not a question of an individuals standing .  . when a party puts up 
an arab for a cabinet post and that arab is rejected but the position 
is given to a jew from the same party we are not talking about power 
but racism .  . 

not necessarily .  . as shai points out , political appointments are 
based on power. they are also based on favors owed , coalition 
building , and deal making. 

actually i am not sure you have understood what i have said. on several 
occasions a minor party has put up an arab for a cabinet position. that 
is the major party  ( labour in this case) has agreed that a minor party 
can have so many seats and that party an arab for one. this is 
not acceptable to the major party which insists on the minor party 
a jew .  . the favours owed , deals done , have all been settled .  . 
what remains is exactly who is going to sit in cabinet .  . the party that 
gets the seat wants an arab but that is not acceptable .  . this is racism .  . 
it has nothing to do with politics at all. 

joseph askew 


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades , 
remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief .  . 
disclaimer sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere , 
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on. 

from  ( nissan raclaw ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization tufts university medford , ma 
lines 27 



the honest answer to your question about arabs who were expelled 
from jaffa , and or who fled jaffa , or anywhere else in israel , having 
the right to return is yes , unfortunately , they have the right to 
return. they may apply for citizenship like any other non israeli and 
then go to jaffa and try to buy their house back from the jews who now 
own it. 

and now a question and answer for you can the jews who were 
born and raised in hebron , or their descendants go back to their homes 
in hebron the answer is absolutely not , because they were almost all 
murdered by their arab neighbors the palestinians . 

now , do i think the arabs should be allowed to even visit 
their homes in jaffa hell , no. bring back the jews of hebron , 
, jerusalem , safed , etc. then , perhaps i would be in favor of arabs 
returning to their jaffa homes. however , seeing as no arab has yet been 
able to bring people back from the dead , i 'd say that 's out. 

with all the hope in the world , 

nissan katz 





from  ( gennady feygin ) 
subject re news that i missed 
organization electrical and computer engineering , university of toronto 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( jack schmidling ) writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

why is it , then , that when the british , iranians and uae refer to 
occupied territory , they mean territory in dispute in israel but not 
in their own affairs 

i suppose for the same reason jews call the occupied territory , judea and 
 . it 's called propaganda 

actually judea and samaria are proper geographical names , just like 
asia minor or lake michigan .  . judea and samaria are even used in 
an atlas published in  ( what used to be) ussr circa 1970 that i have at 
home. the government of the ussr was of course quite hostile towards 
israel and would hardly engage in a pro israel propaganda .  . i would be 
willing to mail a photocopy of the relevant page to mr. schmidling 
with relevant words underlined to simplify his search , if he promises 
to report to the net afterwards. 
and if you repeat lies often enough , 
people start to believe it. 

mr. schmidling is to be for being living exception to this 
general rule. for although he is almost without peer in both the number 
of lies posted and in the number of times he repeats them he has n't 
found many people who believe his lies  ( yet ) .  . 


js 

g. feygin 

from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject re israel 's expansion 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 10 


reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 93 03 28 21 gmt 

poor phill hallam baker .  . the are getting worse , and his 
stratospheric typing skills can no longer keep up. spelling flame or 
real sympathy only his knows for sure 

official mossad policy we do n't stop until we get disneyland ! 

p.s. the 6 liter cars come from europe , and are labeled either bmw , 
mercedes benz , rolls or jaguar .  . check the tax 
price lists. 


from  ( jim eggert g41 ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 1993 20 48 23 gmt 
lines 34 
reply to 
organization mit lincoln lab group 41 


in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
there is a difference between guerrilla warfare and terrorism .  . 
the former primarily targets enemy soldiers .  . the latter primarily 
targets civilians , and not necessarily enemy , at that. 

... 
by comparison , fighters primarily target tourists , 
, babies , worshippers , shoppers , movie goers and other 
such threatening people. early zionist fighters did no such things. 

this is historically incorrect .  . early zionist  fighters  did indeed 
target civilians .  . they made random attacks in arab , 
killing innocent passers by. your assertion of the opposite is an 
attempt to whitewash history. anyone can read about the history of 
the zionist terrorists .  . a good book to start is the one by j. 
bell , an expert in international terrorism .  .  ( his main interest is 
irish terrorism . ) . 

author bell , j. , 
title terror out of zion irgun , lehi , and the palestine 
underground , 1929 1949 j. bell .  . 
pub. info new york st. martin 's press ,  . 
description xi , 374 p. , 14 leaves of plates ill. , maps 24 cm. 
subjects s1 yisrael .  . 
s2 irgun  . 
s3 israel arab war , 1948 1949 .  . 
s4 jewish arab relations 1917 1949 .  . 
lc 7 . 1977 

for completeness , arab of the same period was also rampant , 
and targeted chiefly jewish civilians .  . can anyone tell me what the 
opposite of live and let live is 

jim  ( jim eggert ) 

from  ( tim clock) 
subject re israeli media  ( was re israeli terrorism ) 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 19 

in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

jake can call me doctor brad ali hernlem  ( as of last wednesday ) 

congratulations .  . in what field is this doctorate 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

i add my congratulations as well. to all those who survive the gauntlet , 
cheers .  . 

tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject re news that i missed 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization ncsu chem eng 
lines 38 


in article ,  ( jake livni ) writes 

in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 
in article ,  ( dave bakken ) writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 

in the ny times , on sunday , may 2 , in an article on somalia , a 
reporter writes 

... but last year , iran quietly took over four islands belonging 
to the united arab and deported their people , with hardly a 
protest from the united states. ... 

does anyone know what this is referring to i seem to have missed it. 
 ( spiked , no doubt. ) 

there was something in the nyt and other sources about this for a few 
days. it is an ongoing border , and when the iranians kicked 
out the uae people it was briefly reported  ( this was many moons ago) .  . 
i do n't recall reading of any public us comment if it were a strong 
protest i probably would have seen it. 

those islands would be abu musa , and the greater and lesser , i presume .  . 
i do n't know about a fourth .  . the latter two islands belong to iran and so 

according to the ny times , the 4 islands belong to the united arab 
 . 

jake livni 

the ny times is in error. this is not simply my opinion even the arab sources 
that i use do not make this claim .  . this , of course , is assuming that the ny 
times was refering to the islands that i named above. of those islands , only 
abu musa has been in dispute and iranian occupation of that island predates 
the existence of the uae .  . 

brad hernlem 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re jews shoot muslim infants 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 27 

in article s . writes 

allow me to mention that it is indeed and indeed 
to defend oneself , to fight brutal occupation , and to restore the 
freedom of oneself , or one 's people. not just in islam but also 
in the teachings of all right minded individuals 

what is so honorable about placing bombs in passenger airliners , 
promising to execute rushdie , killing 1 2 million people in the 
iran iraq war , murdering tourists and persecuting christians in 
egypt , massacring christians in sudan , harassing christians in and 
barring jews from saudi arabia how are paranoid muslims righteous 
in defending in these situations who are they even 
afraid of 

it is always amazing yet true that those who suffer from religious 
persecution are usually the ones who practice it once they are able 
to. your to islam is filling this net with foam .  . 

considering that you seem to be posting from central new jersey , this 
is an odd comment coming from you. i dare you to speak your mind in 
the middle east in any country besides israel .  . 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from ahmed  ( shakil ahmed ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization yale university computer science dept. , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cs . yale . edu . 


in article , 
 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

muslim in ex yugoslavia was a nation not a religion. in fact , not 
all muslims in b h are followers of islam .  . therefore , there do  ( did ) 
exist in ex yugoslavia christian muslims .  . 

yeah ! that 's it ! ) you 've really yourself this time nick .  .  .  . 
do n't forget the davidian muslims ... ) 

islam is not a race. it 's a religion. you can be white , black , 
or alaskan .  . i guess you did n't absorb too much of the malcolm 
x interest circulating .  . you see , the whole point of islam is that it 
stresses equality amongst all peoples .  . now , i do realize this is 
difficult for you to comprehend given your staunch beliefs in serbian 
ethnic cleansing , but give it a try , it 's really not that difficult. 

the war is not a religious war , and it is not an ethnic war. 

that 's right , it 's a disneyland war all a setup for the tv cameras .  . 
there are also people who believe man never landed on the moon , that 
the whole apollo story was done in tv studios .  .  .  . 

it is a 
civil war in which the terms of secession are being negotiated with guns 
instead of pens .  . the croat , muslim , and serb political leaders all 
chose to fight over the terms of secession instead of compromising and 
peacefully negotiating secession agreements .  . 

terms of secession you are , of course , joking , right nick nobody 
chose to fight. bosnia and croatia were internationally 
recognized nations when the serbs attacked and started on their 
well documented genocide .  . that makes them an outside aggressor .  . it 's 
a simple genocide , a classical example of ethnic cleansing .  . there is 
no question of civil war .  .  .  . 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 36 


steve birnbaum writes 

this is actually the law that david irving 
will hopefully be found guilty under due to his denial of the holocaust .  . 
it 's too bad that this useless centre for policy research is n't in canada .  . 
it 'd set a nice precedent to how the law applies in cyberspace .  . 

in article 
( andi beyer ) responds 

well canada is wrong. 

talk about generalizations .  . indeed , you do sound quite immature .  . 

if it was in the us the aclu would have 
made sure that such repressive laws are found unconstitutional .  . 

what the aclu fighting against an anti hate law you mean that the 
aclu would support gay bashing , racial discrimination and anti semitic 
violence thanks , andi , for reminding us that the constitution 
preserves our rights to such fun activities. 

do you think the church did n't find galileo 's perception of the 
universe offensive .  . 

probably , but galileo happened to be right. 

jews are offended by the holocaust , too. the revisionists , 
who deny that history even happened , happen to be wrong. 



jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from (david davidian ) 
subject addressing turkish genocide apology 452 
summary turkish denial of genocide mccarthy shaw 
keywords anti armenian anti greek stanford shaw exposed as a ! 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 143 

turkish historical revision via 
 ( serdar argic ) responded to article 
pavlovic  ( milan pavlovic ) who wrote 

mp actually , i would like to get a compilation of these one liners , 
mp so that i could print them out and show them to my friends over the 
mp summer , and they can see what kind of clowns exist out there in chicago .  . 

check out alt . fans . serdar . argic . ! 

( well , does it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920 , 
( the armenian government ordered , incited , assisted and participated 
( in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race , religion 
( and national origin 

muslim race muslim national origin you fool ! 

( 1) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of van .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 

no. today muslims 100 , armenians 0 

( 2) armenians did slaughter 42 of muslim population of bitlis .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 

no. today muslims 100 , armenians 0 

( 3) armenians did slaughter 31 of muslim population of erzurum .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 

no. today muslims 100 , armenians 0 

( 4) armenians did slaughter 26 of muslim population of diyarbakir .  . 1 , 2 , 
( 3 , 4 

no. today muslims 100 , armenians 0 

( 5) armenians did slaughter 16 of muslim population of mamuretulaziz .  . 1 , 
( 2 , 3 , 4 

no. today muslims 100 , armenians 0 

( 6) armenians did slaughter 15 of muslim population of sivas .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 

no. today muslims 100 , armenians 0 

( 7) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of the x soviet 
( armenia .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 

no. the azeri population of armenia in 1988 , after anti armenian pogroms in 
azerbaijan , was kicked out and sent to azerbaijan .  . the remaining muslims 
stayed in armenia ! 

( 1 mccarthy , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman 
( anatolia and the end of the empire , new york 
( university press , new york , 1983 , pp. 133 144 .  . 

let 's check it out ! on page 121 of this turkish suggested reference we read 

the 1927 turkish census registered not one person of the gregorian armenian 
faith in van , only one in , and twelve in erzurum .  . a people who had 
lived in eastern anatolia since before recorded history were simply gone. 

( 2 , k. , ottoman population , the university of wisconsin press , 
( 1985 .  . 

let 's check it out , but first of all the complete title of this reference 
includes the words 1830 1914 . thus such a reference cannot support the 
above claimed garbage ! however , since this is a turkish suggested reference , 
on pages 51 and on table i2 b it states there were 2.4 million armenians in 
turkey from 1856 .  . i guess they were simply gone after wwi ! 

( 3 , r. g. , armenia on the road to independence , 1918 .  . 
( university of california press  ( berkeley and 
( los angeles ) , 1967 , pp. 13 , 37 .  . 

let 's check it out ! on page 48 of this turkish suggested reference , under 
sub title , deportation and massacre of turkish armenians it states 

several authors assert that armenian resistance at van constituted a key 
factor in the turkish evacuation of persia and motivated the 
young turk leaders to annihilate the turkish armenians .  . the question of 
responsibility for the massacres or deportation of nearly all ottoman 
armenians has evolved into a  . hundreds of books , articles , and 
documents have been published to describe the horrifying scenes of violence 
and death. many writers , such as the british bryce and toynbee , french , 
german , american and gibbons , have insisted that the 
massacres were predetermined and ruthlessly executed .  . the have refuted the 
ottoman government 's official publications and justifications by 
substantiating that anti armenian measures were by the 
even before the outbreak of war. the fact remains than an 
estimated eight hundred thousand to over a million armenians perished within 
a few months , and several hundred thousand more succumbed in the following 
years to the ravages of disease , famine , and refugee life. unknown numbers 
of women and children were converted forcibly to islam , possessed by 
turkish men , or adopted by moslem families. 


( 4 shaw , s. j. ,  on armenian collaboration with invading russian armies 
( in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey 
(  ( volume ii reform , revolution republic the rise of 
( modern turkey , 1808 1975) .  .  ( london , cambridge university 
( press 1977) .  . pp. 315 316 .  . 

stanford shaw is a paid liar revisionist for the turkish government , and has 
been exposed as a ! for example 

experts from an interview  ( in greek ) with professor (from nyc 's 
national herald , 3 12 93) thanks , mr. g . b .  . 

few people know of the problem i faced at ucla when professor stanford 
shaw was due for promotion .  . i knew him to be turkey 's man due to my 
reading knowledge of turkish and my seniority over him , i was a member 
of the promotion committee .  . for that case , i sat down and read his entire 
treatise history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey . it took me 
three months and i found out , from volume i , that he had 
uzun , an eminent turkish specialist on ottoman history. shaw 
himself claimed in his introduction that his treatise was the outcome 
of a 20 year search through the ottoman archives .  . well , i went on leave 
and managed to show 40 of volume i , containing around 5000 sentences , 
to be the result of , matching each sentence with passages 
from the original work. he had even reproduced the errors. so i produced a 
500 pages manuscript and submitted a 60 pages report on shaw 's  . 

the university , however , rejected my report and , after a closed meeting , 
promoted stanford shaw to distinguished professor .  . i paid a price for 
all this upset by the whole process , i confronted the entire university 
structure and was considered to be a chauvinist and madman .  . i asked for 
permission to run a seminar on shaw 's book that was denied by the president 
of the university .  . while the center for near eastern studies granted me 
permission , the president was depriving me of my academic freedom .  . luckily , 
the dean refused to give in and i did run the seminar , attended by more 
than 150 academic people , in which i uncovered stanford shaw , who refused 
to attend .  . as a punishment , the university froze all my raises .  . 

5  ( armenian newspaper published in the united states) , may 24 , 
1915 .  . 

no chance ! there was no may 24th , 1915 issue of ! 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re as muslim women and children were being massacred by armenians .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 85 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

come again the image conscious armenians sorely feel a missing 
glory in their background. armenians have never achieved statehood 
and independence , they have always been subservient , and engaged 
in undermining schemes against their rulers .  . they committed 
genocide against the muslim populations of eastern anatolia 
and x soviet armenia before and during world war i and fully 
participated in the extermination of the european jewry 
during world war ii. belligerence , genocide , back stabbing , 
rebelliousness and disloyalty have been the hallmarks of the 
armenian history. to obliterate these episodes the armenians 
engaged in tailoring history to suit their whims .  . in this zeal 
they tried to cover up the cold blooded genocide of 2.5 million 
turks and kurds before and during world war i. 
source documents volume i (1919) .  . 
document no 50 , archive no 4 3621 , cabin no 162 , drawer 
no 5 , file no 2905 , section no 433 , contents no 6 , 6 1 , 6 2. 
 ( to 36th division command militia commander ismail hakki ) 

your note was not on target at all. armenians have had many independent 
times in their long and beautiful history. including an independent 

your ignorance is hardly characteristic of most '  . 
explains in his book called 'the armenian community , new york 1955 , 
philosophical library  that , according to historians , original fatherland 
of the armenians was in , greece .  . armenian invaders burned and 
sacked the fatherland of , massacred and exterminated its population 
and presented to the world all those left from the , as the armenian 
civilization .  . all reliable western historians describe how armenians 
ruthlessly exterminated 2.5 million muslim women , children and elderly 
people of eastern anatolia and how they collaborated with the enemies of 
the muslim people between 1914 1920. it is unfortunately a truth that 
armenians are known as collaborators of the nazis during world war ii 
and that , even today , criminal members of the asala sdpa arf terrorism 
triangle preach and instigate racism , hatred , violence and terrorism 
among peoples .  . 

please tell me how on earth armenians fully participated in the genocide 
of jews during wwii , are you on some heavy drugs 

who says   are no damn good during world war ii armenians 
were carried away with the german might and cringing and fawning over 
the nazis .  . in that zeal , the armenian publication in germany , , 
carried statements as follows 1 

sometimes it is difficult to eradicate these poisonous elements (the jews) 
when they have struck deep root like a chronic disease , and when it 
becomes necessary for a people (the nazis ) to eradicate them in an uncommon 
method , these attempts are regarded as revolutionary .  . during the surgical 
operation , the flow of blood is a natural thing. 

now for a brief view of the armenian genocide of the muslims and jews 
extracts from a letter dated december 11 , 1983 , published in the san 
francisco chronicle , as an answer to a letter that had been published 
in the same journal under the signature of one b. amarian .  . 

we have first hand information and evidence of armenian atrocities 
against our people (jews) .  . members of our family witnessed the 
murder of 148 members of our family near erzurum , turkey , by armenian 
neighbors , bent on destroying anything and anybody remotely jewish 
and or muslim .  . armenians should look to their own history and see 
the havoc they and their ancestors perpetrated upon their neighbors. 
armenians were in league with hitler in the last war , on his premise 
to grant themselves government if , in return , the armenians would 
help exterminate jews .  . armenians were also hearty proponents of 
the anti semitic acts in league with the russian communists .  . 

signed ben levi , vacaville , california .  . 

1 james g. ,  dro , , ' in the  armenian 
review , ' a quarterly by the association , inc. , summer 
june 1957 , vol. x , no. 2 38 .  . 

and stick around .  .  .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re deir yassin 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 88 

in article ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 
writes 
in article ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 

, you say that there is no evidence that what motivated the irgun 
to attack dir yassin was its strategic importance .  . in fact , begin , 
who was in charge of the irgun , wrote that dir yassin was attacked for 
its military significance .  . 

dir yassin was merely a battle in the war of liberation .  . people died. 
but the thing was never intended to be a  . that this 
is a tragedy of war not a crime of the irgun .  . 

i agree with you harry , however you must also concede then that 
arab terrorism is also a tragedy of war. 

no one is forced to blow up airplanes .  . terrorism is a choice 
made by people because they do not want to work for peace. 

remember that the 
palestinians have no other effective target but civilians in 
order to further their cause. 

there are lots of military targets in israel .  . there are 
lots of legitamate targets in israel .  . old ladies , children , and 
civilians in general are not acceptable targets .  . 

if the only person you can kill is a civilian , you hold your 
fire. if that means you ca n't kill anyone , then you ca n't kill 
anyone. claiming that targets are acceptable because they 
are easy kills is rediculous .  . 

if irgun had to attack civilian targets to terrorize in order that 
they might obtain some objective , i'm sure they would have done so. 

did they make a policy of it 

i also do n't 
exclude irgun 's action against british soldiers as terrorism .  . 

did you mean excuse ) killing a soldier and killing a 
civilian are two very different acts .  . 

the british were showing signs of favoring a compromise with 
regards to palestine , and the irgun and branch off groups made 
a point to kill young british recruits so that mothers and 
fathers back in britain would get angry at continued 
presence in palestine .  . 

no , they killed soldiers so that the british government would 
leave. the objective was not to scare , but show that the cost 
of staying was way too high. 

in contrast , a terrorist kills to scare other 
 . they use random violence against people to make a point 
that no one is safe until their demands are met. an analogy would be 
the irgun blowing up or 10 downing .  . 

sounds like a form of terrorism to me , and not much removed from 
arab terrorism .  . 

thats because you missed the essential point of arab 
terrorism , which is to scare away from israel , by killing 
those who have something to do with israel .  . it is to kill jews 
because they might be zionists .  . it is to kill people who live in 
israel because of where they live. the targets are rarely soldiers , 
or other people who understand they might be attacked in the line of 
duty , but innocent civilians , to underscore the message that no one 
who deals with israel is safe. 

i 'll reiterate again .  .  .  .  . both sides are screwy , but 
i 'll favor the underdog in this case because i do think they 
were a bit screwed .  . 

oh , you mean you favor the israelis , outnumbered 2 to 1 , 
outgunned , surrounded by hostile states only one of which has signed a 
peace treaty in 45 years you favor the jews , people like leon 
, a cripple who was thrown off a boat because he was jewish 
you support the right of the jewish people to live in peace 

why , thank you for your support. 

adam 

adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 18 

in article center for policy research writes 

there are basically three alternatives for gaza 

4. annex gaza to egypt .  . 
5. annex gaza to israel 
6. maintain the status quo .  . 
7. partition gaza into a jewish and an arab state. 

i do n't support any of these , i just felt like 
pointing out there are way more than three solutions. next time , 
maybe we 'll see some research into them .  .  .  .  . 

adam 
adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from (e .  . elizabeth bartley ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 16 

in article 
( andi beyer ) writes 

the jews that were stranded on the polish border since 
no country accepted them are like the arabs stranded on the 
border .  . no trials , no hearing , just expulsion based on 
guilt due to race. 

not due to race. due to membership in an organization which 
publically proclaimed it would destroy the state which expelled them 
and furthermore kill a large segment of the citizens of that state , 
based on race. 


pro choice anti roe e. elizabeth 
abortions should be safe , legal , early , and rare .  . 

from  ( herb effron ) 
subject re rabin and his palestinians 
organization eskimo north (206) 367 3837 seattle , wa .  . 
lines 12 


providing safety and security for one 's own people is the most 
fundamental responsibility of any political entity .  . for the palestinian 
leadership to refuse to accept this responsibility , i.e. take the 
responsibility to protect their people from radical palestinian elements 
who are opposed to the peace process , is reprehensible .  . to argue that a 
palestinian police force would be established in order to control peaceful 
political groups only the reality that the palestinian 
leadership , so far , can not exercise control over radical palestinian 
elements nor effectively deal with the killing of palestinians by 
palestinians .  . this is a problem that can only be solved by the 
palestinian people. 

from (joseph askew ) 
subject re deir yassin 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 81 

in article  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 
in article  ( aurag hassan ) writes 

i am replying to this because i have n't seen anyone else do so yet. it 
seems rather odd really as there are so few really wierd posters left 
who are n't fascists or arab extremists .  . 

arab civilians did die at dir yassin .  . but there was no massacre .  . 

yes it was and it was clearly admitted so by the troops who carried it 
out and then stupidly deposited testimony in their own archives to that 
effect. 

first 
of all , the village housed many armed troops .  . 

source noone is claiming this anymore except you. would you like 
to name one credible historian who asserts this i believe that 
even begin has the decency not to claim this. 

secondly , the irgun 
and stern fighters had absolutely no intentions of killing civilians .  . 

yes they did and thye said so they said they went their with the 
intention of killing all the men and all the women who got in their 
way. their own archives remember , this is not hostile testimony .  . 

the village was attacked only for its military significance .  . in fact , 
a warning was given to the occupants of the village to leave before 
the attack was to begin. 

sound van bogged down in a ditch .  . no warning given. 

by all rational standards , dir yassin was not a massacre .  . the killing 
was unintentional .  . 

yes it was and no it was not. it was a massacre the murder of hundreds 
of unarmed civilians who had no part in the fighting .  . the surviving men 
were taken to the local quarry and shot in the back of the head. not 
intentional yeah right. 

the village housed arab snipers and arab troops .  . 

no it did not you have a source for this slander of course 

thus it was attacked for its military significance .  . it was not 
attacked with intentions of killing any civilians .  . 

the men involved said clearly that the intention was to kill all the 
men. it was a premeditated mass murder nothing else. 

to even compare dir yassin , in which some 120 or so arabs died , to the 
holocaust is absurd .  . 

on that we agree at least. 

the irgun did not want to kill any civilians .  . the 
village had almost 1000 inhabitants , most of whom survived .  . 

yes they did want to kill the inhabitants and many of them were killed. 
this is of course simple to resolve , the sent a soldier to report 
on the massacre .  . he brought a photographer with him. he sent in a report. 
the israeli government suppressed it. now the government was a labour 
government. since then the revisionists have gotten into power but for 
some reason likud did n't release the report and its pictures either. 
perhaps you might want to tell me why if it happened as you claim then 
there will be no pictures of men shot in the head with their hands tied 
behind their backs , no women and children shot as they slept .  . yet for 
some reason they did not take the chance to clear their own name. you 
have a reason for this do n't you i somehow doubt it. the facts are 
exactly as the people responsible claim a premeditated mass murder 
nothing else. no iraqi soldiers , no other fighting .  . just ethnic cleansing 
at work. 

joseph askew 


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades , 
remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief .  . 
disclaimer sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere , 
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on. 

from ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) 
subject re deir yassin 
organization university of virginia 
lines 65 

writes 
in article  ( aurag hassan ) writes 

are you trying to say that there were no massacres in deir yassin 
or in sabra and if so then let me tell you some good jokes 

there is not and was not any such thing like jewish killing in wwii 

palestinians just did what davidians did for fourty years and more. 

in fact no one was killed in any war at any time or any place. 

people die that is all. no one gets killed. 

maybe also did n't die in vietnam war killed by american 
napalm they were just pyromaniacs and that 's all. 

maybe jews just liked gas chambers and no one forced them to get in there . they . 
may be thought it was like cocaine .  . no 

what do you think of this is n't it stupid to say so 
well it is as stupid as what you said  . next . time you want to lie do it 
intelligently .  . 

sincerely yours. 

hassan 

arab civilians did die at dir yassin .  . but there was no massacre .  . first 
of all , the village housed many armed troops .  . secondly , the irgun 
and stern fighters had absolutely no intentions of killing civilians .  . 
the village was attacked only for its military significance .  . in fact , 
a warning was given to the occupants of the village to leave before 
the attack was to begin. 

by all rational standards , dir yassin was not a massacre .  . the killing 
was unintentional .  . the village housed arab snipers and arab troops .  . 
thus it was attacked for its military significance .  . it was not 
attacked with intentions of killing any civilians .  . 

to even compare dir yassin , in which some 120 or so arabs died , to the 
holocaust is absurd .  . the irgun did not want to kill any civilians .  . the 
village had almost 1000 inhabitants , most of whom survived .  . 

harry .  . 
this is such bullshit .  . deir yassin was an unprovoked attack on 
the part of the jews , and a massacre defines it best in my 
opinion. the village of deir yassin had had a pact with the 
jews , a peace pact , but the irgun purposely broke this 
agreement in order to scare off the palestinians .  . i might 
grant that this village housed armed arabs i doubt it but 
nothing in the archives and available literature indicates that 
this was a motivating force amongst the irgun .  . the deir yassin 
massacre was part of an over all strategy to intimidate the 
palestinians to flee the jewish homeland .  . ,  .  .  . and . contrary to 
your belief , many civilians were killed. deir yassin was later 
by the very jews who perpetrated it because it was 
useful in getting many palestinians to leave. the palestinians 
were rightfully scared off , because they did not want another 
deir yassin .  . 
i'm not necessarily condemning the israelites here 
atrocities were committed on the part of the arabs .  . 
israelophiles should just be careful in thinking that they are 
and were the good guys in the middle east .  . both arab and jew 
suck equally .  . 

from  ( mohammad razi khan) 
subject re what a hate filled newsgroup ! ! ! ! 
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi 
distribution world 
lines 25 

( andi beyer ) writes 



geez , i think some of these people have been too long on the net , 
you are not going to convince anyone of anything through violent 
language , one wonders why so many have violent tounges .  .  .  . 





i do n't know but i think he has a point. all i did was ask a 
lousy question and everyone started calling me names. it 's all 
gotten out of hand. they start associating me with mengel and 
arafat  ( whom by the way i think is an  . gosh guys 
lighten up and try to at least pretend to be reasonable .  . i 
still do n't understand what has been so antisemitic about the 
stuff i posted. i think you guys are just looking to get 
offended and in that sense need to get a life. 

mohammad r. khan 
after july '93 , please send mail to 



from  ( tim clock) 
subject re zionist leaders  frank statements 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 131 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( tim clock) writes 

try coming up with your own definition of any or all self hating peoples .  . 
to me , any who reject their culture to the point where they only see the 
absolute negatives of that culture  ( generally , or regarding a particular 
event ) and accept only those views purely opposing aspects of that culture 
 ( thus , selective belief in use of historical facts and a complete ignoring 
of context results) hate their culture. 

i believe that things are getting mixed here. 
israel and or being anti zionist is not seeing the absolute 
negatives of that culture . 

if that culture referred to is israeli , being anti zionist can be seen 
as a complete denial of that entity 's right to exist and its legitimacy . 
just as saying that islam has no right to establish and implement a 
state that includes any non muslims , both are absolute , one dimensional 
views of that culture with regard to the issue of state . 

maybe , because a person can see the positives 
of that culture is that that person opposes zionism and the actions of the 
state of israel .  . 

if that were the case , one would expect a few of that culture 's positives 
to be discussed with regard to the issue at hand. since the issue centers 
on israeli culture , i have yet to hear of any positives of that culture 
in this discussion. 

i , for one , consider the actions of the state of israel with respect to 
the human rights of the palestinian people as an example of an action 
opposes what jewish culture was suppose to uphold as an example of 
respect and what the jewish people learned about , segregation and 
years in the diaspora .  . 

i agree with you. but i also feel that when a culture feels it is confronted 
by another group that wishes to see that culture disassembled , the first 
culture has little choice but to try to secure its survival as well as 
maintain its moral center. since the culture is not about to turn away 
from either the matter of its survival or the valuing of its moral 
principles , it has the virtually impossible job of balancing . 

to discuss israel 's faults and crimes without any recognition of this 
circumstance and reality it faces is a conscious decision based on the 
's political biases , not on an honest and open 
understanding of the situation. the same applies to those who attempt to 
paint the palestinian movement as all bad and dispense with considerations 
of the reality facing them. 

that certainly describes elias , 
since he has no intention of recognizing that , alongside the palestinian 
experience and perspective , there exists also that of israelis .  . 

he might not want to recognize that. it does not make him a self hating 
jew , as far as i see it. at most , he is a person who is not telling 
the truth. 

you beg the question by centering on the symptoms while the issue 
of self hating addresses the motivations .  . i certainly feel that 
anyone who expends so much effort , distorting and robbing 
human context from aspects of his her own culture is reflecting 
a degree of dislike for it. since bits of that culture are bound , 
due to his her upbringing , to be a part of him her , a bit of self 
dislike seems likely to be mixed in somewhere. 

who is a jew a person whose integrity when 
by the knowledge of wrong done to other people. 
a. j. 

that is why i get moved when i see the israeli army killing people in 
the occupied territories as much as i get moved when i see a 
people in israel .  . 

and , this is precisely why israeli society has been tremendously harmed 
by the actions it  ( its government) has felt it had to take in response 
to an other perceived as a threat .  . just as with you , there has long 
been a strident and emotional debate about the pain israelis feel when 
forced to balance desires for survival and moral beliefs .  . the trauma 
of having to make that choice is made worse by the fact that neither 
can be conveniently brushed aside  ( as a result of a reasoned political 
debate ) for the sake of the other , only reshaped .  . 


but , so far , it seems that the blame is always put on the other . 
if you read this newsgroup , for example , israel is never guilty by 
herself. she is always responding to the actions of the other , and 
it goes as if the actions of isreal do not also affect the response 
of the other  in a cycle that never ends. also , there is blindness to 
try to understand what the other feels and why. 

as you well know , this process of blaming the other for the morally 
questionable actions one side is forced (by the other , of course) to 
take is thoroughly practiced by both sides . if you are only hearing 
the pro israeli crowd 's self supporting arguments , that may be due to 
the fact that you are not listening for anything else. i certainly 
hear the similarly distorting pro palestinian pro arab element in 
this newsgroup  ( as well as in soc . culture .  . 

there is always and excuse. there is always a rationale to explain why 
things happen as they do. and , what is the worst part for me , there 
seems to be all the time an intention to try to de humanize the other , 
as if the other did not care about their future , children , peace , etc , etc. 

aap 

i agree , agree , agree , agree. 

however , in my response to the initial discussion above between davidsson 
and those opposing his presentations , i saw davidsson carefully putting 
academic frills around a blatantly one sided series of i hate dislike 
them , , ,  . i did not find the approach of those 
opposing davidsson to be centered at all on a and denial 
of the other side . 

i certainly do wonder if the degree to which davidsson 's views on the 
middle east have distorted is connected to his dislike and rejection 
of his jewish lineage .  . having said this , however , i agree with you that 
this constant accusing others of being self hating jews seems 
pointless .  . it is not worse a label than is why , you 're on their side , 
except to perhaps imply a certain degree of overly enthusiastic 
 . 

tim 




tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject re hamza salah , the humanist 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 3 

reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 25 apr 1993 00 49 17 gmt 

hey , i want my posts forwarded too. i ca n't get my sysadmin to pay 
any attention to me. 


from (t . s . 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization sun 
lines 53 
nntp posting host 

in article ahmed  ( shakil ahmed ) writes 

in article , 
 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

muslim in ex yugoslavia was a nation not a religion. in fact , not 
all muslims in b h are followers of islam .  . therefore , there do  ( did ) 
exist in ex yugoslavia christian muslims .  . 

yeah ! that 's it ! ) you 've really yourself this time nick .  .  .  . 
do n't forget the davidian muslims ... ) 

islam is not a race. it 's a religion. you can be white , black , 
or alaskan .  . i guess you did n't absorb too much of the malcolm 
x interest circulating .  . you see , the whole point of islam is that it 
stresses equality amongst all peoples .  . now , i do realize this is 
difficult for you to comprehend given your staunch beliefs in serbian 
ethnic cleansing , but give it a try , it 's really not that difficult. 


our white knight for islam rides in again ! our instant expert 
on religion , race and ethnicity is at the door ! stand back all. let 
him through. he 's going to single handedly rescue islam from all these 
dastardly mistakes , misquotes , misconceptions .  . 

the war is not a religious war , and it is not an ethnic war. 

that 's right , it 's a disneyland war all a setup for the tv cameras .  . 
there are also people who believe man never landed on the moon , that 
the whole apollo story was done in tv studios .  .  .  . 

it is a 
civil war in which the terms of secession are being negotiated with guns 
instead of pens .  . the croat , muslim , and serb political leaders all 
chose to fight over the terms of secession instead of compromising and 
peacefully negotiating secession agreements .  . 

terms of secession you are , of course , joking , right nick nobody 
chose to fight. bosnia and croatia were internationally 
recognized nations when the serbs attacked and started on their 
well documented genocide .  . that makes them an outside aggressor .  . it 's 
a simple genocide , a classical example of ethnic cleansing .  . there is 
no question of civil war .  .  .  . 



did it occur to you that there is such a thing as bosnian serbs 
who are n't necessarily outsiders and while you 're at it , could you 
please a little bit about your islamic pals in the sudan 
who are running in the south , kidnapping women and children 
and , in essence , doing the same thing how come we do n't hear your 
wonderful treatises on what 's happening 
out there 

from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject saudia cannot even control upi despite buying it ) 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 69 

 ( upi ) writes 

this is a very update , i will omit just a few lines , and add 
some overhead for the sake of the copyright ) 

i say despite all the bad news for muslims around the world , things are 
shaping up very well , a lot of killings might happen in the near future , 
though  ( as if bosnia is not a lot) .  . 
right now , i feel like saying what said the stage is set . 
i do n't think that things will be the same in ten year , 
on the pessimistic realistic side , we can only see the stage set for more 
wars imposed on our people , and governments being remote controlled .  . 
to fight each other and to oppress their own people , but i am confident 
they will all fall 
i venture to list the order sudan yemen alliance , algeria libya in 5 years , 
one year later but egypt may face direct colonization very soon to 
prevent an islamic government which might take over after egypt attacks 
sudan and is envolved in atrocities there as it fails to achieve 
victory .  . meanwhile saudia faces a civil war and goes to war 
with yemen sudan over it , the new north african 
alliance  ( algeria tun libya ) goes to war with who attacks it. 
u.s france involved everywhere but cannot concentrate on one place , 
especially that syria jordan iraq have to be kept under control. 

after the cloud clears , i do not know what the end result will be , 

o.k back to reality 

cairo , egypt  ( upi ) the cairo based arab organization for human 
rights  ( aohr ) sunday called on king of saudi arabia to order the 
release of members of the kingdom 's first human rights group. 

..... 
among those group wants released was mohamed ben abdullah al , 
spokesman of the committee for the defense of legitimate rights  . 
al was arrested just before dawn saturday at his residence in 
riyadh 's king faisal university , where he worked as a physics professor , 
human rights and media sources reported .  . 
the media reports said saudi security forces also seized 
publications , books , correspondence and other documents and papers from 
al 's residence .  . he was reportedly taken to an unknown 
destination .  . 
the london based liberty human rights group claimed that the other 
five members who together with al formed on may 3 , were 
summoned for police questioning and might have been detained as well. 
on thursday , the saudi government ordered the firing and 
of the six activists because they established the group urging people in 
the kingdom with grievances to report to  . 
four of the activists were sacked from their positions with two 
state run saudi universities and two government departments , and two 
lawyers , including al 's father , were and their law 
offices were closed , the said. 
the other lawyer , al , was described by as the 
first ever to practice law in the kingdom .  . 
also claimed that about 400 other people might have been 
arrested around the country in connection with the  . they were 
apparently people who have either responded to the group 's call for 
reports on grievances or others closely linked to the founders .  . 
saudi authorities were reported to have also been angered by reports 
that al and others have met with u.s. diplomats based in riyadh .  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
the kingdom 's highest religious authority , the higher council of 
ulema  ( muslim scholars ) , wednesday condemned the creation of the rights 
group as illegal and unnecessary and warned of what it called 
ramifications   the establishment of could have. 
, whose 1992 report listed human rights violations in saudi 
arabia , criticized the ulema 's position and argued that the kingdom 's 
islamic laws and courts did not preclude the creation of human rights 
groups. 

from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re upi does it again  ( two israelis , four arabs killed in gaza 
keywords international , non usa government , government , fighting , civil rights , social issues , shooting , trouble 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 70 

 ( ilyess bdira ) writes 

in article israel  ( upi ) writes 
gaza city , israeli occupied gaza strip  ( upi ) palestinian gunmen 
sunday shot and killed two israelis who entered gaza to buy cheap 
produce , and two arabs who were assisting them. 
elsewhere in the crowded strip , israeli troops killed a 18 month old 
infant and a 12 year old boy during rock throwing clashes at two refugee 
camps .  . 
can anybody guess this from the title 

can anyone figure out what kind of deranged parent was stupid enough to 
bring their infant on a rock throwing crusade  ( or jihad , sorry ) 18 month 
old infants certainly do n't walk around the streets on their own. that would 
lead me to believe that some nimrod of a parent brought them along for a 
little terrorism .  . 

not me , i thought that a clash between israelis and arabs resulted 
in four deaths on one side and two on the other. 

thats what happened. 

the drive by shooting outside the jewish settlement of in 
southern gaza prompted prime minister rabin to warn israelis 
they were their lives   by doing illegal business in the 
occupied territories .  . 

how about being illegally settled there 
i am not sure about the signals the israelis are sending , one day 
they are willing to accept a jordan west bank federation , the other 
they do not recognize the west bank as occupied territory  ( neither 
did the u.s , the honest ) 
 ( details of the killings omitted , plo , hamas graffiti both claim responsability ) 

, last i heard , the territories were disputed .  . israel 's occupation is not 
illegal .  . they are legally allowed to remain there until a settlement is reached 
with the arabs which , from the behavior of the palestinian team , 
will probably be never. 

the israelis had entered gaza in a car driven by the man from hebron , 

now do n't tell me that this could not be an israeli spy .  . 
we will know later. 

huh they were buying vegetables .  . 


which carried the easily identified blue license plates of arab vehicles 
in the west bank. when israelis enter gaza with their own cars , which 
carry yellow plates , they are usually stoned and burned by angry 

palestinian residents .  . 
now the upi shows its ugly face once and for all. 
usually 
it happened once this year , once last year. out of possibly thousands 
or more. man how low can you get. 

for those of you bigoted enough not to see what is transmitted here , i will 
tell you something that is at least as close to the truth as the above 
babies children who venture outside their homes are usually shot and killed 
by the israeli soldiers .  . 
.... 
army officials said the joint operation by members of the plo tied 
fatah hawks and the hamas connected brigade , arose from their 
anger at the army 's killing of six from each group over the 
past month. 
the groups sprayed graffiti on walls in khan yunis , calling the 
attack act of revenge   for the killing of their comrades .  . 

ed. 

from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan 
lines 18 

in article hamid reza daniali writes 

hamid anybody has any information about the number of the people have been 
hamid killed by israel during these 44 happy year 

does anybody know how many jews , arabs , christians and others have died 
in terrorist attacks and wars over these 45 years due to arab rhetoric and 
the number is probably close to 100 , 000 at least. 

all these lives wasted because the arabs did not accept the partition plan 
in 1947 .  . 

tsiel 

8 8 
tsiel if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from  ( jim eggert g41 ) 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
in reply to d. c. sessions 's message of tue , 11 may 1993 09 30 09 mst 
lines 23 
reply to 
organization mit lincoln lab group 41 



in article d. c. sessions writes 
or , for that matter , with the usa .  . around here , nobody 
freeways to avoid churches , synagogues , and so forth. they just 
get condemned , paid off , and the road goes through. the same is 
standard policy for any number of other public projects schools 
and sports arenas being only two examples .  . 

anticipating the objection that the cases are n't comparable how 
not the wall has to count as the 1 tourist attraction in that 
part of the world making room for the traffic would be a twenty 
second decision for any city council i ever heard of. 

the cases are n't really comparable .  . a project like a freeway requires 
public hearings , court action , appeals , advance determination of 
restitution , and so on. the of the district in east 
jerusalem happened within hours of the end of the hostilities of the 6 
day war. the residents were given only two or three hours  notice to 
pack up and find accomodations elsewhere. they had no chance of 
public hearing , debate , appeal , negotiation or anything. it was get 
out or die in the rubble .  . 


jim  ( jim eggert ) 

from  ( tim clock) 
subject re mosque in jewish quarter  ( was re israeli destruction of .  .  . ) . 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 37 
distribution world 

in article  ( bob blackshaw ) writes 
i always believed the statement  those who do not know their history 
are condemned to repeat it  ( will durant ) , but i am beginning to 
believe the opposite is true. 

here in t . p . m . and in other newsgroups it seems that history is 
mainly remembered to hatred or to be used as a club. in the 
history of my own people there are ample acts of shame , both done 
by my people and done to my people. since i was not party to any 
of those acts , i refuse to accept blame for the evil acts that my 
ancestors committed , nor do i direct hatred toward the descendants 
of those who committed evil acts against my ancestors .  . 

the obsession with discussions of past  ( or present) events seems to be 
largely centered on trying to prove that they are worse than us . 
as we see over and over , that leads nowhere except to make ourselves 
feel superior .  . it 's as if we 've become addicted to periodic injections 
of self affirmation that draw their power from of the 
other and of ourselves. the hope is that we will begin 
sometime to apply these discussions in some way towards consideration of 
how to defuse the situation , advancement of negotiations and the search 
for common ground between the parties involved. 

of course , for this to happen we ca n't believe that the best path to 
making ourselves feel better is at the expense of others. as long as 
those valuing the coming together of opposing parties do not pursue 
their vision with the same passion as do those polarization specialists , 
we will stay stuck in the circus of one we now have. we 're 
getting precisely what we are willing to work for. 

shalom , salam , and peace 


tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) 
subject re volume 
organization university of virginia 
lines 3 

face it mr. beyer , you 're just outmatched by us israeli 
intellectuals .  . any attempts to defend the deceitful , 
undeserving palestinians will prove fruitless ! 

from  ( nick jovanovic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization yale university science engineering  ( unix(tm ) , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 20 
nntp posting host minerva . cis . yale . edu . 

in article  ( josip loncaric ) writes 

... under such 
conditions , it is very easy for serbs to play a divide and conquer 
game , and to get the muslims and croats  ( who have strong common 


it is the serbs who were divided when croatia and bosnia 
attempted to from yugoslavia , ripping more than 2 , 000 , 000 serbs 
and their property out of yugoslavia .  . 

the and muslim nations had the right to , not the republics .  . 
additionally , the were to be negotiated , which would probably 
have required international mediation instead the were illegal , 
unilateral , and acts of war against yugoslavia and those who did not 
want to be ripped out of yugoslavia by the  . 

nick 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject u.s. archives on the genocide of muslim people by the armenians .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 158 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

serdar , how can a former government pay anything also what is this crap 
about a genocide of muslims there was no such thing , i wo n't bother 

there 's your problem right there.  asala sdpa arf  crooks idiots stole 
your brain. just watch .  .  .  . 

source world alive , a personal story by robert dunn .  . crown publishers , 
inc. , new york (1952) .  . 
 ( memoirs of an american officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people) 

p. 361  ( seventh paragraph) and p. 362  ( first paragraph) .  . 

'the most are inside houses. come you and look . ' . 
 no , dammit ! my stomach is n't ' 
 one is a turkish officer in uniform .  . him you must see . ' . 
we were under those trees by the mosque , in an open space .  .  .  .  . 
 i do n't believe you , i said , but followed to a nail studded door. the 
man pushed it ajar , then spurred away , leaving me to check on the corpse .  . 
i thought i should , this charge was so constant , so gritted my teeth and 
went inside. 

the place was cool but reeked of sodden ashes , and was dark at first , for 
its stone walls had only window slits .  . rags strewed the mud floor around an 
iron tripod over embers that vented their smoke through roof beams black 
with soot .  . all looked bare and empty , but in an inner room flies buzzed .  . as 
the door swung shut behind me i saw they came from a man 's body lying face 
up , naked but for its grimy turban .  . he was about fifty years old by what 
was left of his face a rifle butt had bashed an eye. the one left slanted , 
as with tartars rather than with turks .  . any uniform once on him was gone , so 
i 'd no proof which he was , and quickly went out , gagging at the mess of his 
slashed genitals .  . 

p. 363  ( first paragraph) .  . 

 how many people lived there ' 
 oh , about eight hundred . ' . he yawned .  . 
 did you see any turk officers ' 
 no , sir. i was in at dawn .  . all were tartar civilians in mufti . ' . 

the lieutenant dozed off , then i , but in the small hours a voice woke me 
dro 's .  . he stood in the starlight bawling out an officer .  . anyone keelhauled 
so long and furiously i 'd never heard. then abruptly dro broke into 
laughter , quick and simple as child 's .  . both were a cover for his sense 
of guilt , i thought , or hoped .  . for somehow , despite my boast of irreligion , 
christian massacring  infidels  was more horrible than the reverse would 
have been. 

from daybreak on , armenian villagers poured in from miles around .  .  .  .  .  . 
the women plundered happily , chattering like ravens as they picked over 
the carcass of djul .  . they hauled out every hovel 's chattels , the last 
scrap of food or cloth , and staggered away , packing pots , saddlebags , 
looms , even spinning wheels. 

 thank you for a lot , dro , ' i said to him back in camp.  but now i must 
leave . ' .  .  . we . shook hands , the captain said  a bientot , mon camarade . ' . and 
for hours the old scout and i plodded north across parching plains .  . 
like lot 's wife i looked back once to see smoke bathing all , doubtless in 
a sack of other moslem villages up to the line of snow that was iran . ' . 

p. 354 .  . 

at morning tea , dro and his officers spread out a map of this whole 
high region called the karabakh .  . deep in tactics , they spoke russian , 
but i got their contempt for allied  neutral  zones and their distrust 
of promises made by tribal chiefs .  . a campaign shaped more raids on 
moslem villages .  . 

p. 358 .  . 

it will be three hours to take , dro told me. we 'd close in on three 
sides. 
the men on foot will not shoot , but use only the bayonets , 
said , jabbing a rifle in dumbshow .  . 
that is for morale , dro put in. we must keep the moslems in terror .  . 
soldiers or civilians i asked. 
there is no difference , said dro .  . all are armed , in uniform or not. 
but the women and children 
will fly with the others as best they may .  . 

p. 360. 

the ridges circled a wide expanse , its floors still. hundreds of feet 
down , the fog held , solid as cotton flock .  .  djul lies under that , ' said 
dro , pointing .  .  our men also attack from the other sides . ' . 

then ,  ee ! ' his whistle lined up all at the rock edge. bayonets 
clicked upon carbines .  . over plunged , his black haunches rippling 
then followed the staff , the horde nose to tail , bellies taking the 
spur .  . armenia in action seemed more like a pageant than war , even though 
i heard our utica brass roar .  . 

as i watched from the height , it took ages for djul to show clear. a tsing 
of machine gun fire took over from the thumping batteries cattle lowed , 
dogs barked , invisible , while i ate a hunk of cheese and drank from a snow 
puddle .  . mist at last folded upward as men shouted , at first heard faintly .  . 
the came a shrill wailing .  . 

now among the cloud streaks rose darker wisps smoke. red glimmered about 
house walls of stone or wattle , into dry weeds on roofs .  . a mosque stood in 
clump of trees , thick and green. through crooked alleys on fire , horsemen 
were galloping after figures both mounted and on foot. 

 ! ' shouted the gunner by me. others pantomimed them in escape 
over the rocks , while one twisted a bronze shell nose , loaded , and yanked 
breech cord , firing again and again. shots wasted , i thought , when by 
afternoon i looked in vain for fallen branch or body. but these shots and 
the white bursts of shrapnel in the gullies drowned the women 's cries .  . 

at length all shooting petered out. i got on my horse and rode down toward 
djul .  . it burned still but little flame showed now. the way was steep and 
tough , through dense scrub .  . finally on flatter ground i came out suddenly , 
through alders , on smoldering houses. across trampled wheat my brothers in 
arms were leading off animals , several calves and a lamb .  . 

p. 361  ( fourth paragraph) .  . 

corpses came next , the first a pretty child with straight black hair , 
large eyes. she looked about twelve years old. she lay in some stubble 
where meal lay scattered from the sack she 'd been toting .  . the bayonet 
had gone through her back , i judged , for blood around was scant .  . between 
the breasts one clot , too small for a bullet wound , crusted her homespun 
dress. 

the next was a boy of ten or less , in rawhide jacket and knee pants. he 
lay face down in the path by several huts .  . one arm reached out to the 
pewter bowl he 'd carried , now upset upon its dough .  . steel had jabbed 
just below his neck , into the spine. 

there were grownups , too , i saw as i led the sorrel around. djul was 
empty of the living till i looked up to see beside me dro 's german speaking 
colonel .  . he said all tartars who had not escaped were dead. 

p. 358 .  . 

 .  .  . more . stories of armenian murdering turks when the czarist troops fled 
north .  . my hosts told me of their duty here to keep tabs on brigands , 
turkish troop shifts , hidden arms , spies christian , red or tartar 
coming in from transcaucasus .  . then they spoke of the hell that would 
break loose if versailles were to put , as threatened , the six  armenian  
vilayets of turkey under the control of erevan .  .  .  . 

an armenia without armenians ! turks under christian rule his lips 
smacked in irony under the droopy red moustache .  . that 's bloodshed just 
smyrna over again on a bigger scale. 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from (gerald olchowy ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization university of toronto chemistry department 
lines 21 

in article s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 


it is easy for sen. biden to say that when there are no us troops in 
or or  .  .  . 

the existing un policy may be wrong , but the us wants 
to dictate policy , and make europe responsible for the consequences 
of that policy .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . bosnia . is a big enough problem for the us to preach about what 
other countries should be doing with their forces .  .  . but . its forces 
are safely away at home in the us. 

gerald 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 93 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
writes 
in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
the un has tried many times to condemn israel for its 
gross violation of human rights. 

the un has also failed to condemn gross violations of human 
rights in many other places around the globe and in the middle east , 
thus leading many people to conclude that the un is biased in whom in 
chooses to condemn .  . 

a short , incomplete list of things the un did n't even consider 
condemning 


incident security council response 


1. hindu moslem clash in india , over 2 , 000 killed , 1990 none 
2. gassing to death of over 8 , 000 kurds by none 
iraqi air force , 1988 89 
3. saudi security forces slaughter none 
400 pilgrims in mecca , 1987 
4. killing by algerian army of 500 demonstrators , 1988 none 
5.  ( arabs killing arabs ) over 300 killed none 
6. 30 , 000 civilians slaughtered by government none 
troops in hama , syria , 1982 
7. killing of 5 , 000 palestinians by jordanian troops , none 
thousands expelled , sept. , 1970 
8. 87 moslems killed in egypt , 1981 none 
9. 77 killed in egyption bread riots , 1977 none 
10. 30 border and rocket attacks against israel by none 
the plo in 1989 alone 
11. munich , 1972 11 israeli athletes slaughtered none 
12. ma alot , 1974 children killed in plo attack none 
13. israel coastal bus attack 34 dead , 82 wounded none 
14. syria kills 23 , 000 palestinians , 1976 none 
15. lebanon over 150 , 000 dead since 1975 none 
16. yemen 13 , 000 killed in two weeks , 1986 none 
17. sudan tens of thousands of black slaves , none 
civil war toll , 1 million killed , 3 million refugees 
18. square massacre 1989 none 
19. rumania , 3 , 000 killed , 1989 none 
20. pan am 103 disaster carried out by the p . l . o . none 
21. northern ireland none 
22. cambodia none 
23. soviet occupation of afghanistan none 
24. american riots at attica , watts , newark , kent state none 
25. 1981 israel destroys iraqi , israel condemned 
26. 1990 israeli police protect israeli worshipers condemned 
against arab mob , 18 anti jewish rioters killed 
27. syrian soldiers slaughter christian soldiers none 
after they surrender , 1990 

wow , if you were the only source of news around the 
world it would seem that israel is being treated unfairly .  . 

ok , you do n't like what i have to say. would you care to 
demonstrate how the above list , or any expanded version of it you 
chose to post , demonstrates fairness in the actions of the un wrt 
israel 

luckily , that is not the case. i suggest reading european 
papers rather than israeli propaganda  ( arab papers would n't 
hurt either to see the propaganda of the other side) .  . 

you make the odd assumption that i read israeli papers , not 
european ones. my main source of news is the economist , a london 
based magazine. 

also , i do on rare , read arab papers , but its hard 
to find english language papers from arab countries here. 

anyway 
you are an example of what happens when people chose what to 
read. do n't get me wrong , it is perfectly within your rights. 
just do n't go off acting like you 're objective .  . 

have i ever claimed to be objective i pointed out , with a 27 
item list , that israel is condemned for actions that other nations are 
not condemned for. you go off and attack me for reading only israeli 
newspapers. 

if you 'd like to debate this , please do. if you 'd like to 
make ad hominum attacks , feel free to do that too. but try not to 
mask one as another. 

adam 

adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re rejoinder .  . questions to israelis 
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan 
lines 31 

in article  ( steve birnbaum ) writes 

sb oh yeah , israel was really ready to expand its borders on the holiest day 
sb of the year  ( yom kippur ) when the arabs attacked in 1973 .  . oh wait , you 
sb chose to omit that war .  .  . perhaps . because it 100 supports the exact 
sb opposite to the point you are trying to make i do n't think that it 's 
sb because it was the war that hit israel the hardest .  . also , in 1967 it was 
sb egypt , not israel who kicked out the un force. in 1948 it was the arabs 
sb who refused to accept the existance of israel based on the borders set 
sb by the united nations .  . in 1956 , egypt closed off the red sea to israeli 
sb shipping , a clear antagonistic act. and in 1982 the attack was a response 
sb to years of constant shelling by terrorist organizations from the golan 

sb heights. children were being murdered all the time by terrorists and israel 

sb finally retaliated .  . nowhere do i see a war that israel started so that 
sb the borders could be expanded .  . 

i agree with all you write except that terrorist orgs .  . were not shelling 
israel from the golan heights in 1982 , but rather from lebanon .  . the golan 
heights have been held by israel since 1967 , and therefore the plo could 
not have been shelling israel from there , unless there is something i am 
not aware of. 


tsiel 

8 8 
tsiel if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from (peter freeman ) 
subject re peace talks 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to (peter freeman ) 
organization columbia university 
lines 26 

in article  ( tim clock) writes 
in article  ( alan stein ) writes 
it seems that , to keep the peace talks going , israel has to keep 
making goodwill gesture after goodwill gesture , while palestinian 
arabs continue to go around hunting jews .  . 

you know that putting something like this out on the newsgroup is only 
going to generate flames , not discussion. try adding some substance to 
the issue of gestures you mentioned. 
what is it you feel that israel has offered as a gesture what would 
you ( realistically ) expect to see presented by the arabs palestinians 
in the way of gesture 

, israel has not been recognized as a state by the arabs , except for 
egypt , of course. is n't that a gesture what has israel offered 
well , it has been calling for peace talks for 45 years , asked for 
economic relations , and asked for diplomatic ties .  . what else is there 
would you have israel sacrifice its security nay , i think not. 

peace , 
pete 






from  ( tim clock) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 58 

in article center for policy research writes 

there are basically three alternatives for gaza 

what is this gaza are you purposely separating it from the west bank 
if so , why separate the people and territories if not , why are you just 
addressing gaza here 

1. to throw the jews to the sea. that is basically to make them leave 
the middle east and go back to where they came from  ( russia , europe , 
usa , etc) 

by all means , continue to list the etc. the reason i particularly 
bring this up here is that there are many from middle eastern 
and west asian countries. that fact in itself adds an important 
element to any consideration of resolution of the arab israel 
conflict .  . 

2. to throw the gazans into the sea , in accordance with rabin 's 
wish and that of many zionists .  . 

you explained what sea meant with regard to the israelis jews , 
please do so in this case. 

3. for israelis and palestinians to come to an honorable and fair (i 
do n't attempt to say just ) settlement , 

just you better not ask for that because that would mean north 
american tribes would be returned their lands , the pre islamic tribes 
would take back their lands from the islamic invaders , the saxons get 
to kick the out of the uk , the central and south american 
tribes get to kick the spanish descendents out of thier lands .  .  .  .  .  . 
and , once we have returned the land to those who last possessed it , 
we have to find out from whom they stole it. at some point , every 
culture stole the land they are on from previous occupants .  . 

which would allow each person to live in dignity in his country in 
freedom and equality .  . 

but wait ! now you refer to palestinians , so what happened to gaza 

i opt for the third alternative .  . how about you folks 

as we both know , most people would choose the third alternative .  . and , 
since you have done so in the past , perhaps you would initiate things by 
presenting your vision of resolution . in doing so , however , the worries 
(not , worries ) and resonable expectations of both 
parties should be considered .  . 

elias 




tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from center for policy research 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
nf id r cdp cdp 000 1939 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 11 05 56 00 1993 
lines 39 


i think there are some generally accepted criteria according to which 
one can evaluate whether certain policies or practices constitute 
racial discrimination .  . these criteria are to be found for example in the 
1. international convention for abolition of all forms of racial 
discrimination  ( ratified by most countries ) 
2. the international covenant of political and civil rights 
3. the human rights charter 
4. the european convention of human rights 

if one reads carefully how racial discrimination is defined in these 
legally binding instruments , and does not resort to sophistry , it is 
obvious that the state of israel is guilty of racial discrimination .  . 


the people suffering the most extreme form of racial 
by the zionist regime are the palestinian refugees , some of whom live 
under israeli military control and others who live in the diaspora .  . 

they are not entitled to return to their homeland for the sole 
reason that they are not jews .  . international law does not include any 
provisions which permits such denial of rights , under any circumstance .  . 
israel 's actions of denial are totally illegal and immoral .  . by allowing 
the return of the refugees and permitting them to settle in tel in any area of 
the state of israel , the state would finally gain its under 
international law and could be justified in asking to be recognized .  . it 
would facilitate the peaceful integration of israel into the middle east 
and constitute the best guarantee for permanent jewish presence 
in the area. any attempt to create a separation , formal and human , between the 
israeli jewish and palestinian arab communities , is fraught with 
implications .  . i hope that u.s. jews , who sincerely wish that 
peace prevail in israel palestine , will finally realize this fact. 

elias davidsson 


ps please read carefully the first post in this topic , where the facts of 
zionist racial discrimination are described .  . 


from  ( tim clock) 
subject re peace talks resume 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 63 

in article 
in article tim clock writes 

tc do you , as i do , agree that this  ( sort ) of peace process is needed 
tc what about the particular points mentioned in the article is what 
tc israel is  ( supposedly ) going to propose good does it go too far 
tc not far enough 
tc if you do n't agree that a peace process is needed , what is 

i personally think that a peace process is needed , since only through 
negotiations will the future generations be able to live in stability .  . 
unfortunately not all think like this , we have cases like 
anas omran , hamza saleh , jle , mohammed reza , abu abed , 
anwar mohammed and others who think that jihad is the only solution. 

if we ca n't avoid throwing out gut reactions to what we see as extremist 
views here in the newsgroup , we 're certainly not going to be any better at 
it in the real world. hey , it easy here. after reading the offending post , 
we can step back , take some deep breathing exercises , have a gallon of 
ice cream  ( or sex , whichever calmsus ) , and reply in something other 
than the usual king of the hill mentality .  . 

my view is that israel has made more gestures towards its arab foes than the 
opposite .  . what have the given to us or proposed what have the 
palestinians proposed if the palestinians would just revoke or rewrite their 
charter , or just condemn acts of palestinian violence that would be a good 
start. 

perhaps , starting here with an immediate accusation is not a particularly 
good way to generate open responses how about explaining what you see as 
being israel 's real worries and how they need to be addressed since 
the other side sees israel 's gestures in a completely different light 
than you do , perhaps they also have real worries . from their point 
of view , what are they how can those worries be addressed 

the palestinians have all to gain from these negotiations .  . its seems though 
that they are not strong enough to make decisions on their own and are 
plagued by internal strife , that is why we are not getting anywhere. 
fundamentalism is slowly taking over in the territories , then it will be 
too late to discuss issues with the palestinians since they will only 
vow for the destruction of israel .  . 

it is certainly much harder to reach compromise  ( or , even sit down 
and talk with .  .  . ) . an other side which is into several 
different ideologies , each with its own set of demands . while it is 
up to them to generate unity on their side , is there anything that 
israel can do  ( without sacrificing its security , its position) to 
encourage that unification along lines that israel prefers 

arabs must take example on egypt .  . egypt came to the bargaining table , 
got what it wanted from israel and there is now peace and cooperation 
between the two countries. 
the tougher you play ball with israel the tougher israel gets .  . 

tsiel 




tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization university of saskatchewan 
lines 23 
nntp posting host edison . usask . ca . 

in a previous article , s . sa . 
i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 


mohamed , 

what has he got to say about the carnage and genocide in our own sudan 
the two scenarios must be viewed from the same perspective or do n't you 
think so well , methinks .  . no flames intended ! ! ! 







mohamed 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject one of them is a pathological liar  the clown  or  dewey  
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 235 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

i would just like to say that i hope everybody knows that everything 
serdar has said are lies .  . 

coming from an idiot crook armenian , i 'd take that as a compliment. 
your criminal grandparents committed unheard of crimes , resorted 
to all conceivable methods of despotism , organized massacres , poured 
petrol over babies and burned them , raped women and girls in front of 
their parents who were bound hand and foot , took girls from their 
mothers and fathers and appropriated personal property and real estate .  . 
and today , they put azeris in the most unbearable conditions any other 
nation had ever known in history. 

source john dewey the new republic , vol. 40 , nov. 12 , 1928 , pp. 268 9. 

they armenians traitorously turned turkish cities over to the russian 
invader that they boasted of having raised an army of one hundred and 
fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at least 
a hundred turkish villages and exterminated their population .  . 


some of the references from eminent authors in the field of middle eastern 
history and eyewitnesses of the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslims 

1. the armenian revolutionary movement by louise nalbandian , 
university of california press , berkeley , los angeles , 1975 

2. diplomacy of imperialism 1890 1902 by william i. lenger , professor 
of history , university , boston , alfred a. , new york , 1951 

3. turkey in europe by sir charles elliot , 
edward arnold , london , 1900 

4. the house version and other middle eastern studies by 
elie , publishers , new york , washington , 1972 

5. the rising crescent by ernest , 
farrar reinhart , inc. , new york toronto , 1944 

6. spiritual and political evolutions in islam by felix , 
mogan , paul , trench co. , london , 1925 

7. the struggle for power in moslem asia by e. alexander powell , 
the century co. , new york , london , 1924 

8. struggle for by , 
yale university press , new haven , conn. , 1951 

9. history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (2 volumes ) by 
stanford j. shaw , cambridge university press , cambridge , new york , 
melbourne , 1977 

10. the western question in greece and turkey by arnold j. toynbee , 
constable co. , ltd. , london , bombay sydney , 1922 

11. the caliph 's last heritage by sir mark sykes , 
macmillan co. , london , 1915 

12. men are like that by leonard a. hartill , 
bobbs co. , indianapolis , 1928 

13. adventures in the near east , 1918 22 by a. rawlinson , 
dodd , meade co. , 1925 

14. world alive , a personal story by robert dunn , 
crown publishers , inc. , new york , 1952 

15. from to serves and by aharonian , 
the armenian review magazine , volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) through 17 
 ( spring 1964) 

16. armenia on the road to independence by richard g. , 
university of california press , berkeley , california , 1967 

17. the rebirth of turkey by clair price , 
thomas seltzer , new york , 1923 

18. caucasian battlefields by w. b. allen paul , 
cambridge , 1953 

19. partition of turkey by harry n. howard , 
h. fertig , new york , 1966 

20. the king crane commission by harry n. howard , 
beirut , 1963 

21. united states policy and partition of turkey by laurence evans , 
john hopkins university press , baltimore , 1965 

22. british documents related to turkish war of independence by 


1. kerem demir , bir 
turkiye nin ermeni , ve yayin t . a . s .  . , 
ankara , 1982 .  .  ( ingilizce 1980 , the armenian 
question in turkey ) 

2. , ermeni , , istanbul , 1978 .  . 

3. a. alper , kadar ermeni 
nun , , istanbul , 1982 .  . 

4. dr. m. , kars ili ve ermeni , 
kardes , ankara , 1970 .  . 

t.c. osmanli , , istanbul 

a) yildiz esas 
b) yildiz 
c) 
d ) i i muslime 
e) 
f ) nezareti , i 
g) nezareti , sifre 
h ) siyasi 
i) 

t.c. , i , 

a) harb i 
b) 

british archives 

a) parliamentary papers  ( hansard ) commons lords 
b) foreign office confidential print various collections 
c) foreign office 424 239 253 turkey correspondence annual reports 
d ) foreign office 608 
e) foreign office 371 , political intelligence general correspondence 
f ) foreign office 800 240 , ryan papers 
g) foreign office 800 151 , curzon papers 
h ) foreign office 839 the eastern conference lausanne .  . 53 files 

india office records and library , blackfriars road , london .  . 

a) l political and security 10 851 855  ( five boxes) , turkey treaty of 
peace 1918 1923 
b) l p s 10 1031 , near east turkey and greece lausanne conference , 
1921 1923 
c) l p s 11 154 
d ) l p s 11 1031 

french archives 

archives du ministere des affaires , quai d'orsay , paris .  . 

a) documents affaires 1895 1914 collections 
b) guerre 1914 1918 turquie legion d'orient .  . 
c) levant , 1918 1929 armenie .  . 


official publications , published documents , diplomatic correspondence , 
agreements , minutes and others 

a. turkey (the ottoman empire and the republic of turkey ) 

, e. (ed . ) . ,  ( istanbul , 1978) .  . 
(gn .  . kur .  . , atase ) tarih , v. xxxi (81) , 
(dec .  . 1982) .  . 
tarih , v. xxxii  ( 83 ) , 
(dec .  . 1983) .  . 
, m. (ed . ) . i i , 
 ( istanbul , 1912) .  . 
meray , s. l. (trans .  . ed . ) . baris , 
 ( ankara , 1978) , 2 vols. 
meray , s. l. o. olcay (ed . ) . osmanli nun 
, , ilgili ,  ( ankara , 1977) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) aspirations et 
des avant et apres la proclamation 
de la constitution ,  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
ermeni amal ve i ilan i 
ve sonra ,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i ve vilayet ,  ( istanbul , 1913) .  . 
i , v. i  ( istanbul , 1914) .  . 
i , v. ii  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
i , v. iii  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i , v. iv  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) i nin 
,  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) islam 
,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
(iv .  . ordu ) divan i harbi yi 
,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
, h. k. (ed . ) . osmanli ve ermeni , 
 ( ankara , 1982) .  . 
turkiye buyuk millet gizli ,  ( ankara , 1985) , 
4 vols. 

russia 

, e. e. (ed . ) . anadolu nun 
, (tran .  . h. , ed. h. mutlucag ) ,  ( istanbul , 1972) .  . 

altinay , a. r. iki iki ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
ve ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
turkiye  de , turk tarihi , 
v. xiv 82 5 (sept .  . 1924) .  . 
asaf harb ve ,  ( istanbul , 1918) .  . 
, c. dunya turk harbi , v. i osmanli nun 
siyasi ve ve , (gn .  . kur .  . , ankara , 1970) .  . 
akgun , s. general un anadolu ve  ( ermeni ne dair ) 
,  ( istanbul , 1981) .  . 
akin , i. turk tarihi ,  ( istanbul , 1983) .  . 
, s. jon ve ve ,  ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
basar , z. (ed . ) . ,  ( ankara , 1974) .  . 
,  ( ankara , 1978) .  . 
belen , f. dunya turk harbi ,  ( ankara , 1964) .  . 
, a. ermeni ,  ( istanbul , 1980) .  . 
ege , n. n. (ed . ) . hayati ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1977) .  . 
, a. ve osmanli , 
 ( ankara , 1949) .  . 
, k.  ermeni sorunu bir nasil ' , turk tarihinde 
,  ( izmir , 1983) .  . 
, m. ermeni ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
, e. s. osmanli tarihi , v. v  ( 1983 , 4th ed . ) . v. vi  ( 1976 , 2nd ed . ) . 
v. vii  ( 1977 , 2nd ed . ) . v. viii  ( 1983 , 2nd ed . ) . ankara .  . 
, y. t. osmanli nun ,  ( ankara , 1976) .  . 
orel , s. s. yuca talat pasa ya 
,  ( ankara , 1983) .  . also in english translation. 
ahmad , f. the young turks the committee of union and progress in 
turkish politics ,  ( oxford , 1969) .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( senad arnautovic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organisation u of toronto , dept. of mechanical engineering 
organization mechanical engineering 
lines 24 

 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

in article  ( josip loncaric ) writes 

... under such 
conditions , it is very easy for serbs to play a divide and conquer 
game , and to get the muslims and croats  ( who have strong common 


it is the serbs who were divided when croatia and bosnia 
attempted to from yugoslavia , ripping more than 2 , 000 , 000 serbs 
and their property out of yugoslavia .  . 

it is the croats that were divided , at least 70 , 000 were left in serbian 
province of  . it is the muslims that were divided , 200 , 000 
left in the region of that now belongs to serbia .  . if the serbs 
in croatia and bosnia want self determination , the same 
right should be given to croats and muslims , and and 
in serbia .  . why should serbia be exempted 

nick 




from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject synagogues , mosques , and double standards 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 64 
nntp posting host slc5 . ins . cwru . edu . 



bill coleman writes .  .  .  . 

 ( responding to a discussion about a mosque in jerusalem allegedly 
having been destroyed by israel) 

bc in today 's jerusalem post magazine there is a feature story about the 
bc ongoing restoration of synagogues in the jewish quarter .  . the author , 
bc leah , writes that there were fifty seven synagogues in the 
bc quarter in 1948 , all of which were destroyed , some , she says , used as 
bc donkey stables .  . the building shells , that is. 
bc 
bc i still find it really , really hard to understand why the demolition 
bc of the buildings in front of the continues to evoke more outrage 
bc than this. everything is so much cheaper when it happens to the jews .  . 
bc 
bc why 

the double standard of human behavior regarding the jews must 
be  . 

a perfect example is the outcry over the temporary removal of 
400 men who advocated murdering jews and destroying the state 
of israel , compared to the deafening silence over the abusive 
treatment of jews in arab countries during the past 50 years. 

compare the tacit that the world gives to muslims who 
randomly murder jewish civilians to the righteous indignation 
expressed if people in the occupied territories are kept from 
working in israel in an effort to reduce these random murders 
from occuring , while everyone knows that no country is at all 
required to accept foreign workers , except israel , of course. 

jewish blood has always been cheap. the non jewish world ha 
never regarded any form of jewish suffering important , except 
when the jews were the models of the powerless victim holding 
the high moral ground , as it had been just after world war 2. 
however , as soon as the jewish people started to take care of 
themselves , the ancient hatred of jews was unleashed again. 

i doubt if the non jewish world is even capable of having any 
compassion towards jews as anti semitism is so ancient and so 
basic to both christianity and islam .  . 

golda meir said that there would be peace when the arabs love 
their own children more than they hate the jews .  . and while i 
know that there are more arab parents who love their children 
than those who would send their children out into the streets 
to throw rocks at men trained to defend themselves with guns , 
the world is so obsessed by a hatred of jews trying to defend 
themselves that they have yet to even question the actions of 
those parents who not simply allow their children to do this , 
but encourage them to throw themselves into harm 's way. even 
arab children are expendable , if their tragic deaths are used 
in the neverending propoganda battle to blame israel , and the 
jews , for any misfortune befalling arabs in the middle east .  . 




who is a jew a person whose integrity when by 
the knowledge of wrong done to other people. a. j. 


from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject the fraud of elias davidsson 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 263 
nntp posting host thor . ins . cwru . edu . 


elias davidsson writes .  .  .  . 


ed the following are quotations from zionist leaders .  . they appear in 
ed numerous scholarly works dealing with the palestine question. i urge those 
ed who have access to original sources , to verify the authenticity of the 
ed source and post here their finding , adhering to the truth whatever it be. 

it is your responsibility for posting quotes in context. your 
phony  research center  is the source of the most , 
out of context , agenda ridden , and propaganda that i 
have ever seen. do n't believe me , folks let 's take a little 
stroll through a few of elias davidsson 's contributions to our 
understanding of the middle east .  . 

ed quotations from zionist leaders 

ed 1. there was no such thing as palestinians 
ed  ( golda meir , prime minister of israel , london sunday 
ed times , 15 june 1969) 

and what do suggest that she meant by this do you think she 
meant that the palestinians do n't exist or does it actually 
mean that the people who self identify as  palestinians , ' did 
not appear to be a distinct ethnic group in the eyes of golda 
meir 


ed 2. there is , however , a difficulty from which the zionist 
ed dares not avert his eyes , though he rarely likes to face it. 
ed palestine proper has already its inhabitants .  . 
ed  ( israel , the voice of jerusalem , london 1920 , 
ed p . 88) . 

when this was written , seventy three years ago , the people of 
the region were not all jews .  . they are not all jews now. no 
jew but the most rabid bigot has ever called for an israel to 
be only for jews .  . that was true then. it is true now. 


ed the palestinians are beasts walking on two legs. 
ed  ( menachem begin , prime minister of israel in a speech to 
ed the knesset , 
ed quoted in ,  begin and the beasts , new 
ed statesman , 25 june 1982) 

since you inserted the words 'the palestinians are  we cannot 
know what begin was talking about. 

for someone who wants to his own importance with an 
absurd pseudo organizational name like the  center for policy 
research , ' you are not a very honest person. 


ed both the process of of the palestinians 
ed and the removal of the poor must be carried out 
ed and . 
ed (dr .  . theodor , the complete diaries , press , 
ed 1960 , i. , p . 88) . 

died eighty nine years ago. are you suggesting that he 
has stated what is israel 's policy today have you ever seen 
israel even entertain a policy to exclude non jews , let alone 
actually try to remove non jews from israel if you actually 
believe that this quote has anything to do with israel 's non 
jewish citizenry today , you are an idiot. but if you realize 
that israel has no intention of removing non jewish israelis , 
then you are nothing but a common liar .  . this one time i will 
give you the benefit of the doubt , and assume you are stupid. 


ed we shall try to spirit the population the 
ed palestinians across the border by procuring employment 
ed for it in the transit countries , while denying it any 
ed employment in our own country 
ed  ( theodor , the complete diaries , press , 1960 , 
ed i , p . 88) . 

once again you quote a man gone for almost a century. you do 
so within the context of modern day israel .  . 

thomas jefferson owned slaves .  . how does this fact define the 
united states today 


ed jews must expel arabs and take their place 
ed (david ben gurion , 1937 , quoted in , ben 
ed gurion and the palestine arabs , oxford university press , 
ed 1985 , p. 89 ) 

did he say  jews , ' or did you add this 

this was also a statement from ten years before israel became 
a state. it has no bearing on israel .  . 


ed we must do everything to ensure they the 
ed palestinian refugees never do return 
ed (david ben gurion , in his diary , 19 july 1948 , quoted in 
ed michael bar , ben gurion the armed prophet , 
ed prentice hall , 1967 , p . 

you added the words 'the palestinian refugees . ' . and by doing 
so , you are misleading people into believing that ben gurion , 
who was expressing his hope that people who fled their lands , 
at the encouragement of people such as king abdullah , and the 
mufti of jerusalem , was gloating over people abandoning their 
homes. what he was refering to were the arabs with whom jews 
were at war. 

ed the country was mostly an empty desert , with only 
ed a few islands of arab settlement 
ed  ( shimon peres , minister of defense , quoted in david 's 
ed sling the arming of israel , and nicholson , 
ed 1970 , p . 

at the time of the rebirth of israel this was certainly true , 
especially when compared to what israel has accomplished in a 
few short decades .  . 


ed all this story about the danger of extermination of 
ed jews has been blown up .  .  .  . to . justify the annexation of 
ed new arab territories 
ed  ( mordechai , israeli cabinet minister , al 
ed , 14 april 1972) 

since israel has not annexed even one millimeter of territory 
in more twenty six years , this quote is irrelevant .  . 


ed neither jewish ethics nor jewish tradition can 
ed disqualify terrorism as a means of combat 
ed  ( yitzhak shamir , , summer 1943 journal of the 
ed lehi , the stern gang , translated from the israeli daily 
ed al , 24 december 1987 

again , you are quoting a man who was fighting for what he had 
been promised from a time as ancient as biblical , to the time 
of the balfour declaration , just a few short years back. and 
what was thought of and described as terrorism by jews did n't 
include slaughtering olympic athletes , brutally murdering the 
innocent , attacking school buses , and murdering another human 
being for the sole reason that he or she is an arab .  . 


ed the domination of jewish agriculture by arab 
ed workers is a cancer in our body 
ed (a .  . , israeli minister of agriculture , ha'aretz , 13 
ed december 1974) 

there were serious concerns about a work force that consisted 
of people from outside israel .  . it is a wise to be concerned. 
a work force consisting of foreigners is not a good situation 
for a country. 


ed there can be only one national home in palestine , 
ed and that a jewish one , and no equality in the partnership 
ed between jews and arabs 
ed  ( montague david eder , president of the zionist 
ed federation of great britain , , 
ed in , comp. , palestine papers 1917 1922 , 
ed seeds of conflict , george , 1973 , p. 135 ) 

this also has no meaning for a country formed seventeen years 
after this statement was made. obviously times change. this 
is not what israel is about today. i believe the peace talks 
make this quote irrelevant .  . 


ed there is not a single jewish village in this country 
ed that has not been built on the site of an arab village 
ed  ( moshe , ha'aretz , 4 april 1969 .  .  . ) . 

this is completely false .  . 


ed some people talk of expelling 700 , 000 to 800 , 000 
ed arabs in the event of a new war , and instruments have 
ed been prepared 
ed  ( aharon , former chief of israeli military 
ed intelligence , 1980 , inquiry , 8 december 1980) 

expelled from where israel the occupied territories new 
jersey is there any way we can read this and get an idea as 
to what on earth he was talking about. obviously not. 


ed we should there in palestine form a portion of the 
ed of europe against asia , an of civilization 
ed as opposed to barbarism .  . 
ed (dr .  . theodor , the jewish state , london , 1896 , p. 
ed 29) 

interesting notion .  . considering that this was written nearly 
a century ago , it is quite visionary .  . 


ed i deeply believe in launching preventive war 
ed against the arab states without further hesitation .  . by 
ed doing so we will achieve two targets firstly , the 
ed annihilation of arab power and secondly , the expansion 
ed of our territory 
ed  ( menachem begin , in a speech to the knesset , 12 october 
ed 1955 ) 

this was said nearly forty years ago. begin is dead. and it 
should be obvious to anybody that if israel was expansionist , 
it would have annexed the occupied territories right after it 
captured them. israel would not be negotiating to get rid of 
them. 


ed during the last 100 years our people have been in a 
ed process of building up the country and the nation , of 
ed expansion , of getting additional jews and additional 
ed settlements in order to expand the borders here. let no 
ed jew say that the process has ended. let no jew say that 
ed we are near the end of the road. 
ed  ( moshe , ma , 7 july 1968) 

he 's dead , too. and since israel has not annexed any land at 
all since 1967 , you are once again wasting bandwidth with all 
of these misleading quotes. they are so out of sync with the 
reality of israel , that you do nothing but make yourself look 
like a fanatic desperate to sway people , by misleading them. 


ed let us not today fling accusations at the palestinian 
ed arab murderers .  . who are we that we should argue 
ed against their hatred for eight years now they sit in 
ed their refugee camps in gaza , and before their very eyes , 
ed we turn into our homestead the land and the villages in 
ed which they and their have lived .  . we are a 
ed generation of settlers , and without the steel helmet and 
ed the cannon we cannot plant a tree and build a home. let 
ed us not shrink back when we see the hatred 
ed and filling the lives of hundreds of thousands of arabs , 
ed who sit all around us. let us not avert our gaze , so that 
ed our hand shall not slip .  . this is the fate of our generation , 
ed the choice of our life to be prepared and armed , strong 
ed and tough or otherwise , the sword will slip from our 
ed first , and our life will be snuffed out. 
ed  ( moshe , of roy at kibbutz 
ed oz , 1956 , quoted in uri , israel without zionists , 
collier books , macmillan , new york , 1971 , p . 

interesting quote. it 's true that we should never lose sight 
of the plight of these people. we should also recognize that 
this quote preceded the disgusting wave of arab terrorism and 
violence directed at innocent people , that began in 1972 with 
the massacre of the israeli athletes in munich , and continues 
to this day. 

if your ability to obscure was the equal of your desire to do 
so , in this group would have a problem. but you 
are an easily recognized fanatic , whose stream of misleading , 
partial , and out of context quotes are totally unfettered by 
the burden of truth. 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re desertification of the negev 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 67 

in article center for policy research writes 

contrary to ben gurion 's assertion , it must be affirmed that 
during the 26 years of the british mandate over palestine and for 
centuries previous , a productive human presence was to be found in 
all parts of the negev desert in the very arid hills and valleys 
of the southern negev as well as in the more fertile north .  . these 
were the bedouin arabs .  . 

in fact , this productive human presence in the desert has , in the 
centuries it has been there , produced one of the greatest 
civilizations in human history. they not only created the wheel , but 
the printing press , the light bulb , post modern 
architecture , broadway theatre and nuclear power , as well. 

the real desertification of the negev , mainly in the southern 
part , occurred after israel 's dispossession of the bedouin 's 
cultivated lands and pastures .  . 

right , elias .  . the negev was a veritable garden of eden until the evil 
jews turned off the rain and turned it into a horrible desert .  . part 
of the international jewish conspiracy .  . say , who should i call to 
turn off the rain here in ny , right now 

nowadays , the majority of the 
12 , 800 square kilometer negev , which represents 62 percent of the 
state of israel  ( pre 1967 borders ) , has been desertified beyond 
recognition .  . 

yeah , deserts rarely look like the garden of eden .  . 

the main new occupiers of the formerly bedouin negev 
are the israeli army the nature reserves authority , whose chief 
role is to prevent bedouin from roaming their former pasture 
lands 

this is why nature reserves people are heavily armed with anti tank 
weaponry .  . just what we need in the nature reserves .  . 

and vast industrial zones , including nuclear reactors and 
dumping grounds for chemical , nuclear and other wastes .  . 

nothing like vast nuclear reactors when it comes to hiding them from 
air attack. at least saddam had the sense to hide his cbn plants in 
baby milk factories .  . 

israeli 
jews in the negev today cultivate less than half the surface area 
cultivated by the bedouin before 1948 , and there is no jewish 
pastoral activity. 

indeed , many older people recall fondly those lovely tomatoes and 
oranges that the bedouin exported form their garden of eden .  . in fact , 
that region used to supply the entire world with bananas , until the 
jews pushed that business onto the banana republics . 




elias , you 're stupid postings are a source of considerable amusement 
and hilarity .  . please do n't stop. i might even have to go back to 
watching tv. 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( danny keren ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 17 
nntp posting host cs . brown . edu . 

can someone elaborate a little on what this libertarian movement is i 
am not going to draw conclusions from a small sample , but so far i 
recall two self described libertarians posting here. both seems to be 

1) incredibly ignorant .  . 
2) incredibly arrogant .  . 
3) all they want is to get people angry .  . 
4) posses a lousy sense of humor. 
5) write incoherently and jump from topic to topic without any logical 
connection between topics. 
6) describe themselves as intelligent and knowledgeable , although everything 
in their posters points to the opposite .  . 
7) very childish .  . 

is this some campaign to smear this libertarian party or what 

danny keren .  . 

from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re more liar s profiles shostack , freeman , death 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 47 
nntp posting host rac3 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 


to eric s. perlman 

your posts make a good case study for an  . 
instead of attempting to enlightening about the errors of his 
ways , and even after he politely asked you to continue the debate in 
email , you persist in publicly lambasting him and labeling him a 
 . 

your posts , not mine , fit this description. what was the very first 
thing you did upon entering this newsgroup treat everyone who did n't 
agree with your opinions as dirt , not explain to them why , call them 
very rude names , twist words for flames .  .  .  . need i go on 

i can defend myself quite well against , thank you. 

there is nothing you need to defend yourself against .  . as i said 
i just exchange ideas over the usenet with other people. i never 
attacked you as to put you in the need to defend yourself against me. 
i am not a violent person , and i do not see how can anyone be threatened 
by the opinions and ideas of others as expressed on usenet .  . 
i asked you to continue on email because i am not interested on a 
flamefest , where you change my words or just make up some of your own 
and present them as mine. 
so , do not worry. you do not need to defend yourself because i am not 
attacking you. 

next time you try making such 
comments try some basic civility and you might get somewhere. 

this is a good advice for yourself. 


 nuff said. 



eric s. perlman 
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder 


alberto a. 




from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 1993 20 12 52 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 28 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 


bull shit. there is no reason in the world why we ca n't say that 
taking views analogous to the kkk 's or some such organization is 
wrong. there is no reason why some morality may not be legislated .  . as 
it is we do not allow theft , or murder , or rape .  . why should we allow 
hateful whose only purpose is to stir anger and violence .  . 

harry .  . 

actually , you 're wrong as well. the kkk is allowed to 
march and any attempts to curtail their freedom is rejected 
 ( actually i believe the aclu won a case for them last year) .  . 
morality should not be in a free country like 
the u.s. 

yes. that seems to be the problem. even germany now has laws for its 
military where soldiers are required to disobey orders if they 
believe the orders are morally incorrect .  . 

is prohibited in canada , germany  ( others ) .  . how pray tell is 
canda any less free than the us 

i 'll post something on tj and uva under uva for those 
bashers .  . 

harry .  . 

from (david davidian ) 
subject five russian soldiers sentenced to death in azerbaijan 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 53 


may 13 , 1993 five russian soldiers sentenced to death in azerbaijan 

moscow  ( upi ) five soldiers who served in russia 's 7th army stationed in 
armenia were sentenced to death in the azerbaijani capital baku thursday for 
allegedly carrying out diversions and killing 30 azeri soldiers .  . 

a statement released by the news service of azeri president 
said the sentence was final and was not subject to protest or appeal , the 
russian state news agency itar tass reported .  . 

but the russian foreign ministry issued an appeal for the men to be handed 
over to the authorities in moscow for punishment .  . 

this would accord with modern standards of humanity towards those who have 
committed crimes , the statement reads .  . 

the five men , together with another soldier who received a 15 year prison 
sentence , were captured in september 1992 by azeri police in the 
district of azerbaijan , between nagorno karabakh and armenia .  . 

the supreme court in baku said the men had gone through special training in a 
company of the russian 7th army in the armenian capital yerevan , after which 
they were sent across the armenian azeri border into nagorno karabakh to 
carry out diversions against azeri troops .  . 

however , the russian foreign ministry statement claimed they had deserted the 
russian army and were fighting as mercenaries with armenian armed forces in 
the battle zone round karabakh .  . 

nagorno karabakh is an armenian populated enclave within azerbaijan which for 
five years has been fighting for independence from baku in a war that has 
left many thousands dead and uprooted hundreds of thousands from their homes. 

both yerevan and baku have always claimed that russian servicemen stationed 
in these caucasian republics , who were left behind after the break up of the 
soviet union , are fighting as mercenaries in the karabakh war. 

the statement from moscow said the russian side repeatedly appealed to the 
azerbaijani government to show humanity and leniency in their treatment of the 
six men , and to hand them over to the russian authorities .  . 

it said that president boris yeltsin himself sent a letter with this request 
to his azeri counterpart  . itar tass said that the soldiers  defense 
attorneys had lodged an appeal for  . 




david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( ramin tafreshi ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 18 

my recollection of history documentary books is different. 
it is my understanding that croats were allies of germany during 
wwii , while serbs had sided with russia .  . as a result serbs did 
take a beating from croats (not bosnian moslems ) while germany 
had the upper hand. 

even today , russians consider call serbs as their brothers .  . 
this is one of the issues involved in the u.n. 's lack of active 
intervention against serbs .  . 

as for the bosnian moslems , i have not heard of any alliance with 
germany or russia in recent history. therefore , i am curious 
if they did or were able to treat other parties in this conflict 
with same  ( as they are getting it today) in the past 
history. 

regards 


from  ( josip loncaric ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 63 
distribution world 
nntp posting host orbit . src . umd . edu . 

in article michael sells m writes 

thus , while a war rages between serbs and croats as a continuation of 
wwii , and older agenda , the annihilation of islam and muslims from 
bosnian , is being carried out under the cover of the croat war. 


the annihilation of islam ( turks ) is an older serbian agenda .  . but 
i strongly dispute your notion that croats had a similar older agenda , 
in fact , for the past century or two , croats and muslims have seen 
themselves as having a lot in common , and they generally had friendly 
relations .  . your suggestion that croat muslim relationship is 
anything like serb muslim relationship is completely wrong. 

to say that croats and muslims have a lot in common does not imply 
they are not separate peoples .  . the events of the past two years 
clearly show muslim determination to remain separate in their alliance 
with croats , they maintained this separation .  . croats would have 
accepted a much closer relationship , i think. this century plus 
of building bridges between these two friendly peoples is now at 
risk , because of the inexorable logic of war. 

since bosnian serbs  ( 32 of population) have 10 times more heavy 
weapons than bosnian muslims  ( 44 ) and croats (17 ) combined , they 
have squeezed muslims and croats into only 30 of the territory .  . 
muslims lost more territory than croats  ( who built defenses early on) .  . 

under these conditions , any alliance is bound to fall apart since 
it is easier to recover lost land from croats than from serbs .  . 
the only thing keeping this in check was the hope of reversal of 
fortunes through foreign military intervention and lifting of the 
arms embargo .  . since warren christopher had no luck persuading 
the europeans to go along with this , this hope was dashed .  . having 
no prospect of outside help , the former allies turned on each other , 
like two starved animals in a tight cage .  . 

this inexorable logic , of course , got plenty of help from serbian 
intelligence operatives , who were doing everything to build 
mistrust between croats and muslims for over a year. a timely 
intervention to stop serbian aggression would have prevented this. 

sadly , nothing was done to create a balance of power on the 
ground. as long as the serbs enjoy 10 1 advantage , they can 
break any alliance , even among friends. this is tragic , but 
hardly new divide et was used by ancient romans 
with success. in my view , bosnian muslims and croats managed 
to resist this divisive strategy reasonably well until may 9 , 1993 , 
when the hope of reversal of fortunes was lost. 

i have a question for the distinguished diplomats do they 
believe balkan peoples are experimental cannon fodder i 'd like to know 
what did they expect when they decided to enforce the arms embargo which 
solidified serbian 10 1 advantage in heavy weapons how did they expect 
to prevent fragmentation of the muslim and croat defense forces and how 
on earth do they hope to restore peace without justice 

the implications of this immoral approach i cannot begin to predict , 
but i am filled with  .  .  . 

sincerely , 
josip 



from  ( emran qureshi ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 26 

in article  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 
s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 




yeah right , sorta like the indian sub , eh 

regards , 


from  ( tim clock) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 23 

in article (steven berson ) writes 
( andi beyer ) writes 

virginia.edu is true to its founding father , thomas 
jefferson the author of the bill of rights , in allowing freedom 
of speach .  . sorry you guys in israel have a hard time with the 
concept. 

jefferson was not the author of the bill of rights. my history 
books are n't here , but jefferson might have been in the group 
that did not think that enumerating rights was necessary. 
cheers , 
steven berson ucla computer science department (310) 825 3189 

look out .  .  .  . we have the beginnings of a between one of them 
liberal , western schools and an , establishment 
eastern university .  . ) 


tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from center for policy research 
subject rabin and his palestinians 
nf id n cdp 000 3586 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 15 05 01 00 1993 
lines 85 


from center for policy research cpr 
subject rabin and his palestinians 


rabin 's plans for a palestinian police 

(from the other front , alternative information center , 
jerusalem , 5 may 1993) 

the decision to view the setting up of a local police force 
for  ( sic ) the palestinians as the central issue for 
deliberation at the peace talks to be resumed next week 
even before subjects like elections in the territories and 
areas of in the framework of autonomy is a 
sign of the israeli government 's serious attitude towards 
the peace process. 

the setting up of a police force is not part of the  gesture 
package  , but deals with the very heart and substance of 
the palestinian struggle for national identity .  . as it turns 
out , the main objective guiding the prime minister in the 
setting up of a palestinian police force and apparently 
also supported by foreign minister peres is to 
ensure the holding of democratic elections in the 
territories .  . 

thus writes in his editorial  ( israeli daily 
, 23 april) , and his position the 
thinking of most of the commentators who dealt with this 
issue in the past two weeks. over against them stand the 
settlers and rightwing parties , who also interpret the 
decision to encourage the establishment of a palestinian 
police force as a significant step towards the of 
real autonomy , something which will restrict what can be 
done by the jewish settlers in the west bank and gaza 
strip .  . with a variety of demonstrations , including street 
theater on  what will happen when there is a palestinian 
police force  , rightwing elements are attempting to 
the israeli public and to pressure rabin to go 
back on his decision. members of the movement 
have even begun to organize a  settler police force  in the 
occupied territories , as counter balance to the future 
palestinian police force. 

however , as points out , the main function of the 
new police force as far as the israeli government is 
concerned has nothing to do with the settlers , over 
whom they will apparently have no authority , but will 
control political groups within the palestinian population , 
whom the government is interested in neutralizing .  . 
writes 

 .  .  . according . to ideas currently taking shape , the setting 
up of a local police force in the territories will precede , 
not only the stage of , but also the final stages of 
the preparing of the interim autonomy agreement .  . 

the willingness of the israeli government to set up a 
local palestinian police force is evidence that the 
government is serious about arriving at a settlement with 
the palestinians .  .  .  . 

it 's no wonder that the palestinian public is also greatly 
worried about this new israeli initiative .  . and it is 
inevitable that pressure will be brought to bear on faisal 
and the rest of the delegation members , from a 
variety of directions , to refuse the gift which rabin would 
like to give them. but at this stage , it looks like the 
palestinians are cooperating in the fulfillment of his 
plans. 


add l comment by e . d .  . 
numerous palestinians fear that israel might succeed in 
co some palestinian 
circles by this idea. they fear that a palestinian police 
force , controlled in fact by israel , might act even more 
brutally than the idf .  . the idea of using a surrogate police 
force is not new. it is used by israel in lebanon and was 
used by the nazis to control jewish ghetto dwellers .  . 





from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject such charming habits of the armenian barbarism and fascism .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 119 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

nice strategy , maybe if you can make up so many stories about what 
happened in wwi you will confuse everybody into forgetting the armenian 

ah , those poor genocide apologists .  . such charming habits of the 
armenian barbarism and fascism .  . no swinging of lies will be enough to cover 
up the crimes of the x soviet armenian government. not a chance. now let 
the kurdish scholars speak for themselves. 

source hassan arfa , the kurds ,  ( london , 1968) , pp. 25 26. 

when the russian armies invaded turkey after the disaster 
of 1914 , their columns were preceded by battalions of irregular 
armenian volunteers , both from the caucasus and from turkey .  . one of 
these was commanded by a certain , a blood thirsty adventurer .  . 
these armenian volunteers committed all kinds of excesses , more 
than six hundred thousand kurds being killed between 1915 and 1916 in 
the eastern vilayets of turkey .  . 

sources (the ottoman state , the ministry of war) , islam 
,  ( istanbul , 1918) .  . 
the french version documents relatifs aux par les 
sur la population musulmane ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . in the latin script h. k. 
, ed. , osmanli ve ermeni ,  ( ankara , 
1982) .  . in addition z. basar , ed. , ,  ( ankara , 
1974) and , edited by the same author , 
,  ( ankara , 1978) .  . tarih ... , vol. 32 , 83 
 ( december 1983) , document numbered 1881 .  . 
tarih .... , vol. 31 , 81  ( december 1982) , document 
numbered 1869 .  . 

those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning 
with the excuse of forced labor in road construction , they were taken 
in the direction of and annihilated .  . when the russian army 
withdrew , a part of the remaining people was destroyed in armenian 
massacres and cruelties they were thrown into wells , they were locked 
in houses and burned down , they were killed with bayonets and swords , in places 
selected as butchering spots , their bellies were torn open , their lungs 
were pulled out , and girls and women were hanged by their hair after 
being subjected to every conceivable abominable act. a very small part 
of the people who were spared these abominations far worse than the 
cruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were suffering 
from temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had lived 
in and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to. 
including women and children , such persons discovered so far do not 
exceed one thousand five hundred in erzincan and thirty thousand in 
erzurum .  . all the fields in erzincan and erzurum are untilled , everything 
that the people had has been taken away from them , and we found them 
in a destitute situation. at the present time , the people are subsisting 
on some food they obtained , impelled by starvation , from russian storages 
left behind after their occupation of this area. 


source adventures in the near east by a. rawlinson , jonathan cape , 
30 bedford square , london , 1934  ( first published 1923)  ( 287 pages) .  . 
 ( memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people) 

p. 184  ( second paragraph) 

i had received further very definite information of horrors that 
had been committed by the armenian soldiery in kars plain , and as 
i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their 
treatment of my own detached parties , i had wired to from 
that  in the interests of humanity the armenians should not 
be left in independent command of the moslem population , as , their 
troops being without discipline and not under effective control , 
atrocities were constantly being committed , for which we should 
with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible' .  . 

p. 177  ( third paragraph) 

armenian troops , who , having pillaged and destroyed all the 
moslem villages in the plain .  .  .  .  . 

caravans of refugees were in the meanwhile constantly arriving from the 
plain , from which the whole moslem population was fleeing with as much of 
their personal property as they could transport , seeking to obtain security 
and protection .  .  .  . 

p. 178  ( first paragraph) 

in those moslem villages in the plain below which had been searched 
for arms by the armenians everything had been taken under the cloak of 
such search , and not only had many moslems been killed , but horrible 
tortures had been inflicted in the endeavour to obtain information as 
to where valuables had been hidden , of which the armenians were aware 
of the existence , although they had been unable to find them. 

p. 181  ( first paragraph) 

the armenians from the plain were attacking the kurdish line with 
artillery , with probably a large force in support. 

p. 175  ( first paragraph) 

the arrival of this british brigade was followed by the announcement 
that kars province had been allotted by the supreme council of the 
allies to the armenians , and that announcement having been made , the 
british troops were then completely withdrawn , and armenian occupation 
commenced .  . hence all the trouble for the armenians at once commenced 
the wholesale robbery and persecution of the muslem population on the 
pretext that it was necessary forcibly to deprive them of their arms. 
in the portion of the province which lies in the plains they were able 
to carry out their purpose , and the manner in which this was done will 
be referred to in due course. 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
nntp posting host bellini . berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley erl 
lines 27 

in article  ( danny keren ) writes 
can someone elaborate a little on what this libertarian movement is i 
am not going to draw conclusions from a small sample , but so far i 
recall two self described libertarians posting here. both seems to be 

1) incredibly ignorant .  . 
2) incredibly arrogant .  . 
3) all they want is to get people angry .  . 
4) posses a lousy sense of humor. 
5) write incoherently and jump from topic to topic without any logical 
connection between topics. 
6) describe themselves as intelligent and knowledgeable , although everything 
in their posters points to the opposite .  . 
7) very childish .  . 

is this some campaign to smear this libertarian party or what 


wow , hang on a second. the libertarian party stands for personal freedom , 
faire economics and minimal government. whoever is describing the 
self as a libertarian  ( maybe you were refering to the posters who call 
themselves civil libertarians ) are not talking at all about libertarian 
philosophy .  . 

adam schwartz 
 ( libertarian ) 


from  ( josip loncaric ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 133 
distribution world 
nntp posting host orbit . src . umd . edu . 

in article  ( milan stojanovic ) writes 
in article  ( josip loncaric ) writes 

the annihilation of islam ( turks ) is an older serbian agenda .  . 

indeed , so was annihilation of germans during wwii .  . however , it is 
important to quote in his interview to 

had serbs wanted to exterminate muslims , they could have done it 
after the wwi , when they were the most loved small nation in 
europe .  . 

serbs did not do that , although they some rebellions 
by muslims and bosnian muslims quite  . however , 

this is quite a misrepresentation .  . after wwi , many bosnian muslims were 
killed and their land taken over by serbs , and the motive was plunder , 
not some fictitious supression of rebellion .  . even earlier , one can 
point to the destruction of mosques in serbia itself and expulsion of 
muslims .  . here is what dr. , political adviser to the 
serbian regime , says in his memorandum the expulsion of the 
which he presented to the royal government of 
on march 7 , 1937 , in belgrade 

the mode of removal 


describes how expulsion of ethnic from is to proceed 
through state terror and private initiative , i.e. plunder 

private initiative , too , can assist greatly in this direction. we should 
distribute weapons to our colonists , as need be. the old forms of 
action should be organized and secretly assisted .  . ... 
 .  .  . the . whole affair should be presented as a conflict between clans and , 
if need be , ascribed to economic reasons. finally , local riots can be 
incited .  . these will be suppressed with the clans and the 
, rather than the army .  . 

there remains one more means , which serbia employed with great practical 
effect after , that is , by secretly burning down villages 
and city quarters .  . 

 ( emphasis above is mine . ) . these events in serbia itself forced out virtually 
all muslims during late 19th century. this policy of state terrorism 
against muslims , aided by private initiative , has continued in wwii 
and today. for example , in his book od do 
 ( sarajevo 
, 1974) writes (pg .  . 235 ) how serbs killed a muslim in 
in wwii even though he claimed to be a serbian patriot , explaining 
their action as follows 

inasmuch as you were a serb , you the serb name , because you 
are a turk i.e. muslim . and since you helped us , we shall not 
torture you. 

so the shot him instead of cutting his throat. in the past year , serbs 
have repeated the slaughter of muslim residents of  . destruction 
of mosques , including historical monuments , completes the 
eradication of the muslim presence from territories claimed by serbs .  . 


i strongly dispute your notion that croats had a similar older agenda , 
in fact , for the past century or two , croats and muslims have seen 
themselves as having a lot in common , and they generally had friendly 
relations .  . your suggestion that croat muslim relationship is 
anything like serb muslim relationship is completely wrong. 

to say that croats and muslims have a lot in common does not imply 
they are not separate peoples .  . .... 

how touching .  . i have nearly cried while i read this. unfortunately , 
mostly untrue .  . 

which part do you claim is untrue explain yourself , or withdraw your claim .  . 

croats from croatia mostly had no contacts with muslims , since they 
were mostly dealt with extreme long time ago. however 
one of the main agendas is turning bosnia into purely catholic state. 

croatia never had many muslim citizens for historical reasons , because it 
was not a part of the ottoman empire .  . the last major battles between 
hungarian monarchy and the ottoman empire in croatia were at the 
end of the 17th century. need i remind you that modern nationalism 
came into being with dr. ante , who saw bosnian muslims as the 
best croats , so much so that in 1853 he contemplated moving his operations 
to sarajevo you are confusing with 
nationalism here. political nationalism has always been stronger .  . as 
for your other theories , you are clearly overjoyed that croat muslim 
alliance in bosnia herzegovina is now in trouble. arguments such as 
yours are clearly intended to create and this split .  . 

i should add few more things. a.j. evans , in his on foot through 
b h describes that catholic clergy in the last century was 
apparently more scared by serbs , then by turks , because serbs were 
growing stronger and , unlike turks , represented great danger for 
idea of catholic bosnia .  . president clearly states in 
his book that muslims do not exist as a separate nation from 
croats and serbs , and he many times suggested , even in to 
foreign papers , that solution is to split bosnia .  . 

josip knows this and he is only working on the image of croatia .  . 

in international relations 101 you 'll learn that unless weak unite to 
the strong player , soon they are taken over and that 's the 
end of them. balance of power thinking has brought together croats 
and bosnian muslims .  . this is only natural all other are 
unstable .  . i'm working on pointing out this basic fact croats and 
muslims have been aware of it for as long as serbia has existed .  . 
you are wrong if you think only image is at stake here. croatia has 
a deep interest in her alliance with bosnian muslims , and vice versa .  . 

i think understands this , although he does not have much choice 
at this point. tensions should have been defused better earlier , before 
any open confrontation developed .  . although i still think croatia will 
survive , it will lose a lot but bosnian muslims may end up even worse 
off. however , their position now is so horrible that perhaps they do not 
see it getting any worse. the key point is do they still have any hope left 
if not , then all bets are off. 

mr. is clearly very , very happy about this. i'm deeply hurt. 
this is not about some image but about survival of a concept of a 
partnership which i believe is natural and essential for both croats 
and muslims .  . 

sigh .  .  .  . 
josip 








from  ( harry katz ) 
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake 
organization digital equipment corporation , atlanta customer support center 
lines 31 
nntp posting host alf . dec . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

in article , 
jack schmidling writes 

that federal land and tax money could have been 
used to commerate americans or better yet , to house 
homeless americans .  . 


in article 
 ( jim maurer ) responds 

why do n't you contribute to a group helping the 
homeless if you so concerned 


in article 
jack schmidling reveals the true depths 
of his cynicism 

i do  ( did ) contribute to the arf mortgage fund but 
when interest rates , i just paid it off. 

the problem is , i could n't convince congress to move 
my home to a nicer location on federal land. 


in other words , mr. schmidling could care less for the plight 
of the homeless , but is not above using them to score points 
for his agenda .  . 

harry katz 

from ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) 
subject re deir yassin 
organization university of virginia 
lines 55 

writes 
in article ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 

this is such bullshit .  . deir yassin was an unprovoked attack on 
the part of the jews , and a massacre defines it best in my 
opinion. the village of deir yassin had had a pact with the 
jews , a peace pact , but the irgun purposely broke this 
agreement in order to scare off the palestinians .  . i might 
grant that this village housed armed arabs i doubt it but 
nothing in the archives and available literature indicates that 
this was a motivating force amongst the irgun .  . the deir yassin 
massacre was part of an over all strategy to intimidate the 
palestinians to flee the jewish homeland .  . ,  .  .  . and . contrary to 
your belief , many civilians were killed. deir yassin was later 
by the very jews who perpetrated it because it was 
useful in getting many palestinians to leave. the palestinians 
were rightfully scared off , because they did not want another 
deir yassin .  . 
i'm not necessarily condemning the israelites here 
atrocities were committed on the part of the arabs .  . 
israelophiles should just be careful in thinking that they are 
and were the good guys in the middle east .  . both arab and jew 
suck equally .  . 

, you say that there is no evidence that what motivated the irgun 
to attack dir yassin was its strategic importance .  . in fact , begin , 
who was in charge of the irgun , wrote that dir yassin was attacked for 
its military significance .  . 

dir yassin was merely a battle in the war of liberation .  . people died. 
but the thing was never intended to be a  . that this 
is a tragedy of war not a crime of the irgun .  . 

harry .  . 


i agree with you harry , however you must also concede then that 
arab terrorism is also a tragedy of war. remember that the 
palestinians have no other effective target but civilians in 
order to further their cause. if irgun had to attack civilian 
targets to terrorize in order that they might obtain some 
objective , i'm sure they would have done so. i also do n't 
exclude irgun 's action against british soldiers as terrorism .  . 
the british were showing signs of favoring a compromise with 
regards to palestine , and the irgun and branch off groups made 
a point to kill young british recruits so that mothers and 
fathers back in britain would get angry at continued 
presence in palestine .  . sounds like a form of terrorism to me , 
and not much removed from arab terrorism .  . we must not also 
forget that irgun , or irgun branch off groups more likely 
killed many jews who were not as hardline zionist as they , or 
who cooperated with the british .  . 
i 'll reiterate again .  .  .  .  . both sides are screwy , but 
i 'll favor the underdog in this case because i do think they 
were a bit screwed .  . 

from (david davidian ) 
subject re of heroes and cowards the of karabakh armenians 
summary the fight for survival 
keywords a typo correction 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 28 

in article (david 
davidian ) wrote 

dd not taking sides leaves one in a state of perpetual indecision because 
dd both sides in this issue have their own logic at any given time. as an 
dd armenian i am partisan by definition .  . however , this does give me the 


obviously a not goes here as 
evidenced by the context. 

dd license to lie , cover up , or revise events under question as we have read 
dd on usenet in postings by agents of the turkish government. i understand 
dd both sides of the issue , but this does not mean i will advocate both sides 
dd when it suits me. such a position would make me a hypocrite .  . i am also not 
dd being paid by agents of turkey nor azerbaijan as are many proponents of 
dd the azeri side. i refer to agents such as international group , 
dd ltd. , being paid in excess of 30 , 000 month by azerbaijan .  . i state my case 
dd unencumbered by such advocacy or prostitution .  . 

thanks to mr. cg .  . 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject re netanyahu should be stoned 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 6 
reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 20 may 1993 21 13 06 gmt 

anas omran .  .  .  . 

@ but since all jews that way , they find him a leader to follow ! 

anas , how much is netanyahu paying you to write this 


from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re volume 
nntp posting host bellini . berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley erl 
lines 9 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
p.p.s. just to clear up something , i do n't think than the jews 
are necessarily any worse than other people 

how generous andi .  . thanks for your validation .  . 

adam schwartz 



from  ( tim clock) 
subject peace talks resume 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 59 

in article writes 

peace talks resume today israel to offer palestinians new 
proposals 

israel radio , kol yisrael , reports on today 's in 
washington of the bilateral peace talks , following a recess which 
lasted over four months. according to the report , israel is 
expected to offer the palestinians new proposals regarding the 
authority of the palestinian executive council , general elections , 
control over land and human rights issues in the territories .  . 
israel will express its readiness to give the palestinians control 
of more land than previously offered .  . 

according to the radio 
report , one estimate is that israel will give the palestinians 
control over as much as two thirds of the administered lands , as 
well as broad authority on water issues. israel will seek to 
promote its offer to hold elections in the territories in hopes of 
strengthening the position of the palestinian delegation to the 
peace negotiations .  . according to israel radio , the israeli 
delegation to the bilateral talks with the palestinians will offer 
greater responsibilities to the palestinian executive council 
allowing it certain legislative capabilities , without making it a 
symbol for palestinian sovereignty .  . u.s. secretary of state warren 
christopher invited all the heads of to a gathering 
tonight. it will be the first such event since the madrid 
conference. head of the american team at the bilateral peace talks , 
edward , said that tonight 's gathering is meant to 
demonstrate the u . s . ' . active role in the peace process. 

i hope , i hope , that we can begin to involve ourselves in the issues 
and concerns related to this peace process. we have differing opinions , 
certainly , on these aspects but it is clear that we all share the hope 
that resolution of the tensions and conflict will happen. 

as we run to the defense of our side , there is no need to constantly 
involve ourselves in name calling .  . all of us are regularly confused by 
the other 's reactive posting because they spend most of the post 
applying labels and presenting slogans than in just presenting their 
honest views. then .  .  . when . we react , we do the same thing. 


do you , as i do , agree that this  ( sort ) of peace process is needed 
what about the particular points mentioned in the article is what 
israel is  ( supposedly ) going to propose good does it go too far 
not far enough 

if you do n't agree that a peace process is needed , what is 






tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from michael sells m 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization college 
lines 58 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 130 . 58 . 172 . 17 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d20 . 
x thu , 13 may 93 13 08 52 gmt 

subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
from 
date 13 may 93 02 28 53 gmt 
in article , 
writes 
in a previous article ,  ( josip loncaric ) wrote 

actually , just after the first world war , many muslims were killed by 
serbs .  . 
under serbian led regime between the two world wars , many croats were 
also killed  ( especially during the dictatorship introduced on jan. 6 , 
 . 

josip , 

please , do n't be offended at this question who are the muslims in the 
bosnian context i know that a moslem muslim is a believer in islam .  . 
islam 
is a religion and it is practised in many parts of the world. but it is 
not 
, yes definitely not , an group. ok ! so , these bosnian muslims , 
who 
are they to which ethnic group do they belong what  ( language(s ) do they 
speak do they have a different language from that of the serbs or 
croats 
the way the western press use the word  muslim  in this bosnian debacle 
has 
kept me wondering when the meaning of muslim moslem i knew from 
childhood was 
changed in the dictionary .  . this is just a question. no flames intended ! 




you 've asked a crucial question that underlies much of the genocide .  . 
bosnian muslims are slavic in ethnicity .  . they speak  . but 
there is a slavic ideology whereby all true slavs are christian 
and anyone who converted to islam thereby must have changed ethnicity by 
changing religion. see the poems of or the novels of ivo 
who displays these attitudes on the part of what he calls 
the people (i . e .  . christian  . for this reason , the war criminals 
call all the bosnian muslims turks even though they are not ethnically 
turk and do not speak turkish as their first language. for this reason , 
what is actually a genocide labeled against those who are ethnically 
identical but religiously other is called , paradoxically , ethnic 
cleansing rather than religious cleansing .  . 

thus , while a war rages between serbs and croats as a continuation of 
wwii , and older agenda , the annihilation of islam and muslims from 
bosnian , is being carried out under the cover of the croat war. 

regards , 

mike .  . 


michael sells , department of religion , college 
, pa 

from  ( kevin walsh ) 
subject re to all my friends on t . p . m .  . , i send greetings 
reply to kevin walsh 
organization cursor software limited , london , england 
lines 17 

in article writes 
in message some nameless geek writes 
to oded feingold 

call off the dogs , babe .  . it 's me , in the flesh .  . and no , i'm not 
wayne either , so you might just want to tuck your quivering 
back into your m . i . t .  . slacks and catch up on your woody allen .  . 

this is an outrage ! i do n't even own a dog. 

of course you do. you married it a while ago , remember 



professor kevin walsh 



from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject bosnian war taking a strategic turn , bosnians call europe 's bluff .  . 
keywords international , non usa government , government , fighting , united nations , civil rights , social issues 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 59 

(j . t .  . nguyen ) writes 

united nations  ( upi ) the muslim dominated government in bosnia 
herzegovina asked the u.n. security council tuesday to withdraw all u.n. 
personnel from bosnian territory as a first step toward lifting the 
international arms embargo against the former yugoslav republic .  . 
the bosnian government , saying the presence of u.n. personnel had 
become impediment to critical decisions by the international 
community , '' indicated the withdrawal of the and relief 
workers would persuade western governments to lift the arms embargo so 
muslims could defend themselves against bosnian serbs .  . 

the security council imposed the arms embargo on the whole of the 
former yugoslavia in 1991 when fighting erupted between serb 

the imposed it knowing that serbia has a stockpile of weapons , and that 
bosnia will have next to nothing to defend itself. many experts predicted 
a massacre as early as march , 1992 , but the security knew what it 
was doing. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
france and britain have opposed u.s. proposals for military air 
strikes against bosnian serbs , saying such strong action would lead to 
retaliation against their troops and personnel .  . 
.... 
the bosnian move tuesday was in part a bid to undermine the british 
and french opposition to military intervention based on fears for the 
safety of european peacekeeping troops and humanitarian personnel .  . 
.... 
's ambassador to the united nations , mohamed , who 
conveyed the letter to the security council members , told reporters that 
the  mandate should be modified or they should withdraw .  . 
... 
he said if the security council refuses to accede to the request , his 
government will take step . '' . he did not elaborate on what 
other steps the government might take. 
 .  .  . 
in his letter to the council , said president clinton 
understood well the muslims  and desperate plight   because 
the united states has been seeking support for lifting of the arms 
embargo .  . 
said the international community has not realized that the 
war in bosnia herzegovina was a of fascist aggression   and the 
maintenance of the arms embargo was an of arrogant to 
the fate of hundreds of thousands of loyal bosnian citizens , who plead 
only for the right to defend themselves . '' . 
the security council to cease an arms embargo that has , 
in practice , constituted an international intervention against our 
legitimate rights as a member of the united nations , '' said. 

now read this , tim clock co. 
the request to the security council took some members by surprise , 
even though the complaints have been aired by the bosnian government for 
some time. the only allies the muslims could find in the council are 

non aligned and islamic countries , which have been calling for the 

muslims  right to self defense , a provision in the u.n. 
charter .  . 

from  ( vasudev murthy ) 
subject re saudi clergy condemns debut of human rights group ! 
keywords international , non usa government , government , civil rights , social issues , politics 
nntp posting host 
organization nec america , inc irving tx 
lines 21 

in article  ( dave bakken ) writes 
deleted 

is this really what you  ( and and others in the general 
west is evil zionists rule hate west or you are a puppet crowd) 
want , ilyess 

it 's noteworthy that the posts about the west being 
evil etc are made not in some islamic but from 
the west .  . if the west is so bad , why do they come here 
notice how they comfortably exercise their rights to 
free expression , something completely absent in their 
own countries. 

vasudev 



vasudev murthy any opinions expressed are strictly 
my own and have nothing to do with 
advanced switching lab , nec america , inc. 

from  ( eric s. perlman ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
nntp posting host qso . colorado . edu . 
organization university of colorado , boulder 
lines 288 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 
in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 

i do not want to convince anyone. this is just usenet , not the real 
world. i just read the opinions others have about a subject , and sometimes 
i present my opinion. i think that this net is only useful to exchange 
ideas. i never wanted nor i want now to convince anyone of anything. 

fine. now if your opinion is n't convincing anyone , and it 's getting 
refuted regularly by the facts (which is the case) , is n't it likely that 
your opinions need some revision 

as i said , i do not want to convice anyone , so , why should my opinions 
convince anyone 
i do not believe that my opinions are refuted by facts. 

then you have n't been paying attention to the arguments levelled against 
them. they have been , over and over again. they will be again. 

first , and i repeat it , i never said that the idea of jews having the 
right to have a state is racist .  . 
zionism , as a movement , is more than just that idea. 

in a word utter and complete horse puckey .  . look the term up in the 
dictionary .  . 

maybe view of a dictionary is the problem here. one thing is the 
accepted meaning of a word by a dictionary , and sometimes a completely 
different thing is what that word came to mean after a long time. 

hey , what do you think dictionaries are for you quite obviously need 
one. a good dictionary gives both , and you well know it. 

i think that zionism 
in the way it defines who is a jew , for example , is racist like. 

ok , now how would you define it. and by the way , you 're wrong again. 
there is no uniformity of this definition among zionist movements .  . 
you know this is the case , it 's been pointed out on the net directly to 
you before , and yet you continue to maintain this delusion .  . 

ok. tell me how many people in zionist movements define a jew in a 
different way , and how many are who define jew based on a religious way. 

i do n't think that data exist on this directly .  . 

in the same way i believe that irish have a right to nationalism but i do 
not support the bombing and killing of the ira , i believe that jews have 
a right to nationalism but i do not support zionism as it is right now. 

comparing the actions of israel to that of the ira is like comparing 
those of the us to those of chile under  ( for example) , with the 
ira in the role of  . you really need to get your history 
straight. you also need a basic dictionary .  . 

you need to start reading before answering .  . 
my point was that because some movement claims to be nationalistic , it 
does not mean that i consider it to be nationalistic .  . i did not 
israel to the ira .  . i think that you are starting to put words on my 
mouth and that is wrong. 

that is no problem. but once again you are defining zionism as one 
movement. you are implying that it is monolithic .  . you know this is 
not and has never been the case. 

stuff deleted by  . his statement , which i was responding to 
with the below , asserted that zionism was uniform and monolithic 

i never said that zionism is monolithic .  . if you are going to attribute 
me things , present the quotes where i said that. 

you do n't say it directly .  . you implied it , and i showed explicitly 
where and how you implied it. now you 're trying to wriggle out of it. 
wo n't wash , and you know it. 

that is what makes the basis for zionist movements .  . however , i am not 
considering just that , but the rest of it. 

in a word i do n't believe you. your words tell a very different 
story. especially since they are not based on fact , but and 
misrepresentation .  . 

that is your problem. i could certainly interpret this like you are 
running out of arguments .  . first , you put words in my mouth , now , you 
say you do ot believe me. 

it 's you , not me , who is running out of arguments .  . 

which makes an interesting point. people living in a jewish state have 
shown that jewish culture includes in it jewish religion but they are 
not the same. so , the jewish people living in the jewish state have shown 
us that there are some problems in a state where 80 of the people is secular 
but judaism is define according to religious standards , or where marriage 
is a religious stage , or where the law of return defines a jew according to 
a religious standard. 

no , it does n't ! nowhere does the law of return demand that one must be 
religious or even believe in g d to become a citizen of israel 
 . 

why do n't you try reading for a change did i say that the law of return 
demand a person to be religious now , how does the law of return define 
who is a jew and who is not i said that it uses a religious standard 
if your mother is a jew , you are a jew , if your mother is not jewish , 
neither you are. 
do not twist my words , please. 

what you said is that judaism is defined according to religious 
standards. now this can have several different meanings , and you know 
it. one of the meanings that it can have is to say that only those who 
are religious are defined as jews . another is to say that only those 
who meet the religious definition of a jew is one. and there are 
others. i'm not twisting your words. i'm trying to make you aware that 
your words do n't mean what you think they do. 

true , there are debates in israel and abroad about who is 
a jew , but those debates are taken up by both religious and secular .  . 
would you say that religious people should not have a say in that 
would you deny them their right of free speech 

i am not talking about the debate. i am talking about how things are right 
now. when the debate is over , i 'll see what happens. 
right now , things are like they are. 
let me ask you one thing. i understand that israel between 
citizenship and nationality .  . suppose  ( m(ale ) and  ( f(emale ) have a child in 
israel .  . which nationality will the child 's id show , according to each one 
of the following cases 

actually , it does n't .  . and the citizens  rights are exactly the same in 
both cases , anyway. 

a) f and m are both jewish .  . 

jewish 

b) f is and m is not. 

jewish 

c) f is muslim and m is jewish .  . 
d ) f is christian and m is jewish .  . 

it 'll depend on what religion is practiced in the house. the original 
law of return would still admit such a person if they were jewish , if 
memory serves .  . 

e) f and m are both non jewish .  . 

not jewish .  . 


did those israelis who do not believe in god and will never do become 
non jews why should they still define then a jew based on what is a 
religious definition 

it 's called history. how do you think jews stuck together through 
pogroms for millenia in europe we had to know who was our own. i for 
one do think that some change is in order and that descent 
is no less legit than is (which is not the religious jew 's 
point of view) .  . there 's plenty of room for that in zionism as you 
well know. 

it called history. at some point it was ok. now , i believe , it is not. 

that 's valid , as far as i can see. 

according to webster 's ninth new collegiate dictionary , merriam webster inc , 
publishers , springfield , massachusetts , u.s.a. , 1986 , page 593 , 

hy poc ri sy a to be what one is or to believe one does not. 

so , saying that one believes in zionism as a simple matter of people 
having the right to nationalism , but disregarding the right of the palestinian 
people to do the same , according to this dictionary , is hypocrisy .  . 

utter baloney .  . by the way , i do believe the palestinians have a right 
to self determination , have stated so on this net , and i know you 've 

seen it. 


interesting. how do you know had i ever talked to you about this and 
forgotten about that 

more than once. as have others. 

but that right to self determination cannot be at israel 's 
expense .  . israel 's security comes first and that security must be 
maintained .  . you 're also twisting words now beyond belief .  . if you think 
that 's what that definition means in this context , you need a first grade 
course in english. 


which definition are you now talking here about 

the very one you give above. it is absolutely inconsistent with the 
twist you put on it. 

i do not know why you are so touchy .  . i never said that you did not support 
palestinian self determination .  . i just gave an example of hypocrisy .  . 

no you did n't .  . you had to twist the definition of the word 180 degrees 
in order to do so , and everyone else knows it. i'm not being touchy .  . 

i never 
said that someone in this net is guilty of it. it was just an example. nothing 
more , nothing less than that. why did you have to clarify what you think 

because what you gave was not an example. it was an example of how 
the definition of a word can be twisted around 180 degrees. 

if you did n't use different meanings of words than are in the 
dictionary , you might be believable .  . 

here you have several problems. 
first , you should know that words have more meanings than those given in 
the dictionary .  . 

oh , so now what are dictionaries for 

second , it may come to be a shock for you to know that there are more 
words than those in the dictionary .  . 

duh. as a scientist , whose technical terms are very often not found in 
common dictionaries , i know this. but when a term is common , like 
hypocrisy , a good dictionary can be regarded as an authoritative source. 

third , we can exchange ideas if you want , but you come out with this nonsense 
about being believable using the definitions given in a dictionary .  . 

it 's not nonsense. when people read what you write , they have to try to 
associate a meaning to those words. dictionaries give the meanings of 
words , do n't they now , i assume that you 'd like to have the words you 
use mean what you 'd like them to. but the fact is , you 're using very 
different meanings than are in the dictionary , or you would like the 
reader to assign them new meanings , which they never had. 

it seems that you cannot answer to the ideas given by others without insulting 
others. sad. 

not at all. what i cannot abide is utter when you 've been 
proven completely wrong. 

if your facts at all resembled 
even the slightest bit of truth which they do not you might be 
believable .  . 

if you did not put words in my mouth , it might be that you might 
start reading what i had actually said. 

i never put even one syllable in your mouth. you have tried to prove 
this and you failed. 

so far , you come over and over 
twisting what i said or presenting things i never said as if i had said 
them. 

 . 

in this way , you are answering to yourself. that is why you do not 
find it believable .  . maybe , if you start reading what i had actually said , 
and not what you added , you might change your mind. 

i read what you said. i did not add anything. you simply either do n't 
know that the words do n't mean what you 'd like them to which cannot be 
the case now since you 've been proven wrong and you quite obviously 
do n't have a defense against the arguments presented , or you 're twisting 
the meanings .  . which is it 

but the fact is that there is nothing resembling fact in 
what you 've said on this thread. and the fact also is that you 're using 
different definitions for your words based on baloney than anyone 
else does. 

first , there is nothing resembling a fact in what you added to what i said , 
as if i had said it. 

ha ! there 's nothing resembling fact in what you 've said. i never added 
anything to what you said. 




how sad to see a model of decorum and tranquillity become like any other sport 
a battleground for rival ideologies to slug it out with glee .  . tim rice , chess 
eric s. perlman 
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder 

from morris  ( jay morris ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
lines 58 
nntp posting host zoo gw . cs . yale . edu . 
organization yale university computer science dept. , new haven , ct 06520 2158 

in article (gerald olchowy ) writes 
in article s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 
the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 


it is easy for sen. biden to say that when there are no us troops in 
or or  .  .  . 

this is true. 

the existing un policy may be wrong , but the us wants 
to dictate policy , and make europe responsible for the consequences 
of that policy .  .  . 

this has merit but is not entirely true. 

 .  .  . bosnia . is a big enough problem for the us to preach about what 
other countries should be doing with their forces .  .  . but . its forces 
are safely away at home in the us. 

gerald 

this last statement is not true. according to the cbo the united states 
has a force of about 88 , 000 us army personel in europe , i do not know 
if this includes a division in norway .  . they have available 
a little more than 500 usaf attack aircraft , including various models 
of the f 111 , a 10 , f b , and a few f 4s .  . there are about 1 , 000 
more of these available , safely away at home. at one time , the 
us maintained 1500 mbts about half were but some of these were 
relocated to the persian gulf .  . i know the us has at least one 
aircraft carrier battle group nearby and probably a marine assault 
brigade .  . does anyone know if there are any b 52 b in england 

the point is , although there are no us ground troops in bosnia , 
it is not true that that all the american forces are safely camped 
outside of st. louis .  . 

i also understand that the administration is planning to position 
troops in macedonia .  . any reaction out there to this 

question day before yesterday i heard that serbia montenegro 
had imposed additional trade sanctions against the bosnian serb rebels .  . 
this morning a npr reported at a bridge on the (sp ) verified 
that only a bread truck was allowed to pass through to bosnia .  . 
a serbian who happened to be muslim , stated that just a few months 
ago no vehicle even slowed for the boarder station. now everyone 
is stopped and searched , many are turned back. of course all i 
heard was a translators version , i do not speak  . 

if this is a effort on the part of serbia montenegro for whatever reason 
to push the into accepting the v o , is this not a good thing 

peace , 
jay morris 


from  ( sean philip engelson ) 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
organization yale ai mobile robotics project 
lines 41 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host fridge . ai . cs . yale . edu . 


in article ,  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 
michael sells m writes 

this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... 

every place on earth is the scene of a saga of mutual hatred and 
destruction .  . the holocaust was not a fresh case. it was another 
chapter in a 900 year history of attacks on jews in europe .  . that did n't 
make it acceptable .  . and balkan history does not make the genocide against 
bosnian muslims acceptable .  . 

i guess that it was not acceptable because germany also chose 
a path of aggression simultaneously that put the interests of 
other countries in peril .  . i wonder whether us or other countries 
would have risked themselves if only jews were persecuted and 
hitler had no imperialist ambitions .  . (i am no student of history 
and i am just asking questions . ) . 

actually , the record of the allies activities , in the face of 
evidence as to what the nazis  ( may they rot in hell ) 
were doing , clearly points to the conclusion that they would have done 
nothing. the railways to the camps were not bombed , despite the ease 
of doing so. the us , the place of refuge allowed in a bare pittance 
of jews from europe , primarily for public relations , so that the 
government could say it was doing something . many ships with 
refugees were turned away from us shores some found refuge in cuba or 
south america , many others sunk or had to return to europe  ( with 
predictable  . the hope today is that we have 
collectively learned a lesson , and are less to ignore other 
countries  internal affairs . the sad reality is that this does not 
seem to be the case. 



sean philip  ( shlomo ) 
yale department of computer science 
box 2158 yale station 
new haven , ct 06520 

from michael sells m 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
organization college 
lines 49 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 130 . 58 . 172 . 17 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d20 . 
x thu , 13 may 93 12 09 32 gmt 

subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
from nick , 
date 12 may 1993 17 19 43 0400 
in article nick , 
writes 
in article michael sells 
m writes 

... i find it interesting that mr. major finds the genocide of two 
million muslims in bosnia acceptable ... 


now you are actually claiming that 2 , 000 , 000 muslims have been killed 
in b h 

please substantiate this utterly ridiculous claim .  . 

no , i'm not claiming 2 , 000 , 000 have been killed. we are in the middle of 
the genocide process that mr. major has given yet another green light 
to. seems to have most of what he wants , but is just 
getting his appetite  . because refuses to allow 
international observers to inspect mass grave sites and killing centers 
in places like , , and , it will be years before we have 
an accurate account of the number killed. 

in practical terms , it would be impossible to kill all 2 , 000 , 000 .  . there 
just is n't the kind of machinery of and gas chambers and 
transportation lines that the nazis took 8 years to develop .  . and 
remember , the nazis killed minorities in the countries they occupied .  . to 
actually kill 42 of the population requires extreme genocidal 
organization. 

but i do claim that the goal of the genocide is the systematic 
annihilation of bosnian muslim culture , by killing as many as is 
feasible , by rape , by torture , by the demolition of mosques , libraries , 
and culture , the burning and renaming of villages , the shelling 
of civilians .  . so that there wo n't be any of the 2 , 000 , 000 or so muslims 
whose lives have not been shattered by the genocide , though they still 
may be alive. 

and mr. major not only finds this acceptable , he helps it along by making 
sure that the victims do n't have arms to defend themselves. 

nick 

mike .  . 

michael sells , department of religion , college 
, pa 

from  ( godada shi ) 
subject re egypt cuts phone lines with independent muslim states 
keywords international , non usa government , government , intelligence , politics , religion 
organization umass lowell computer science 
lines 9 

in article ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes 
 ( bahaa elkoussy ) writes 

when it comes to egypt , all human rights , ethics , principles can 
be ignored by the western media. i wonder why 
are you pretending not knowing it here is why 
those who are not obedient to we west must be evil ! . 



from  ( mash javad ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization ye sar e 
lines 65 

in article (gerald olchowy ) writes 

the problem is that the blue in bosnia are dead meat if 
clinton starts bombing , but clinton does n't have the courage to 
ask that the blue leave , because then he becomes primarily 
responsible to the bosnian policy of the un and the allies .  . 
clinton wants to have his cake and eat it too .  .  . he . wants to feel 
free to use american military power for the sake of domestic 
us politics and his domestic image , but he does n't want to assume 
the primary international leadership role in the un and among 
the allies , like bush , for all his faults , did in the gulf war .  .  .  . 
because with leadership comes responsibility , and clinton seems 
to want to retain the europeans as scapegoats .  . 


this is one of the most ridiculous arguments i have heard from the 
europeans .  . let 's let the serbs massacre , rape , and ethnically clean 
100 , 000 bosnians because we do n't want our pretty blue there 
to get scratched . well , i say , get them the hell out of there if you 're 
worried for them , but do n't deny bosnians their basic right to self 
defense ! lift the embargo against bosnia , and let them defend themselves. 
what makes the un troops more valuable than the bosnian people they 
are letting the civilians die so the soldiers could survive , when 
if anything , it should be the other way around. idiots like owen 
expect bosnians to swallow a forced plan , and just hope this problem 
will go away. well they 're wrong. if they had got their butts in gear 
 ( that is , if bosnia had oil) a year ago , much of this could be prevented .  . 
now , however , the results of this tragedy will last for generations .  . 
that 's like forcing the jews to make peace with hitler .  . yeah right. 
this , as senator biden said , of bigotry , and makes me and any 
decent human being for that matter , quite sick. it should be the 
europeans , not the americans , who take the and ask the 
other for support. this is their backyard , not the americans .  . 
today it 's bosnia , tomorrow it will be and macedonia , greece , 
and then turkey , and the damn thing will spread .  . not to mention 
european muslims who were n't even practicing before will rally to 
fundamentalism .  . good luck handling that , your majesty ! owen was 
upset at the question which compared him to chamberlain , who hoped 
to appease hitler .  . he said that chamberlain had been in munich 2 years 
before any war , i have been here during a blazing war for the last 
18 months. well , that makes him even worse , because chamberlain could 
have at least argued i'm giving germany the benefit of the doubt , 
whereas owen ca n't even do that. what the west is doing is aiding the 
serbs by tying the bosnians  hands , and making the stupid excuse of their 
powerless troops on the ground , who ca n't even protect the bosnian foreign 
minister in their own armored vehicle , and watch the killers just walk 
away ! what kind of peace is this what kind of civilization is this 

clinton wants to leave the europeans in charge and responsible , 
but wants to on the side .  .  . and . if his gets 
too hot , he wants to be able to cut and run .  .  . the . american public may 
be easily fooled .  .  . european . leaders are n't .  . 

european leaders are pathetic , and are helping a genocide which even they 
will not be able to forget. yeah , they 'll go to africa and fight for some 
damn dictator in their former colony , they 'll go to kuwait and fight for 
oil , but in bosnia not only they wo n't fight aggression , they 'll even 
tie the hands of the victim .  . now you tell me who is fooling whom .  . 


gerald 



mash javad 

reply to 
from d. c. sessions 
organization nobody but me really 
x tmail version 1 . 20r . 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
distribution world 
lines 51 

in ,  ( tim clock) wrote 

in article writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
i am not aware of any such incidents .  . 

and in article v . writes 

i 've read most of the history books dealing with this period , 
good and bad , and while it is possible that i missed one or two , 
none of those i 've read documents any of mosques .  . so i 
think that this remarkable claim requires specific documentation .  . 

for the newcomers , here are the references. 

the reference i based my posting on originally is the book the west 
bank story , by rafik  ( new york 
1982 .  . original title die story) .  . 

quoting from the west bank story , pages 35 36 
on the night of june 10 , an israeli officer marched from door to door 
through the quarter of east jerusalem giving the residents 
three hours  notice to evacuate their homes. 

... the participants in a 
july 24 , 1967 meeting of a group of arab relgious and political 
figures protested the dress of israelis visiting the mosques 
and the destruction of two mosques in the quarter adjacent to 
the western wall. 

this issue has been going on for a while and your presentation here of 
just one reference probably wo n't resolve this issue to those that 
oppose your insistence that mosques were destroyed .  . even in your 
location of this one reference , you spend most of your quote dealing 
with an incidence that , while , has nothing to do with the 
issue at hand here. then , at the end of the quote , there is an almost 
off hand comment that two mosques were destroyed .  . 

tim , you 're missing the big sleight of hand here. i can accept every 
word quoted from and still have zero evidence of any mosques 
being razed .  . note that what refers to is not that mosques 
were razed but that people protested alleged  . too well we 
know that this is a common tactic  ( or has anyone forgotten 
the temple mount riots , when the moslem crowd was led to believe 
that the israeli guards were there to cover for the instead of 
stop them ) 

d. c. sessions speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of tmail  ( dos mail news shell) 

from  . moldenhauer ) 
subject re saudi clergy condemns debut of human rights group ! 
keywords international , non usa government , government , civil rights , social issues , politics 
organization university of wisconsin , madison computer sciences dept. 
lines 38 

in article  ( dave bakken ) writes 
in article ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes 
it looks like ben baz 's mind and heart are also blind , not only his eyes. 
i used to respect him , today i lost the minimal amount of respect that 
i struggled to keep for him. 
to all muslim netters this is the same guy who gave a that 
saudi arabia can be used by the united to attack iraq . 

they were attacking the iraqis to drive them out of kuwait , 
a country whose citizens have close blood and business ties 
to saudi citizens .  . and me thinks if the us had not helped out 
the iraqis would have swallowed saudi arabia , too  ( or at 
least the eastern  . and no muslim country was doing 
much of anything to help liberate kuwait and protect saudi 
arabia indeed , in some masses of citizens were demonstrating 
in favor of that butcher saddam  ( who killed lotsa muslims ) , 
just because he was killing , raping , and looting relatively 
rich muslims and also thumbing his nose at the west .  . 

the whole saddam is going to invade saudi arabia was nothing but us state 
department propeganda .  . saddam  ( and iraq in general) never recognised the 
british created kuwait .  . they were trying to recover land they believed 
was theirs , much like the argentines in the  . the kuwaitis pushed 
just a little too far by taking iraqi oil and saddam thought he 'd settle 
the dispute the old fashioned way .  .  .  . 
everybody would have been much better off had they left the iraq 
together and concentrated on taking out saddam .  . a strong , united iraq with 
an elected government would have gone a long way to ridding the world of 
the feudal dictatorships in the gulf .  . 
but of course a weak divided arab people better suits us foriegn policy .  .  .  . 

the us had no problem killing tens of thousands of ill equipted iraqi soldiers , 
including burying several thousand alive and slaughtering retreating 
from the air in defense of kuwaiti oil , but it has yet to lift a finger against 
bosnian serbs while they slaughter bosnian muslims .  .  .  .  . 




from  ( raffi r kojian ) 
subject more on jokes ! 
lines 95 
nntp posting host ucr . edu . 

serdar , i have been told that you are not real , your account is fake (which i 
confirmed by trying to e mail you) and advised not to waste my time writing to 
you . but , i get pleasure from watching you make a fool of yourself. 

in article  ( serdar argic ) writes 
in article  ( cuzco semikian ) 
writes 

really overstepped the bounds of decency .  . by slandering tens of 
generations of harmonious peace loving armenians , you and your kind 

you mean  tens of generations of  . 


 .  .  . that . more people have to die .  .  .  . 

sdpa 

yes , i stated this and stand by it. 

sdpa 

so you stand by the statement that all armenians are  . ok , i see. 
lets not even act as if there is a chance they are human. see serdar , when you 
judge people because of their race this is called racism .  . i tend to frown on 
this sort of thing. obviously you do n't .  . when you label an entire race the 
way you do , it is easy to stop thinking of them as human beings , and this can 
make genocide possible. but i guess  ( and this is where serdar will fill the 
page with quotes taken out of context) you know that , huh 

december 17 , 1980 sydney 
two nazi armenians massacre and his bodyguard , engin 
sever .  . and sdpa claim responsibility .  . 

do n't you find it weak that all of enemies are 
fascist nazi barbarian fill in the blank with any catch all bad term. 

it is public knowledge that ... 
, began his notorious career as a member of the terrorist 
group which perpetrated the massacre of the israeli athletes at the 
munich olympics in 1972 .  . 

public knowlege i was not aware of that. now i see , the armenians decide to 
kill the israeli athletes in 1972 as practice. i was confused , but thanks for 
clearing that up. 
and the  armenian foundation  stole from the 
children of turkiye to fund the criminal activities of the asala sdpa arf 
terrorists in their cold blooded murder of defenceless turkish and 
kurdish people. 

wow , you are on a roll with the accusations today serdar , so how did the 
armenians steal from the turkish children was it their lunch money this is 
very cute how you inserted children in this fill in the blank accusation sheet 
you fill out every day. it really touches my heart. oh and thank you for 
letting me know that kurds and armenians hate each other. i was not aware of 
this. the only time i have ever talked about kurds it was about the wonderful 
treatment they were recieving in turkey .  . they must have a high of 
insanity because there sure are a lot of them fighting against the 
non turkish government that has let their culture flower over the 
past 70 years. 

the armenian foundation provided 30 billion tl to asala 

01 09 92 , the armenian foundation based in 
istanbul is found to have provided 30 billion turkish lira ( 6 
million ) to the armenian terrorist organization asala which have 
murdered several turkish diplomats abroad .  .  .  . 

thanks for the unbiased turkish media source. i am sure the is rated 
number one for accuracy and truth. 

the deadliest of terrorist assassins , 
carlos , proclaimed on spanish television that his organization had 
entered into a working relationship with armenian terrorists and they 
are using drug trafficking to raise money  to continue  to slaughter 
innocent people. 

innocent is that what terrorists call their victims i have never heard of 
terrorists calling their victims innocent .  . yes , folks in other news the ira 
public relations department reported that it had killed 20 innocent victims in 
a car bombing .  .  .  . nope serdar , i do n't think so. 

as for the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslim people between 
1914 and 1920 

oops you almost forgot to fill in the say something about turks being killed 
by armenians here section of your note. 

serdar argic 

yeah sure you are really serdar argic , and i am really bob hope ! ! ! ! so you may 
have already won 10 million dollars ! ! ! unfortunately for you the armenian 
foundation in is sure to steal it from you on the subway and then give 
it to terrorists to kill innocent kurds and innocent israeli athletes .  . ahhh , 
when are you going to take me to this fantasy world of yours 

from (david davidian ) 
subject there was no ex soviet armenian government in 1914 ! 
summary fools in service of genocide apology 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 18 

turkish genocide apology in revision posted via its 
dolt  ( serdar argic ) wrote 

fool thanks to those who joined millions of turkish and kurdish people 
fool on april 23 , 1993 when they remembered , and prayed for 2.5 
fool million muslim people who were ruthlessly exterminated by the fascist 
fool x soviet armenian government between 1914 and 1920. 

i tend to doubt this for there was no ex soviet armenian government between 
1914 and 1920 ! revisionist , liar , and fool ! 




david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re peace talks resume 
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan 
lines 44 

in article tim clock writes 

tc do you , as i do , agree that this  ( sort ) of peace process is needed 
tc what about the particular points mentioned in the article is what 
tc israel is  ( supposedly ) going to propose good does it go too far 
tc not far enough 

tc if you do n't agree that a peace process is needed , what is 

i personally think that a peace process is needed , since only through 
negotiations will the future generations be able to live in stability .  . 
unfortunately not all think like this , we have cases like 
anas omran , hamza saleh , jle , mohammed reza , abu abed , 
anwar mohammed and others who think that jihad is the only solution. 

i wish that people  ( including myself) would have more objective views like tim , 
basil and shai for example and put the rhetoric aside and start discussing 
substance . 

my view is that israel has made more gestures towards its arab foes than the 
opposite .  . what have the given to us or proposed what have the 
palestinians proposed if the palestinians would just revoke or rewrite their 
charter , or just condemn acts of palestinian violence that would be a good 
start. 
the palestinians have all to gain from these negotiations .  . its seems though 
that they are not strong enough to make decisions on their own and are 
plagued by internal strife , that is why we are not getting anywhere. 
fundamentalism is slowly taking over in the territories , then it will be 
too late to discuss issues with the palestinians since they will only 
vow for the destruction of israel .  . 
arabs must take example on egypt .  . egypt came to the bargaining table , 
got what it wanted from israel and there is now peace and cooperation 
between the two countries. 
the tougher you play ball with israel the tougher israel gets .  . 

tsiel 


tsiel 

8 8 
tsiel if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from  ( godada shi ) 
subject re gulf war ii the media offensive 
organization umass lowell computer science 
lines 14 

in article (paul thompson schreiber ) writes 

gulf war ii the media offensive 

by douglas kellner 
lies of our times , may 1993 
gulf has changed the third parts 's perception of arabs .  . 
1. before , people tended to think arabs have tough character. after seeing 
iraqis begging for surrender , people do not gave arabs much weight. 
2. people tended to think arabs are a united people in fighting isrealis .  . 
after gulf war , seeing some arab nations up iraqis in order to 
waiver the debt to u.s. and kuwaitis trying to draw west nations 
to hit iraq again , people started to see arab world as a dog cage , echoing 
sound of barking .  . 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state not quite .  . 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 107 
distribution world 
nntp posting host composer . think . com . 

in article , (joseph askew ) writes 
in article bird . think . com .  ( shai guday ) writes 
in article , (joseph askew ) writes 

if you examine these i am 
sure you will discover that the arab party member did not have the power 
base that his jewish counterpart had. 

right , arabs have been voting in israel for how long and in all that time 
not one arab ever gained enough of a personal following to get his fellow 
party members to put in a ministry this is about as likely as 
wings and flying to rio .  . what basis do you have for explaining this odd 
failure you seem very confident that you are right , exactly how do you 
know , why are you sure 

it has nothing to do with how long they have been voting , as much as how 
they have been voting .  . pick up a list of the labor parties proposals 
for mk prior to the election and pay attention to the order. correlate this 
with the number of arab party members eligible to vote in party elections .  . 
further correlate this with the voting results from arab areas. 

lo and behold , you will discover that israeli arab labor party members 
did not band together unanimously or en large for a select group of 
arab candidates .  . this problem is further exacerbated by the 
between israeli arabs .  . some claim membership to right wing parties 
while others vote for parties that do not pass the minimum cutoff .  . 

i worked within the labor party during the late 70 's elections (not this 
last one) as a volunteer and was privy to the voting results that 
were returned from the local delegates elected .  . at the time , the system 
was structured differently but it did not cease to amaze me that there 
was no massive effort to lobby for arab reps .  . by their own delegates .  . 

exactly what basis do you have for saying this when the labour party 
has never put an arab into a cabinet post and insists its coalition 
members do the same why and on what basis are you reassuring me in 
the face of 50 years of discriminatory practise 

quite simply , if all eligible arab voters became members of the labor 
party and voted , they would be able to command more than 15 of 
the delegates .  . this is a power base that can not be ignored ! 
especially when they are not ranked high in the party  ( once again 
due to lack of political power) .  . i have seen how the labor party 
works from the inside and my experience has been that , as in most 
political situations , the mks act out of their own self interest. 

and to answer your question , i broke with labor because i felt 
that they were too much to the right wing and ultra orthodox 
coalition members. 

from the other front , july 29 , 1992. translation of ha'aretz article. 

racism in the knesset 


this attitude which until recently had not even aroused criticism , 
being so natural and so deeply upon people 's hearts holds 
that there are knesset members who , despite having been elected by tens 
of thousands of votes , are not entitled to be full partners in the body 
which represents the people of israel .  . we are not speaking here of 
political discrimination which would be bad enough in itself but 
of racial discrimination .  . the proof one of the compromises proposed 
was that mk an arab yigal should be replaced by 
a jew yigal from the same party. it was not the member 's 
party which was considered unfit , but his race .  .  .  . 

fair enough. my take on the matter , and i will admit to the possibility 
that this might be seen differently is that this was a dummy argument. 
if he was sitting on the committee , then someone else obviously would not 
be. in up support for his seat , mk would not be to 
using this argument , or it could be used on his behalf .  . 

as to the proof presented in this article , i would find it very 
interesting to know who proposed the compromise along with a followup 
describing how the matter stands was resolved .  . 

let me just take this opportunity to say that i deplore such actions 
and groundless justifications .  . 

a test of self confidence 

by on levi , ha'aretz , july 26 , 1992 

but not to worry even now the jewish mind is devices. the 
new committee chair , , has already announced that he will set up 
aplenty for his committee .  . thus he will decide where it 
is permissible for to participate and where not. a solution 
such as this could , by the way , also have been adopted for the rest of 
the committees , thereby completely eliminating the fear of state secrets 
being leaked to the enemy and removing the stain of discrimination from 
the knesset .  . 

for the record , , is a brash mk  ( self described ) from the likud 
 ( note not  . quite frankly , i do n't think anything he would say could 
surprise me. annoy and aggravate , yes , surprise no. 

do you accept that as documentation 

yes i do and thank you for providing it. i would be most interested 
in knowing how things turned out. anyone .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



shai guday stealth bombers , 
os software engineer 
thinking machines corp. the winged ninja of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 63 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
writes 
in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
writes 

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who perished or were 
tortured .  . we all suffered .  . 

all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many 
others suffered physically .  . 

i'm just waiting for andi to tell us that african americans should 
start paying compensation to white americans who suffered from being 
slave owners. 

do you have a problem with the language i said 
everyone suffered emotionally because they with the 
victims of holocaust .  . 

there were a great many germans , poles and others who did not 
sympathize with the victims of the holocaust but instead participated 
with enthusiasm in the killing .  . 

the holocaust was n't a massacre , it was n't even killing for sport it 
was an entire industry of death. german engineers , architects 
technicians and bureaucrats proudly put their best efforts into as 
efficient and a killing machine as they could devise and 
operate .  . and it certainly was something extraordinary .  . 

please do n't to us about how the nazis suffered from the 
holocaust .  . 

i was n't implying that anyone suffered 
more than the actual victims .  . 

but what you did do , when waldo wrote 
all jews suffered during wwii ... 
was correct him with 
all humans suffered ... 

so what were you implying 

neither was i implying any 
wrongdoing on the part of the jews as the cause for the 
holocaust .  . 

are we supposed to thank you for your generosity 
or should we be pleased with your minimal common sense 

what is wrong with you guys regardless of what one 
says you keep hearing what you want to hear. 

why is it that when someone writes something simple like all jews 
during wwii that you feel the burning need to add 
commentary regardless of what people write , you keep trying to twist 
things into what you want to hear. people with similar tendencies in 
more extreme form are sometimes called historical revisionists .  . is 
this something that you aspire to 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from michael sells m 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
organization college 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 130 . 58 . 172 . 17 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d20 . 
x wed , 12 may 93 13 13 03 gmt 

in article mohamed . s . , 
writes 
i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious 
bigotry 


mohamed 

biden spoke well. then there was john major , the architect of the 
betrayal of bosnian muslims to genocide .  . 

he basically has given yet another green light to and 
serial killers , rapists , and plunderers to continue their 
genocide against bosnian muslims .  . 

but major met with mr. rushdie and said it was unacceptable that iran 
should have a death decree on him. while i disagree personally with 
against hack writers like rushdie (it only helps them sell more 
books) , i find it interesting that mr. major finds the genocide of two 
million muslims in bosnia acceptable , but a threat against one single 
popular british writer unacceptable .  . 

michael sells , department of religion , college 
, pa 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re jews shoot muslim infants 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 23 

in article writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 

you both seem to have missed the point that most states in the middle 
east and north africa seem to have constant border and territorial 
disputes , not to mention boiling hatred for each other. the removal 
of israel is not going to change this picture. 

as much as i love israel , i do think it 's true that the arab jewish conflict 
over palestine , which is now almost 100 years old , is the primary cause of 
instability in the middle east .  . 

please explain how the removal of israel from the is going to 
ease the situation in iran , iran iraq , iraq , iraq kuwait , syria , 
lebanon , libya , algeria , egypt , sudan ... human rights , freedom of 
press and religion , slavery , government oppression in authoritarian 
societies how are these going to be solved by removing israel 
from the middle east 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 32 

center for policy research writes 

2. sabri the arabs in israel , monthly review press , 
new york , 1976 
3. ed. a . w .  . zionism , imperialism and racism , 
helm , london , 1979  ( writings by arab , english and american 
scholars ) 
4. the responsibility of the state of israel 
according to its international commitments arab studies 
quarterly , spring summer 1985 , p . 27 . 41 
5. ilan zionism today arab studies quarterly , 
spring summer 1985 , p . 3 . 10 
6. jewish nationality status as the basis 
for institutionalized racism in israel .  . the international 
organisation for the elimination of all forms of racial 
discrimination  ( eaford ) , washington , 1985 
7. dr. w. and sally v. the zionist 
organization jewish agency in international and us law , in judaism 
or zionism what difference for the middle east books ltd. , 
london 1986 
8. john quigley palestine and israel a challenge to 
justice duke university press , durham , n.c. , 1991 
9. dr. uri davis zionist society consequences for 
internal opposition and the necessity for external intervention 
in judaism or zionism what difference for the middle east 
books ltd. , london 1986 

i think one only needs to scan mr. davidsson 's bibliography to see what kind 
of objective sources he uses .  . 

ed. 


from 
subject re uva 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 33 

in article , ( andi beyer ) writes 
a few things about the university .  . it is more fun than some may 
admit .  . does go on and it has consistently been ranked 
one of playboy 's top party schools. but we do study and more 
importantly learn a lot. the overall uva drug use is actually 
lower than the average college in the u.s. 
there is no hate law on the books even though they (the 
forces of pc) tried to have one last  ( year by the way a similar 
law at the university of wisconsin was found unconstitutional 
last year) .  . there is a law 
against relationship of professors with their students or 
that just passed. 
thomas jefferson was the sole author of the virginia 
statute for religious  ( freedom(the basis for the first ten 
amendments ) , though he is not given full credit for righting 
the bill of rights. so someone who picked on me for that is 
right. 
by the way , we 're the man in everything. sports 
academics and  . i'm sure a lot of other schools are 
good at what they do as well , so do n't start mailing me junk .  . 
i'm happy where i am and maybe i 'll go to one of y medical 
schools in a couple of years. 


medical school like your fellow austrian dr. 

josh 

dr. josh 
cardiology 




from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re more liar s profiles shostack , freeman , death 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 29 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 
in article () writes 

that 's your opinion , of course ! if we were to take your military 
budget definition of foreign aid , then the foreign aid we send 
annually to israel is easily multiplied beyond the three to six 
 ( depending on whose figures you believe) million of hard earned u.s. 
taxpayer 's dollars. 

oh really ! let 's see. it costs the us armed forces roughly 25k in 
salaries for the average man or woman in uniform .  . normally it takes 2 3 
times the actual salary amount to support a worker .  . thus for the 
roughly 150k soldiers currently stationed in germany we get nearly 4 
billion dollars more than the annual cost of all aid to israel in 
personnel , not even counting what is spent on local workers and 
equipment ! 

you 're just beginning to scratch the surface. do you know how much 
military equipment costs when was the last time you tried to buy a 
mil spec hammer , coffee pot or toilet seat 

paying israel to do the dirty work on it 's own without putting 
american soldiers 's lives on the line is much , much , much cheaper than 
uncle sam 's arrangements with much of the rest of the world. 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from s . 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization at t 
lines 45 

in article  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 
s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 


what a lie .  .  . ! ! 

ask the victims of the nazis .  . 
do n't take the bosnian muslims  word for it. 
ask the survivors who helped them , you will hear that 
the bosnian muslims  ( among others) helped them. 

i also do object to the term ethnic cleansing , since what is happening 
in bosnia is not ethnic cleansing , they all have the same ethnicity , 
what is different is religion. they are orthodox christians , catholic 
christians , and muslims .  . 

it 's religious cleansing .  . 

also watching people being rounded up and slaughtered by the of 
the throat , raped collectively and systematically , driven out of their 
homes by the millions ( ! ! ! ! ) , tortured in concentration camps , maimed 
and ..... does indeed amount to moral rape .  . 

nothing in the history justifies what 's happening. 




mohamed 

from (david davidian ) 
subject turkish genocide apology grants time travel to the dead ! 
summary beyond the call of lunacy 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 29 

in turkish genocide apology as scribed by its 
dolt  ( serdar argic ) we read a response to article 1993apr26 .  . 
 ( eric s. perlman ) who 
wrote 

ep this has been discussed before , by several people , on this net. the 
ep statement is attributable either to hajj amin al , former grand 
ep mufti of jerusalem and the leader of the palestinian death squads 
ep during the 1948 war , or to one of his chief henchmen .  . 

( in russia general dro (the butcher) , the architect of the turkish 
( genocide in wwi , was working closely with the german secret 
( service. he entered the war zone with his own men and acquired 
( important intelligence about the soviets .  . his experience with 
( the turkish genocide in x soviet armenia made him an invaluable 
( source for the germans .  . 2 

what a fool ! for the above to be true , which it is not the wwi russian 
general dro must have worked from his grave to assist x soviet armenia .  . 
soviet armenia became ex soviet armenia in 1991 and dro died in 1958 ! then 
dro would have to travel back in time , while dead , from 1991 to wwii to help 
nazi germany ! 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from (paul thompson schreiber ) 
subject the enemy within 
nntp posting host seas . smu . edu . 
organization school of engineering and applied science s . m . u .  . dallas , tx 
lines 692 


the enemy within 

by robert i. friedman 
the village voice , may 11 , 1993 , vol. xxxviii no. 19 

how the anti defamation league turned the notion 
of human rights on its head , spying on progress 
ives and funneling information to law enforcement 


roy bullock wanted to be a spy since he was a teenager in indiana and 
read i led three lives , herbert 's cold war saga of 
the communist party for the fbi .  . had become an 
american folk hero in the 1950s for building on unsuspecting 
colleagues .  . it was a time when hollywood produced more than 30 films 
the as the american patriot .  . in 
boston , where led three lives as an fbi informant , communist 
party member , and private citizen , the mayor even proclaimed a herbert 
day and presented the spy with a plaque .  . 

for bullock , a shy young man who was coming to terms with his 
homosexuality in the straight arrow '50s , the life of a double agent 
was the perfect way to hide his lifestyle while fighting the communist 
menace .  . 

i was fascinated with herbert , bullock recently told 
federal investigators , and so i thought i would try to infiltrate the 
communist part. in 1957 , i went to the sixth world youth and student 
festival in moscow with the american delegation .  . i gave them the fbi 
a full report on it when i returned , along with some photos i took of 
some soviet military vehicles .  . 

bullock was hooked .  . for the next two years , he worked as an unpaid 
informant for the fbi .  . but he found his true calling when he became a 
paid spy for the anti defamation league in 1960 .  . now his activities 
are at the center of the biggest domestic spy scandal in recent 
american history a scandal that may end with the adl 's criminal 
indictment in san francisco .  . 

over a 30 year period , he compiled computer files for the adl on 
individuals and more than 950 groups of all political stripes , 
including the naacp , the rainbow coalition , aclu , the american indian 
movement , the center for investigative reporting , pacifica , act up , 
palestinian and arab groups , solidarity groups , americans 
for peace now , and anti apartheid organizations .  . bullock , who even 
spied on the recently slain south african nationalist chris hani when 
he visited the bay area in april 1991 , sold many of his adl files on 
anti apartheid activists to south african intelligence .  . meanwhile , 
between 1985 and 1993 , the adl paid him nearly 170 , 000 , using a 
prominent beverly hills attorney as a conduit in order to conceal its 
financial relationship with bullock .  . 

last month , police raided adl offices in los angeles and san 
francisco , as well as bullock 's home , confiscating computer files and 
boxes of documents .  . according to court records , bullock 's files 
contained the driver 's license and vehicle registration information , 
in addition to criminal histories on individuals much of which was 
allegedly stolen from the fbi and police computers. bullock , 58 , told 
the fbi that copies of virtually everything in his computer data base 
had been given to the san francisco adl office. based on the 
evidence , says inspector ron roth , in a police affidavit , i believe 
that roy bullock and adl had numerous peace officers supplying them 
with confidential criminal and dmv information. 

what 's more , the san francisco d.a. is investigating bullock for 
tapping phones , accessing answering machines , and assuming false 
identities to infiltrate organizations .  . documents seized from 
bullock 's home also contained evidence of his into bay area 
trash cans he had the names and phone numbers of employees at the 
institute in san francisco , as well as telephone message 
slips to staff members  ( including names and phone numbers of callers ) , 
office correspondence listing the names and return addresses of the 
senders , and inter office memos .  . he also had receipts from 
institute 's bank accounts at wells and eureka federal savings , 
as well as canceled checks with the names of the , the 
dates , and amounts .  . bullock even knew the balance in the 
institute 's checking account. 

investigations by the fbi and police in san francisco have revealed 
that the adl has shared at least some of its spy gathering material 
with israeli government officials .  . what 's more , israel apparently used 
tips from the adl to detain palestinian americans who travelled there. 



the adl was established in new york city in 1913 to defend jews , and 
later other minority groups , from discrimination .  . it led the fight 
against racist and fascist groups like the ku klux klan and the 
american nazi party , and in the 1960s championed the civil rights 
movement. 

but there was also a darker side. in the late 1940s , the adl spied on 
leftists and communists , and shared investigative files with the house 
committee on un american activities and the fbi .  . the adl swung 
sharply to the right during the reagan administration , becoming a 
bastion of  . to irwin , a 
who heads the adl 's powerful fact finding department , the real danger 
to jews is posed not by the right but by a coalition of leftists , 
blacks , and arabs , who in his view threaten the fabric of democracy in 
america , as well as the state of israel .  . in the tradition of his 
ideological william casey , directed the adl 's vast 
network of informants , who were given code names like scumbag , 
, and for a spy reportedly posing as a priest in atlanta 
flipper .  . 

for years , journalists and liberal members of the jewish community 
knew the adl spied on right wing hate groups. as long as the targets 
were anti semitic organizations like the liberty lobby and lyndon 
larouche , no one seemed to be particularly troubled .  . but the bullock 
case reveals that the adl also spied on groups that have a nonviolent , 
and progressive orientation .  . this apparent massive violation of civil 
liberties may end with the adl 's criminal indictment in san francisco , 
where the investigation began .  . the human rights group faces possible 
criminal prosecution on as many as 48 felony counts , including an 
indictment for gaining illegal access to police computers. says one 
source close to the west coast investigation , it is 99 per cent 
certain that the adl will be indicted .  . 

in the wake of the san francisco investigation , police probes of adl 
spying are spreading to other parts of the country. we have received 
numerous complaints about adl spying , says sam adams , a 
spokesperson for the mayor 's office in portland , oregon .  . 

on april 16 , the harlem based black united fund of new york , and 
african american self help group that bullock allegedly spied on , 
wrote district attorney robert , requesting an immediate 
investigation of the adl .  . the adl 's actions cause great concern , as 
it is a direct and violation at minimum of our civil 
rights .  .  .  . we . call upon you to join with the district attorney of san 
francisco to .  .  . bring . and end to this latest form of  . 

gerald , a spokesperson for 's office , says , we 
have no evidence before us that warrants any sort of investigation .  . 
adds that offered to assist the fbi and the san 
francisco d.a. 's office on their pending investigation .  . they have 
not , so far , asked for our assistance. 

the adl acknowledges sharing information on violence prone groups with 
law enforcement officials .  . it also admits to maintaining extensive 
files on a wide variety of organizations , but says , in a two page 
press release , the vast majority of adl 's files are composed of news 
clips , magazine articles , books , journals , and other documents .  .  .  .  . 

adl has made it clear that it does not and will not countenance 
violations of the law on the part of anyone connected with the agency , 
and the process by which the league gathers information is presently 
under review to insure that no laws are being violated .  . 

that 's what the adl says for public consumption .  . but morale is so low 
that its employees complain of nights and crying fits .  . and 
even as other jewish groups circle the wagons around the adl in a show 
of solidarity , many do so holding their noses .  . more than a few jewish 
officials privately say the adl has to decide whether it is a human 
rights group or a secret police agency .  . 

the adl is regarded both inside the jewish community and outside the 
jewish community as the definitive source of information on anti 
semitism and extremist groups , says daniel , the former 
executive director of the center for democratic renewal , an atlanta 
based group that monitors anti semitism , racism , and hate groups. 
one of the things this scandal has done is that it has completely 
tainted the adl 's credibility and reputation with regard to its 
objectivity .  . this scandal is going to be a devastating blow to the 
jewish community at large because people regard the adl as synonymous 
with american jewry .  . 



bullock 's talents as a snoop and his extreme conservatism well 
with the adl 's cold war worldview .  . in 1960 , he moved to southern 
california where he became an adl spy for 75.00 a week. bullock 
almost always used his real name when snooping , although he once 
called himself elmer fink when corresponding with supporters of 
alabama governor george wallace .  . bullock provided the adl 's office in 
los angeles with written reports , which were transmitted to fact 
finding department head irwin , according to court records. 
under 's stewardship , fact finding department had become the 
adl 's heart and soul. located at adl national headquarters across 
from the united nations , the department had assembled a vast library 
on hate groups , culling material from publications , speeches , and 
informants reports. 

bullock was more than adept at leading a double life. not long after 
moving to california , he himself with a woman in the john 
birch society who helped him gain access to the group 's boston office. 
there , he found a file the right wingers were keeping on the adl .  . the 
discovery gave rise to speculation in the adl new york office that 
they had somehow been penetrated by the  . 

bullock focused almost exclusively on right wing extremist groups 
until the early 1970s when adl l.a. head milton sinn was replaced by 
harvey , who encouraged him to target the left as well. a 
few years later , bullock moved to the castro district in san francisco 
where he posed as an art dealer .  . and adl fact finder who had 
infiltrated the local arab community had just been exposed .  . when the 
ensuing scandal died down , bullock was ordered by the adl to penetrate 
the arabs .  . 

the adl was especially concerned about the american arab anti 
discrimination committee , founded by the former south dakota senator 
james to combat arab bashing .  . in a page out of the cia 's 
dirty tricks handbook on penetration and destabilization , bullock 
joined the adc , and then recruited nazis into the group , apparently 
trying to discredit it , according to published reports. 

in 1987 , the adl sent bullock to attend the national association of 
arab americans annual congress in washington .  . according to court 
documents , bullock was told to find the source of the group 's funds .  . 
bullock was unable to follow the money. but he did such a good job 
at himself that he was appointed to head a 
delegation that visited congress member nancy pelosi .  . 

it 's not surprising that the adl penetrated arab organizations .  . but 
only acute paranoia explains their interest in groups like act up. as 
far as bullock was concerned , gay groups in san francisco were heavily 
infiltrated by what he called gay left revolutionaries , prompting 
him to write about their activities for the adl .  . 

bullock soon expanded his horizons , moving into the shadowy realm of 
foreign espionage after richard , the head of adl 's san 
francisco office , introduced him to thomas gerard in 1986 .  . gerard was 
then a detective with the san francisco police department 's 
intelligence unit. gerard had worked as a demolitions expert for the 
cia in el in the early 1980s , where he apparently had more 
than a passing interest in right wing death squads .  .  ( police searching 
gerard 's briefcase found extensive cia literature about torture and 
interrogation , photos of blindfolded and chained men , as well as 
passports made out to gerard in 10 different names , including thomas 
 . from a remote jungle island in the philippines 
where he fled last november , gerard told the los angeles times that he 
will blow the lid off the cia 's involvement with latin american death 
squads if he is indicted in the adl spy case . ) . 

after their very first encounter in the adl office , gerard and bullock 
had lunch at mcdonald 's , i liked tom right off , bullock later told a 
san francisco police investigator whose report of the interrogation 
was obtained by the voice . tom is a very charming , 
character , with a great deal of integrity .  . let me say here , i 
consider tom gerard one of the finest policemen i 've ever worked 
with , absolutely .  . honest , capable , intelligent and 100 percent 
american .  . 

before long , bullock was providing gerard with confidential adl 
reports on various groups and individuals .  . in turn , gerard gave 
bullock classified police intelligence files on local arab americans , 
skinheads , and others. bullock told the fbi that gerard 's material 
ended up in his adl reports. i would say 99 percent of the data that 
i got was name , address , and sometimes physical description. criminal 
history , very rarely , bullock told investigators .  . gerard also gave 
bullock a chart that outlined a vast network of bay area arab american 
businessmen and organizations that allegedly has ties to middle east 
terror groups , as well as surveillance photos of arab americans 
receiving weapons training overseas .  . bullock claims that u.s. customs 
in new york gave gerard the photos. it was understood that bullock 
would be very careful with what he did with the information gerard 
gave him , and that bullock would not release it except to the adl or 
other law enforcement officers , says an fbi report. 

there was nothing unusual about bullock 's cozy relationship with law 
enforcement .  . by the mid 1980s , the adl was swapping files with 
hundreds of official friends , the organization 's euphemism for u.s. 
law enforcement and intelligence sources. the adl 's relationship with 
the fbi 's office was so close that adl 's reports on 
arab american group 's covert ties to middle east terrorists were must 
reading. 

it 's no accident that police found a 1986 classified fbi report 
entitled popular front for the liberation of palestine  ( pflp ) new 
york area while searching the adl 's san francisco office. in 1987 , 
adl spooks investigated seven palestinians and a studying in 
california universities on student visas .  . when the adl discovered 
they were disseminating literature , it informed the fbi , which in 
turn took the case to the immigration and service. 
after the ins ordered the students deported as , adl 
regional director david lehrer in the los angeles times 
about his office 's cooperation with law enforcement , although he 's 
now. the los angeles 8 deportation is still under 
appeal. 



while the adl worked quietly with america 's top cops , it enjoyed 
similar ties with israel 's spy agencies a charge that adl leaders 
vehemently deny .  . but as early as july 7 , 1961 , adl director benjamin 
epstein wrote to b nai b executive secretary saul , 
requesting 25 , 000 for his investigators .  . our information , he 
boasted to , in addition to being essential for our own 
operations , has been of great value and service to both the united 
states department and the israeli government. all data have been made 
available to both countries with full knowledge to each that we are 
the source. 

in 1987 , the adl came under fbi scrutiny in the wake of the pollard 
spy scandal .  . while assigned to the navy 's anti terrorist alert 
center , where he had access to the most closely guarded u.s. secrets , 
jonathan pollard stole thousands of pages of classified documents for 
israel , which , according to federal prosecutors , could fill a room 
the size of a large closet .  .  . ten . feet by six feet by six feet. 
pollard 's handler was avi , an israeli air force colonel whose 
wife worked for the new york adl as a lawyer .  . pollard later wrote to 
friends that a prominent adl leader was deeply involved in the israeli 
spy operation. 

while there is no proof that anyone connected with the adl was 
involved with pollard , there is evidence that the adl freely passes 
information to israeli intelligence .  . in march 1993 , the fbi 
interrogated david gurvitz , an adl fact finder in los angeles until 
1992 when he was fired by for illegally obtaining police 
information to use against a rival at the simon center. 
the fbi pointedly asked gurvitz if he had ever transmitted information 
to israel .  . gurvitz admitted that in 1992 he had learned from a law 
enforcement contact that michael elias , allegedly a member of a 
radical plo faction , was scheduled to travel from san francisco 
international airport en route to haifa .  . gurvitz phoned the deputy 
israeli consul general in l.a. with the information. later the same 
day , according to a 15 page fbi interview of gurvitz obtained by the 
voice , gurvitz was called back by another man , who said he was from 
the israeli consulate , and who asked gurvitz to repeat the information 
about elias .  . gurvitz did not get this man 's name , but their 
conversation was in hebrew so gurvitz felt confident the man was 
actually an israeli consulate official .  . 

among the 12 , 000 names of private citizens that police found in adl 
files in san francisco was mohammed , a 36 year old chicago 
resident who was arrested in israel on january 25 , for allegedly 
distributing hundreds of thousands of dollars to hamas , the large 
islamic fundamentalist movement in the occupied territories .  . the 
chicago adl office runs at least three undercover informants who work 
with official friends in local law enforcement , according to 
documents released by the san francisco d.a. and sources close to the 
adl .  . given these facts , arab american groups surmise that the adl has 
passed information on to israeli intelligence .  . 

one technique used by the adl to monitor the large arab american 
community in the midwest was to scan the local arab press for funeral 
notices .  . according to sources familiar with the practice , adl 
investigators in unmarked vans videotaped the palestinian , 
which sometimes turned into plo rallies .  . palestinians have been 
detained at ben gurion airport simply on the basis of having been 
filmed attending a funeral in chicago , according to , the 
executive director of the united holy land fund , whose cousin was an 
arab member of israel 's knesset .  . 

shortly after was arrested , the israeli government announced 
that hamas was being run from america with money and operational 
instructions relayed by courier or fax. israel 's charges were played 
up on the front page of the new york times . according to well 
placed sources , , an adl fact finder in new york , worked 
closely with israeli officials on this campaign of vilification , 
introducing friendly reporters to official friends in chicago law 
enforcement .  . 

, who is fluent in arabic , prepared an adl report about how 
hamas is funded in america .  . she identified the dallas based islamic 
association for palestine in north america as the front organization 
for hamas in the u.s.a. its infrastructure functions as an 
interlocking network of organizations , small businesses , and 
individual activists , says the february 1993 adl report , which 
outlines the organization 's development , its activities on u.s. 
college campuses , and its during the gulf war. it 
also traces hamas fundraising through a plethora of alleged front 
groups from plainfield , indiana , to culver city , california .  . it is 
doubtful that could have compiled such sophisticated data 
without the help of official friends and adl spies .  . 

refused to comment. but she used to talk to greg as 
many as three times a week when he was an opposition researcher for 
aipac , whose spy operation was disclosed last summer in the voice . 
the level of cooperation was very close , said during a 
recent phone conservation from israel where he is in graduate school. 
if we felt our files were lacking , we contacted the adl .  . 

when sha wan , a 30 year old palestinian human rights worker in 
the occupied territories won a 25 , 000 human rights award in 
1990 , recalls that faxed aipac the man 's entire 
police file , which she had obtained from the israeli embassy .  . 
had been arrested numerous times in israel , and once confessed to 
being a member of the plo after having been severely tortured .  . 
, who received a short jail term , became an amnesty 
international prisoner of conscience .  . of course , to aipac and the 
adl , was a terrorist .  . , who was ordered to keep tabs 
on him when he was in the u.s. to receive his award , called a 
representative of al , the palestinian human rights group that 
employed , to obtain his  . aipac even opened a file 
on musician jackson browne , who presented with the 
award. 

while the adl may be able to rationalize its close monitoring of 
arabs , and even left wing gay revolutionaries , it has a far harder 
time explaining its obsession with spying on anti apartheid activists .  . 
david gurvitz told the fbi that when he started working as a fact 
finder for the adl in l.a. in march 1989 , adl files already 
with information about the israel south african connection and anti 
apartheid groups. gurvitz confirmed that the adl did routinely 
collect information on persons engaged in anti apartheid activities in 
the united states , says the fbi report. while gurvitz said there 
were files in the l.a. adl office dating to the 1930s , he estimated 
the oldest material on anti apartheid activities dates back to the 
late 1970s , begin 's rise to power in israel and a 
of ties between the jewish state and south africa .  . in 
about august , 1992 , says the report of the fbi 's march 3 , 1993 , 
interview with gurvitz , an anti apartheid demonstration was held at 
the south african consulate in los angeles .  . participating in the 
demonstration were the los angeles student coalition and the socialist 
workers party. gurvitz went to two demonstration planning sessions , 
and a subsequent demonstration .  . he wrote a report for the adl on each 
of the planning sessions and on the demonstration .  . copies of the 
reports were disseminated to bullock , among others , in care of the san 
francisco adl office. 

in 1986 bullock learned that the consul general of the south african 
consulate in los angeles would be speaking in las vegas at a meeting 
organized by willis carto , the head of the anti semitic liberty lobby .  . 
suspecting that the consul general did not know who willis carto is , 
says the fbi report , bullock suggested to gerard that they might want 
to warn the south  . gerard agreed and informed the consul 
general , who canceled his appearance. 

a few months later , gerard phoned bullock and told him a south african 
intelligence officer wanted to meet them. during a rendezvous in a 
hotel near fisherman 's wharf , the south african said he was interested 
in acquiring information on american anti apartheid activists .  . the 
south african , who called himself mr. , also asked for 
information about groups that were advocating  . gerard , 
who was present throughout the meeting , says the fbi report , told 
that he gerard had been employed by the cia .  .  .  . 
offered to pay bullock 150.00 per month in exchange for information. 
bullock noted that much of the information said he wanted 
was already in the possession of bullock and the adl .  . 

between 1987 and 1991 , bullock sold information to south african 
intelligence , receiving steady raises , which he split evenly with 
gerard .  . bullock said it was his impression , though gerard never 
explicitly told him so ,  ( and bullock never asked ) that gerard may have 
been telling the cia about his and bullock 's contacts with the south 
, says the fbi report. gerard had said he knew the cia 
 resident agent  in san francisco .  .  .  . once . , after gerard dropped 
bullock off at bullock 's residence following a meeting with louie who 
replaced as their handler , gerard said he was going to go 
to the san francisco cia office. 

al the while , gerard may have been tasking bullock for the cia .  . 
bullock recalled that once , after he had met gerard , bullock went to 
chicago , illinois to conduct an investigation on behalf of the adl , 
says the fbi report. the target of the investigation was a group 
called the palestine human rights campaign. bullock learned that a 
woman name deleted was transporting money between the plo or the 
, and the united states. bullock told this to gerard .  . gerard 
later told bullock that gerard 's  guy at the cia  would like to know 
more. gerard asked bullock if bullock would go back to chicago to 
gather more information on the palestine human rights campaign. 
bullock , however , never did go back. 

gerard also seems to have had a close relationship with mossad , which 
may have started in 1991 when he went on an adl to israel .  . the 
adl frequently sponsors trips for american law enforcement officials 
to israel , where they are and and meet their counterparts 
in various intelligence agencies .  . according to an affidavit by san 
francisco police inspector roth , the all expense paid trip to 
israel was more or less a thank you gift and a liaison gesture by the 
adl to continue the close relationships it has with specific law 
enforcement officers from the united states. 

gerard may have liked what he saw in israel .  . a short time after 
travelling there , he went to where he helped with mossad 's 
rescue of ethiopian jews .  . 

as gerard 's relationship with south africa deepened , he talked more 
openly about his exploits in the cia .  . bullock recalled gerard 
mentioning that he had been in algeria on cia business , and that 
gerard discussed the plo and  , ' says the fbi report , to 
this louie once responded that israeli intelligence had determined 
that the plo and the african national congress were cooperating .  . 
gerard also spoke of having travelled with the cia to afghanistan .  .  .  .  . 
louie also told gerard and bullock about his adventures inside south 
africa as an intelligence officer .  . both gerard and louie traded  war 
stories  and each other and bullock with tales of  narrow 
' . 

although there is still much mystery about what triggered law 
enforcement 's investigation of the adl , it was probably the theft of 
a classified fbi report on the nation of islam from the fbi 's san 
francisco office. police armed with search warrants recovered the 
report in the adl san francisco office. gurvitz says he had sent a 
copy of it to mira boland , the director of the adl 's fact finding 
division in washington , d.c. boland was preparing an op ed piece for 
the washington times , in which she argued that the nation of islam 
should not receive federal funds for the reconstruction of l.a. 
because the group is anti semitic and violence prone .  .  ( boland , who 
had arranged the adl police to israel attended by gerard , 
testified in a 1990 criminal trial in roanoke , virginia , that she had 
worked for the cia for 14 months and later was a subcontractor for the 
defense department before joining the adl .  . during the trial , boland 
admitted to sharing information with a cia official at an invitation 
only adl conference . ) . 

after he was questioned by the fbi last fall , gerard fled to the 
philippines , which has no extradition treaty with america .  . gerard is 
believed to have supplied information from police computers not only 
to the adl , but to israel and south africa as well. the san 
francisco examiner reported that gerard may be charged with violating 
federal espionage laws .  . 

although bullock worked for the adl for 30 years , and irwin 
praised him in a july 1992 memo as our number one investigator , the 
adl now argues that he was a rogue agent .  . in its own defense , the adl 
also asserts that its fact operate no differently than 
journalists .  . after all , ask adl officials , do n't journalists keep 
files 

but the difference between the practice of journalism and the adl 's 
method of gathering information could n't be more striking .  . 
journalists place information in the public domain where they are held 
accountable for falsehoods , distortions , and libel .  . and for the most 
part , journalists do n't share their investigative files with foreign 
and domestic police agencies .  . the adl has no such  . 
because many of its files are not open to public scrutiny , false 
information collected by biased researchers cannot be 
corrected. once a proud human rights group , the adl has become the 
jewish thought police .  . 

the adl says it 's a human rights group not just for jews but for 
everyone , says chip , a highly respected researcher at the 
massachusetts based political research associates , which monitors 
right wing extremist groups. that 's fine but it ca n't do that and 
spy on palestinians .  . it 's blatantly unethical and frankly immoral .  . 

my argument to people is that the adl wears four hats .  . each of the 
hats independently is appropriate. it is a broad based human rights 
group that looks at the broad issues of prejudice and discrimination .  . 
it is a group that defends jews against defamation .  . entirely noble .  . 
nothing wrong with that hat. it is a group , whose leaders , at least , 
consistently defend the actions of israel against its critics , which 
again is entirely appropriate. and it is a group that maintains an 
information sharing arrangement with law enforcement .  . again , there is 
nothing wrong for a group to do that. 

but you ca n't do all four. it is impossible to do all four and not 
violate the bounds of ethics .  . there 's a built in conflict of interest 
if you wear all four hats .  . 

adl national director abraham foxman apparently sees no such conflict .  . 
in a september 1 , 1992 , letter to the voice , foxman complained adl 
has a proud 80 year record of fighting bigotry and promoting civil 
rights and constitutional freedoms .  . any imputation of an effort or 
motive on our part to smear or stifle the free speech of anyone is 
false and baseless 

throughout his pieces on aipac 's spying , friedman describes the 
dissemination of information as if it were slander , and the existence 
of files as a token of inclination .  . the is 
misleading in several ways. virtually every journalist , academic , 
politician and organization keeps files on subjects they deem 
relevant tracing the logic of friedman 's reckless charges , the 
library of congress is tantamount to the kgb .  . moreover , disseminating 
the public record of a public figure is neither defamation nor 
 . 

but many believe the adl is increasingly in the defamation business. 
ask jesse jackson , james , or the leaders of the new jewish 
agenda all past targets of adl smears .  . (at the same time , the adl 
exonerated the fascist world anti communist league , which assisted 
ronald reagan 's covert war against nicaragua , a policy endorsed by adl 
leaders . ) . 

in the early 1980s , researchers russ and asked to meet 
fact finding head irwin , to discuss their work on anti semite 
lyndon larouche .  . our view then of irwin was that he was this 
really terrific investigator , says  . so we introduce 
ourselves , say what we are up to and leans back in his chair and 
basically runs down a on each of us about what our political 
activities are , who we work with , what organizations we belong to. 
obviously , he was just trying to blow us away and he succeeds 
 . we were just sitting there with our mouths open feeling 
very uncomfortable .  . 

and then he leans forward and says , 'the right wing is n't the 
problem. the left wing is the problem. the soviet union is the 
biggest problem in the world for jews .  . it 's the american left that is 
the biggest threat to american jews .  . you 're on the wrong track. 
you 're part of the problem . ' . we were stunned .  . i was virtually in 
tears. this is not how i perceived myself. we basically stumbled out 
of there in a daze .  . 



letters  ( response to friedman 's article ) 

the village voice , may 18 , 1993 , vol. xxxviii no. 20 

a league of his own 

robert i. friedman 's assault on the anti defamation league the anti 
defamation league is spying on you. may 11 demonstrates that he has 
an axe to grind and his own prejudiced and biased agenda to promote .  . 
it also demonstrates that concern for accurate reporting is far down 
on his list. the story is replete with inaccuracies , , and 
outright falsehoods , and conveys a picture of adl so divorced from 
reality as to be  . friedman is even wrong on such basic , 
easily determined facts as where adl was founded  ( chicago , not new 
york ) and the building in which adl s san francisco office is located 
(not the jewish community federation building  . 

adl has done the work of fighting haters for 80 years , without 
spying on organizations or individuals and with profound respect for 
the law. our mission is to monitor and expose those who are anti 
jewish , racist , anti democratic , and violence prone , and we monitor 
them primarily by reading publications and attending public meetings .  . 
through the years , we have published scores of reports on anti 
semitism emanating from both the left and the right. in fact , 
although friedman 's bias leads him to assume the contrary , adl 's 
primary concern is still the far right. 

because extremist organizations are highly secretive , sometimes adl 
can learn of their activities only by using undercover sources. 
friedman 's hyperbole notwithstanding , these sources function in a 
manner directly analogous to investigative journalists .  . some have 
performed great service to the american people for example , by 
uncovering the existence of right wing extremist training 
camps with no recognition and at considerable personal risk. the 
information adl obtains is placed in the public domain , and through 
the years adl has established a reputation for accurate reporting .  . 

friedman 's article , by contrast , contains so much misinformation that 
it would take an article equally as long to set the record straight. 
a few examples he states that an adl leader was deeply involved in 
the jonathan pollard israeli spy operation , and that pollard 's 
handler 's wife worked for the new york adl as a lawyer .  . not true. 
friedman also states adl investigators in unmarked vans videotaped 
palestinian  . not true. elsewhere , he asserts that adl was 
obsessed with spying on anti apartheid activists .  . again , not true. 
we could go on and on and , of course , friedman does not reveal 
his sources. 

the distortion games friedman plays when he mentions numbers further 
reveal his lack of objectivity .  . when it comes to how much adl paid 
roy bullock a week as an independent contractor , not an employee 
 ( an important distinction friedman also fails to make ) he includes 
the zeros ( 75.00 , 150 . 00) . , inviting the reader to see a large 
number. by contrast , when he observes that adl paid bullock nearly 
170 , 000 between 1985 and 1993 , he chooses not to point out that 
amounts to little more than 20 , 000 a year hardly an excessive sum .  . 

what is accurate about friedman 's story is chip 's description 
of adl 's four hats .  . yes , adl looks at broad issues of prejudice and 
discrimination .  . yes , adl defends israel against critics .  . and yes , 
adl maintains an information sharing relationship with law enforcement 
regarding extremist activities and hate crimes .  . we see no conflict in 
these four activities , and we believe most voice readers wo n't 
either. 

abraham foxman 
national director 
anti defamation league 
manhattan 



robert i. friedman replies 

for the adl to compare itself to investigative journalists is absurd .  . 
journalists do n't spy on arabs and anti apartheid activists and then 
freely pass their files to south african and israeli intelligence .  . 
but according to police the confessions of two paid adl investigators , 
by 700 pages of court documents and interviews , the adl 
does. indeed , the adl spies on groups that are neither anti semitic 
nor violent .  . police confiscated adl files on hundreds of mainstream 
groups ranging from act up to peace now. respected intellectuals and 
middle east scholars who disagree with the adl 's political views have 
ended up on adl blacklists , their reputations smeared .  . private 
organizations have no business paying operatives inside police 
departments or having spies , says an april 17 editorial in the st. 
louis post dispatch , condemning adl spying .  . on april 10 , police 
armed with search warrants raided adl offices in san francisco and 
l.a. after concluding that adl employees were apparently less than 
truthful in voluntarily turning over documents during an earlier 
search , according to san francisco police inspector ron roth 's sworn 
affidavit .  . roth also asserts that bullock was a paid employee for 
the adl .  . if so , by failing to pay taxes on 170 , 000 of income paid 
to bullock , the adl could face a total of 48 felony counts , according 
to court papers. the adl may also face felony charges for illegally 
obtaining confidential information from police computers. as for 
errors the adl was founded in chicago , and moved to new york in 
1947 .  . but it was an original tenant in the san francisco building 
shown in the voice photo , moving out a few months ago. i never 
wrote that an adl leader was deeply involved in the pollard 
israeli spy operation. i reported that pollard himself made the 
charge. and in court papers , pollard 's own lawyer said that the wife 
of pollard 's handler worked for the adl .  . if i have a bias , it is on 
the side of the first and fourth amendments .  . 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject while the turkish genocide was incontrovertibly proven by historians ,  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 353 

in article (michael s. polymenakos ) writes 

in one of the categories (i believe it was the number of turks feeling 
european ) i made a typo , which i corrected with another posting right 
afterwards. so what 

poor  . i see you 're preparing the groundwork for yet another 
retreat from your  asala sdpa arf  claims .  . 

hasan b. mutlu and serdar argic has been posting 
stuff that can only be attributed to typographical errors for the past 

just love it. if that does ever happen , look out the window and see 
if there is a non fascist nazi x soviet armenian government in the east .  . 
by the way , your ignorance on the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslim 
people is hardly characteristic of most  . 


source k. s. , patriotism perverted , press , boston , 1934 .  . 

pp. 17 18. 

it seems that terrorism against their own co nationals has been a prominent 
part of the revolutionary activities of the leaders of the caucasus .  . 
organized to fight the turks , these chieftains have been more successful 
in their fight against their armenian opponents in turkey , and the caucasus , 
very often defenseless and innocent .  . 

p. 38 .  . 

the fact remains , however , that the leaders of the turkish armenian section 
of the did not carry out their promise of loyalty to the 
turkish cause when the turks entered the war .  .  . and . a call was sent for 
armenian volunteers to fight the turks on the caucasian front. 

p. 38 .  . 

thousands of armenians from all over the world , flocked to the standards of 
such famous fighters as , kery , dro , etc. the armenian volunteer 
regiments rendered valuable service to the russian army in the years of 
1914 15 16. 

got a map got a minute 

source 1 mccarthy , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman 
anatolia and the end of the empire , new york university press , 
new york , 1983 , pp. 133 144 .  . 

source 2 , richard g. , armenia on the road to independence , 
1918 .  . university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , 
1967 , p. 13. 

now where is your non existent list of scholars and publicly available 
scholarly sources here is mine. what an 'arromdian' .  .  .  . 


some of the references from eminent authors in the field of middle eastern 
history and eyewitnesses of the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslims 

1. the armenian revolutionary movement by louise nalbandian , 
university of california press , berkeley , los angeles , 1975 

2. diplomacy of imperialism 1890 1902 by william i. lenger , professor 
of history , university , boston , alfred a. , new york , 1951 

3. turkey in europe by sir charles elliot , 
edward arnold , london , 1900 

4. the house version and other middle eastern studies by 
elie , publishers , new york , washington , 1972 

5. the rising crescent by ernest , 
farrar reinhart , inc. , new york toronto , 1944 

6. spiritual and political evolutions in islam by felix , 
mogan , paul , trench co. , london , 1925 

7. the struggle for power in moslem asia by e. alexander powell , 
the century co. , new york , london , 1924 

8. struggle for by , 
yale university press , new haven , conn. , 1951 

9. history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (2 volumes ) by 
stanford j. shaw , cambridge university press , cambridge , new york , 
melbourne , 1977 

10. the western question in greece and turkey by arnold j. toynbee , 
constable co. , ltd. , london , bombay sydney , 1922 

11. the caliph 's last heritage by sir mark sykes , 
macmillan co. , london , 1915 

12. men are like that by leonard a. hartill , 
bobbs co. , indianapolis , 1928 

13. adventures in the near east , 1918 22 by a. rawlinson , 
dodd , meade co. , 1925 

14. world alive , a personal story by robert dunn , 
crown publishers , inc. , new york , 1952 

15. from to serves and by aharonian , 
the armenian review magazine , volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) through 17 
 ( spring 1964) 

16. armenia on the road to independence by richard g. , 
university of california press , berkeley , california , 1967 

17. the rebirth of turkey by clair price , 
thomas seltzer , new york , 1923 

18. caucasian battlefields by w. b. allen paul , 
cambridge , 1953 

19. partition of turkey by harry n. howard , 
h. fertig , new york , 1966 

20. the king crane commission by harry n. howard , 
beirut , 1963 

21. united states policy and partition of turkey by laurence evans , 
john hopkins university press , baltimore , 1965 

22. british documents related to turkish war of independence by 


1. kerem demir , bir 
turkiye nin ermeni , ve yayin t . a . s .  . , 
ankara , 1982 .  .  ( ingilizce 1980 , the armenian 
question in turkey ) 

2. , ermeni , , istanbul , 1978 .  . 

3. a. alper , kadar ermeni 
nun , , istanbul , 1982 .  . 

4. dr. m. , kars ili ve ermeni , 
kardes , ankara , 1970 .  . 

t.c. osmanli , , istanbul 

a) yildiz esas 
b) yildiz 
c) 
d ) i i muslime 
e) 
f ) nezareti , i 
g) nezareti , sifre 
h ) siyasi 
i) 

t.c. , i , 

a) harb i 
b) 

british archives 

a) parliamentary papers  ( hansard ) commons lords 
b) foreign office confidential print various collections 
c) foreign office 424 239 253 turkey correspondence annual reports 
d ) foreign office 608 
e) foreign office 371 , political intelligence general correspondence 
f ) foreign office 800 240 , ryan papers 
g) foreign office 800 151 , curzon papers 
h ) foreign office 839 the eastern conference lausanne .  . 53 files 

india office records and library , blackfriars road , london .  . 

a) l political and security 10 851 855  ( five boxes) , turkey treaty of 
peace 1918 1923 
b) l p s 10 1031 , near east turkey and greece lausanne conference , 
1921 1923 
c) l p s 11 154 
d ) l p s 11 1031 

french archives 

archives du ministere des affaires , quai d'orsay , paris .  . 

a) documents affaires 1895 1914 collections 
b) guerre 1914 1918 turquie legion d'orient .  . 
c) levant , 1918 1929 armenie .  . 


official publications , published documents , diplomatic correspondence , 
agreements , minutes and others 

a. turkey (the ottoman empire and the republic of turkey ) 

, e. (ed . ) . ,  ( istanbul , 1978) .  . 
(gn .  . kur .  . , atase ) tarih , v. xxxi (81) , 
(dec .  . 1982) .  . 
tarih , v. xxxii  ( 83 ) , 
(dec .  . 1983) .  . 
, m. (ed . ) . i i , 
 ( istanbul , 1912) .  . 
meray , s. l. (trans .  . ed . ) . baris , 
 ( ankara , 1978) , 2 vols. 
meray , s. l. o. olcay (ed . ) . osmanli nun 
, , ilgili ,  ( ankara , 1977) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) aspirations et 
des avant et apres la proclamation 
de la constitution ,  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
ermeni amal ve i ilan i 
ve sonra ,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i ve vilayet ,  ( istanbul , 1913) .  . 
i , v. i  ( istanbul , 1914) .  . 
i , v. ii  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
i , v. iii  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i , v. iv  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) i nin 
,  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) islam 
,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
(iv .  . ordu ) divan i harbi yi 
,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
, h. k. (ed . ) . osmanli ve ermeni , 
 ( ankara , 1982) .  . 
turkiye buyuk millet gizli ,  ( ankara , 1985) , 
4 vols. 

russia 

, e. e. (ed . ) . anadolu nun 
, (tran .  . h. , ed. h. mutlucag ) ,  ( istanbul , 1972) .  . 

altinay , a. r. iki iki ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
ve ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
turkiye  de , turk tarihi , 
v. xiv 82 5 (sept .  . 1924) .  . 
asaf harb ve ,  ( istanbul , 1918) .  . 
, c. dunya turk harbi , v. i osmanli nun 
siyasi ve ve , (gn .  . kur .  . , ankara , 1970) .  . 
akgun , s. general un anadolu ve  ( ermeni ne dair ) 
,  ( istanbul , 1981) .  . 
akin , i. turk tarihi ,  ( istanbul , 1983) .  . 
, s. jon ve ve ,  ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
basar , z. (ed . ) . ,  ( ankara , 1974) .  . 
,  ( ankara , 1978) .  . 
belen , f. dunya turk harbi ,  ( ankara , 1964) .  . 
, a. ermeni ,  ( istanbul , 1980) .  . 
ege , n. n. (ed . ) . hayati ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1977) .  . 
, a. ve osmanli , 
 ( ankara , 1949) .  . 
, k.  ermeni sorunu bir nasil ' , turk tarihinde 
,  ( izmir , 1983) .  . 
, m. ermeni ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
, e. s. osmanli tarihi , v. v  ( 1983 , 4th ed . ) . v. vi  ( 1976 , 2nd ed . ) . 
v. vii  ( 1977 , 2nd ed . ) . v. viii  ( 1983 , 2nd ed . ) . ankara .  . 
, y. t. osmanli nun ,  ( ankara , 1976) .  . 
orel , s. s. yuca talat pasa ya 
,  ( ankara , 1983) .  . also in english translation. 
ahmad , f. the young turks the committee of union and progress in 
turkish politics ,  ( oxford , 1969) .  . 


during the first world war and the ensuing years 1914 1920 , 
the armenian dictatorship through a premeditated and systematic 
genocide , tried to complete its centuries old policy of 
annihilation against the turks and kurds by savagely murdering 
2.5 million muslims and deporting the rest from their 1 , 000 year 
homeland .  . 

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance 
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people. 
this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians , government 
and international political leaders , such as u.s. ambassador mark 
bristol , william langer , ambassador , james barton , stanford 
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , , nalbandian , 
ohanus , jorge blanco , general , general 
, general , general , , 
, , , general hamelin , rawlinson , 
aharonian , dr. stephan eshnanie , , general , arfa , 
dr. hamlin , nubar , , , rachel 
, halide , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul and many 
others. 

j. c. , professor of government emeritus , former director of 
the middle east institute  ( 1971 1984 ) , columbia university .  . 

bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history , 
princeton university .  . 

halil , university professor of ottoman history member of 
the american academy of arts sciences , university of chicago .  . 

peter golden , professor of history , rutgers university , newark .  . 

stanford shaw , professor of history , university of california at 
los angeles .  . 

thomas naff , professor of history director , middle east research 
institute , university of pennsylvania .  . 

ronald jennings , associate professor of history asian studies , 
university of illinois .  . 

howard reed , professor of history , university of connecticut .  . 

, distinguished university professor of political 
science , city university graduate school , new york .  . 

john woods , associate professor of middle eastern history , 
university of chicago .  . 

john masson smith , jr. , professor of history , university of 
california at berkeley .  . 

alan fisher , professor of history , michigan state university .  . 

levy , professor of history , brandeis university .  . 

andreas g. e. , professor of history , university of california 
at los angeles .  . 

kathleen burrill , associate professor of turkish studies , columbia university .  . 

davison , professor of history , george washington university .  . 

walter denny , professor of history , university of massachusetts .  . 

caesar farah , professor of history , university of minnesota .  . 

tom goodrich , professor of history , indiana university of pennsylvania .  . 

tibor kun , professor emeritus of turkish studies , columbia university .  . 

justin mccarthy , professor of history , university of louisville .  . 

jon , professor of history , portland state university (oregon) .  . 

robert olson , professor of history , university of kentucky .  . 

madeline , professor of history , university of maryland .  . 

james stewart robinson , professor of turkish studies , university of michigan .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . so . the list goes on and on and on .  .  .  .  .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject news azerbaijan 5 19 22 
organization zuma 
distribution world 
lines 500 

in article (f .  . h. miandoab ) writes 

the following news from turan news agency in baku azerbaijan 
is brought to you as a service of 

azerbaijan association 
p.o. box 14571 
berkeley , ca 94701 
fax (804) 490 3832 
email 

p l e a s e make a hard copy of the news available to an azerbaijani near you ! 

h e a d l i n e s 

the new vice premier plans to intensify the work on the attraction of 
western investments 
the proposal to summon special session of the supreme soviet is rejected 
again 
the prospects of trade economic cooperation between azerbaijan and estonia 
azerbaijan does not intend to join the cis common economic zone 
the questions of granting credit to azerbaijan will be discussed in moscow 
azerbaijan will reply to the second variant of trilateral initiative by 26 
of may 
the announcement of the prosecutor of the republic of azerbaijan 
azerbaijan s parliament intends to appeal to russian parliament regarding 
the six accused soldiers 
armenians are preparing more on the north caucasus 
state assistance for national minority development 
memorandum of cooperation on extracting oil gas fields of azerbaijan was 
signed 
armenia taking advantage of the prosecution of six russian soldiers 
new of armed forces of armenia 
company will build 50 houses for refugees in azerbaijan 
is beginning to fall in value 
the discussion of parliamentary election bill will last till mid july 
isa gambar suggests that azeri russian parliament commission for clarifying 
the circumstances of the criminal case be created 
will the trilateral initiative be ruined 
fate of 645 million tons of oil will be decided this summer 
the scientists lawyers of russia appealed to the president of azerbaijan 
armenian artillery continues firing on azeri districts 
azeri prime minister is leaving for great britain 


the new vice premier plans to intensify the work on the attraction of 
western investments 

baku  ( may 19) turan yesterday , , the recently appointed 
vice premier of the republic , received the us ambassador in azerbaijan , 
richard miles. as azerbaijan newspaper informs , the issue of attraction 
of western investments in azerbaijan was discussed in the meeting. in 
particular , stated that western capital has to be investigated in 
the most profitable spheres of manufacture .  . he also noticed , that the number 
of the priority manufactures will be released from debts .  . 
also said that the activities of the american oil 
companies will promote the strengthening of the american azeri relations .  . 


the proposal to summon special session of the supreme soviet is rejected again 

baku  ( may 19) turan yesterday , in the sitting of the milli , 
the chairman , isa gambar , rejected the proposal of the deputy arif 
to summon a special session of the supreme soviet of azerbaijan .  . 
this written proposal to summon a session was signed by 130  . but 
the chairman said that the signatures were invalid and the proposal could n't 
be submitted for discussion. 
earlier , the leadership of the milli called the proposal to summon 
a special session of the supreme soviet a coup attempt .  . but the deputy for 
the parliament , , does n't consider that the have the 
objective of removing milli and its chairman from the power. it concerns the 
serious analysis of the social , economic and foreign policy activity of the 
republic 's authority .  . said that the for the parliament , 
ejected from their duties one year ago have the rights to express their opinion 
on these questions. 
the supreme soviet of azerbaijan  ( 340 deputates ) was dissolved one year ago , 
when it attempted to bring back to the power. 
the functions of s.s. were handed over to milli , consisting of 50 
 ( 25 democrats and 25 ) .  . at that time democrats and 
came to an agreement that milli would n't exist for a long 
time and would be dissolved after parliamentary elections .  . at the same time , 
the ejected from their duties were guaranteed that they could summon 
a session of the supreme soviet any time and went in for political activity out 
of the parliament .  . 0 


the prospects of trade economic cooperation between azerbaijan and estonia 

baku  ( may 19) turan the prospects of signing trade economic agreement 
between azerbaijan and estonia were discussed in the meeting of the foreign 
minister with the group of experts of the ministry of economics , 
minister of foreign affairs and estonian bank administration on may 18. 
the group of experts is headed by , the chief of the ministry of 
economics of estonia .  . 
the mia of azerbaijan informed turan agency , that in their stay in baku , 
the delegation will also visit ministry of economics and national bank of the 
republic .  . 0 


azerbaijan does not intend to join the cis common economic zone 

baku  ( may 19) turan deputy prime ministers of the republic , 
and declared that azerbaijan would n't join the cis 
common economic zone. 
considers that the cis economic zone proposal to create a 
common tax system contradicts independent economic policy of the republic .  . 
according to , the pact of cooperation proposals , submitted for 
the discussion of the leaders of cis states in moscow on may 14 , has a number 
of unfavorable points for azerbaijan .  . 
such announcements of two deputy prime ministers sound sensational on the 
background of the fact that the president of azerbaijan and the chairman of 
the parliament noted the necessity of the republic on joining the cis economic 
zone. 0 


the questions of granting credit to azerbaijan will be discussed in moscow 

baku  ( may 19) turan today , azerbaijani delegation headed by the director 
of the foreign relation department of the ministry of finance of the republic 
along with the representatives of the national bank will leave for moscow to 
hold consultation with russian government on granting credit to azerbaijan .  . 
according to the preliminary information , the credit will be 50 billion rubles .  . 
as press centre of ministry of finance informed turan 's correspondent , 
precise amount of the credit , conditions of its repay and a number of other 
questions of mutual interest will be discussed in the course of the meeting in 
moscow .  . it is known that this credit will be mostly used for mutual settling 
of industrial enterprises of azerbaijan and russia .  . 
when the sides reach the agreement , it is proposed for signing by the end 
of may .  . 0 


azerbaijan will reply to the second variant of trilateral initiative by 26 of 
may 

baku  ( may 19) turan on the measures for peace presented by russia , 
turkey and the usa to azerbaijan and armenia , the representative of the 
president of azerbaijan in the talks on nagorno karabakh , noted 
that the plan was not seriously changed in comparison with the first variant .  . 
just some comments to several points were added to the schedule by 
insistence of the armenian side. we do not intend to come back to the analysis 
of the schedule , because we have given a positive answer to it on may 6 , said 
 . 
the representative of the president of azerbaijan informed that they just 
began to work on the examination of the commentary , and their answer would be 
given as requested by the authors of trilateral initiative by may 26. 
as it is known , the first variant of the peace measures was rejected by 
armenia , which put forward a number of pre conditions for its acceptance .  . 0 


the announcement of the prosecutor of the republic of azerbaijan 

baku  ( may 20) turan the azerbaijani prosecutor 's office has announced 
that the russian mass media 's attempt to portray the 6 russian soldiers 
condemned by the military board of the azerbaijani supreme court , as innocent 
people is unjustified .  . 
accounts of the witnesses and the confessions of the condemned themselves , 
prove that their crimes were committed together with the armenian military units 
and with the knowledge of the headquarters of the russian army unit , where they 
served .  . 
the announcement points out that the attempts to represent these soldiers 
as ordinary mercenaries who have nothing to do with the russian army are also 
unfounded .  . for there are irrefutable evidences that these soldiers were on the 
list of one of the military unit 's of russian commandos in yerevan .  . 
certain russian circles try to conceal the fact of direct participation of 
the russian army in the undeclared war of armenia against azerbaijan from the 
russian community. azerbaijan 's prosecutor 's announcement follows , that this 
type of actions can make the situation in the region much more complicated. 0 


azerbaijan s parliament intends to appeal to russian parliament regarding the 
six accused soldiers 

baku  ( may 20) turan as turan agency was informed , parliament of azerbaijan 
is considering the question of appealing to russian parliament about the six 
accused soldiers  fortune .  . in particular , the offer to send the representatives 
of the commission on military affairs of the armed forces of russian federation 
to baku for the detailed study of the results of six russian soldiers  case will 
be directed to russian parliament .  . 
according to one of the supporters of this offer , such initiative will give 
russian parliament the possibility to be convinced of the correctness of the 
investigation .  . there will also be a chance to discuss the reasons that have 
given rise to the present situation that is the russian troops participation 
in the war against azerbaijan .  . 


armenians are preparing more on the north caucasus 

baku  ( may 20) turan the national liberation front founded by group of 
armenians living on the north caucasus appealed to establish armenian 
on the territories of rostov , and regions , reported the 
newspaper on march 9 , 1993 published in geneva .  . 
the north caucasus is regarded as an integral part of armenia in the 
documents of this organization. admitting the non of reunion of 
the north caucasus and armenia proper at present , the front is appealing to 
the un , presidents of russia , armenia and the united states to consider the 
need to establish armenian on the caucasus .  . 
to attain these goals , the armenian organization considers it necessary to 
carry out on the north caucasus the forms and methods of activity identical to 
those in nagorno karabakh . besides the decision to fund cells of armenian 
national liberation fronts in every settlement and to appeal to leaders of 
armenian terrorist groups in greece and iran to sent to the north caucasus 
instructors for training of armenian youth to wage secret wars was adopted .  . 
thus according to the newspaper , new are 
being planning on the north caucasus .  . o 


state assistance for national minority development 

baku  ( may 20) turan the meeting headed by the state secretary of 
azerbaijan , ali , with the participation of the national cultural 
centers was held in baku .  . the first results of the realization of the president 
's decree on state assistance for the development of language and 
culture of national minorities adopted on september 16 , 1992 were considered .  . 
the state secretary called this decree as an important step to establish a 
legal democratic state. he confirmed once more the commitment of the leadership 
of azerbaijan to set up a democratic society in which the rights of all 
nationalities and ethnic groups would be respected .  . 
the state of the president of azerbaijan on the national policy , 
, announced that in spite of the difficulties of the undeclared 
war against the republic , the leaders of the state managed to solve many 
problems concerning the satisfaction of cultural and other needs of the ethnic 
groups. 
for today , all 33 national cultural centers registered by the ministry of 
justice in the capital of azerbaijan are provided with accommodation , furniture 
and means of communication .  . all the accommodations are rent free ( 8 foreign 
diplomatic missions in baku are placed in the hotels because of the absence of 
free accommodations including the representation of the un general secretary) .  . 
as it was noted , a great work was carried out since the decree was adopted 
to create conditions for total development of the ethnic groups. on the north of 
azerbaijan where live , a national theater was opened , 
is transmitted in  . the work over the creation of the 
educational literature for , tats , and kurds and national 
teaching and scientific staff is being carried out in the academy of sciences 
of azerbaijan .  . o 


memorandum of cooperation on extracting oil gas fields of azerbaijan was signed 

baku  ( may 20) turan as turan agency was informed in the state 
concern , the memorandum of understanding with the companies 
amoco caspian sea petroleum , bi pi exploration operating , 
caspian , ltd. , and turkish oil corporation on 
mutual extracting of fields azeri , and was signed .  . 
according to the memorandum , the general group on preparing of a common 
program of activity was created. 
according to the president of , bagirov , cooperation 
will provide for using the experience of foreign companies more efficiently .  . 
during the project , the main principles will be the effective use of 
oil gas resources , the rational sharing of investments , the reducing of 
exploitation expenditures and maximizing the profit of azerbaijan from the 
exploitation of these fields .  . 
the memorandum also the necessity to take into account the historical 
and political economical interests of azerbaijan under optimum use of oil gas 
fields .  . o 


armenia taking advantage of the prosecution of six russian soldiers 

baku  ( may 21) turan after azerbaijani court passed sentence on 
six russian soldiers fighting on the armenian side in karabakh , 
armenian propaganda has become actively involved. 
the armenians living in russia appealed to the president yeltsin 
with a request to display in asserting the rights of russian 
soldiers . at the same time , armenian mass media call legal proceedings 
on the case in baku as a farce aimed at getting more arms from russia . 
the karabakh armenians have issued a threat recently. if one could 
believe the yerevan agency , the armenians in karabakh presented 
an ultimatum to authorities in azerbaijan .  . the essence of this ultimatum 
is that if russian soldiers are not shown mercy , three azeri prisoners in 
karabakh will be shot dead. 
it is simple to explain such touching attitude of armenians to 
the six russian soldiers  fate .  . if by chance the sentence is executed 
it will cause not anti azeri but anti armenian reaction , as the accused 
russian soldiers were recruited in yerevan by the former defence minister 
of armenia and then transferred to karabakh .  . 
if the soldiers get mercy , armenian side will think highly of its 
saving of lives of innocent russians . o 


new of armed forces of armenia 

baku  ( may 21) turan according to the defence ministry of 
azerbaijan on may 20 21 , the firing on the territories of azerbaijan 
from the military bases on the territory of armenia was in progress. 
the day before , the villages of , , 
of district of azerbaijan were under fire from 
kafan district of armenia .  . two inhabitants were wounded , there were 
destructions in the villages .  . 
on may 20 , the firing on the villages of , , 
, and of district of 
azerbaijan from the positions of armenian armed forces was in 
progress. 
at the same day the diversion group of the armed forces of 
armenia  ( 50 60 men) violated the frontier of azerbaijan , penetrated 
into the territory of district of azerbaijan , killed two 
shepherds at the village of and made an attempt to take a 
flock across the frontier .  . azeri frontier guards stopped the enemy .  . o 


company will build 50 houses for refugees in azerbaijan 

baku  ( may 21) turan as turan agency was informed by the 
representation of american oil company , the leaders of this 
company decided to give 750 thousand dollars for the construction of 
50 houses for refugees .  . 
at present , the american side suggested a village project for 
consideration by appropriate departments of azerbaijan .  . the project 
is a farm village where each house has a personal lot , subsidiary 
accommodations and so on. 
according to the program the construction and putting into 
operation of the village will be this year. o 


is beginning to fall in value 

baku  ( may 21) turan lately , at the black market of baku , the 
national currency , fell in price compared with the russian 
ruble .  . thus one gives 1100 rubles or 120 for one us dollar .  . 
taking into account the official exchange value of the with 
respect to ruble which is 1 10 , the national currency fell in value 
10 percent. meanwhile the exchange value of the to the ruble is 
the same at banks , state establishments and in trade. 
according to the representatives of the business circles and 
experts , the present situation is explained by the fact that the rubles 
are bought by the local businessmen .  . they need rubles for financial 
operations in russia .  . as the of payments from the republics 
of the former ussr to russia is a great problem now , many businessmen 
arrange deals in cash. taking into consideration the volume of business 
with russia , counted by billions , it is not hard to imagine how much 
rubles in cash the businessmen need. o 


the discussion of parliamentary election bill will last till mid july 

baku  ( may 22) turan according to the president 's decree , the 
expert group , including representatives of the parliament and 
presidential apparatus , are working out new wording of the constitution 
of the republic of azerbaijan .  . this must be adopted by milli before 
the parliamentary elections .  . together with this , the work on the new 
constitution , that would be , evidently , adopted by new parliament of 
the country , is going on. the were informed about the work on the 
press conference of the supreme soviet of the republic the day before. 
parliamentary legal experts , safa , and 
representatives of the department of the president 's apparatus 
and took part in the press conference. 
the national discussion of the project of the parliamentary 
election law is going on at present. according to the bill 
did n't cause any objections .  . it was noted , that until now , no alternative 
variant of the election law was put forward. 
the were also informed , that parliamentary commissions 
will examine all coming proposals till june 10. by june 15 all 
proposals will be generalized and submitted for discussion in milli  . 0 


isa gambar suggests that azeri russian parliament commission for 
clarifying the circumstances of the criminal case be created 

baku  ( may 22) turan the chairman of the of the 
azerbaijan republic , isa gambar , sent the return letter to the chairman 
of the russian supreme soviet in connection with 
the conviction of the russian servicemen lieutenant v . , sergeant 
k. , m . and a . by the military college of the 
supreme court of azerbaijan .  . 
in his letter , isa gambar suggested that the commission of azerbaijan 
on a par with the experts of the russian supreme 
soviet be established to clarify the circumstances of this criminal 
case. in his view , the conclusion of the commission could help in the 
objective solving of this problem , as well as such kind of problems 
in the future. but the main thing is , it could help to promote the 
knowledge about involvement of the russian servicemen in crime . 
in its turn , in connection with the russian parliament message , 
adopted a resolution on may 19 , according to which the 
permanent commissions on government building and legal policy , human 
rights and international relations are charged with the exploration of 
this problem. 0 


will the trilateral initiative be ruined 

baku  ( may 22) turan as turan agency was informed , russian representative 
to the talks on karabakh , vladimir , doubted in realization of the 
trilateral initiative .  . he expressed this opinion during a telephone talk with 
the representatives of azerbaijan .  . at the same talk he declared , that in case 
the peace process , russia would pursue yeltsin 's initiative itself. 
such statement from the russian diplomat , who is one of the authors 
of the trilateral initiative , suggests that the russian leadership is 
paving the way for complete exclusion of the usa and probably turkey from 
the peacemaking process. this statement can also mean , that russia and 
us having achieved understanding on bosnian problem , have agreed on partial 
us departure from  . 0 


fate of 645 million tons of oil will be decided this summer 

baku  ( may 22) turan the president of azerbaijan state oil company , 
bagirov , declared recently that complete treaty on development of 
oil fields , azeri and would be signed this summer. 
as it is known , western oil companies amoco , bp , 
have an interest on development of these three richest caspian 
fields .  . 
according to the plan , and bp are to sign a complete 
treaty on development of field on june 16. later amoco and 
will sign treaties .  . 
specialists value total reserves of these three fields to be 645 
million ton .  . 310 million of them fall on azeri field , 180 ton . 
on and 150 ton . on  . 
the exploitation of these fields is to last tens of years and it is to 
bring in azerbaijan 100 billion dollars in revenue .  . in addition to the net 
economic profit , baku calculates upon the political support of the west in 
the defence of its interests at the international scene. 
as president said in his closest the may of 
1993 will be one of the most difficult periods for azerbaijan and its 
independence and we have to stand these tests . 0 

the scientist lawyers of russia appealed to the president of azerbaijan 

baku  ( may 22) turan as the press service of the president of azerbaijan 
informs , today , the appeal of the institute of the government and law of the 
russian academy of sciences to president was received. 
the appeal contains the call to display mercy , humanism and 
on the death sentences of the former servicemen of the russian armed 
forces . 
the authors of the appeal point out , that they do n't justify the 
participation of the russian servicemen in the war against the azeri people , 
do n't call in question the lawfulness of the passed sentence , denounce 
the mercenary according to the un principals , and they are sorry about the 
russian servicemen being drawn in such grave crime .  . 
at the end of their letter , scientists , mentioning the soldiers  
mothers  tears and grief , their praying day and night of safety , ask the 
president of azerbaijan to save those guys . 
it should be noticed , that unlike lawyers , soldiers  mothers , 
taking part in the inquiry , called the cause of their grief only 
russian policy. according to their words , the leaders , that lay down 
lives of russian men to achieve their political aims , must be made 
answerable .  . 
unfortunately , the appeal did n't mention the grief of the mothers 
of azerbaijani soldiers , killed by sentenced russian servicemen .  . 0 


armenian artillery continues firing on azeri districts 

baku  ( may 22) turan on may 22 , two soldiers of national army of 
azerbaijan were killed during the grad shelling of the villages of 
, , , of district of 
the republic from the territory of kafan district of armenia .  . 
the night before and in the morning of may 22 , the villages of 
, and districts of azerbaijan were under fire 
from the territory of armenia .  . there are destructions .  . 
the situation in district of azerbaijan became complicated. 
on may 21 , the enemy fired on the regional centre of from the 
village of  . the transportation of man power and military equipment 
to this district is in progress. according to reports the enemy is setting 
up a new weapon to fire on the regional centre and near by 
villages .  . 
according to the ministry of internal affairs , the concentration 
of man power and military equipment is observed in 
district of armenia which borders on azerbaijan as well as on the 
frontier with district. o 


azeri prime minister is leaving for great britain 

baku ( may 22 ) turan the minister of foreign economic relations , 
, in his interview to turan agency said , that 
great britain is the biggest foreign economic partner of azerbaijan 
after iran . the business cooperation between the two countries 
develops in such spheres as oil industry , the manufacture of oil 
extraction equipment , communication and agriculture .  . 
according to the minister 's words , the forthcoming visit of 
azerbaijani prime minister , , to great britain on may 
23 24 , is very important. it is expected , that the visit will 
help , to solve the problems of opening in azerbaijan the branch 
offices of some british banks , insurance firms to conclude 
contracts on the sphere of manufacture of agricultural equipment on 
building in azerbaijan off shore oil platforms , and reconstruction of the 
entire communication system of azerbaijan .  . 
in 's view , the expansion of the cooperation with great britain 
will have a great political meaning for azerbaijan .  . 
according to politicians and reviewers in baku , at present , great 
britain as an european state is close to azerbaijan .  . the continuation of 
the economic and political cooperation of the two states is foreseen .  . o 


t u r a n n e w s a g e n c y 
baku azerbaijan 
phone  ( 8922 ) 66 7977 66 
fax  ( 8922 ) 66 2009 
telex meta su 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( tim clock) 
subject re uva 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 26 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 

in article writes 
in article , ( andi beyer ) writes 
a few things about the university .  . it is more fun than some may 
admit .  . does go on and it has consistently been ranked 
one of playboy 's top party schools. but we do study and more 
importantly learn a lot. the overall uva drug use is actually 
lower than the average college in the u.s. 
thomas jefferson was the sole author of the virginia 
statute for religious  ( freedom(the basis for the first ten 
amendments ) , though he is not given full credit for righting 
the bill of rights. so someone who picked on me for that is 
right. 
andi b. 

medical school like your fellow austrian dr. 

josh 

oh come on , josh ! 



tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

reply to 
from d. c. sessions 
organization nobody but me really 
x tmail version 1 . 20r . 
subject re zionism is racism 
distribution world 
lines 26 

in ,  ( alan stein ) wrote 

d. c. sessions writes 

so steve lets here , what is zionism 

assuming that you mean  hear  , you were n't  listening  he just 
told you , zionism is racism .  . this is a tautological statement. 

i think you are confusing tautological with false and misleading .  . 

no , but you 're right that i did n't express myself well. 

the dialog went 

a zionism is racism .  . 
b what is zionism 
dc you were n't listening , were you 

in other words , the first statement defined a zionism of discourse .  . 
everything else was redundant .  . 

d. c. sessions speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of tmail  ( dos mail news shell) 

from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject where is 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 5 
reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 


... wayne mcguire did someone prove he 's , 
and he ran off to on pcp 

miss him.  ( sniff ) 

from  ( tippu hassan ) 
subject re dir yassin 
organization , university of wollongong 
lines 51 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sheep . uow . edu . au . 

in article ,  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 


from myths and facts , by leonard j. davis , near east research inc. , 
1989 

pp. 108 109 

unlike the plo 's almost exclusive focus on civilian targets , the 
100 troups from the irgun and stern group that struck at deir yassin 
on april 10 , 1948 , targeted the village for its military importance .  . 
deir yassin was on the road to jerusalem , which the arabs had 
blockaded , and it housed iraqi troups and palestinian irregulars .  . 
snipers based in deir yassin were a constant threat to jewish citizens 
in jerusalem .  . 

arab civilians were killed at deir yassin , but that attack does 
not conform to the propaganda picture that the arabs have tried to 
paint. the number of arabs killed was generally reported to be about 
250 .  . in 1983 , however , eric silver of the guardian  ( britain ) 
interviewed a survivor , , who testified that 116 out 
of a population of 800 1000 were killed.  about three days after the 
massacre , ' explained ,  representatives of each of the five 
clans in deir yassin met at the moslem offices in jerusalem and made a 
list of the people who had not been found (alive) .  . we went through the 
names. nothing has happend since 1948 to make me think this figure 
was wrong . ' . 

unlike the plo 's deliberate attacks on civilians , the killing of 
civilians at deir yassin was not premeditated .  . the attackers left open 
an escape corridor from the village and more than 200 residents left 
unharmed .  . 



why does this remind me of bosnia and ethnic cleansing 







after the remaining arabs feigned surrender and then fired 
on the jewish troops , some of the attackers killed arab soldiers and 
civilians indiscriminately .  . independent observers told the guardian 
that among the bodies they found arab men disguised as women. 





from  ( satya prabhakar ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host cs . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota , minneapolis , csci dept. 
lines 20 

s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 




from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re go hizbollah ii ! 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 31 

in  ( tim clock) writes 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( noam tractinsky ) writes 
paraphrasing a bit , with every rocket that 
the hizbollah fires on the galilee , they justify israel 's 
holding to the security zone. 

noam 



i only want to say that i agree with noam on this point 
and i hope that all sides stop targeting civilians .  . 

basil 

absolutely .  . i'm sure that civilians on both sides would be pleased 
if the fighters  ( military , guerilla , whatever) would just take their 
argument elsewhere , find an unpopulated area somewhere , and slug it out. 
at that point , we will all breath a sigh of relief and cheer for 
our side in the struggle .  . 

ah , but when you fire at armed folks they have this nasty habit of 
firing back. a simple terrorist could get hurt that way. 


tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 69 

in article  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 

my reference is a 4 page essay in our local star tribute newspaper 
putting the whole conflict in perspective. i will readily admit 
that i am no authority in this area however , other 
asserted that some muslims did join hands with croats and 
nazis in persecuting serbs .  . in any case , past actions do not 

and the best evidence you can find is second hand hearsay from 
an unnamed source you may indeed be confusing some muslims 
with nazi armenians .  . altogether 30 , 000 nazi armenians served in 
various units in the german wehrmacht , according to ara j.  . 
14 , 000 in predominantly armenian army units , 6 , 000 in german army 
units , 8 , 000 in various working units and 2 , 000 in the waffen ss. 1 

a number of these nazi armenians were volunteers from france , 
greece , rumania and bulgaria who had chosen to commit 
themselves to the german war effort. derounian says that 

armenians from france bore the mark  legion 
' . 2 

that nazi armenians like dro 'the butcher  and sided 
with the germans probably had an impact on the decision of 
armenians who overwhelmingly opted for armed service. 

1 enno meyer , a. j. ,  rhein und , 900 
jahre deutsch , '  ( heinz 
verlag oldenburg 1988) , pp. 118 119 .  . 
2 john roy carlson  ( arthur derounian ) , in 'the armenian 
displaced persons , ' ibid. , p. 19. 

in fall 1942 , the armenian infantry battalions 808 and 809 were formed , 
to be followed by battalions 810 , 812 and 813 in spring 1943 .  . in the 
second half of 1943 infantry battalions 814 , 815 and 816 were created. 
these battalions together with other indigenous caucasian units were 
attached to the infantry division 162 .  . also attached to id 162 were 
the field battalions ii 9 , i 125 and i 198 which were formed between 
may 1942 and may 1943 .  . altogether twelve armenian battalions served the 
nazi army , if battalion ii 73 , which was not employed at any time , is to be 
included. 1 most battalions were commanded by nazi armenian officers .  . 
armenians wore german uniforms with an in the colours 
red blue orange and the inscription ' . 

1 joachim ,  dies 1941 1943 , , 
und im , '  ( verlag 
freiburg 1976) , p. 172 .  . 

while having collaborated with the nazis against stalin during the 
second world war , nazi armenians changed their policy after hitler 's 
defeat .  . they now backed stalin 's claims on eastern turkish provinces , 
hoping that these would be annexed to soviet armenia and their muslim 
population would be exterminated .  . stalin played on armenian national 
sentiments to enlist the support of armenians in the ussr and america 
for his imperial ambitions .  . 1 stalin 's ultimatum to the turkish 
government led truman to formulate his famous doctrine .  . 

1 walter ,  religion in the soviet union , '  ( london , macmillan 
co ltd new york , st martin 's press 1961) , pp. 160 164 .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( raffi r kojian ) 
subject turkey is perfect ! i am moving there. 
lines 27 
nntp posting host ucr . edu . 

well everybody , 

after reading tons of notes by serdar , i have come to the following conclusion .  . 
turkey is perfect , and no turk has ever made a mistake. he has proved to me at 
least that the land occupied by turkey today , was always lived in peacefully by 
turks .  .  ( including istanbul aka constantinople ) they treat their minorities 
like gods and have only done good while all of their evil neighbors attacked 
them. somehow , despite these evil neighbors capable of nothing but murder 
their population has exploded to almost 60 million in turkey alone.  ( note , 
armenian worldwide population is approximately 7 million total ) i want to go 
to this heaven on earth and meet the race that has made serdar possible , that 
has , and has become a mecca for human rights lovers .  .  ( amnesty 
international must have bad sources , turkey would never torture its citizens , 
treat minorities badly , or kidnap 7 foreign journalists last year alone , who 
incidentally are still missing ) , what i am trying to say is i want to be a 
turk ! ! ! ! 

now back to reality. i have once again been astounded by ability to 
ignore all truth , all truly difficult questions , and go on to his encyclopedia 
of quotes and sources that can be pasted into any note by the page ! anybody at 
all who has believed anything he has said , please step forward. let him know 
he has n't been wasting his time , that somebody out there can be convinced by 
the volume of e mail you can produce , not the quality of the content. well i am 
off now. i will go dream some more about that perfect place , that nirvana , 
that utopia , that , that turkey ! 

n w h 

from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
organization university of virginia 
lines 17 

deleted 
this is actually the law that david irving 
will hopefully be found guilty under due to his denial of the holocaust .  . 
it 's too bad that this useless centre for policy research is n't in canada .  . 
it 'd set a nice precedent to how the law applies in cyberspace .  . 

steve 


internet fidonet 1 163 109.18 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

well canada is wrong. if it was in the us the aclu would have 
made sure that such repressive laws are found unconstitutional .  . 
do you think the church did n't find galileo 's perception of the 
universe offensive .  . 

from  ( yannis schoinas ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization u of wisconsin madison computer sciences 
lines 68 

michael sells m writes 

subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
from 
date 13 may 93 02 28 53 gmt 
in article , 
writes 
in a previous article ,  ( josip loncaric ) wrote 

actually , just after the first world war , many muslims were killed by 
serbs .  . 
under serbian led regime between the two world wars , many croats were 
also killed  ( especially during the dictatorship introduced on jan. 6 , 
 . 

josip , 

please , do n't be offended at this question who are the muslims in the 
bosnian context i know that a moslem muslim is a believer in islam .  . 
islam 
is a religion and it is practised in many parts of the world. but it is 
not 
, yes definitely not , an group. ok ! so , these bosnian muslims , 
who 
are they to which ethnic group do they belong what  ( language(s ) do they 
speak do they have a different language from that of the serbs or 
croats 
the way the western press use the word  muslim  in this bosnian debacle 
has 
kept me wondering when the meaning of muslim moslem i knew from 
childhood was 
changed in the dictionary .  . this is just a question. no flames intended ! 




you 've asked a crucial question that underlies much of the genocide .  . 
bosnian muslims are slavic in ethnicity .  . they speak  . but 
there is a slavic ideology whereby all true slavs are christian 
and anyone who converted to islam thereby must have changed ethnicity by 
changing religion. see the poems of or the novels of ivo 
who displays these attitudes on the part of what he calls 
the people (i . e .  . christian  . for this reason , the war criminals 
call all the bosnian muslims turks even though they are not ethnically 
turk and do not speak turkish as their first language. for this reason , 
what is actually a genocide labeled against those who are ethnically 
identical but religiously other is called , paradoxically , ethnic 
cleansing rather than religious cleansing .  . 

you are somewhat close to truth. but you should n't forget that 
nationality is a recent invention of the western europe .  . in the 
days of the ottoman empire , the religion was the main point of 
difference between social classes. the ottomans did n't recognize 
turks , arabs , greeks , serbs .  .  .  . just christians , muslims , jews .  .  .  . 
so , for all the interested parties in the ottoman society the 
bosnian muslims were turks . after all , there are n't many real 
 ( ethnic ) turks living even in turkey today. even in europe , it 's 
the culture that defines the ethnicity and religion is part of 
one 's culture. 

thus , while a war rages between serbs and croats as a continuation of 
wwii , and older agenda , the annihilation of islam and muslims from 
bosnian , is being carried out under the cover of the croat war. 

can you support this 

bye , 
 . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject as for the genocide of 204 , 000 azeris by the armenians .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 118 

in article boris a. writes 

maybe the following example helps. it is understandable that the 
views of a gic are his alone. nevertheless any independent or 

 alone  sorry , but the following western scholars are forced to disagree 
with you. during the first world war and the ensuing years 1914 1920 , 
the armenians through a premeditated and systematic genocide , 
tried to complete its centuries old policy of annihilation against 
the turks and kurds by savagely murdering 2.5 million muslims and 
deporting the rest from their 1 , 000 year homeland .  . 

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance 
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people. 
this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians , government 
and international political leaders , such as u.s. ambassador mark 
bristol , william langer , ambassador , james barton , stanford 
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , , nalbandian , 
ohanus , jorge blanco , general , general 
, general , general , , 
, , , general hamelin , rawlinson , 
aharonian , dr. stephan eshnanie , , general , arfa , 
dr. hamlin , nubar , , , rachel 
, halide , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul and many 
others. 

j. c. , professor of government emeritus , former director of 
the middle east institute  ( 1971 1984 ) , columbia university .  . 

bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history , 
princeton university .  . 

halil , university professor of ottoman history member of 
the american academy of arts sciences , university of chicago .  . 

peter golden , professor of history , rutgers university , newark .  . 

stanford shaw , professor of history , university of california at 
los angeles .  . 

thomas naff , professor of history director , middle east research 
institute , university of pennsylvania .  . 

ronald jennings , associate professor of history asian studies , 
university of illinois .  . 

howard reed , professor of history , university of connecticut .  . 

, distinguished university professor of political 
science , city university graduate school , new york .  . 

john woods , associate professor of middle eastern history , 
university of chicago .  . 

john masson smith , jr. , professor of history , university of 
california at berkeley .  . 

alan fisher , professor of history , michigan state university .  . 

levy , professor of history , brandeis university .  . 

andreas g. e. , professor of history , university of california 
at los angeles .  . 

kathleen burrill , associate professor of turkish studies , columbia university .  . 

davison , professor of history , george washington university .  . 

walter denny , professor of history , university of massachusetts .  . 

caesar farah , professor of history , university of minnesota .  . 

tom goodrich , professor of history , indiana university of pennsylvania .  . 

tibor kun , professor emeritus of turkish studies , columbia university .  . 

justin mccarthy , professor of history , university of louisville .  . 

jon , professor of history , portland state university (oregon) .  . 

robert olson , professor of history , university of kentucky .  . 

madeline , professor of history , university of maryland .  . 

james stewart robinson , professor of turkish studies , university of michigan .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . so . the list goes on and on and on .  .  .  .  .  . 

as for the genocide of the azeri people by the armenians 

source channel 4 news at 19.00 , monday 2 march 1992. 
2 french journalists have seen 32 corpses of men , women and children 
in civilian clothes. many of them shot dead from their heads as close 
as less than 1 meter .  . 

source morning news at 07 . 37 . , tuesday 3 march 1992. 
bbc reporter was live on line and he claimed that he saw more than 100 
bodies of azeri men , women and children as well as a baby who are shot 
dead from their heads from a very short distance. 

source morning news at 08 12 , tuesday 3 march 1992. 
very disturbing picture has shown that many civilian corpses who were 
picked up from mountain .  . reporter said he , cameraman and western 
journalists have seen more than 100 corpses , who are men , women , 
children , massacred by armenians .  . they have been shot dead from their 
heads as close as 1 meter .  . picture also has shown nearly ten bodies 
 ( mainly women and children) are shot dead from their heads. azerbaijan 
claimed that more than 1000 civilians massacred by armenian forces .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from (david davidian ) 
subject addressing turkish genocide apology 451 
summary  .  .  . upon . checking the reference 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 77 

turkish historical revision in auto residue , 
 ( serdar argic ) , posted the following 

( source adventures in the near east by a. rawlinson , jonathan cape , 
( 30 bedford square , london , 1934  ( first published 1923)  ( 287 pages) .  . 
(  ( memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
( million muslim people) 

bull ! 

( p. 184  ( second paragraph) 
( 
( i had received further very definite information of horrors that 
( had been committed by the armenian soldiery in kars plain , and as 
( i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their 
( treatment of my own detached parties , i had wired to from 
( that  in the interests of humanity the armenians should not 
( be left in independent command of the moslem population , as , their 
( troops being without discipline and not under effective control , 
( atrocities were constantly being committed , for which we should 
( with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible' .  . 

on page 184 in my copy of the rawlinson book , we find following facsimile .  . 
note the word armenian does n't even appear ! 

184 adventures in the near east 

disposal for our journey , i foresaw it would have to become 
our headquarters for a considerable time , and therefore went 
to some trouble to make it  . we had a most peculiar 
little locomotive , originally built in america for the russian 
government , adapted to burn either wood or oil one covered 
truck as men 's quarters one similar , which i fitted up for my 
self and a railway officer and also a truck to carry wood , three 
cars being the utmost our small engine could pull .  . with this 
small outfit we started , rumours of all kinds reaching us before 
our departure indicating that the whole situation was rapidly 
coming to a head , it being evident that the turks were becoming 
more and more in the face of the inexplicable delay of 
the allies in reaching any definite decision with regard to the 
future. 

travelling on this little war time railway was indeed an 
experience , and it was necessary to carry a gauge , and to 
test the rails with it frequently , for in many places , owing to 
the sinking of the and the washing away of the 
ballast , the rails required rectification before we were able to 
get our train over , even at a foot pace each bridge also re 
elaborate examination before the train upon 
it , and eventually we were obliged to carry large of tim 
ber to temporarily shore up many of the bridges and 
whilst we passed over them. 

under these circumstances it may be imagined that our prog 
was by no means rapid , and as we had frequently to halt 
also to replenish our supply of wood fuel , we considered we 
had achieved wonders when , on the evening of the second day , 
60 hours and 70 miles out from , we finally entered the 
of the mountains where we understood our worst troubles 
to lie. this is the same into which the road from 
to kars descends from the foot hills to cross the 
frontier the railway , however , follows the main aras river val 
ley till the frontier enters it , whilst the road cuts off the 
corner and joins the rail again at the frontier post of , 
some 15 miles from the main valley .  . 

soon after entering the , we were confronted by the 
first serious fall of rock about 2 , 000 tons having fallen from 
the cliff face and entirely the railway track. here , 
therefore , we halted , and , sending our engine back , prepared to 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( tim clock) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 23 

in article  ( adam shostack ) writes 
in article  ( tim clock) writes 

certainly , the israeli had a legitimate worry behind the action they took , 
but is n't that action a little draconian 

what alternative would you suggest be taken to safeguard the 
lives of israeli citizens 

adam 
adam shostack 

tell them to stay home ) sorry , terrible attempt at there. 

alternative hell , i do n't know. but .  .  . its . perfectly possible to have 
objections to a particular policy while feeling that there is no 
alternative choice . 


tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from 
subject re saudi clergy condemns debut of human rights group ! 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 514 

nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . talk . politics . mideast . 16 may 93 re saudi 
clergy condemns d .  .  .  .  ( 2149 ) 

the whole saddam is going to invade saudi arabia was nothing but us state 
department propeganda .  . saddam  ( and iraq in general) never recognised the 
british created kuwait .  . 

this is complete garbage .  . it is kuwait faq number 1  ( maintained , but 
not compiled , by me to rebut the leftist drivel frequently posted wrt 
kuwait ) 



first is a note on the bogus arguments that the british 
drew the maps to deprive iraq of oil. then follows a 
chronology of events in kuwait 's history. following 
the chronology is a speech by the kuwaiti ambassador 
to the u . n .  .  . following this is an article on the origins 
of kuwait .  . following this is a series of articles 
which attest to the fact that kuwait was independent of both 
 ( non existent ) iraq and the ottoman empire .  . 



the iraqi regime claims that kuwait was cut from iraq by the british 
in order to deprive iraq of its oil. the 1913 and 1932 border treaties 
between kuwait and iraq represent clear testimonies against such an 
allegation since oil was discovered in kuwait in 1938 ! 



kuwait a chronology 

bc 600 the settled in al hill area on 
island. 

529 al bin ma a al a defeated al al in 
the kuwaiti area of  . 

300 the greeks lived on island for two centuries .  . 

73 a royal message was inscribed on the ikarus stone which is 
now on view in the national museum of kuwait .  . 

ad 623 the arabs defeated the persians at the battle of 
al in the area. 

the approximate date of the establishment of kuwait town 
when was the amir of the tribe .  . 

approximately when the al sabah family arrived in kuwait .  . 

the approximate date of the election of sabah bin jaber 
from the al sabah family to be the first ruler of kuwait .  . 

1760 the first wall , 750 meters long , was built around kuwait 
city. 

bin sabah , the second ruler of kuwait , came to 
power. 

1765 c. , the danish traveler , visited kuwait which he 
referred to on his map as '' . 

kuwait was attacked by an epidemic and most of its 
inhabitants died. 

1783 the kuwaitis defeated the tribe of bani k ab in the sea 
battle of  . 

the second wall of kuwait , 2300 meters long , was built .  . 

the al ah accident , in which many kuwaiti diving 
ships were sunk , was caused by a massive tidal wave between india and 
 . 

1886 the first kuwaiti currency was minted in copper during the 
reign of sheikh al sabah ii. 

1899 kuwait signs a treaty with britain and becomes a protectorate .  . 
 ( see note below) 

1911 december 22. al school , the first formal 
school in kuwait , opened .  . 

1920 the third wall of kuwait , 6400 meters long , was built .  . 

1921 kuwait took the first step toward democracy , the formation 
of a council , but did not last for long. 

1922 the total number of kuwaiti pearl diving boats reached 
800 , manned by over 10 , 000 and divers .  . 

1922 the first public library in kuwait was established .  . 

1926 the historian abdul aziz al published the first 
book on kuwait .  . 

1928 kuwait 's first periodical , the magazine , '' was 
published by abdul aziz al  . 

1930 kuwait municipality was established .  . 

1930 an decree was issued prohibiting the wearing of the 
because of soaring prices. 

1933 the municipality installed lighting in the kuwait market. 

1934 december 7. heavy rainfall destroyed many kuwaiti houses. 
therefore this year was called destructive year , '' 
al '' . 


1938 february .  . oil was discovered in  . 

1938 the first general elections , resulted in the first 
legislative council .  . 

1942 the first bank in kuwait was opened .  . 

1945 house   was established in egypt to look after 
kuwaiti missions and interests .  . 

1946 the first kuwaiti crude oil shipment was exported .  . 

1948 magazine   was issued , the first kuwaiti magazine 
to be both printed and published in kuwait .  . 

1950 sheikh ahmed al jaber al sabah , who had ruled kuwait for 
thirty years , died. 

1951 may 12. kuwait radio went on the air for the first time. 

1952 the first masterplan   was drawn up. 

1954 al , the man of letters and poet , died. 

1954 december , 11. al youm    ( official gazette ) was 
issued for the first time. 

1955 oil was struck in al , north of kuwait .  . 

1957 kuwait wall was demolished and removed. 

1957 the affairs department   conducted the first 
population census .  . 

1958 december 1. the first issue of   magazine was 
published .  . 

1960 the first kuwaiti woman was employed by kuwait oil 
company. 

1961 april 1. the kuwaiti became the official currency 
in kuwait .  . 

1961 june 19. the of january 23 , 1899 , concluded 
between kuwait and great britain , was terminated .  . 

1961 july 20. kuwait became a member of the arab league. 

1961 december , 31. kuwait fund for arab economic development 
was established .  . 

1962 january 20. the elected constituent assembly met to draw 
up the constitution of kuwait .  . 

1962 an decree was issued providing for the division of 
the country into three  . 

1962 november 11. the amir of kuwait , sheikh al salem 
al sabah ratified the first constitution of kuwait .  . 

1963 january .  . the first elected national assembly of kuwait 
 . 

1963 may 17. kuwait became a member of the united nations 
organization. 

1963 august 7. the great kuwaiti poet al died. 

1965 november 24. the amir of kuwait , sheikh al salem 
al sabah , passed away. 

1966 the neutral zone was partitioned between kuwait and saudi 
arabia .  . 

1966 november 27. kuwait university was inaugurated .  . 

1968 may 13. kuwait freed itself from all external obligations 
when it canceled the agreement of june 19 , 1961 .  . 

1969 april 1. central bank of kuwait was established .  . 

1969 october 18. the first communications satellite earth 
station in kuwait was inaugurated .  . 

1973 july 6. the kuwaiti pioneer and reformer sheikh bin 
eisa al ai died. 

1975 march .  . the government acquired full ownership of kuwait 
oil company. 

1976 the social security law , applicable to kuwaiti nationals , 
was issued .  . 

1976 the future generations reserves law was issued .  . it 
stipulates the allocation of 10 per of the state revenues for 
future generations .  . 

1977 december 31. the amir of kuwait sheikh sabah al salem 
al sabah died. 

1981 may 25. kuwait signed the articles of association of the 
gulf cooperation council .  . 

1983 the bridge , linking island to the 
mainland , was opened for traffic. 

1985 may 25. the amir survived an attempt 
on his life when a bomb laden car rammed into his motorcade on arabian 
gulf street. 



from kuwait , facts and figures , 1986 .  . 

shedding some light 

on september 29 1990 , the national council on us arab relations 
invited the kuwaiti ambassador to the united states , nasser 
al sabah .  . the following are quotes of his speech 

itself was an entity identified as kuwait even before 
iraq was identified as iraq in the ottoman empire .  . kuwait was in 
existence since  . we continued to be in existence until the 
conflict between the ottoman empire and the british and others in the 
area. thereafter , we signed with the british in 1899 a protective 
agreement whereby the british guaranteed the sovereignty and security 
of kuwait . '' . 

1913 , the british and the ottoman signed an agreement defining 
without any doubt the borders of kuwait as they stand today. such an 
agreement was reconfirmed in 1932 between the kuwaiti government 
and the iraqi government at that time. that is when iraq became a state , 
after kuwait itself . '' . 

1961 , when we declared our independence iraq seized the 
opportunity to claim kuwait as part of iraq .  . there were threats .  . the 
british came in , and arab forces came in to guarantee the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of kuwait .  . in 1963 , kuwait and iraq again 
signed border agreement , thereby defining our territory and iraq 's 
recognition to the sovereignty and territory of kuwait . '' . 

compiled by 


origins of kuwait 

the establishment of kuwait is attributed to b. of the 
bani who used kuwait as a summer residence .  . the beginning of 
kuwait goes back to the late 17th century and some historians go 
further up to  . kuwait 's name is derived from al which means 
fortress .  . kuwait is also called , which is the of , a 
horn or hill .  . kuwait town flourished and grew since its 
establishment .  . 

the  , al sabah family is a branch of  , settled in kuwait 
during the early 18th century. they lived under the protection 
of bani until  . after that , they became independent and 
sabah bin was chosen as the first ruler for  . 

carsten  ( 1733 1815 ) a dutch explorer was among the first who 
wrote about the arabia .  . he was the mathematician in the scientific 
expedition sent in 1760 by the king of denmark to arabia .  . he 
documented details of arab tribes inhabiting both of the gulf 
and in the case of kuwait , he was the first writer to give the two 
names by which the town was known , kuwait and  . 's chart 
of the persian gulf was the best one drawn before the end of that 
century , see the map from abu , history of eastern arabia 
1750 1800. pub . 1965 .  . 

al sabah  ( 'utub ) kept good relations with other powers in the eastern 
arabia .  . according to ahmed abu 's conclusions in his well 
documented study about the history of eastern arabia between 1750 1800 , 
there was no ottoman rule on the region. the second half of 
the 18th century , there was no ottoman ruler in eastern arabia .  . 
in fact , ottoman rule was not even nominally acknowledged .  . their 
attempts to restore their lost position in al through the 
campaign of in 1786 , and ali pasha 's expedition against the 
in , were unsuccessful .  . at kuwait , the nearest point of 
the domains to the ottoman of , the 
was under no form of ottoman control. the aim of  external policy 
was to keep on friendly relations with all the forces working in the 
gulf . '' . (p .  . 182 183 ) abu continued in his conclusions that 
was not a dependency of , the persian occupation of 
 ( 1775 79 ) did not affect kuwait . '' . (p . 

kuwait had its own identity through the ottoman domination on the arab 
world. this identity was clear to the british and the french who 
tried to win the support of kuwait 's sheikh between 95 when the 
british wanted his support in their conflict with the french in the 
gulf area. 



independent kuwait 

this is the first of a series of articles that testify to the 
independence of kuwait throughout its history from both iraq and the 
ottomans .  . 

the following text is related to an expedition carried out by the 
ottomans in against the in eastern arabia (where the oil fields 
in saudi arabia now) .  . kuwait and its ruler at that time , sheikh 
sabah , allied themselves with the turks 

abdullah  role in the fighting was not a minor one. he joined the 
expedition as a commander of the large kuwaiti fleet and was the first 
to use its guns against the besieged town of al  . had it not been 
for this bombardment by the kuwaiti fleet , al obviously would 
not have surrendered in a mere three hours. 

in relation to this , a question arises as to why the ottoman warships 
refrained from participating in the bombardment .  . the answer lies in 
reports relating to the political movements that preceded accounts of 
the progress of the expedition .  . because the ottomans were unwilling to 
jeopardize the maritime peace imposed by britain in the area , the 
sultan and the pasha promised their warships would not be used in the 
war against su ud or any sheikh in the war zone. kuwait , which was not 
a party to the above mentioned treaty of 1861 , was under no such 
obligation especially since the expedition was not directed against 
those who had signed it. 


from the above text , we can see that kuwait was not part of the 
ottomans or the british colonies .  . for more details about the mentioned 
expedition , please check out the source of the above text 

the modern history of kuwait , 1750 1965 , by ahmed abu , mcgill 
university , canada 



independent kuwait 2 

this is another article of a series of articles that testify to the 
independence of kuwait throughout its history from both iraq and the 
ottomans .  . 

the following text discusses a dispute on an estate called in , 
iraq , between the sheikh of kuwait and al tribe in  . 

in , trouble developed over the possession by sheikh sabah of the 
estate which was purchased by his father , sheikh , in  . this 
property was by a turkish qa representative on 
the basis of a claim by the al that the vendor had been the 
owner of a share and not of the n  . at the same time , 
sheikh sabah was required to expel from other lands owned by him at 
the island of some who had from persian 
territory .  . 

it should be recalled that the turkish officials from the start 
showed strong prejudice in favor of the claimants .  . 
sabah , the eldest son of the ruler of kuwait who went to as his 
father 's agent in the case , narrowly escaped being thrown into jail 
upon his refusal to make a payment to the value of seven 
years produce which the ottoman authorities deemed the plaintiffs were 
entitled to receive .  . 

eventually , the dispute was settled by the governor of baghdad 
in favor of the sheikh of kuwait .  . the decision of the governor of 
in favor of the sheikh was apparently made for various reasons. 
some writers think that the governor wanted to win over to the 
turkish side , and suggest that the governor , pasha , even offered 
him the title of qa , which he declined .  . nevertheless , the 
proceedings of the turks in this case were regarded by the inhabitants 
of kuwait as attempts to cause a confrontation with  . it seems 
that they had anticipated a conflict and according to reports by the 
british agent at , the people of kuwait were prepared to a man to 
abandon their town rather than submit to turkish rule. lorimer suggests 
that the final order of pasha , upholding the kuwait sheikh 's 
title to , was perhaps due to a report that sheikh sabah , 
the object of attacking if the decision should go 
against him , had obtained a promise of countenance and armed support 
from the amir . '' . 

in addition to this legal matter with , kuwait had had other 
problems with whose courts tried to jail sabah , as 
explained above. however , kuwait 's relations with the ottoman 
of had at times been amicable and in several 
instances , those even sought refuge at kuwait when 
pressured by the of baghdad who exercised control over them. 

source the modern history of kuwait , 1750 1965 , by ahmed abu , 
mcgill university , canada 



independent kuwait 3 

this is another article that testifies to the 
independence of kuwait throughout its history from both iraq and the 
ottomans .  . 


when colonel , the british resident in the gulf visited kuwait 
for the first time on march 3 , 1863 , he was 
met at by sheikh mubarak , the second son of the ruler , sheikh 
sabah .  . just before he reached kuwait town on march 4 , he was met by 
sheikh , the eldest son and heir apparent , who accompanied him 
to the town gate on their way to very good home , '' which had been 
prepared for and his companions .  . had we entered it , '' 
says , sheikh sabah himself came . '' . 
this description of 's reception indicates that to a certain 
degree it was run according to protocol .  . 

the government system of kuwait and administration of justice were the 
subject of comments made by  . government is patriarchal , '' 
says , sheikh managing the political , and the 
the judicial departments .  . the sheikh himself would submit to the 
's decision . '' . punishment was rarely inflicted .  . , there 
seems little government interference anywhere , and little need of an 
army . '' . in admiration of how the sheikh ran the affairs of the 
country , retold the following remark which the sheikh had made to him 

when my father was nearly 120 years old , he called me and said , 
shall soon die. i have made no fortune , and can leave you no money , 
but i have made many and true friends , grapple them. while other 
states around the gulf have fallen off from injustice or 
ill government , mine has gone on flourishing . hold to my policy , and 
though you are surrounded by desert , and pressed by a once hostile 
and still wandering set of tribes , you will prosper . '' . 

source the modern history of kuwait , 1750 1965 , by ahmed abu , 
mcgill university , canada 



independent kuwait 4 

this is another article that testifies to the 
independence of kuwait throughout its history from both iraq and the 
ottomans .  . 


the british had always regarded sheikh as a friend , '' but 
in october 1839 , an event took place at kuwait which could have 
weakened those good relations .  . on october 30 , lieutenant , the 
assistant resident at abu in iran , arrived in kuwait on a 
special mission from the resident , captain  . his mission was to 
find out if kuwait was willing to welcome the establishment of a 
british line of post across the desert from kuwait to the 
mediterranean .  . the british war vessel fired the usual salute in honor 
of the sheikh after it had anchored in the waters of kuwait bay. the 
salute was not acknowledged and waited in the vessel for three 
days before he was able to communicate with the sheikh .  . 

after  return to abu , both he and captain 
explained this unusual behavior of the sheikh , to have been due not 
to ill will , but principally to a desire to mislead the egyptian agent 
at kuwait as to the nature of his relations with the british .  . 
therefore , they considered that 's conduct did not indicate any 
change in his friendly policies towards the british .  . 

if the british tolerated the attitude of towards , so 
also did the egyptians .  . earlier in the same year , some of the most 
wanted men in the camp , such as  umar  , the 
general in al , and tribes like al , 
sought refuge in kuwait .  . 

protection of refugees seeking political 
asylum in his country was a policy that had been adopted earlier by 
sheikh sabah .  . this can , therefore , be looked upon as an 
indication of self confidence an outcome of kuwait 's independence 
from foreign powers .  . it the fact that kuwait , if 
necessary , was prepared to defend itself against more powerful 
neighbors. 

this defense depended not only on the walls of the city , but also on 
bedouin tribes in its neighborhood and a merchant fleet equipped with 
the necessary guns comparable to other arab fleets of the time. 

as to kuwait 's position between 1815 and 1839 , one can safely state 
that it managed to maintain a neutral policy with regard to the 
struggling and egyptians .  . relations with the british and 
even with the pasha of baghdad continued on good terms. 

source the modern history of kuwait , 1750 1965 , by ahmed abu , 
mcgill university , canada 








they were trying to recover land they believed 
was theirs , much like the argentines in the  . the kuwaitis pushed 
just a little too far by taking iraqi oil and saddam thought he 'd settle 
the dispute the old fashioned way .  .  .  . 

are you really this or do you seriously believe this if 
so , please post your proof. 

everybody would have been much better off had they left the iraq 
together and concentrated on taking out saddam .  . a strong , united iraq with 
an elected government would have gone a long way to ridding the world of 
the feudal dictatorships in the gulf .  . 

are standards at dropping since when has iraq ever had an 
elected government 


from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re without justice can n't last re last opportunity for peace 
organization nysernet , inc. 
lines 18 

it seems that , to keep the peace talks going , israel has to keep 
making goodwill gesture after goodwill gesture , while palestinian 
arabs continue to go around hunting jews .  . 

if the peace talks are going to have any realistic chance of success , 
the arabs are going to have to start , especially since 
they are the ones who will be getting tangible concessions in return 
for giving up only  . if they keep trying to change the 
already agreed upon rules , which seems to be one of their favorite 
games , the israelis are not likely to be very confident that the 
they will receive at the bargaining table will be worth 
the parchment they 're written on. 

it takes two to negotiate a peace. it 's time for the arabs to start 
doing their share. 


alan h. stein 

from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re volume 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 58 

( andi beyer ) writes 

i think some of you guys think that the volume of your 
responses and their harshness somehow increases their factual 
accuracy .  . i especially deplore the attempts to call me a racist 
 ( as many of you have done) .  . you guys think just because 
there are more unreasonable israelis on this channel 
than all other denominations combined  ( including reasonable 
israelis ) that somehow makes you right. well you 're wrong. 
i just started reading this stuff last sunday and 
thought i might butt in since there were severe information 
problem on the part of some people. i thought that through 
somewhat intelligent conversation we might enlighten each 
other. 

that would be nice , but considering professional diplomats between israel and 
arabs have been unable to do so for 45 years , i ca n't see us starting .  . 
but hey as soon as anyone wants to discuss things reasonably and in a 
scholarly manner , count me in. 

anyway the responses were mostly negative and i 've been 
called a racist and an anti semite so many times that it seems 
assumed about me in people 's postings .  . when i shared this with 
some of my friends it appears that they have had similar 
experiences. the overall harsh language coupled with the 
occasional death threats and attempts to get them disconnected 
have convinced many to look elsewhere for true discussions and 
unsubscribe to the newsgroup .  . 

people have very strong opinions and you need to be careful regarding what 
you say if you say , make it factual and be able to back it up. 

i do n't know if you 're paid israeli lobbyists or just 
concerned , but it seems that toning down the harsh rhetoric 
might be more helpful to your cause than name calling , 
attempting to disconnect and death threats .  . just a tip about 
how things work in the civilized world. 

thanks for teaching us about the civilized world , andi .  . i guess we all just 
came out either the desert or the ghetto , right and no , we are not paid 
israeli lobbyists nor are we of the zog we are just people who 
believe in our cause and find offense when people imply some sort dirty dealing 
or disloyalty due to our love of israel  ( disguised as paid israeli lobbyists 
what kind of image is that ) 

p.s. i understand that not all of you are involved in all this 
but many of you are contributing to the atmosphere. 
p.p.s. just to clear up something , i do n't think than the jews 
are necessarily any worse than other people as a whole if such a 
distinction between cultures shall be  ( made(i do n't personally 
believe in judging people by their religion , culture or race . ) . 

oh ! thank you ! i needed your approval of my heritage .  . i guess i can go home 
and feel good now and sleep knowing that jews really are n't 
worse people than anyone else , contrary to what we all know is true. 

ed. 


from  ( eran katz ) 
subject re zionism is racism 
organization technion israel institute of technology. 
lines 1 

yes , i want to read such a article. 

from  ( senad arnautovic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organisation u of toronto , dept. of mechanical engineering 
organization mechanical engineering 
lines 21 

 ( satya prabhakar ) writes 

s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. 

where in the world did you get this please read history books before 
you start talking something 





from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re arab leaders and bosnia 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 79 

in article pavlovic  ( milan pavlovic ) writes 

i really disagree with you. that beacon of genocide apology is a 
self admitted exposed compulsive liar and a mouthpiece for the 
criminal nazi armenians of the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism 
triangle .  . 

i just love these eloquent one liners .  . 

you are not sticking to the original question. imagine what it 
would be like if you were human .  .  . impossible . you say 

it could be your head was n't screwed on just right ,  . during 

this is an old one. you said that to me once. ) 

is that not the crux of my argument why is this so difficult 
for you to understand lack of intelligence 

need i go on 

actually , i would like to get a compilation of these one liners , 
so that i could print them out and show them to my friends over the 
summer , and they can see what kind of clowns exist out there in chicago .  . 

well , does it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920 , 
the armenian government ordered , incited , assisted and participated 
in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race , religion 
and national origin 

1) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of van .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 
2) armenians did slaughter 42 of muslim population of bitlis .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
3) armenians did slaughter 31 of muslim population of erzurum .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
4) armenians did slaughter 26 of muslim population of diyarbakir .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
5) armenians did slaughter 16 of muslim population of mamuretulaziz .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
6) armenians did slaughter 15 of muslim population of sivas .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
7) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of the x soviet 
armenia .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
8) .  .  .  .  . 

1 mccarthy , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman 
anatolia and the end of the empire , new york 
university press , new york , 1983 , pp. 133 144 .  . 

2 , k. , ottoman population , the university of wisconsin press , 
1985 .  . 

3 , r. g. , armenia on the road to independence , 1918 .  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and 
los angeles ) , 1967 , pp. 13 , 37 .  . 

4 shaw , s. j. ,  on armenian collaboration with invading russian armies 
in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey 
 ( volume ii reform , revolution republic the rise of 
modern turkey , 1808 1975) .  .  ( london , cambridge university 
press 1977) .  . pp. 315 316 .  . 

5  ( armenian newspaper published in the united states) , may 24 , 
1915 .  . 


source jorge blanco ,  ataturk , ' , 1979 , pg. 234 .  . 

they armenians did not refrain from giving in to their racial 
hatred and committing acts of cruelty and massacres against the 
moslem population , which were encouraged by the   party , 
mortal enemies of turkey .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject peace talks resume 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization intergraph electronics 
lines 35 


from 4 27 93 

peace talks resume today israel to offer palestinians new 
proposals 

israel radio , kol yisrael , reports on today 's in 
washington of the bilateral peace talks , following a recess which 
lasted over four months. according to the report , israel is 
expected to offer the palestinians new proposals regarding the 
authority of the palestinian executive council , general elections , 
control over land and human rights issues in the territories .  . 
israel will express its readiness to give the palestinians control 
of more land than previously offered .  . according to the radio 
report , one estimate is that israel will give the palestinians 
control over as much as two thirds of the administered lands , as 
well as broad authority on water issues. israel will seek to 
promote its offer to hold elections in the territories in hopes of 
strengthening the position of the palestinian delegation to the 
peace negotiations .  . according to israel radio , the israeli 
delegation to the bilateral talks with the palestinians will offer 
greater responsibilities to the palestinian executive council 
allowing it certain legislative capabilities , without making it a 
symbol for palestinian sovereignty .  . u.s. secretary of state warren 
christopher invited all the heads of to a gathering 
tonight. it will be the first such event since the madrid 
conference. head of the american team at the bilateral peace talks , 
edward , said that tonight 's gathering is meant to 
demonstrate the u . s . ' . active role in the peace process. 


naftaly stramer intergraph electronics 
internet 6101 lookout road , suite a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) 2370 fax  ( 303)581 ) 9972 boulder , co 80301 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( srinivas sunder ) 
subject re the stage is being set 
organization center for reliable and high performance computing , university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 62 
distribution world 
nntp posting host crhc . uiuc . edu . 

in article , () writes 
srinivas writes 

if the people 's will is that their current govt. get thrown out , 
they 'll find a way to do it. getting the us un to short cut the process will 
only hasten it , but sets a bad precedent can the us interfere everywhere 
why not right at our doorstep cuba 

precisely , why not cuba why not the are being ruled by thugs 
and their elected leader has asked support to reestablish the peoples will. 

well , let 's delve one level deeper .  . why is democracy better than or 
other means of govt. the president of georgia was elected with a thumping 
majority and booted out later , w no objections from the un .  . similarly , the 
people of algeria elected an islamic party into power but the 
junta declared it illegal .  . in both cases , i personally have no problems with 
the outcome , but if the voice of the people is that hallowed thing that the 
world community claims to revere so , why is n't it interfering there 

the u.s. or any other democracy wishes to , they are in the perfect right to 
help them without any whining from parties. after all if it turns out to 
be and the poeple do n't like it , they  find a way to throw them out 
. 
exactly. my point is that it will inevitably turn out that way , and we can save 
ourselves a lot of pain and trouble by simply letting people sort out their 
problems on their own. colonial interventions , even in haiti , have n't worked 
in the past. they had a 102 coups from 1845 1915 .  . the us invaded in 1915 .  . and left 
in 1933 , almost 17 years after they had intended to. was it a success well , 
look at haiti today and of the past 40 years and decide for yourself. it was 
a success so long as the us was in , from what i remember. but it did n't last 
long , obviously. 

there is an implicit assumption here that we as outsiders have a right to sit 
in judgement of another people , and to then act on it. to me , it is in there 
that the roots of old colonial attitudes lie. today , the motives are noble .  . 
tomorrow , they may not be. 

who ever said people who commit genocide have the right to commit genocide 

nobody did. people should have a right to self defense .  . if the un wants to arm 
the bosnians or revolutionaries or whoever , i have no problems with 
that. i do when they cross that line and attempt to re arrange boundaries ,  . 
etc. , the vance owen plan being one such piece of insanity .  . 

i want a world where criminals agains humanity have no place to hide , while you 
want special sovereignties designed to protect them. nobody has the right to 
commit crimes against humanity , and if they do they loose all right to self 
determination .  . if this is classical , then so be it. 

we finally have a clearly stated point of difference. can 
have its good side , which is as you stated above removing thugs from being 
able to lord it over powerless people. i am worried that the bad side is what 
will assert itself , and i am prepared to let natural forces take their course 
if that will mean we can avoid the bad side of  . 



srinivas 

if the university of illinois shares these views , i 'd be surprised. 
they are n't that smart generally ) .  . 


from nxt09 . cso . uiuc . edu .  ( nizam arain ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 26 

t . s . reddy . writes 
the report below shows that the are acting in the finest 
traditions of islamic law as expounded by some die hard people on the 
net  ( who shall remain  . 

washington government troops in sudan are involved in massacres , 
kidnapping and the transporting of forced labor into libya , according 
to a state department document declassified wednesday .  . 

the report compiled by the u.s. embassy in said government 
forces , particularly arab militias organized as the popular defense 
forces , routinely steal women and children in southern sudan .  . 

some women and girls are kept as wives , the others are shipped 
north where they perform forces labor on  ( central sudan ) 
farms or are , notably to libya , it said. 

while the people here may be claim to be muslim , the actions reported here , 
if they actually happened , are 180 degrees opposite from what islam stands 
for , and i , for one , condemn them. 


nizam arain what makes the universe 
(217) 384 4671 so hard to comprehend 
internet is that there is nothing 
nextmail to compare it with. 

from (david davidian ) 
subject re a question about armenians 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 55 

in article  ( erdem 
erginel ) asked 

ee no , no flaming here. just a simple question. 

 .  .  . with . a simple answer ! 

ee as far as i know most of the armenians belong to the gregorian orthodox 
ee faith and such was the case in nineteenth century ottoman empire .  . it is 
ee also known that some armenian communities were converted into catholicism 
ee and protestantism by the western european missionaries in this period. 

the vast majority of armenians in eastern anatolia were gregorian or armenian 
apostolic .  . there was , however , a higher percentage of non gregorian armenians 
in , closer to the mediterranean , in adana , marash , , etc. 

ee another known fact is that almost half of the armenians living in anatolia 
ee did not speak any armenian , but used turkish in their everyday lives. 

this is not true. while it was forbidden for armenians to speak armenian in 
certain areas of armenia , most all armenians spoke armenian .  . in fact , 
turks who with armenians also spoke armenian ! for sure , most all 
armenians , especially men , also knew turkish in order to function in larger 
society. 

ee my question is , given so many separations in the armenian community , what 
ee was the common denominator of the armenian people that allowed armenian 
ee nationalism to emerge in the nineteenth century as i stated , religion 
ee was not uniform  ( unlike the greeks ) and many armenians could n't even speak 
ee armenian .  . i would like to know what factors brought the armenians in the 
ee ottoman empire together and led to the formation of an armenian 
ee consciousness .  . 

the armenians in turkey were persecuted because they were armenian , regardless 
of the specific branch of christianity they professed .  . the resultant armenian 
nationalism was in direct reaction to this persecution .  . even at the later 
stages of wwi , and after the genocide , many armenians who were converted to 
islam were also exterminated because they continued as armenian moslems .  . this 
practice continued well into the 1920s by ataturk in parallel with the policy 
of clearing out pockets of steadfast islamic fundamentalism .  . many of these 
converted armenians , ironically , in order to stay alive , were staunch moslems .  . 

ee any information will be appreciated. 

you answered your own question ! the common thread throughout your inquiry 
was the word armenian ! 

ee regards , 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re about palestine 
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan 
lines 20 

in article writes 

benjamin , my zionist friend 
it is amazing that there are still pigs like you left on this planet. 
occupied palestine has become a prison for its own inhabitants , thanks 
to you , the zionist network around the world , and those who call 
themselves the chosen people of god . 
if there is a god , and for as long as we have a breath left , we will 
fight for our freedom .  . benjamin , do n't rest too easily .  .  .  . 

thanks for writing your name and identifying yourself , you coward .  . 
that is right hide behind your blind rhetoric , but beware jle the 
mossad agent wil come and get you. 

tsiel 

8 8 
tsiel this message will self destruct in 5 seconds 
employer may not have same ( ) 
opinions , if any ! 

from  ( virginia 's gentleman ) 
subject re uva 
organization university of virginia 
lines 9 

pete 
that was uncalled for. i'm sure andi beyer or whatever his name is 
was a product of his environment before he came to school , and is 
enjoying the mantle of the university to make his viewpoint seem 
legitimate  ( well  . i'm at virginia , too , and i think 
uva is in poor taste , even if beyer did slip in here. 


jesse 

from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re uva 
organization university of virginia 
lines 2 

if you think that kind of uncalled for blanket statement will 
cause censorship at mr. jefferson 's university you are wrong. 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 

organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 64 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 93 20 31 19 gmt 

in article (steven berson ) writes 

 ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

bull shit. there is no reason in the world why we ca n't say that 
taking views analogous to the kkk 's or some such organization is 
wrong. there is no reason why some morality may not be legislated .  . as 
it is we do not allow theft , or murder , or rape .  . why should we allow 
hateful whose only purpose is to stir anger and violence .  . 
harry .  . 

i think the answer to mr. 's question can be found in the 
(mr .  . mamaysky 's) 
first amendment to the us constitution .  . 

amendment i  ( 1791 ) 

congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of 
religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof or 
abridging the freedom of speech , or of the press or the 
right of the people peaceably to assemble , and to petition 
the government for a redress of grievances .  . 

steve 

i do not say that freedom of speech should be banned. far from it. 
i am merely suggesting that there are certain things which can be 
universally agreed to be morally incorrect .  . there are not many such 
things. but there are some. as an example 

(1) murder is morally incorrect 

(2) the idea that one group of people is somehow racially inferior to 
another is morally incorrect 

etc. 

the point is that any action which serves to promote a morally 
incorrect action should be forbidden .  . this implies that no one has the 
right to say that an innocent person should be murdered .  . regardless of 
freedom of speech , i may not stand on a street corner and advocate the 
murder of innocent people. the reason for this is that murder is a 
morally incorrect action. 

in the same way , since bigotry is morally incorrect in the narrow 
definition which we have given it , (2) , i , nor any one else , has the 
right to stand on a street corner and promote bigotry .  . such an 
enforcement does in no way deny any one their rights as guaranteed by 
the first amendment .  . it merely ensures that no person may be the 
target of an attempt to deny him a fundamental moral right , such as 
the right to not be murdered , and the right not to be discriminated 
against .  . 

i believe , mr. berson , that to blindly accept the constitution is a 
terrific mistake. we must question the constitution and 
interpret it in a way the society in which we live. anything 
short of such an effort would render us little more than trained 
monkeys , who are able to merely repeat what they have heard without 
paying the slightest bit of attention to the intent of the document in 
question. 

would you disagree , mr . berson . 

harry .  . 

from 
subject organization of islamic conference 
reply to 
organization trent university , peterborough 
lines 9 

dear friends , 

hi ! 

i need some information about the organization conference  . does anyone know if there are books , articles , or journals that contains information regarding this organization if you know would you please send me an e . mail . at my address ! i thank you in advance and hope to hear soon since i need present. 

regards ! ! 

aziz 

from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject profile 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 38 

() writes 

to adam shostack 

as even though the point of your article seemed to be to flame , i 
as felt i should point out that the lions share of us foreign aid goes to 
as germany , where the us stationed a hundered thousand troops for 40 
as years , while the germans kicked our economic collective ass. the 
as money that goes to israel is miniscule compared to what goes to 
as germany .  . 

what an evasive comparison ! u.s. troops stationed in germany or 
anywhere else is the world is not foreign aid , ! are you 
sure you 're not a closet holocaust revisionist , adam i have a 
suggestion for you write to your congressman or senator and ask him 
or her for the official definition of foreign aid and just who are 
the recipients of such. israel is definitely on the top of the heap , 
no matter how you try to twist the truth. 

why do n't you pull your head out of your ass and into reality first off , what 
is the deal with your subject lines do you think that you are being funny 
ha ha. what a developed sense of humor you have , i'm surprised they let you 
out of the cage .  . why do n't we not talk about the official definition of 
foreign aid and talk about where money is really spent .  . more money is spent 
troops in germany (ie paying the troops , maintaining bases and equip , 
etc) than in israel .  . plus , israel does not ask the us to send troops to fight 
her battles .  . if you look at the amount of money spent defending korean 
shipping lanes , norway , and other trouble spots in the world , you will see that 
aid to israel from a practical standpoint is not that much. and so what 
so what if israel gets the most  ( assuming i buy your feeble argument ) what 
is your point do you not want to subsidize israel well , you have two options 
1) start your own campaign , get elected as president , and then force congress 
to cut all aid to israel or 2) get the fuck out ! if you do n't like how this 
country operates and ca n't change it then move to iran or something. 

all my love , 
ed. 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject as muslim women and children were being openly massacred by armenians .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 61 

in article  ( hovig heghinian ) writes 

... and who copied the months of the armenians 

come again the image conscious armenians sorely feel a missing 
glory in their background. armenians have never achieved statehood 
and independence , they have always been subservient , and engaged 
in undermining schemes against their rulers .  . they committed 
genocide against the muslim populations of eastern anatolia 
and x soviet armenia before and during world war i and fully 
participated in the extermination of the european jewry 
during world war ii. belligerence , genocide , back stabbing , 
rebelliousness and disloyalty have been the hallmarks of the 
armenian history. to obliterate these episodes the armenians 
engaged in tailoring history to suit their whims .  . in this zeal 
they tried to cover up the cold blooded genocide of 2.5 million 
turks and kurds before and during world war i. 

and the justice is long overdue .  . 


source documents volume i (1919) .  . 
document no 50 , archive no 4 3621 , cabin no 162 , drawer 
no 5 , file no 2905 , section no 433 , contents no 6 , 6 1 , 6 2. 
 ( to 36th division command militia commander ismail hakki ) 

for eight days , armenians have been forcibly obstructing people from 
leaving their homes or going from one village to the other. day and night 
they are rounding up male inhabitants , taking them to unknown destinations , 
after which nothing further is heard of them.  ( informed from statements 
of those who succeeded in escaping wounded from the massacres around 
ruins) .  . women and children are being openly murdered or are 
being gathered in the church square and similar places. most inhuman and 
barbarous acts have been committed against moslems for eight days. 


document no 52 , archive no 4 3671 , cabin no 163 , drawer 
no 1 , file no 2907 , section no 440 , contents no 6 6 , 6 7. 
 ( to 1st caucasian army corps command , 2nd caucasian army corps 
command , communications zone inspectorate commander 3rd army 
general) 

as almost all russian units opposite our front have been withdrawn , the 
population loyal to us in regions behind the russian positions are 
facing an ever increasing threat and suppression as well as cruelties 
and abuses by armenians who have decided to systematically annihilate 
the moslem population in regions under their occupation .  . i have 
regularly informed the russian command of these atrocities and 
cruelties and i have gained the impression that the above authority 
seems to be failing in restoring order. 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( brendan d mckay ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
nntp posting host virginia 
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny 

in article  ( amos shapira ) writes 
 ( jim eggert g41 ) writes 

not exactly the same , but reminiscent of the assassination of count 
, who was the un negotiator during the 1948 israeli war of 
independence .  . he was killed by the israelis .  . seems he was being too 
successful in negotiating a cease fire , which would have worked 
territorially against the nascent israel , compared to continued war. 

that operation was done by a small jewish fraction before the state even 
existed and , as far as i remember , was by most of the jews .  . 

saying that he was killed by the israelis is plain wrong because there was n't 
israel at the time. 

look up the facts first , post second. was assassinated 
in september 1948 by lehi under the orders of its three commanders 
 ( one of whom was  . there is no hard evidence of 
complicity of the israeli government despite some effort by the un 
and other organizations  ( us intelligence , swedish government) to 
find it. however a great fuss was made over the apparent lack of 
zeal of the israeli government to track down the killers .  . the lehi 
man who actually pulled the trigger later became a personal friend 
of david ben gurion .  . the best published account in english is a. ilan , 
in palestine , 1948  ( macmillan , 1989) .  . 

amos shapira  ( jumper extraordinaire ) 

brendan .  . 

from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
organization university of virginia 
lines 23 

writes 
freedom of speech does not mean that others are compelled to give one 
the means to speak publicly .  . some systems have regulations 
prohibiting the dissemination of racist and bigoted messages from 
accounts they issue. 

apparently , that 's not the case with virginia.edu , since you are still 
posting. 

alan h. stein 
first of all i'm still baffled what you possibly could have 
found racist in my argument for freedom of speach .  . i did not 
mention names , nationalities , countries let alone races .  . 
you are right in that virginia.edu does not have a 
thought police like israel . nysernet . org . seems to. i did n't know 
that you guys are getting a privelege by the israelis by 
getting the means to speak publicly . virginia.edu lets every 
student regardless of their opinion to speak their mind. 
virginia.edu is true to its founding father , thomas 
jefferson the author of the bill of rights , in allowing freedom 
of speach .  . sorry you guys in israel have a hard time with the 
concept. 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re coward jews 
organization zuma 
distribution world 
lines 42 

in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

for arab armies to attack israel on yom kippur i suppose it 
is brave to slaughter athletes at the olympics or maybe you 

armenians have been doing just that for a long , long time. 

source said to have been part of 1972 terror attack at 
munich olympic games , the armenian reporter , february 7 , 1985 , p. 1. 

le , the influential paris daily , based on unidentified sources , 
claimed last week that , the founder and leader of one 
faction of the armenian secret army for the liberation of armenia (asala) , 
was among the arab terrorists who staged an attack on the living quarters 
of israeli athletes at the 1972 olympic games .  .  .  . 

le added that up to 1982 , operated out of beirut , lebanon , 
but escaped from the country when israeli forces entered the city. it was 
about this time that a statement issued by asala claimed that mr. 
was dead of wounds suffered during a bombing by the israeli air force , 
although it is generally believed that the mysterious leader is alive and 
well and presently is residing alternately in damascus , syria , and 
athens , greece .  . the paper also noted that the socialist government of 
prime minister andreas and his p . a . s . o . k .  . party accepted the 
armenian underground leader with open arms and still providing him 
with assistance simply because of greece 's traditional enmity with turkey .  . 

le further adds that asala derives only a small portion of its 
expenditures from wealthy armenians who support the cause , with the rest 
coming either from other sources or from proceeds of an involvement in 
drug trafficking .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israel not an apartheid state 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 47 

in article (joseph askew ) writes 
in article bird . think . com .  ( shai guday ) writes 
in article , (joseph askew ) writes 

there are arabs in cabinet but look how long it took and to what 
insignificant positions they are assigned ! and this is based solely 
on race not political belief or security as jewish members of the 
same party have always been welcome just not their fellow arabs .  . 

first of all , the arab standing in any party , or as any party , is solely 
dependent upon the amount of political power they can wield effectively .  . 

it is not a question of an individuals standing .  . when a party puts up 
an arab for a cabinet post and that arab is rejected but the position 
is given to a jew from the same party we are not talking about power 
but racism .  . 

not necessarily .  . as shai points out , political appointments are 
based on power. they are also based on favors owed , coalition 
building , and deal making. while this may have a racist element to 
it , i think that its much more fair to attribute it to the old boy 
nature of politics. now , i 'll freely admit that the old boy system 
has racist and sexist effects , but i do n't think that those are its 
purpose , whether in the us , israel , or elsewhere. 

in the past , they have not been effective at votes and forming 
a single bloc in the knesset .  . on the few occasions when this was done , 
some of the parties took stands that were extremist , and 
themselves from forming a coalition and participating in the cabinet .  . 

not their party them as individuals . even when they belong to nice 
peaceful zionist mainstream parties they are not welcome. arabs are 
excluded on security grounds which are just an excuse. it 
sure looks like racism to me. 

here again , you miss out on the old boy nature of politics , 
and the existance of back room deals .  . as individuals , these arabs may 
not be as well connected as the jew who gets the job. i do n't like 
this aspect of politics , but i understand it exists. 

adam 


adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( mohammad razi khan) 
subject re synagogues , mosques , and double standards 
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi 
lines 44 
nntp posting host nova . gmi . edu . 

nxt09 . cso . uiuc . edu .  ( nizam arain ) writes 

mark ira kaufman writes 
... ... ... 
a perfect example is the outcry over the temporary removal of 
400 men who advocated murdering jews and destroying the state 
of israel , compared to the deafening silence over the abusive 
treatment of jews in arab countries during the past 50 years. 

never mind the fact that these people were denied the right to a fair trial .  . 
and israel was supposed to uphold western values , eh 

... ... ... 
i doubt if the non jewish world is even capable of having any 
compassion towards jews as anti semitism is so ancient and so 
basic to both christianity and islam .  . 

your doubts are unsubstantiated , have some faith in us .  .  . 



check your facts before bashing islam again. while there may be muslim 
anti semites , this is no way a tenet of the religion. saying anti semitism is 

yes i agree .  .  . lets say i call my self a xxx .  . i go and shoot your family 
in cold blood. does that mean that xxx is responsible no. i am. 
people tend to associate others with color creed etc .  .  . it is a form of racism .  . 



basic to islam is the entire muslim world , based on a selective 
sampling of a few people , and it flies in the face of what islam teaches .  . 

peace. 


nizam arain what makes the universe 
(217) 384 4671 so hard to comprehend 
internet is that there is nothing 
nextmail to compare it with. 

mohammad r. khan 
after july '93 , please send mail to 
if responses to this letter post bounce , e mail me at the nyx account. 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 302 
nntp posting host composer . think . com . 

in article center for policy research writes 

by elias davidsson april 1991  ( revision oct. 1991) 

note you are already posting facts , some of which are outdated .  . 

the biased presentation of facts , as well as the conclusions that 
you reach leave me little hope of engaging in any 
exchange that might lead to a meeting of the minds . it is to those 
who read with open mind , that i address myself. 

the international convention on the elimination of all forms of 
racial discrimination adopted by the general assembly of the 
united nations in 1965 , has now been ratified by most member 
states. article 1 of this convention defines the term racial 
discrimination as any distinction , exclusion , restriction or 
preference based on race , colour , descent , or national or ethnic 
origin which has the purpose or effect of or 
the recognition , enjoyment or exercise , on an equal footing , of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political , economic , 
social , cultural or any other field of public life. 

while the ideals embodied in this text are worthy goals , 
as the text currently stands i know of no country in which 
racial discrimination of some sort can not be found. 
it makes no mention of the need for for a legislative 
violation .  . 

the general assembly endorsed in 1975 a resolution defining 
zionism as a form of racism and racial discrimination .  . the 
important , correct and legitimate resolution is incomplete since 
it does not include operative statements designed to end israeli 
racial discrimination .  . meanwhile the united states , on behalf of 
israel , are exerting heavy pressure on member states of the united 
nations to repeal this resolution and give israeli racial 
practices zionism moral legitimacy .  . 

if you are , in principle , advocating un intervention via operative 
statements in this case , it must therefore hold that they can be 
applied to any other case where the council perceives some form 
of racial discrimination as previously exhibited .  . 

scarey thought. 

the very definition of israel as a state belonging to the jews of 
the world  ( but not to its inhabitants ) , all native 
non jews born in that country. 

actually , i know quite a few native non jews born in israel that are not 
alienated by this law. if you had said some , you would probably be 
correct , however your tendency to exagerate and slant facts becomes 
apparent .  . this slant the text. 

practically all non jews who are living in or originate from areas 
under israeli control , identify themselves as palestinians .  . most 
of them are muslim , many are christian .  . a few jews , including the 
author of these lines , also identify themselves as palestinians .  . 

the above statement is not true. practically all discounting 
, , druze , and some other fringe groups. 
your own identification is a matter that has no bearing upon the 
issue. you could equally identify yourself as a insert group . 

zionism took off in europe at the end of last century. it 's aim 
was to create a jewish state in palestine in spite of the 
opposition of palestinian arabs  ( 95 of the population) .  . 

if i recall correctly , at the time zionism took off , there 
was no opposition in palestine .  . i am open to any 
factual contradictory evidence . 

but the 
zionists were more powerful , militarily , economically and 
technologically , and succeeded in 1948 in conquering 70 of the 
area of mandatory palestine .  . after driving into exile most native 
arabs from the conquered areas , approximately 750 , 000 people , and 
most of their villages to the ground , the zionists could 
finally establish a predominantly jewish state. only 150 , 000 
non jews remained on israeli territory .  . 

do you therefore contend that the 400 villages you mention further on most 
of their villages 

once the jewish state was established , it began enacting laws to 
help the confiscation of land from native non jews , their 
political repression and their destitution .  . 

there is no doubt that laws passed provided a framework which was later 
used for these purposes. however , you seem to imply that this was the 
intention a priori , which implies a policy and agenda .  . my knowledge was 
that this was not the case. 

you also neglect to mention the circumstances that surrounded 
this. as you do again , below. 

in 1967 the state of israel invaded egypt and syria and occupied 
the rest of palestine (the west bank and the gaza  . thus 
another 1.5 million palestinians fell under its  . its 
occupation of palestinian and other arab territories is considered 
illegal by the international community , as reflected in security 
council resolutions .  . israel has rejected all u.n. resolutions and 
began without delay to entrench its occupation and rule over these 
territories with the aim of annexing them at the appropriate time. 

not quite accurate. israel has not rejected all the resolutions , 
though it has conflicting understanding with regards to some of them. 
israel never annexed the sinai , west bank , or gaza .  . the other 
were brought about partly due to the un resolutions .  . 

part of these , east jerusalem and the golan heights , 
have already been forcefully annexed by israel , in defiance of 
international law and un resolutions .  . 

out of curiousity , provided that the are granted citizenship , 
what int l law do you claim prohibits annexation of territories 
captured in war has this ever been applied to any other country 
previously  ( other than iraq ) 

it must be emphasized that , although these people live under 
different regimes , they are united in their self perception as 
palestinians , that is as people identifying with palestine , a 
territorial entity (not an ethnic or religious  . 

incorrect ! palestinians themselves claim to be discriminated against 
on an ethnic or racial basis. therefore your above statement is 
incorrect .  . 

i also note that given the previous definition of racial discrimination , 
the only means that you could argue for that is  . 
however , no such nation has existed .  . it definitely did not exist 
at the time of the creation of israel , in which case you can not 
argue racial discrimination during that period ! 

furthermore palestinians generally consider the plo both as a 
symbol of national identity and as the unchallenged authority that 
represents them in world affairs .  . 

once again , some do , some do n't .  . 

the non jewish population living in the palestinian and other arab 
territories occupied by israel in 1967 suffers not only blatant 
discrimination but is subject to brutal military occupation .  . 

another generalization , but then again , you do n't seem to care 
about anyone other than the palestinian people , whose cause you 
espouse .  . 

licence , to start a business and to buy industrial equipment , the 
right to educate children , all of these basic rights are subject 
to arbitrary rulings by military authorities and cannot be 
challenged in court. 

incorrect once again. they have the ability to appeal. 
furthermore , although you may not agree with them , not all 
of the military rulings are senseless or arbitrary .  . some 
are , but this is not due to the whims of the military as 
much as the sizeof the task organization. 

only jewish inhabitants of the occupied 
territories are permitted to carry firearms .  . 

incorrect once again. i know two arab policemen who lived in 
and there were more. of course , with the outbreak of 
the intifada they were forced by the locals to resign , bitterly .  . 

jewish settlers have 
right to 6 7 more water per person than non jews .  . jewish residents 
of these territories number now about 100 , 000 people. it is israel 
policy to increase this number substantially , in 
total defiance of international law , un resolutions and the will 
of the population .  . the state of israel systematically 
land from non jewish inhabitants of these territories for jewish 
settlement .  . 

that is no longer true , and i ca n't help but wonder what your 
purpose is was in posting this. 

some 800 , 000 people in israel proper , are not jews .  . most of them 
consider themselves palestinians with israeli citizenship .  . for 
many years after the establishment of israel they were subjected 
to harsh military control. much of their land was confiscated by 
the state and handed to jewish organisations for exclusive jewish 
settlement .  . they have been subject to massacres , destitution and 
humiliation .  . while they enjoy , with jewish israelis , the right to 
vote , they are discriminated against both through law and in 
practice. 

once again , to hell with the other minorities that do n't fit in , 
right their are many villages who did not suffer in the way 
you seem to indicate , abu gosh comes to mind. yes , some did but 
as a result of what actions 

approximately 92 of the surface of the state of israel within the 
lines is for all purposes closed to palestinians who are 
second class citizens in israel .  . they may neither legally live on 
such land , nor rent or cultivate it. a direct effect of these 
policies is that native non jewish citizens of israel are denied 
residence and membership rights in most rural communities in 
israel , including the collective settlements , kibbutzim .  . non jews 
are discriminated against in many other ways the government 
local authorities of palestinian villages and of 
funds jewish city councils force palestinians to live in ghettos 
jewish families receive higher child allocations than their 
non jewish neighbors , palestinian schools suffer and 
 ( as compared to jewish schools ) palestinian 
children are denied the right to learn their history and 
literature israelis who struggle for equal rights and for the end 
of racial discrimination , suffer continuous harassment by the 
authorities .  . 

1. there are some kibbutzim with arab non jewish members. 
it is up to the members of the kibbutz .  . there is no 
legislation against it , nor against a purely non jewish 
collective .  . 

2. funds are the result of political lobbying .  . bearing in mind 
that non jews compose 20 of the voting population , it has 
never failed to amaze me that they fail to form one large 
bloc , and increase their power. the recent elections are a case 
in point. 

3. please provide factual evidence supporting your allegation 
with regard to educational material. you have obviously 
never seen the curriculum of a school in the west bank. 
it is based upon jordan 's school system. 

4. with regard to your last statement , it is simply another 
gross generalization .  . 

the state of israel refuses to acknowledge itself as the state of 
all its inhabitants .  . although the israeli cabinet has never 
openly endorsed the  transfer  idea (the forced removal from the 
country of its native palestinian population , that is , its 
ultimate judaization ) , israeli government policies towards 
non jews bear the mark of this  final  . no attempt is 
made by the zionist authorities to integrate palestinian arabs 
into israeli public life. thus , although comprising approximately 
17 of the population of israeli citizens , no palestinian citizen 
of israel has ever served as cabinet member , as director of 
ministry or of a national institution , as judge of the supreme 
court , as ambassador of israel , or in any leading position in 
israeli economic or financial life. even the director of the 
ministry for arab affairs yes , such a thing exists ! is a jew .  . 

another generalization , but lets not stop here. 
the transfer idea was espoused by one party in the last gov't , 
 . it was intended to be a solution to the problem in the 
territories , not the country itself. with regard to other items , 
i recall at least one arab ambassador , and the rest was covered 
previously .  . 

although sexual 
relations between and of jews and non jews are legal , 
they are considered by israeli zionist society somewhat a betrayal 
of the jewish and zionist ethics .  . the israeli educational system 
this attitude in a systematic way. 

when was the last time you were in israel that is simply not true , 
nor has it been for quite some time. the question of religious 
intervention is best answered by the proportional representation and 
the lack of any arab party bloc to counter the orthodox one. 

zionism rejects the idea of a modern secular state , based on 
equality of all citizens .  . this is one main reason why israel has 
not produced any written constitution .  . 

simply incorrect .  . 
the answer is political .  . once again , your failure to understand the 
dynamics and movements inside israeli gov't , your 
contentions to the  . 

zionism a state 
where jews have privileged rights. thus , according to israeli law , 
a jew born in london , who has never visited israel , does not speak 
hebrew and professes atheism , is granted automatic israeli 
citizenship , while native palestinian inhabitants who happen to be 
christian or muslim , are treated almost as aliens .  . racial 
discrimination , as defined in international law , is thus not only 
reflected in israeli laws and policies , but is grounded in the 
very nature of israel as a jewish state. 

but the discrimination is not based upon race. 
oops , sorry , nasty habit i have of countering malicious false truths .  . 

any proposal for israeli arab and israeli palestinian peace that 
does not address the issue of racial discrimination by israel 
that is the zionist nature of the state of israel is thus doomed 
to fail. 

real world intrusion any proposal that does is doomed to fail. 
of course , i would n't expect you to understand , wrapped up as 
you are in your view of things. let 's not let anything penetrate 
shall we ! ! i may be a bit too sarcastic but there is a limit to the 
amount of patience i have for rubbish at 02 00 .  . 




shai guday stealth bombers , 
os software engineer 
thinking machines corp. the winged ninja of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( yannis schoinas ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization u of wisconsin madison computer sciences 
lines 44 

ahmed  ( shakil ahmed ) writes 


in article , 
 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

muslim in ex yugoslavia was a nation not a religion. in fact , not 
all muslims in b h are followers of islam .  . therefore , there do  ( did ) 
exist in ex yugoslavia christian muslims .  . 

yeah ! that 's it ! ) you 've really yourself this time nick .  .  .  . 
do n't forget the davidian muslims ... ) 

islam is not a race. it 's a religion. you can be white , black , 
or alaskan .  . i guess you did n't absorb too much of the malcolm 
x interest circulating .  . you see , the whole point of islam is that it 
stresses equality amongst all peoples .  . now , i do realize this is 
difficult for you to comprehend given your staunch beliefs in serbian 
ethnic cleansing , but give it a try , it 's really not that difficult. 

is your stomach all right unable to digest your lunch 
cool down .  .  .  . in the context of bosnia muslims are a nation .  . 
and nobody talked about them being a race. 

it is a 
civil war in which the terms of secession are being negotiated with guns 
instead of pens .  . the croat , muslim , and serb political leaders all 
chose to fight over the terms of secession instead of compromising and 
peacefully negotiating secession agreements .  . 

terms of secession you are , of course , joking , right nick nobody 
chose to fight. bosnia and croatia were internationally 
recognized nations when the serbs attacked and started on their 
well documented genocide .  . that makes them an outside aggressor .  . it 's 
a simple genocide , a classical example of ethnic cleansing .  . there is 
no question of civil war .  .  .  . 

and yugoslavia was a recognized nation .  . if you apply the principle 
of self determination to yugoslavia then you should apply it to 
croatia and bosnia .  . of course , you might want to apply again to 
 . 

bye , 
 . 

from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 25 

 ( nick jovanovic ) writes 

as i have stated many times the civil war in ex yugoslavia will end 
when the terms of secession  ( borders , etc . ) . for croatia and b h are 
finally agreed upon .  . serbs , croats , and muslims will all have to 
make territorial concessions to reach such an agreement .  . 

muslims already have , they accepted the vance owen plan that gives 
50 of the population  ( serbian statistics put it at 44 ) only 25 
of the territory .  . they gave some totally muslim villages and areas 
to croatia and serbia , they in effect gave the serbs the land they grabbed 
while slaughtering the muslims raping their women and expelling 
the survivors .  . 

still the serbs (not bosnian serbs because the real bosnian serbs are 
fighting with muslims to defend bosnia from serbs , those so called 
bosnian serbs refused to be part of bosnia and wanted a greater serbia) , 
still those serbs refused , they have the necessary weapons to kill 
more muslims and grab more territory .  . 

nick 





from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re news that i missed 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 44 

in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 
in article ,  ( dave bakken ) writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 

in the ny times , on sunday , may 2 , in an article on somalia , a 
reporter writes 

... but last year , iran quietly took over four islands belonging 
to the united arab and deported their people , with hardly a 
protest from the united states. ... 

does anyone know what this is referring to i seem to have missed it. 
 ( spiked , no doubt. ) 

there was something in the nyt and other sources about this for a few 
days. it is an ongoing border , and when the iranians kicked 
out the uae people it was briefly reported  ( this was many moons ago) .  . 
i do n't recall reading of any public us comment if it were a strong 
protest i probably would have seen it. 

those islands would be abu musa , and the greater and lesser , i presume .  . 
i do n't know about a fourth .  . the latter two islands belong to iran and so 

according to the ny times , the 4 islands belong to the united arab 
 . 

could not be taken over . the major row is over abu musa which has been 
jointly administered by iran and uae .  . the dispute goes back to the early 
1970 's when britain evacuated the island and iran under the shah reclaimed 
the island which had historical ties to iran .  . no british objection was 
raised at that time. 

it is my understanding that uae residents of abu musa are currently free to 
travel to and from the island and that iran is desiring diplomatic resolution 
of the dispute .  . 

why is it , then , that when the british , iranians and uae refer to 
occupied territory , they mean territory in dispute in israel but not 
in their own affairs 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( amos shapira ) 
subject re final solution in palestine 
organization inst. of comp. sci .  . , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel 
lines 30 
nntp posting host shuldig . cs . huji . ac . il . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 25 apr 93 17 10 03 gmt 

 ( ahmed abu abed ) writes 

what hamas and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab 
media , 
is an islamic state that protects the rights of all its inhabitants under 
koranic 
law. this would be a reversal of the 1948 situation in which the jews in 
palestine took control of the land and its  ( mostly muslim ) inhabitants .  . 

the borders of the jewish state as drawn by the u.n. included the areas which 
contained mostly jews , that 's what the surveys and the numerous 
where after when they visited here. 

however , whoever committed crimes against humanity  ( torture , blowing up their 
homes , murders ,  .  .  . ) . must be treated and tried as a war criminal .  . the political 
thought of these movements shows that a freedom of choice will be given to the 
jews in living under the new law or leaving to the of their choice. 

i never touched an arab during my army service and never voted for anyone more 
right than the green party. will i be spared by these humanist standards 
 ( or will anyone stop to consider this before me ) 

i doubt it. and not only because of the past record of murdering helpless 
women and children since the turn of the century up to these days. 


amos shapira  ( jumper extraordinaire ) it is true that power corrupts , 
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better ! 
jerusalem , israel 
the demon to his son 

from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re deir yassin 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 67 

( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 

first of all , harry , i am not so uninformed about irgun 's 
terrorist activities. i 'll give you a few quotes from a book 
by charles d. smith in his palestine and the arab israeli 
conflict 1988 , 1992 

ah palestine and the arab israeli conflict .  . sounds interesting. 

begin directed the irgun to bomb only civilian that 's right , 
civilian installations linked to the mandatory authority , not 
military sites. 

this is misleading .  . i supposed charles d. smith characterizes the bombing 
of the king david hotel as a civilian installation too. any installation 
attacked by was linked to some sort of official function of the 
mandatory government. 

and of course , there is the lehi splinter group , which included 
such notable israelis as shamir .  .  .  . the lehi fighters 
for the freedom of israel resumed its assassinations of 
british officials , civilian , and military . 

what kind of civilians i assume charles d. smith means completely innocent 
people who were intentionally targeted , right please provide examples .  . 

and there is of course , dair yassin , where 250 men , woman and 
children were killed , ... perhaps i'm sure for strategic 
reasons , yet what ever happened to the non aggression pact with 
the i have references for that if you 'd like. it 
seems to me like blatant scare tactics that begin himself 
admits to having been very useful in scaring off the 
palestinian arabs .  . i do have references ! ... the  ( revolt(los 
angeles 1972) 

nice strawman .  . in the revolt begin does state that the myth of a massacre 
at deir yassin may have had the effect of scaring some arabs into fleeing .  . 
however , nowhere does he claim that this was the result of any specific policy 
of the  . thus , if it did happen , it was not so intended. i think arab 
calls for palestinians to leave and fear of a war started by arab hands had 
a greater arab migration than deir yassin .  . 

in fact these jewish terrorist groups managed 
all in all to scare off 300 , 000 arabs by may 15 1948 .  . 

really. nice use of caps .  . i like it. very effective. actually , according to 
many sources , including american diplomatic officials , the greatest 
for arabs to leave their villages came from arab leaders .  . 

this certainly might be all a matter of semantics however. you 
might say that the did this for war .  .  .  . but like i said 
before , how do we not know that the palestinian conflict is n't 
with a war if israel never got her state , the 
's activities would be lost in history , categorized as 
for sure because it could not be identified with the 
cause of a state. i do take this seriously harry .  .  .  . i 
sincerely think the palestinians are being discriminated 
against in this case because , perhaps , everyone thinks their 
cause is bogus .  . 

anyway .  .  .  . just some stuff to ponder over. 
over and out. 



ed. 


from michael sells m 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
organization college 
lines 71 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 130 . 58 . 172 . 17 . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d20 . 
x wed , 12 may 93 13 19 12 gmt 

subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
from , 
date wed , 12 may 1993 15 50 31 gmt 
in article , 
writes 
s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious 
bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. 
muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. 

this kind of generalization is utterly inappropriate .  . some 
bosnian muslims cooperated with the nazis in world war 2. other bosnian 
muslims risked their lifes to hide jews from the nazis and , and 
those jews who survived the war remember that. in fact the jewish leader 
in sarajevo has remained there saying he wants to repay the debt to the 
bosnian muslims that saved so many jewish lives in ww2 .  . 

similarly , some serbs are doing to muslims now. this is a group of 
serial killers , rapists , and thieves who have control of the vast 
yugoslav army arsenal .  . many other serbs oppose these atrocities .  . as one 
of serbian heritage who condemns emphatically the genocide being carried 
out against muslims by both and forces , i condemn your 
generalization about bosnian muslims and about serbs .  . 


this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... 

every place on earth is the scene of a saga of mutual hatred and 
destruction .  . the holocaust was not a fresh case. it was another 
chapter in a 900 year history of attacks on jews in europe .  . that did n't 
make it acceptable .  . and balkan history does not make the genocide against 
bosnian muslims acceptable .  . 

not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . 

standing by and allowing well armed criminals to slaughter bosnian muslim 
civilians , while enforcing an arms embargo against the bosnian muslims is 
not only religious bigotry it is direct complicity in mass murder .  . 


it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 

you tell us a region on earth that does have a long history of war. nato 
is the largest military police force in the world. it was not 
helpless .  . it could have stopped the carnage a year ago. 





regards , 

mike .  . 

michael sells , department of religion , college 
, pa 

from (joseph askew ) 
subject jews in arab countries  ( was re israeli terrorism ) 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 45 

in article  ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 
in a previous article ,  ( ishaq s. azzam ) says 
in a previous article ,  ( mark ira kaufman ) says 

how many of you readers know anything about jews living in the 
arab countries how many of you know if jews still live in these 
countries how many of you know what the circumstances of arabic 
jews leaving their homelands were just curious. 

the last arab country was syria .  . but not all of them 
migrated due to the jewish state economical and 
dilemma ! 

i have no idea what this guy means but the syrian jews are not allowed 
to leave syria because assad on his promise and is not letting 
them go. israel has nothing to do with it. 

as for the other arab countries there are still small communities left 
in some arab countries. has the largest group i think comprising 
perhaps just over a thousand  ( but i have lost the exact figure. maybe 
someone will be so kind as to post it) .  . there are communities left in 
yemen (which went to the polls yesterday in what might appear to be a 
free ish election) , algeria  ( this is a tiny group , a couple of leftist 
intellectuals i think) , of course syria and  . 

the circumstances of the departure of the jews from various arab countries 
is controversial in some cases like iraq and i do not want to get into 
a dispute about it. egypt expelled most of its community outright .  . most of 
the french north african jews left rather than face independence .  . i think 
that might have been encouraged by some antisemitic acts but i 
am not sure. someone else around here will know for sure. there are claims 
that israeli intellegence officers spread rumours around algeria that the 
jews would not be welcome but this is probably just propaganda .  . it would 
take a very stupid person not to realise the benefits of a move to france 
 ( as most did) or to israel .  . jews were to israel .  . those 
left were rumoured to have another airlift last year but i heard nothing 
about it so i guess it was just a rumour .  . any i left out except iraq 

joseph askew 


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades , 
remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief .  . 
disclaimer sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere , 
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on. 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 48 

in article v . writes 

allegations of jewish 
disrespect for the objects and buildings of other religions are 
one of antisemitic stereotypes that western culture , and 
rumors of church and host probably caused more pogroms 
than blood libel .  . 

about 2 years ago , there was a lot of noise about a church in the old 
city of jerusalem being taken over by a jewish group. in fact , the 
building in question was a dormitory that belonged to a church and was 
not physically connected to any church. it had been leased to a 
arab for 99 years and a jewish group sub leased it from 
him. the church that owned the building disapproved and legal action 
was started to revoke the sub lease .  . the media , however , made it look 
like jewish were stealing church property in jerusalem by 
force. 

the stereotypes that our culture create 
cognitive illusions that those stereotypes .  . therefore any 
claim that appears to a stereotype should be treated by 
decent people with utmost suspicion until and unless documented .  . 

the damage has already been done by the press in the above case. it 
is not surprising by now , of course , that many decent people regard 
the press with utmost suspicion . 

if such a claim is cross posted to a news group in which it has 
not been documented before , such as s . c . j . , a reference should be 
given the first time it appears .  . now that the claim has been 
documented , i regard the whole episode as disgusting and 
shameful .  . especially so because the official who failed to 
provide proper temporary facilities for the evicted 
was probably jewish , and as a jew i know that he should have 
known better. 

you appear to be referring to moshe  . how do you know that the 
evicted were not provided with something else in fact , 
this thread indicates that they were on land that they did 
not own but received compensation for their loss , anyways ! woe to 
jews when they feel that recovering land that has been taken from them 
by force  ( with ethnic cleansing of any remaining jews) is 
disgusting and shameful . 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 81 

in article ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 

i have never seen such immaturity among semitophiles .  . this 
andi beyer character shows no signs of anti semitism , 

you obviously have n't read his postings clearly .  . 

the only 
ones guilty here of not backing up there viewpoints with fact 
are the israelophiles .  . 

israelophiles is this anything like you 're on 
thin ice here. 

you all are an insult to you race ! 

now , you 're falling through the ice. ! we have a playmate for 
you ! 

now i have a comment concerning israeli terrorism 
during the 1930 's and 1940 's .  . the , and other branch 
off militant groups , did fight the british do get them out of 
palestine .  . yet i fail to see how this israeli form of 
terrorism was better than the terrorism practiced now by the 
arabs .  . 

there is a difference between guerrilla warfare and terrorism .  . 
the former primarily targets enemy soldiers .  . the latter primarily 
targets civilians , and not necessarily enemy , at that. 

these jewish terrorist groups killed innocent british 
soldiers , 

innocent british soldiers like innocent iraqi soldiers 
the british were executing jewish fighters in what was soon to become 
the recognized jewish homeland .  . the british to their eternal shame 
and damnation were sending shiploads of jewish refugees , civilians , 
back to europe to be taken care of by hitler .  . 

by comparison , fighters primarily target tourists , 
, babies , worshippers , shoppers , movie goers and other 
such threatening people. early zionist fighters did no such things. 

your comparison is ignorant and odious .  . 

i mention this not because i'm anti semitic i'm part 
jewish but because this self righteousness on the part of the 
israelites pisses me off so. 

does it bug you that the israelites  ( they used to be 
israelophiles .  .  . ) . happen to be right 

i'm not as critical of the 
palestinians because they were indeed screwed over by the 
jews .  . 

are you kidding arabs who comprise a tiny proportion 
of the world 's refugee population , who have almost no justifiable 
claim to the territory that they desire , who have acted as criminals 
in the international community for decades are being treated like 
the most and deserving minority in existence , even after 
their support for saddam in desert storm .  . how many other 
world leaders have addressed the un with a machine gun in hand , 
receiving a standing ovation 

it 's a damn shame that the palestinians had to pay for 
german and european anti semitism .  . 

you are now some of the weakest arguments of the 
terrorists  apologists .  . congratulations .  . 

pissed off at immature , 
closeminded , self righteous 
semites 

gee , that 's a nice name. can i call you pissed 


jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 1993 00 56 19 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 

lines 22 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 

this is actually the law that david irving 
will hopefully be found guilty under due to his denial of the holocaust .  . 
it 's too bad that this useless centre for policy research is n't in canada .  . 
it 'd set a nice precedent to how the law applies in cyberspace .  . 

steve 

well canada is wrong. if it was in the us the aclu would have 
made sure that such repressive laws are found unconstitutional .  . 
do you think the church did n't find galileo 's perception of the 
universe offensive .  . 


bull shit. there is no reason in the world why we ca n't say that 
taking views analogous to the kkk 's or some such organization is 
wrong. there is no reason why some morality may not be legislated .  . as 
it is we do not allow theft , or murder , or rape .  . why should we allow 
hateful whose only purpose is to stir anger and violence .  . 

harry .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the x soviet armenian government must recognize the turkish genocide .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 80 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

i suspect it might have to do with pan blinding certain people. 

you do n't get it do you during the years of world war i , the x soviet 
armenian government has planned and perpetrated the  genocide  of the 
muslim people , which not only took the lives of 2.5 million muslim people , 
but was also the method used to empty the turkish homeland of its inhabitants .  . 
to this day , turkish historic lands remain occupied by the x soviet armenia .  . 
in order to cover up the fact of its usurpation of the historic turkish 
homeland , which is the crux of turkish political demands , fascist x soviet 
armenia continues its anti turkish policy in the following ways 

1. x soviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide 
in order to shift international public opinion away from its political 
responsibility .  . 

2. x soviet armenia , employing asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism 
triangle , attempts to call into question the veracity of the turkish 
genocide .  . 

3. x soviet armenia has also implemented state sponsored terrorism through 
the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle in an attempt to 
silence the turkish people 's vehement demands and protests .  . 

4. using all its human , financial , and governmental resources , x soviet 
armenia and its tools in the united states attempt to silence through 
terrorism , bribery and other subversive methods , non turkish supporters 
of the turkish cause , be they political , governmental and humanitarian .  . 

using all the aforementioned methods , the x soviet armenian government 
is attempting to neutralize the international diplomatic community from 
making the turkish case a contemporary issue. 

yet despite the efforts of the x soviet armenian government and its 
terrorist and revisionist organizations , in the last decades , thanks 
to the struggle of those whose closest ones have been systematically 
exterminated by the armenians , the international wall of silence on 
this issue has begun to collapse , and consequently a number of 
governments and organizations have become supportive of the recognition 
of the turkish genocide .  . 

with the full knowledge that the struggle for the turkish territorial 
demands are still in their initial stages , the turkish and kurdish people 
will unflaggingly continue in this sacred struggle , therefore the victims 
of the turkish genocide demand 

1. that the x soviet armenian government , as the heirs of the armenian 
dictatorship , recognize the turkish genocide 

2. that x soviet armenia return the historic homeland to the turkish and 
kurdish people 

3. that the x soviet armenian government make material reparations for 
their heinous and unspeakable crime to the victims of the turkish genocide 

4. that all world governments , and especially the united states , officially 
recognize the turkish genocide and turkish territorial rights and refuse 
to succumb to all armenian political pressure 

5. that the u.s. government free itself from the friendly position it 
has adopted towards its unreliable ally , x soviet armenia , and officially 
recognize the historical fact of the turkish genocide as well as be 
supportive of the pursuit of turkish territorial demands 

6. that the x soviet republics officially recognize the historical fact 
of the turkish genocide and include the cold blooded extermination of 
2.5 million muslim people in their history books. 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject according to  r  , armenians and jews are blatantly lying 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 370 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

, 

it is  serdar  ,  . 

your second quote by sahak is very frankly invented .  . 

just love it. well , it could be your head was n't screwed on just right. 
if that does ever happen , look out the window and see if there is a 
non fascist x soviet armenian government in the east .  . 

in soviet armenia today there no longer exists a single turkish soul. 
it is in our power to tear away the veil of illusion that some of us 
create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial 
life support system of an imagined  ethnic purity  that some of us 
falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats 
in this alien land. 
 ( sahak 1920 preserving the armenian purity ) 

if you are going to lie and invent quotes at least use the right date. 

you sound like asala sdpa arf idiots clowns crooks .  . if you prefer to 
imagine that u.s. ambassador bristol and armenian jewish scholars were 
trying to mislead   , be my guest .  . a typical armenian clown .  . 

source u.s. library of congress  bristol papers  general 
correspondence container 34 .  . 

while the x soviet armenian government were in power they 
did everything in the world to keep the pot boiling by attacking kurds , 
turks and tartars by committing outrages against the moslems by 
massacring the moslems and robbing and destroying their homes. during 
the last two years the armenians in russian caucasus have shown no 
ability to govern themselves and especially no ability to govern or 
handle other races under their power. 

source general wrote as follows in an article in the july 24 , 
1921 issue of the newspaper deutsche allgemeine zeitung 

since all the moslems capable of bearing arms were in the turkish army , 
it was easy to organize a terrible massacre by the armenians against 
defenseless people , because the armenians were not only attacking the 
sides and rear of the eastern army paralyzed at the front by the 
russians , but were attacking the moslem folk in the region as well. 

source john dewey , the turkish tragedy , the new republic , volume 40 , 
november 12 , 1928 , pp. 268 269 .  . 

they armenians boasted of having raised an army of one hundred 
and fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at 
least a hundred turkish villages and exterminated their population .  . 


armenia was not a soviet republic in 1920 ! ! ! so sorry to burst your little 
bubble .  . 

what a clown .  .  . let . us ask armenian scholars shall we 

source , richard g. armenia on the road to independence , 1918 .  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , 1967 , p. 13. 

the addition of the kars and batum oblasts to the empire increased the 
area of to over 130 , 000 square miles. the estimated population 
of the entire region in 1886 was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom 940 , 000 (20 percent) were 
armenian , 1 , 200 , 000  ( 25 percent) georgian , and 2 , 220 , 000 (45 percent) moslem .  . 
of the latter group , 1 , 140 , 000 were tatars .  . paradoxically , barely one third 
of 's armenians lived in the erevan , where the 
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds .  . erevan 
, the administrative center of the province , had only 44 , 000 armenians 
as compared to 68 , 000 moslems .  . by the time of the russian census of 1897 , 
however , the armenians had established a scant majority , 53 percent , in the 
it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent , or 670 , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000 
inhabitants .  . this impressive change in the province 's ethnic character 
notwithstanding , there was , on the eve of the creation of the armenian 
republic , a solid block of 370 , 000 tartars who continued to dominate the 
southern districts , from the outskirts of to the border of persia .  . 
 ( see also map 1. historic armenia and map 4. administrative subdivisions of 
transcaucasia) .  . 

in 1920 ,  0  percent turk .  . 

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

ohanus 
men are like that 
p. 202 .  . 

as for your other quote , i would love to know the source. 

just say so. 

source men are like that by leonard hartill .  . the bobbs merrill 
company , indianapolis (1926) .  .  ( 305 pages) .  . 
 ( memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people) 

foreword 

for example , we were camped one night in a half ruined tartar mosque , 
the most building of a destroyed village , near the border 
of persia and russian armenia .  . during the course of evening i asked 
ohanus if he could tell me anything of the history of the village and 
the cause of its destruction .  . in his matter of fact way he replied , yes , 
i assisted in its sack and destruction , and witnessed the of 
those whose bones you saw to day scattered among its ruins .  . 

p. 202  ( first and second  . 

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

p. 15  ( second paragraph) .  . 

the tartars were , for the most part , poor. some of them lived in villages 
and cultivated small farms many of them continued in the way of life of 
their nomadic  . they drove their flocks and herds from valley 
to valley , from plain to mountain , and from mountain to plain , following 
the as it changed with the seasons .  . they ranged from the salt 
desert shores of the caspian sea far into the mighty caucasus mountains .  . 
even the village tartars are a primitive people , only  . 

i can see now that we armenians frankly despised the tartars , and , while 
holding a disproportionate share of the wealth of the country , regarded and 
treated them as  . the fact that the russians looked down upon all 
armenians in much the same way as armenians regarded tartars , far from proving 
a bond between ourselves and our racially different neighbors , intensified 
an attitude and conduct on our part that served only to exacerbate hostility .  . 

p. 20  ( second paragraph) .  . 

our men armed themselves , gathered together and advanced on the tartar 
section of the village .  . there were no lights in the houses and the doors 
were barred , for the tartars suspected what as to happen and were in great 
fear. our men hammered on the doors , but got no response whereupon they 
smashed in the doors and began a carnage that continued until the last 
tartar was slain .  . throughout the hideous night , i at home in terror , 
unable to shut my ears to the piercing screams of the helpless victims and 
the loud shouts of our men. by morning the work was finished. 

p. 109  ( second paragraph) .  . 

as things were , the members of the party were without administrative 
experience consequently the government they instituted quickly proved itself 
incompetent to rule by legitimate means. 

the members of the government had been revolutionists working in secret and 
outside the law. when they became a legally instituted , recognized governing 
body with the destiny of armenia in their hands , they proved incompetent to 
do better than resume the terrorist tactics that had characterized their 
fight against the russian and turkish governments in their outlaw days. 

the outstanding feature of their rule , now that they were in power , was , 
as in the old days , trial and execution without hearing .  . a man 
the displeasure of the government or of some official would be tried and 
condemned without arrest or preference of charges against him. the method 
of execution was for a government   to walk up behind the 
condemned man in his home or on the street , place a pistol to the back 
of his head and blow out his brains .  . this simple way of getting rid of 
those who were undesirable in the view of the government and soon became 
a common way of paying debts .  . 

p. 203  ( first paragraph) .  . 

a soldier succeeded in driving his bayonet through the tartar .  . i saw the 
point of the weapon emerge through his back.  .  .  . another . soldier seized a rock 
and pounded the tartar 's head with it .  .  .  . the armenian who had bayoneted him 
sprang to his feet , the weapon from the tartar 's body , and , raising 
it to his lips , it clean of blood , exclaiming in russian ,  ! 
! ' ) . 

p. 203  ( second paragraph) .  . 

one evening i passed through what had been a tartar village .  . among the 
ruins a fire was burning .  . i went to the fire and saw seated about 
it a group of soldiers .  . among them were two tartar girls , mere children. 
the girls were on the ground , crying softly with suppressed 
sobs .  . lying scattered over the ground were broken household and 
other furnishings of tartar peasant homes. there were also bodies of the 
dead. 

p. 204  ( first paragraph) .  . 

i was soon asleep. in the night i was awakened by the persistent crying of 
a child. i arose and went to investigate .  . a full moon enabled me to make 
my way about and revealed to me all the wreck and litter of the tragedy 
that had been enacted .  . guided by the child 's crying , i entered the yard of 
a house , which i judged from its appearance must have been the home of a 
turkish family. there in a corner of the yard i found a women dead. her 
throat had been cut. lying on her breast was a small child , a girl about a 
year old. 

p. 118 .  . 

slowly the train of along through the snow , the cart 
and the loads  . boys ran along the line of oxen , encouraging 
them with shrill tartar cries , and belaboring the beasts with sticks .  . in the 
carts , the women , veiled as is the tartar way , held children in their arms. 
wrapped in blankets and huddled among the goods that burdened the carts they 
sought protection from the wind and cold. a few old men plodded along on foot. 

across the road through the a barrier had been thrown .  . the leading 
reached this barrier and halted .  . the gunmen and other 
concealed among the rocks opened fire. women and children leaped and 
scrambled from the carts , screamed , ran and sought vainly for safety. 

this massacre was not complete. the armenian soldiers in the near by 
barracks , hearing the firing and the turmoil , hurried to the scene .  .  .  .  . 
that same day the abandoned tartar quarter of was 
and completely destroyed .  . 

p. 192 .  . 

great swarms of peasants who had come out of their hiding places on the 
retreat of the turks followed our army as it advanced .  .  .  .  . they entered 
into the city with the army and immediately began plundering the stores 
that had been left by the turks .  . 

p. 193 .  . 

terrible vengeance was taken upon tartars , kurds and turks .  . their villages 
were destroyed and they themselves were slain or driven out of the country. 

p. 195 .  . 

the fanatical hated the turks above all others and then in order 
of diminishing intensity tartars , kurds and russians .  . 

p. 218 .  .  ( first and second paragraphs ) 

russian troops did terrible things in the turkish villages .  .  . we . armenians 
did not spare the tartars .  .  .  . if . persisted in , the slaughtering of prisoners , 
the looting , and the rape and massacre of the helpless become commonplace 
actions expected and accepted as a matter of course. 

i have been on the scenes of massacres where the dead lay on the ground , 
in numbers , like the fallen leaves in a forest .  . they had been as helpless 
and as defenseless as sheep .  . they had not died as soldiers die in the 
heat of battle , fired with ardor and courage , with weapons in their hands , 
and exchanging blow for blow .  . they had died as the helpless must , with 
their hearts and brains bursting with horror worse than death itself. 

p. 133  ( first paragraph) 

in this movement we took with us three thousand turkish soldiers who 
had been captured by the russians and left on our hands when the russians 
abandoned the struggle .  . during our retreat to two thousand of 
these poor devils were cruelly put to death. i was sickened by the 
brutality displayed , but could not make any effective protest .  . some , 
mercifully , were shot. many of them were burned to death. the method 
employed was to put a quantity of straw into a hut , and then after 
crowding the hut with turks , set fire to the straw .  . 

p. 19  ( first paragraph) 

the tartar section of the town no longer existed , except as a pile of 
ruins .  . it had been destroyed and its inhabitants slaughtered .  . the same 
fate befell the tartar section of khankandi .  . 

p. 22  ( second paragraph) 

many of our men had served in the russian army , and were trained soldiers .  . 
we armenians were rich and possessed arms. tartars had never received 
military training. they were poor , and possessed few arms beyond knives .  . 
 .  .  . shortly . after the killing of the tartars in our village , the revolution 
in russia was suppressed .  . 

p. 97  ( third paragraph) 

within a few years , following the beginning of the movement , an invisible 
government of armenians by armenians had been established in turkish 
armenia in armed opposition to the turkish government. this secret 
government had its own courts and laws and an army of assassins called 
   ( professional killers ) to enforce its decrees .  . 

p. 98  ( first paragraph) 

the were in continual open rebellion against the turkish 
government. 

p. 98  ( third paragraph) 

 .  .  . the . engineered a general revolt of armenians in turkish 
armenia under the mistaken belief that european nations would intervene 
and secure independence for turkish armenia .  . 

p. 99  ( second paragraph) 

the were fanatics .  . 

p. 99  ( third paragraph) 

the took advantage of this situation and extended their 
revolutionary activities into the russian province .  . they instituted 
a campaign of terrorism and employed threats and force in securing 
contributions to the party funds from rich armenians .  . a wealthy 
man would be assessed a stipulated sum .  . refusal to pay brought upon 
him a sentence of death. 

every member of the party was pledged to carry out orders without 
question. if a man were to be assassinated , lots might be drawn to 
select an executioner or the job might be assigned to one of the 
  of the party. 

p. 130  ( first paragraph) 

 .  .  . in . moments of victory against turks and kurds or tartars , they 
armenians have been remorseless in seeking vengeance .  . 

p. 130  ( third paragraph) 

the city was a scene of confusion and terror .  . during the early days of 
the war , when the russian troops invaded turkey , large numbers of the 
turkish population abandoned their homes and fled before the russian 
advance. 

p. 159  ( second paragraph) 

i made a cannon , a huge gun to lift which required four men. i made balls 
for it. with my cannon the armenians could knock down any of the tartar 
houses and so they were able to drive the tartars out. 

p. 181  ( first paragraph) 

the tartar villages were in ruins .  . 

p. 189  ( third paragraph) 

the dead tartar lay with his head in a pool of mud and blood , his 
beard still and now  . 

need i go on 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( eyad alnuweiri ) 
subject re rejoinder .  . questions to israelis 
organization usr lib news organization 
lines 69 

in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

although i realize that principle is not one of your strongest 
points , i would still like to know why do do not ask any question 
of this sort about the arab countries. 

kaufman , 
i think we have a problem in this newsgroup every time somebody puts 
down serious questions on israel , the first response would be what about 
the arab countries ... 

most of the arab countries governments are ruling their people with iron 
fist policy and dark ages democracy  ( if  . ironically , these are 
the countries that the west would like to deal with and would wage 
massive wars to protect them and their resources. 

for israel the situation is different , israel claims it is a 
democracy i would call it selective democracy , that abides by western 
democratic standards. if israel is saying that then 
it has to be compared to western standards. if this comparison is the 
propaganda from israel , then we have to look at seriously at 
question that can and should be asked regarding any country 
this standard. 

if you want to continue this think tank charade of yours , your 
fixation on israel must stop. you might have to start asking the 
same sort of questions of arab countries as well. you realize it 
would not work , as the arab countries  treatment of jews over the 
last several decades is so bad that your fixation on israel would 
begin to look like the biased attack that it is. 

that is very incorrect , i see you have been brain washed well , i would 
recommend non zionist history books) .  . 

everyone in this group recognizes that your stupid  center for 
policy research' is nothing more than a fancy name for some bigot 
who hates israel .  . 

please , speak for yourself. do not imagine that everyone to 
your beliefs , you would be lucky if you believe them yourself. 


why do n't you try being honest about your hatred of israel i 
have heard that your family once lived in israel , but the members 
of your family could not cut the competition there. is this true 
about your family is this true about you is this actually not 
about israel , but is really a personal vendetta why are you not 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

what is this , you trying to destroy the credibility of the author , why 
all of this because he asked some serious question. these tactics of 
destroying the credibility of a person beacuse you do not agree with 
her him is old and does not work anymore , go tell your superiors 
 ( aipac ) to change their guide books. 


salam , 


software engineer 
unify corp. 

disclaimer this is my personal views , not of my employer 



unify corp 
software engineer 3901 drive 
email sacramento , ca 1922 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 16 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
virginia.edu is true to its founding father , thomas 
jefferson the author of the bill of rights , in allowing freedom 
of speach .  . 

thomas jefferson is rolling over in his grave because the 
university is making rules about sex. 

does n't uva also have a hate crimes rule on the books 

adam 

adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization university of saskatchewan 
lines 20 
nntp posting host edison . usask . ca . 

in a previous article ,  ( josip loncaric ) wrote 

actually , just after the first world war , many muslims were killed by serbs .  . 
under serbian led regime between the two world wars , many croats were 
also killed  ( especially during the dictatorship introduced on jan. 6 ,  . 

josip , 

please , do n't be offended at this question who are the muslims in the 
bosnian context i know that a moslem muslim is a believer in islam .  . islam 
is a religion and it is practised in many parts of the world. but it is not 
, yes definitely not , an group. ok ! so , these bosnian muslims , who 
are they to which ethnic group do they belong what  ( language(s ) do they 
speak do they have a different language from that of the serbs or croats 
the way the western press use the word  muslim  in this bosnian debacle has 
kept me wondering when the meaning of muslim moslem i knew from childhood was 
changed in the dictionary .  . this is just a question. no flames intended ! 




from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 48 

in article  ( yannis schoinas ) writes 

nationality is a recent invention of the western europe .  . in the 
days of the ottoman empire , the religion was the main point of 
difference between social classes. the ottomans did n't recognize 
turks , arabs , greeks , serbs .  .  .  . just christians , muslims , jews .  .  .  . 

pardon me your ignorance cramps my conversation. although the administrative 
mechanism was a strictly centralized one , the ottoman empire  was a classical 
example of a social order . ' . the  millet system  was the mechanism 
which shaped the social order of the multi national ottoman empire and stood 
behind its continuity .  . as a matter of fact , because islamic principles 
were in force in the ottoman empire , it was natural to use religious 
criteria to differentiate among the various communities which constituted 
the empire .  . the  millet  system began to be based on ethnicity in the 
19th century under the influence of nationalism .  . sousa writes of the 
existence of thirteen communities in the ottoman empire in addition to 
the muslim  millet  in 1914 .  . these were (1) greeks attached to the 
orthodox patriarchate in istanbul (2) catholics or who were 
remnants of and merchants (3) gregorian armenians 
attached to a patriarchate in istanbul (4) catholic armenians (5) syrian 
catholics attached to a patriarchate in (6) catholics 
attached to a patriarchate in (7) syrian attached to a 
patriarchate in (8) protestants (9) attached to a 
patriarchate in damascus (10) hebrews of two rites (11) bulgarian 
catholics attached to the bulgarian (12) and (13) 
nestorians .  . 1 scholars who studied the pluralistic social structure 
outlined briefly above , concluded that the social order of the ottoman 
empire fit the framework of the  theory . ' . 2 

1 n. sousa , the regime of turkey , its history , origin and 
nature ,  ( baltimore ,  . 
2 c. s. , caravan the story of the middle east ,  ( new york , 1951 ) , 
p. 162 and h. a. r. gibb h. bowen , islamic society and the west a 
study of the impact of western civilization on moslem culture in the 
near east ,  ( oxford ,  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from (c .  . akgun ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host troy . cc . bellcore . com . 
organization bcr , nj usa 
lines 21 

in article  ( khalid chishti ) writes 
for those of you who are against us to commit ground troops , fine just lift the arms embargo on both 
sides  ( since we know that serbs always got the heavy weapons form federal army) .  . 

wake up west ! ! and admit that you are the most uncivilized , the most and the most violent 
bunch on this earth .  .  .  . 




it is also so easy to blame the west for their to 
real bosnian suffering .  . how about the moslem world , about 1 billion 
how about them ha what they are doing to stop this 
massacre why the oil rich arab states make the bosnian crises 
a national interest of the west , especially for europeans we all 
know they can do it over night , do n't we blaming west and asking 
why they do n't put their life into danger seems to be the choice of 
muslims too. i think who is sleeping is not the west .  . they are wide 
awake .  . they are trying to save the face. 

c. akgun 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject even today armenian genocide of innocent muslim people continues .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 29 

source channel 4 news at 19.00 , monday 2 march 1992. 
2 french journalists have seen 32 corpses of men , women and children 
in civilian clothes. many of them shot dead from their heads as close 
as less than 1 meter .  . 

source morning news at 07 . 37 . , tuesday 3 march 1992. 
bbc reporter was live on line and he claimed that he saw more than 100 
bodies of azeri men , women and children as well as a baby who are shot 
dead from their heads from a very short distance. 

source morning news at 08 12 , tuesday 3 march 1992. 
very disturbing picture has shown that many civilian corpses who were 
picked up from mountain .  . reporter said he , cameraman and western 
journalists have seen more than 100 corpses , who are men , women , 
children , massacred by armenians .  . they have been shot dead from their 
heads as close as 1 meter .  . picture also has shown nearly ten bodies 
 ( mainly women and children) are shot dead from their heads. azerbaijan 
claimed that more than 1000 civilians massacred by armenian forces .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 22 
nntp posting host rac2 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article (joseph askew ) writes 
in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 

i consider that defining the belonging to a nation that claims the 
right to have a state based on religious belief is a form of racism .  . 

although i do n't want to muddy the waters unnecessarily i disagree. any 
discrimination based on religion is not and cannot be racist unless the 
sole qualification for religious membership is racial .  . 

in the same way in which antisemite means anti jewish and not anti all 
persons of who are semite , a form of racism means a form of segregation 
against all those who are different based on the religious identification .  . 

aap 


joseph askew 





from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re baltic states and realism and   drivel 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 173 

in article  ( stuart sechrest ) writes 

by the way , here is the entire paragraph .  . 

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

ohanus 
men are like that 
p. 202 .  . 

no , this is the point you invariably miss. 

do n't be so vague .  . let us reexamine it shall we 

this is the entire paragraph 

the turks had solved the armenian problem in turkey by 
or driving the armenians out of the country , so 
we now proceeded to solve the tartar problem in armenia .  . 
we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust , and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
, from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north , were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

ohanus , from l. r. hartill , are like that , '' 
the bobbs merrill company , london , 1928 .  . p. 202 .  . 

here you descend into total  . your inability to distinguish 
between 'the cold blooded genocide of muslim people by the armenians  
and 'the armenian war  is incredible. now , please provide us with your 
corrections .  . 

source stanford j. shaw , on armenian collaboration with invading russian 
armies in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey  ( volume 
ii reform , revolution republic the rise of modern turkey , 1808 1975) .  . 
 ( london , cambridge university press 1977) .  . pp. 315 316 .  . 

in april 1915 from russian armenia organized a revolt in the city 
of van , whose 33 , 789 armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population , 
closest to an armenian majority of any city in the empire .  .  . leaving . 
on april 28 , 1915 , armenian volunteers reached van on may 14 and organized 
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during 
the next two days. 

knowing their numbers would never justify their territorial ambitions , 
armenians looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their aims .  . 
armenian treachery in this regard culminated at the beginning of the first 
world war with the decision of the revolutionary organizations to refuse 
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other 
invading russian armies .  . their hope was their participation in the russian 
success would be rewarded with an independent armenian state carved out of 
ottoman territories .  . armenian political leaders , army officers , and common 
soldiers began deserting in droves .  . 

with the russian invasion of eastern anatolia in 1914 at the beginning of 
world war i , the degree of armenian collaboration with the ottoman 's enemy 
increased drastically .  . ottoman supply lines were cut by guerilla attacks , 
armenian revolutionaries armed armenian civil populations , who in turn 
massacred the muslim population of the province of van in anticipation of 
expected arrival of the invading russian armies .  . 

 .  .  . meanwhile . , czar nicholas ii himself came to the caucasus to make final 
plans for cooperation with the armenians against the ottomans , with the 
president of the armenian national bureau in declaring in response 

 from all countries armenians are hurrying to enter the ranks of the 
glorious russian army , with their blood to serve the victory of russian 
arms .  .  . let . the russian flag wave freely over the and the 
bosporus .  . let , with your will , great majesty , the peoples remaining 
under the turkish yoke receive freedom .  . let the armenian people of turkey 
who have suffered for the faith of christ receive resurrection for a new 
free life under the protection of russia . ' . 155 

armenians again flooded into the czarist armies .  . preparations were made 
to strike the ottomans from the rear , and the czar returned to st. petersburg 
confident that the day finally had come for him to reach istanbul .  . 

155 horizon , , november 30 , 1914 , quoted by , road to 
independence , p. 45 fo 2485 , 2484 , 22083 .  . 

ottoman morale and military position in the east were seriously hurt , and 
the way was prepared for a new russian push into eastern anatolia , to be 
accompanied by an open armenian revolt against the sultan .  . 156 

156 , road to independence , pp. 45 47 , iii 1 , 
pp. 349 380 w . e . d .  . allen and p. , caucasian battlefields , 
cambridge , 1953 , pp. 251 277 ali ihsan , harb , 2 vols. , 
ankara , 1951 , ii , 41 160 fo 2146 no. fo 2485 fo 2484 , nos. 
and 22083 .  . 

an armenian state was organized at van under russian protection , and it 
appeared that with the muslim natives dead or driven away , it might be 
able to maintain itself at one of the oldest centers of ancient armenian 
civilization .  . an armenian legion was organized  to expel the turks from 
the entire southern shore of the lake in preparation for a concerted 
russian drive into the bitlis vilayet . ' . 162 thousands of armenians from 
mus and other major centers in the east began to flood into the new 
armenian state .  .  . by . mid july there were as many as 250 , 000 armenians 
crowded into the van area , which before the crisis had housed and fed 
no more than 50 , 000 people , muslim and non muslim alike. 163 

162 , road to independence , p. 56 fop 2488 , nos. and 
58350 .  . 

163 bva , i , debates of august 15 17 , 1915 
babi i ali , no. 175 , 321 , van ve i ami , 
1333 10 september 1915 .  . 

as you point out above , the original quote used the term , '' 
as distinct from , '' but you perhaps feel free to make these 
minor adjustments in the name of truth. 

i went through this just a few weeks ago here it comes again. the 
entire turkish population of armenia (which armenians called tartars ) 
constituted at least about 40 of the total population of armenia 
was deliberately exterminated .  .  ( for the population statistics , please 
look to the book of richard , armenia on the road to 
independence .  . ) i listed three books earlier of such a monstrous crime 
by the writings of one armenian , one american , and one british .  . they 
are men are like that by leonard r. hartill adventures in the near 
east by a. rawlinson world alive , a personal story by robert dunn .  . 
also , i personally have copies of documents of this crime by the writings 
of two armenians and also one american .  . the official british report about 
this massacre mentioned in one of these documents  ( lord curzon 
interview ) is the report of the british high commissioner to , 
sir oliver  . 


an appropriate analogy with the jewish holocaust might be the 
systematic extermination of the entire muslim population of 
the independent republic of armenia which consisted of at 
least 30 40 percent of the population of that republic .  . the 
memoirs of an armenian army officer who participated in and 
eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in 
1926 with the title  men are like that . ' . other references abound .  . 
 ( rachel a. the jewish times june 21 , 1990) 

need i go on 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re zionism 
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university 
lines 22 

in article anwar  ( anwar mohammed ) writes 

organization by trying to distribute nazi propaganda .  . furthermore , 
you attempt to rationalize this through crude stereotyping by pointing 
to the wtc bombing , in which arab americans had no involvement .  . 

huh mohamed was perhaps a korean how do you claim 
arab americans had no involvement in the wtc bombing 

ok , his involvement is alleged by the fbi , which does n't seem 
to reliable these days. but honestly , there is a pile of evidence 
pointing to them , and it seems those 5 were involved. 

this does not mean that all arab americans were involved , nor 
should they be blamed for it , but denying that there were some 
arab americans involved sounds sorta silly to me. 

adam 
adam shostack 

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from center for policy research 
subject re final solution for gaza 
nf id r cdp cdp 000 591 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr apr 27 11 37 00 1993 
lines 15 


there are basically three alternatives for gaza 

1. to throw the jews to the sea. that is basically to make them leave 
the middle east and go back to where they came from  ( russia , europe , usa , etc) 
2. to throw the gazans into the sea , in accordance with rabin 's 
wish and that of many zionists .  . 
3. for israelis and palestinians to come to an honorable and fair (i 
do n't attempt to say just ) settlement , which would allow each person 
to live in dignity in his country in freedom and equality .  . 

i opt for the third alternative .  . how about you folks 

elias 


from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 56 
nntp posting host rac2 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( adam shostack ) writes 


which was my point. by converting to another religion i do not loose 
my cultural identity , i just loose my religious identification .  . 

i disagree. by converting to another religion , you certainly 
do change your cultural identity , and lose that part of you which was 
jewish .  . 


i would change one of the many parts that define my cultural identity .  . 
if i loose a leg , it might change my personality , but i do not 
stop being a human being. 
even more , when someone gets a baboon heart , that person is still 
human. 


to be a part or not of the nation is defined by my culture and not 
by my religion. actually , if i am an atheist , which is in fact like 
converting into a non jewish in terms of religion , i am still considered as 
part of the jewish nation .  . 

no , there is a serious cultural and religios difference 
between renouncing the jewish god and accepting a new one. thou 
shall have no other gods before me. conversion is a violation of 
this , atheism you might be able to wiggle around with. 

not really. that is what agnostics from atheists .  . 
as an atheist , i do not believe there is a god , nor do i believe that 
there ever was one. 
so , those commandments have no meaning to me. also , there are a lot 
of ideas that have no meaning to me the idea of a chosen people , 
the idea of a given right to the land of israel , the idea of keeping 
kosher , the idea of opposing intermarriage , the idea of having a 
torah that was inspired by god , etc. 
by being an atheist , i cannot support the idea of the jewish nation 
as defined by a religious principle or based on a religious identity .  . 
for me , religion is just another piece in what constitutes the cultural 
identity of the jewish people. i believe that as a people with a 
cultural identity they constitute a nation and have the same right as 
any other people in the world to have their own state. the same right 
as the armenians have , as the palestinians have , as the french have , 
and as anybody else have. 
i cannot say that by accepting a different god someone has lost all 
cultural identification .  . 



adam 



adam shostack 

aap 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re 10 of azeri soil is now occupied by fascist x soviet armenia .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 117 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

people think. 10 of azeri soil is now occupied by the fascist 
x soviet armenian government. recently armenians attacked the azeri 
town of khojaly and massacred thousands of azeris .  . the paris based 
 association for democracy and human rights in azerbaijan  puts 
the number of victims at 3 , 145 .  . some of the dead were 
scalped and mutilated .  . 

, 

it is  serdar  ,  . 

have you ever even considered buying a dictionary do you know the 
definition of fascist why do n't you look it up , post it up here , and prove 

just say so. 


the sunday times 8 march 1992 

morgues fill as azeris head for all out war 


thomas goltz , the first to report the massacre by armenian soldiers in 
the worst violence since the breakup of the soviet union , reports from 
agdam 


khojaly used to be a barren town , with empty shops and treeless dirt 
roads .  . yet it was still home to thousands of people who , in happier 
times , tended fields and flocks of geese .  . last week it was wiped off 
the map. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

as sickening reports trickled in to the azerbaijani border town of 
agdam , and the bodies piled up in the morgues , there was little doubt 
that khojaly and the stark foothills and gullies around it had been 
the site of the most terrible massacre since the soviet union broke 
apart. 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i was the last westerner to visit khojaly .  . that was in january and 
people were predicting their fate with grim resignation .  . , 
a mother of four on board the helicopter that ferried us into the 
town , called her community sitting ducks , ready to get shot . she and 
her family were among the victims of the massacre on february 26. 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the armenians have taken all the outlying villages , one by one , and 
the government does nothing. , 55 , a father of five , 
said. next they will drive us out or kill us all , said dilbar , his 
wife. the couple , their three sons and three daughters were killed in 
the assault , as were many other people i had spoken to. 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

it was close to the armenian lines we knew we would have to cross .  . 
there was a road , and the first units of the column ran across then 
all hell broke loose. bullets were raining down from all sides. we had 
just entered their trap .  . 

the azeri defenders picked off one by one. survivors say that armenian 
forces then began a pitiless slaughter , firing at anything moved in 
the gullies .  . a video taken by an azeri cameraman , wailing and crying 
as he filmed body after body , showed a grizzly trail of death leading 
towards higher , forested ground where the villagers had sought refuge 
from the armenians .  . 

the armenians just shot and shot and shot , said omar , lying 
in hospital in agdam with wounds .  . i saw my wife and 
daughter fall right by me. 

people wandered through the hospital corridors looking for news of the 
loved ones. some vented their fury on foreigners where is my 
daughter , where is my son wailed a mother. raped .  . butchered .  . lost. 

azerbaijan has said as many as 1 , 000 refugees were killed as they 
tried to flee .  . the armenians have denied this , saying the civilians 
were caught in crossfire . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


when hitler was asked what the world and history would say about his 
extermination of jews he said .  .  .  . 
who today remembers the armenians 

are you idiot for real 

 after all , who remembers today the extermination of the tartars ' 
 ( adolf hitler , august 22 , 1939 ruth w. rosenbaum  ( durusoy ) , 
the turkish holocaust turk , p. 213 . ) . 

kill all of the armenians reguardless of age or sex. talaat pasha 

you must be the only moronian left on the net to believe those 
asala sdpa arf forgeries .  . what a clown .  .  .  . 


 kill turks and kurds wherever you find them and in 
whatever circumstances you find them. turkish children 
also should be killed as they form a danger to the 
armenian nation . ' .  ( hamparsum boyadjian 1914) 1 

1 m. , history of the , p. 85 .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from (peter freeman ) 
subject uva 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
organization columbia university 
lines 10 

wow ! it 's sad to see that the university of virginia has begun 
to produce such a virulent breed of jew haters and self hating 
jews ! 


roar lion roar 





from (david davidian ) 
subject re armenians of karabakh deserve independence ! 
summary karabakh armenians native americans 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 44 

in article  ( ivan covdy ) 
wrote in response to article , 
 ( raffi r kojian ) says 

ic there are some armenians here , in the usa .  . 
ic in fact , there are some areas where armenians are majority .  . 
ic suppose , a large group of people of one of such area decides , 
ic that the us government is not representing their interests , and vote for 
ic seperation from the usa .  . 

the armenians you refer to have chosen to come to the united states lawfully 
and peacefully .  . however , if armenians invade the united states and force 
americans to either flee or become armenians , it will not succeed .  . similarly , 
the armenians of karabakh are being forced by azerbaijan to either become 
azeris or leave , and it also will not succeed , as has been demonstrated .  . 

karabakh , irrespective of its geographic position situated technically within 
the stalin prepared borders of azerbaijan , has been long oppressed and 
eventually was invaded in 1991 by azeri and soviet forces , resulting in 
the northern third of this armenian area being depopulated of armenians .  . the 
armenians have been fighting back ever since. 

clearly , you feel it rather ridiculous for armenians , of let 's say , 
california , to engage in an independence movement for a free and independent 
 . similarly , the azerbaijanis are engaging in a losing attempt at 
claiming sovereignty over the land and people of karabakh , who have lived 
continuously in karabakh a thousand years before the first central asian 
invaders ever stepped foot in the caucasus .  . 

ic should they get it 
ic and should the un enforce their will 
ic and is it a simple , beautiful concept , indeed 

your analogy has broken down because you have switched positions of the victim 
and invader .  . a better analogy would be the direct parallel between armenians 
of karabakh and native americans .  . now , if you wish , we can discuss the tenets 
of might versus right and the policies of settler nations ! 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject re uva 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab. 
lines 5 
reply to 
nntp posting host klosters . ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 27 apr 1993 20 42 04 gmt 

@ a few things about the university .  . it is more fun than some may 
@ admit .  . does go on and it has consistently been ranked 
@ one of playboy 's top party schools. ... 

i knew it. andi beyer is a fraternity prank .  . 

from  ( nick jovanovic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization yale university science engineering  ( unix(tm ) , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 32 
distribution world 
nntp posting host minerva . cis . yale . edu . 

in article michael sells m writes 

you 've asked a crucial question that underlies much of the genocide .  . 
bosnian muslims are slavic in ethnicity .  . they speak  . but 
there is a slavic ideology whereby all true slavs are christian 
and anyone who converted to islam thereby must have changed ethnicity by 
changing religion. 


muslim in ex yugoslavia was a nation not a religion. in fact , not 
all muslims in b h are followers of islam .  . therefore , there do  ( did ) 
exist in ex yugoslavia christian muslims .  . tito defined the muslim 
nation constitutionally , adding muslims to serbs , croats , and , 
the three founding nations which entered into a voluntary union at the 
end of wwi .  . in addition , tito added two other nations constitutionally 
, and  . 

nations had the right of secession , but republics did not. so , muslim 
is much more a political term than a religious term  ( for those who 
differentiate between religion and politics , that is) in b h. it was not 
a slavic ideology that made a muslim nation in yugoslavia , it 
was the atheist communist ideology of tito .  . before tito , there was 
no muslim nation in yugoslavia .  . 

the war is not a religious war , and it is not an ethnic war. it is a 
civil war in which the terms of secession are being negotiated with guns 
instead of pens .  . the croat , muslim , and serb political leaders all 
chose to fight over the terms of secession instead of compromising and 
peacefully negotiating secession agreements .  . 

nick 


subject re the mufti again meanwhile they support the genocide of bosnians .  . 
from kayman 
s . unm . edu . 
organization city university of new york university computer center 
lines 6 

so why not condemn the mufti for his nazi leanings , and condemn all his 
supporters , while also condemning the similarly genocidal killing of 
innocents , muslim or not , in herzegovina hatred and bigotry 
remain just that , no matter who practices them. 

k.  ( internet 

from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject changes in israeli society 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization intergraph electronics 
lines 25 


from 4 27 93 

rabin we must concentrate on qualitative changes in israeli 
society 

today 's al quotes prime minister rabin 's 
independence day interview yesterday on israel television .  . rabin 
said that enforcing jewish sovereignty over the entire land of 
israel would lead to the establishment of a bi national state. i 
would view it as if the historical destiny of my generation , 
, the generation that had the great privilege of determining 
the fate of the people and founding the jewish state , had been 
lost. rabin added , we must stop dreaming of settlements i.e. in 
the territories and focus on qualitative and substantive changes 
in israeli society to make it a productive society dependent on its 
own labor .  . the prime minister concluded saying that he would like 
to achieve a significant breakthrough in the peace process during 
his government 's term. 


naftaly stramer intergraph electronics 
internet 6101 lookout road , suite a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) 2370 fax  ( 303)581 ) 9972 boulder , co 80301 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject according to  greek government  , there are no turks in western thrace .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 207 

in article  ( mau napoleon ) writes 

there are treaties signed between greece and turkey which speak about a 
moslem minority in and not of a turkish minority in  . 
the reason they talk about moslems and not about turks is that the majority 
of these people are not turks .  . they are and gypsies .  . 

oboy , this is exciting. first you discuss your non existent literature 
tastes , then your fantasies , and now your choices of historical revisionism .  . 
are you related to   of the asala sdpa arf terrorism and 
revisionism triangle 

the agreement on the exchange of minorities uses the term  turks , ' 
which demonstrates what is actually meant by the previous reference 
to 'muslims . ' . the fact that the greek governments also mention the 
existence of a few thousand non turkish muslims does not change the 
essential reality that there lives in western thrace a much bigger 
turkish minority .  . the   are also a muslim people , whom all the 
three nations  ( bulgarians , turks , and greeks ) consider as part of 
themselves. do you know how the muslim turkish minority was organized 
according to the agreements 

it also proves that the turkish people are trapped in greece 
and the greek people are free to settle anywhere in the world. 
the greek authorities deny even the existence of a turkish 
minority .  . they pursue the same denial in connection with 
the macedonians of greece .  . talk about oppression .  . in addition , 
in 1980 the  democratic  greek parliament passed law no. 1091 , 
virtually taking over the administration of the and 
other charitable trusts .  . they have ceased to be self supporting 
religious and cultural entities .  . talk about fascism .  . the greek 
governments are attempting to appoint the , irrespective 
of the will of the turkish minority , as state official .  . although 
the orthodox church has full authority in similar matters in 
greece , the muslim turkish minority will have no say in electing 
its religious leaders .  . talk about democracy .  . 

the government of greece has recently destroyed an islamic 
convention in komotini .  . such destruction , which reflects an 
attitude against the muslim turkish cultural heritage , is a 
violation of the lausanne convention as well as the 'so called  
greek constitution , which is supposed to guarantee the protection 
of historical monuments .  . 

the government of greece , on the other hand , is building new 
churches in remote villages as a complementary step toward 
the region. 

the longstanding use of the adjective 'turkish' in titles 
and on signboards is prohibited .  . the greek courts have 
ordered the closure of the turkish teachers  association , 
the komotini turkish youth association and the 
turkish association on grounds that there are no turks 
in western thrace .  . such community associations had been 
active until 1984 .  . but they were first told to remove 
the word 'turkish' on their buildings and on their official 
papers and then eventually close down. this is also the 
final verdict  ( november 4 , 1987) of the greek high court. 

helsinki watch , a well known human rights group , had been investigating 
the plight of the turkish minority in greece .  . in august 1990 , their 
findings were published in a report titled 

 destroying ethnic identity turks of greece . ' . 

the report confirmed gross violations of the human rights of the 
turkish minority by the greek authorities .  . it says for instance , 
the greek government recently destroyed an islamic convent in 
komotini .  . such destruction , which reflects an attitude against 
the muslim turkish cultural heritage , is a violation of the 
lausanne convention .  . 

1 

helsinki watch problems of turks in western thrace continue 

ankara (a . a) . in a 15 page report of the helsinki watch it is 
stated that the turkish minority in western thrace is still faced 
with problems and stipulated that the discriminatory policy being 
implemented by the greek government be brought to an end. 

the report on western thrace emphasized that the greek government 
should grant social and political rights to all the members of 
minorities that are equal to those enjoyed by greek citizens and 
in addition they must recognize the existence of the turkish 
minority in western thrace and grant them the right to identify 
themselves as 'turks' .  . 

, may 1992 

2 

greece isolates west thrace turks 

the independent mp ahmet faikoglu said that the greek 
state is trying to cut all contacts and relations of the turkish 
minority with turkey .  . 

pointing out that while the greek minority living in istanbul is 
called greek by ethnic definition , only the religion of the 
minority in western thrace is considered .  . in an interview with 
the greek newspaper ethnos he said i am a greek citizen of 
turkish origin .  . the individuals of the minority living in western 
trace are also turkish .  . 

emphasizing the education problem for the turkish minority in 
western thrace faikoglu said that according to an agreement 
signed in 1951 greece must distribute textbooks printed in turkey 
in turkish minority schools in western thrace .  . 

recalling his activities and those of komotini independent mp dr. 
sadik ahmet to defend the rights of the turkish minority , 
faikoglu said. in fact we helped greece .  . because we prevented 
greece , the cradle of democracy , from losing face before european 
countries by forcing the greek government to recognize our legal 
rights. 

on turco greek relations , he pointed out that both countries are 
predestined to live in peace for geographical and historical 
reasons and said that turkey and greece must resist the foreign 
powers who are trying to create a rift between them by 
cooperating , adding that in turkey he observed that there was 
will to improve relations with greece .  . 

, january 1993 

3 

macedonian human rights activists to face trial in greece .  . 

two ethnic macedonian human rights activists will face trial in 
athens for alleged crimes against the greek state , according to a 
court summons (no .  . 5445 ) obtained by mils .  . 

and  ( or bulis ) 
have been charged under greek criminal law for making comments in 
an athenian magazine. 

and gave an interview to the greek weekly 
magazine ena on march 11 , 1992 , and said that they as 
macedonians were denied basic human rights in greece and would 
field an ethnic macedonian candidate for the up coming greek 
general election .  . 

said in the interview i am not greek , i am macedonian .  . 
said in the article that greece should recognise 
macedonia .  . the allegations regarding territorial aspirations 
against greece are tales .  .  .  . we are in a panic to secure the 
border , at a time when the borders and barriers within the eec 
are falling .  . 

the main charge against the two , according to the court 
summons , was that they have spread .  .  . intentionally . false 
information which might create unrest and fear among the 
citizens , and might affect the public security or harm the 
international interests of the country (greece) .  . 

the greek state does not recognise the existence of a 
macedonian ethnicity .  . there are believed to be between 350 , 000 to 
1 , 000 , 000 ethnic macedonians living within greece , largely 
concentrated in the north .  . it is a crime against the greek state 
if anyone declares themselves macedonian .  . 

in 1913 greece , serbia yugoslavia and bulgaria partioned 
macedonia into three pieces. in 1919 albania took 50 macedonian 
villages .  . the part under yugoslav occupation broke away in 
1991 as the independent republic of macedonia .  . there are 1.5 
million macedonians in the republic 500 , 000 in bulgaria 150 , 000 
in albania and 300 , 000 in serbia proper .  . 

has been a long time campaigner for macedonian 
human rights in greece , and lost his job as a forestry worker a 
few years ago. he was even exiled to an obscure greek island in 
the mediteranean .  . only pressure from amnesty international forced 
the greek government to allow him to return to his home town of 
florina  ( lerin ) in northern greece  ( aegean macedonia ) , where the 
majority of ethnic macedonians live. 

balkan watchers see the affair as a show trial in 
which greece is desperate to clamp down on internal dissent , 
especially when it comes to the issue of recognition for its 
northern neighbour , the republic of macedonia .  . 

last year the state department of the united states condemned 
greece for its bad treatment of ethnic macedonians and turks  ( who 
largely live in western thrace) .  . but it remains to be seen if the 
us government will do anything until the presidential elections 
are over. 


m. i. l. s. 

91 , rue du 91 28 1120 
brussels , belgium skopje , macedonia tel fax 32 2 268 18 48 
tel fax 38 91 201 566 modem 32 2 262 28 97 n . acc . 
citibank belgium 954 92 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( tim clock) 
subject re without justice can n't last re last opportunity for peace 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 53 

in article  ( godada shi ) writes 
in article  ( ram tiwary ) writes 

now that all the parties are back to the negotiating table , the stakes 
as i see is are indeed high and the future stability of the region and 
perhaps the world is in the balance. 

while israel continues to refuse to talk to the plo , labelling 
it a terrorist organisation , the window of opportunity for peace is 
narrowing by the day. if the present talks are allowed to deadlock 
without agreement for a long term and lasting peace that taken into 
account the interest of all involved , the chances of peace will indeed 
 . the plo , by its decision to rejoin the talks , has its 
reputation on the success of the talks .  . the longer the talks continue , 
and they started 1 and half years ago , without any tangible progress , 
the further will the plo support in the territories erode .  . 

if a land for peace agreement can be reached , and real soon , the chances 
of a comprehensive peace treaty is good. the arabs , once and for all , 
recognise israel 's right to exist inside secure borders , and isreal 
would in turn recognise the legitimate right of the palestinians to self 
and statehood .  . with peace guarantee by air tight 
treaties , the region can then hope to dwell on the economic and social 
well being of its population , rather than prepare for the next war. 

ram 

as we see right now , the position of influence enjoyed by parties favoring 
the negotiation process is tenuous at best. the local elections in hebron 
that the plo was expected to win  ( perhaps adding a bit to its flagging 
position of legitimacy in the eyes of palestinians and the middle east) 
have been disrupted by hamas actions overtly directed towards 
undermining those  ( and all west bank) elections .  . the present ruling israeli 
labor coalition seems to be one rather thin political ice. the palestinian 
delegation has been reduced from 14 to three to protest israel lack of 
seriousness in the talks and refusal to reverse all the deportations 
immediately. 

hopefully , however , each of the parties will begin to learn that just 
the fact that negotiations are taking place does not mean they are giving 
anything away to the other side (which was is the favorite argument of 
the ) .  . let 's hope that discusion and inevitable disagreement 
on major issues leads at the same time to some agreement on smaller 
interim ( phase , whatever term we prefer ) steps to be taken. 





tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re baltic states and realism and   drivel .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 171 

in article  ( mikhail s. verbitsky ) writes 

my words. if he behaves as mutlu , he would carry 
the similar treatment  ( especially as his oversized 
articles are 90 scanned from propagandist leaflets 
or from other stuff easily available in any 
decent library) .  . 

typical   drivel .  . people will think you 're just some 
looney howling in the wires .  . if you think that this  clears 
things up' for me or anyone else , you must also believe that 
aliens from outer space come to earth regularly and abduct 
  of asala sdpa arf for medical experiments .  . there 
is stronger evidence for that you know. 

 propagandist leaflets  this is an american officer on the 
genocide of 2.5 million muslim people by the armenians between 
1914 and 1920 , not a crook idiot like yourself. 


source world alive , a personal story by robert dunn .  . crown publishers , 
inc. , new york (1952) .  . 
 ( memoirs of an american officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people) 

p. 361  ( seventh paragraph) and p. 362  ( first paragraph) .  . 

'the most are inside houses. come you and look . ' . 
 no , dammit ! my stomach is n't ' 
 one is a turkish officer in uniform .  . him you must see . ' . 
we were under those trees by the mosque , in an open space .  .  .  .  . 
 i do n't believe you , i said , but followed to a nail studded door. the 
man pushed it ajar , then spurred away , leaving me to check on the corpse .  . 
i thought i should , this charge was so constant , so gritted my teeth and 
went inside. 

the place was cool but reeked of sodden ashes , and was dark at first , for 
its stone walls had only window slits .  . rags strewed the mud floor around an 
iron tripod over embers that vented their smoke through roof beams black 
with soot .  . all looked bare and empty , but in an inner room flies buzzed .  . as 
the door swung shut behind me i saw they came from a man 's body lying face 
up , naked but for its grimy turban .  . he was about fifty years old by what 
was left of his face a rifle butt had bashed an eye. the one left slanted , 
as with tartars rather than with turks .  . any uniform once on him was gone , so 
i 'd no proof which he was , and quickly went out , gagging at the mess of his 
slashed genitals .  . 

p. 363  ( first paragraph) .  . 

 how many people lived there ' 
 oh , about eight hundred . ' . he yawned .  . 
 did you see any turk officers ' 
 no , sir. i was in at dawn .  . all were tartar civilians in mufti . ' . 

the lieutenant dozed off , then i , but in the small hours a voice woke me 
dro 's .  . he stood in the starlight bawling out an officer .  . anyone keelhauled 
so long and furiously i 'd never heard. then abruptly dro broke into 
laughter , quick and simple as child 's .  . both were a cover for his sense 
of guilt , i thought , or hoped .  . for somehow , despite my boast of irreligion , 
christian massacring  infidels  was more horrible than the reverse would 
have been. 

from daybreak on , armenian villagers poured in from miles around .  .  .  .  .  . 
the women plundered happily , chattering like ravens as they picked over 
the carcass of djul .  . they hauled out every hovel 's chattels , the last 
scrap of food or cloth , and staggered away , packing pots , saddlebags , 
looms , even spinning wheels. 

 thank you for a lot , dro , ' i said to him back in camp.  but now i must 
leave . ' .  .  . we . shook hands , the captain said  a bientot , mon camarade . ' . and 
for hours the old scout and i plodded north across parching plains .  . 
like lot 's wife i looked back once to see smoke bathing all , doubtless in 
a sack of other moslem villages up to the line of snow that was iran . ' . 

p. 354 .  . 

at morning tea , dro and his officers spread out a map of this whole 
high region called the karabakh .  . deep in tactics , they spoke russian , 
but i got their contempt for allied  neutral  zones and their distrust 
of promises made by tribal chiefs .  . a campaign shaped more raids on 
moslem villages .  . 

p. 358 .  . 

it will be three hours to take , dro told me. we 'd close in on three 
sides. 
the men on foot will not shoot , but use only the bayonets , 
said , jabbing a rifle in dumbshow .  . 
that is for morale , dro put in. we must keep the moslems in terror .  . 
soldiers or civilians i asked. 
there is no difference , said dro .  . all are armed , in uniform or not. 
but the women and children 
will fly with the others as best they may .  . 

p. 360. 

the ridges circled a wide expanse , its floors still. hundreds of feet 
down , the fog held , solid as cotton flock .  .  djul lies under that , ' said 
dro , pointing .  .  our men also attack from the other sides . ' . 

then ,  ee ! ' his whistle lined up all at the rock edge. bayonets 
clicked upon carbines .  . over plunged , his black haunches rippling 
then followed the staff , the horde nose to tail , bellies taking the 
spur .  . armenia in action seemed more like a pageant than war , even though 
i heard our utica brass roar .  . 

as i watched from the height , it took ages for djul to show clear. a tsing 
of machine gun fire took over from the thumping batteries cattle lowed , 
dogs barked , invisible , while i ate a hunk of cheese and drank from a snow 
puddle .  . mist at last folded upward as men shouted , at first heard faintly .  . 
the came a shrill wailing .  . 

now among the cloud streaks rose darker wisps smoke. red glimmered about 
house walls of stone or wattle , into dry weeds on roofs .  . a mosque stood in 
clump of trees , thick and green. through crooked alleys on fire , horsemen 
were galloping after figures both mounted and on foot. 

 ! ' shouted the gunner by me. others pantomimed them in escape 
over the rocks , while one twisted a bronze shell nose , loaded , and yanked 
breech cord , firing again and again. shots wasted , i thought , when by 
afternoon i looked in vain for fallen branch or body. but these shots and 
the white bursts of shrapnel in the gullies drowned the women 's cries .  . 

at length all shooting petered out. i got on my horse and rode down toward 
djul .  . it burned still but little flame showed now. the way was steep and 
tough , through dense scrub .  . finally on flatter ground i came out suddenly , 
through alders , on smoldering houses. across trampled wheat my brothers in 
arms were leading off animals , several calves and a lamb .  . 

p. 361  ( fourth paragraph) .  . 

corpses came next , the first a pretty child with straight black hair , 
large eyes. she looked about twelve years old. she lay in some stubble 
where meal lay scattered from the sack she 'd been toting .  . the bayonet 
had gone through her back , i judged , for blood around was scant .  . between 
the breasts one clot , too small for a bullet wound , crusted her homespun 
dress. 

the next was a boy of ten or less , in rawhide jacket and knee pants. he 
lay face down in the path by several huts .  . one arm reached out to the 
pewter bowl he 'd carried , now upset upon its dough .  . steel had jabbed 
just below his neck , into the spine. 

there were grownups , too , i saw as i led the sorrel around. djul was 
empty of the living till i looked up to see beside me dro 's german speaking 
colonel .  . he said all tartars who had not escaped were dead. 

p. 358 .  . 

 .  .  . more . stories of armenian murdering turks when the czarist troops fled 
north .  . my hosts told me of their duty here to keep tabs on brigands , 
turkish troop shifts , hidden arms , spies christian , red or tartar 
coming in from transcaucasus .  . then they spoke of the hell that would 
break loose if versailles were to put , as threatened , the six  armenian  
vilayets of turkey under the control of erevan .  .  .  . 

an armenia without armenians ! turks under christian rule his lips 
smacked in irony under the droopy red moustache .  . that 's bloodshed just 
smyrna over again on a bigger scale. 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( winslow sargeant ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host daytona . rchland . ibm . com . 
organization ibm rochester 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( joachim martillo ) writes 
in article  ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) writes 

muslims helping the nazis where on earth do you come up with such 
do you have proofs if not , you should publically apologize 
for such a statement. 

what a dope ! there is no value for mohammed to be here 
at a western university .  . third and islamic brain rot has 

made it impossible for him to acquire and analyze facts appropriately .  . 


you should go back to your mindlessly stupid 3rd world country. your 

brain has no business in a civilized first world country. 

joachim carlo santos 


joachim 

i have restrained from involvement in flame wars .  . these comments however make 
me long for the days when i was a flame warrior .  . i would hope that you would 
refrain from such idiotic slander .  . 


 ( formerly of madison ) 

p.s. i might have to drop the formerly and become the old of madison .  . 

note standard disclaimer above. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject eyewitnesses of the  armenian genocide of 2.5 million  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 226 

in article  ( stephanie tsai ) writes 

serdar argic , 
i implore you , please stop posting and reposting all those messages 
regarding armenian actions .  . call it what you will , but i see them 
as hate messages rather than facts . every civilization as old 
as the turkish and armenian civilizations are guilty of barbaric 
acts , and this is no longer the time nor the place to espouse such 
hatred .  . what good will it do i read a lot of newsgroups to gain 

hate messages rather than facts sorry , but your argument falls 
flat on its face. 


some of the references from eminent authors in the field of middle eastern 
history and eyewitnesses of the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslims 

1. the armenian revolutionary movement by louise nalbandian , 
university of california press , berkeley , los angeles , 1975 

2. diplomacy of imperialism 1890 1902 by william i. lenger , professor 
of history , university , boston , alfred a. , new york , 1951 

3. turkey in europe by sir charles elliot , 
edward arnold , london , 1900 

4. the house version and other middle eastern studies by 
elie , publishers , new york , washington , 1972 

5. the rising crescent by ernest , 
farrar reinhart , inc. , new york toronto , 1944 

6. spiritual and political evolutions in islam by felix , 
mogan , paul , trench co. , london , 1925 

7. the struggle for power in moslem asia by e. alexander powell , 
the century co. , new york , london , 1924 

8. struggle for by , 
yale university press , new haven , conn. , 1951 

9. history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (2 volumes ) by 
stanford j. shaw , cambridge university press , cambridge , new york , 
melbourne , 1977 

10. the western question in greece and turkey by arnold j. toynbee , 
constable co. , ltd. , london , bombay sydney , 1922 

11. the caliph 's last heritage by sir mark sykes , 
macmillan co. , london , 1915 

12. men are like that by leonard a. hartill , 
bobbs co. , indianapolis , 1928 

13. adventures in the near east , 1918 22 by a. rawlinson , 
dodd , meade co. , 1925 

14. world alive , a personal story by robert dunn , 
crown publishers , inc. , new york , 1952 

15. from to serves and by aharonian , 
the armenian review magazine , volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) through 17 
 ( spring 1964) 

16. armenia on the road to independence by richard g. , 
university of california press , berkeley , california , 1967 

17. the rebirth of turkey by clair price , 
thomas seltzer , new york , 1923 

18. caucasian battlefields by w. b. allen paul , 
cambridge , 1953 

19. partition of turkey by harry n. howard , 
h. fertig , new york , 1966 

20. the king crane commission by harry n. howard , 
beirut , 1963 

21. united states policy and partition of turkey by laurence evans , 
john hopkins university press , baltimore , 1965 

22. british documents related to turkish war of independence by 


1. kerem demir , bir 
turkiye nin ermeni , ve yayin t . a . s .  . , 
ankara , 1982 .  .  ( ingilizce 1980 , the armenian 
question in turkey ) 

2. , ermeni , , istanbul , 1978 .  . 

3. a. alper , kadar ermeni 
nun , , istanbul , 1982 .  . 

4. dr. m. , kars ili ve ermeni , 
kardes , ankara , 1970 .  . 

t.c. osmanli , , istanbul 

a) yildiz esas 
b) yildiz 
c) 
d ) i i muslime 
e) 
f ) nezareti , i 
g) nezareti , sifre 
h ) siyasi 
i) 

t.c. , i , 

a) harb i 
b) 

british archives 

a) parliamentary papers  ( hansard ) commons lords 
b) foreign office confidential print various collections 
c) foreign office 424 239 253 turkey correspondence annual reports 
d ) foreign office 608 
e) foreign office 371 , political intelligence general correspondence 
f ) foreign office 800 240 , ryan papers 
g) foreign office 800 151 , curzon papers 
h ) foreign office 839 the eastern conference lausanne .  . 53 files 

india office records and library , blackfriars road , london .  . 

a) l political and security 10 851 855  ( five boxes) , turkey treaty of 
peace 1918 1923 
b) l p s 10 1031 , near east turkey and greece lausanne conference , 
1921 1923 
c) l p s 11 154 
d ) l p s 11 1031 

french archives 

archives du ministere des affaires , quai d'orsay , paris .  . 

a) documents affaires 1895 1914 collections 
b) guerre 1914 1918 turquie legion d'orient .  . 
c) levant , 1918 1929 armenie .  . 


official publications , published documents , diplomatic correspondence , 
agreements , minutes and others 

a. turkey (the ottoman empire and the republic of turkey ) 

, e. (ed . ) . ,  ( istanbul , 1978) .  . 
(gn .  . kur .  . , atase ) tarih , v. xxxi (81) , 
(dec .  . 1982) .  . 
tarih , v. xxxii  ( 83 ) , 
(dec .  . 1983) .  . 
, m. (ed . ) . i i , 
 ( istanbul , 1912) .  . 
meray , s. l. (trans .  . ed . ) . baris , 
 ( ankara , 1978) , 2 vols. 
meray , s. l. o. olcay (ed . ) . osmanli nun 
, , ilgili ,  ( ankara , 1977) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) aspirations et 
des avant et apres la proclamation 
de la constitution ,  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
ermeni amal ve i ilan i 
ve sonra ,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i ve vilayet ,  ( istanbul , 1913) .  . 
i , v. i  ( istanbul , 1914) .  . 
i , v. ii  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
i , v. iii  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i , v. iv  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) i nin 
,  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) islam 
,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
(iv .  . ordu ) divan i harbi yi 
,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
, h. k. (ed . ) . osmanli ve ermeni , 
 ( ankara , 1982) .  . 
turkiye buyuk millet gizli ,  ( ankara , 1985) , 
4 vols. 

russia 

, e. e. (ed . ) . anadolu nun 
, (tran .  . h. , ed. h. mutlucag ) ,  ( istanbul , 1972) .  . 

altinay , a. r. iki iki ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
ve ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
turkiye  de , turk tarihi , 
v. xiv 82 5 (sept .  . 1924) .  . 
asaf harb ve ,  ( istanbul , 1918) .  . 
, c. dunya turk harbi , v. i osmanli nun 
siyasi ve ve , (gn .  . kur .  . , ankara , 1970) .  . 
akgun , s. general un anadolu ve  ( ermeni ne dair ) 
,  ( istanbul , 1981) .  . 
akin , i. turk tarihi ,  ( istanbul , 1983) .  . 
, s. jon ve ve ,  ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
basar , z. (ed . ) . ,  ( ankara , 1974) .  . 
,  ( ankara , 1978) .  . 
belen , f. dunya turk harbi ,  ( ankara , 1964) .  . 
, a. ermeni ,  ( istanbul , 1980) .  . 
ege , n. n. (ed . ) . hayati ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1977) .  . 
, a. ve osmanli , 
 ( ankara , 1949) .  . 
, k.  ermeni sorunu bir nasil ' , turk tarihinde 
,  ( izmir , 1983) .  . 
, m. ermeni ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
, e. s. osmanli tarihi , v. v  ( 1983 , 4th ed . ) . v. vi  ( 1976 , 2nd ed . ) . 
v. vii  ( 1977 , 2nd ed . ) . v. viii  ( 1983 , 2nd ed . ) . ankara .  . 
, y. t. osmanli nun ,  ( ankara , 1976) .  . 
orel , s. s. yuca talat pasa ya 
,  ( ankara , 1983) .  . also in english translation. 
ahmad , f. the young turks the committee of union and progress in 
turkish politics ,  ( oxford , 1969) .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject traditional and historical armenian barbarism and fascism .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 23 

5 apr 93 
moscow  ( upi ) 
... 
's horrible. people are trying to get their wives and children 
out , men are leaving their defense positions , it 's total anarchy , '' said 
, a spokesman for the azerbaijani president. 

said 210 people three quarters of them civilians , the rest 
government soldiers had been killed and 200 wounded in the assault by 
armenian fighters .  . 



serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject egyptian arrested after mock threat to blow up iran 's paris mission 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization ncsu chem eng 
lines 27 




copyright 1993 france presse 
france presse 

headline egyptian arrested after mock threat to blow up iran 's 
paris mission 

dateline paris 

body 

paris , april 16  ( afp ) an egyptian man held police at bay 
for several hours outside the iranian embassy here , threatening 
to blow up the building to protest against terrorism and 
fundamentalism .  . 

the man in his thirties , who was identified only as an 
egyptian national , displayed a banner outside the embassy 
gate and said he was in possession of several sticks of dynamite 
he threatened to set off. 

he later quietly to police who had blocked off the 
neighborhood , saying he wanted to attract media attention to 
the dangers of islamic fundamentalism .  . 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject notwithstanding her geographic location , greece is un european in .  .  .  . 
organization zuma 
distribution world 
lines 83 

in article writes 

turkey may be more underdeveloped if you wish , but that was not the issue. 

funny you should mention. that 's the whole point   invariably miss. 


source  united nations , human development report , ' 1990. 

annual output per person in dollars adjusted to purchasing power 
parity turkiye , greece and chile are in the same category. that 
is , 3 , 000 5 , 999 .  . 


source  international economics theory and policy  by paul r. 
and maurice , harper collins publishers , 
1991 ,  ( second edition) .  . 

in terms of  annual output per person in dollars adjusted to 
purchasing power parity , ' greece is in the same category with 
turkiye .  . 


indeed , greek governments have enormous problems to tackle .  . the 
economy is in shambles , corruption is rampant , air pollution is 
in outrageous dimensions , state sponsored terrorism is the name 
of the game and infrastructure is decaying .  . another insightful 
article in the new york times  ( sunday , april 7) exposes the dirty 
linen of greece , and describes her as the pariah of the european 
community. the article reports that '' .  .  . with . un european , 
greece uses the community as a cash register .  . she , and 
at times even steals the european tax payers  money for political 
at home. the principal members of the community 
admit that it was a mistake to accept greece to the european 
community . '' . this affirmation is testimony to the fact that 
notwithstanding her geographic location , greece is un european 
in mentality and attitude. 

indeed , during the last 12 years , turkiye registered a great 
success with regard to economic restructuring .  . a sound economy , 
ready to be integrated to the world economies , has emerged , 
succeeding to the faltering one , witnessed in the '70s .  . 

just 12 years ago , greece used to export double as much as 
turkiye did. now inversely , turkiye 's overall exports exceed 
by far that of greece .  . as far as the tourism incomes are 
concerned , we are witnessing the same phenomenon .  . 

the governments in turkiye have put a particular emphasis on 
the infrastructure investments  ( rather than investing in 
world terrorist organizations) , thereby solving this issue 
completely. indeed , in the '70s , it was out of the question 
to conduct a telephone call from eastern anatolia to the west .  . 
nowadays , this is not the case at all , and in a far remote 
town , even in a village you may have , at any time , a long distance 
call to any given country. 

however , the same could not be applied to greece .  . in fact , 
it is not so easy in athens to have a trunk call to germany 
round the clock. and if you happen to be in the greek islands , 
then your chance will be pretty slim .  . therefore , it would not 
be an exaggeration to argue that turkiye is far ahead of 
greece in regard to telecommunication facilities. greece , 
by virtue of its full membership , has enjoyed all advantages 
of the ec , obtaining huge grants and extensive subsidies .  . 
turkiye , having no access at all to similar financial supports , 
has nevertheless managed to create a better economy which 
enabled it to produce consecutive current accounts surplus 
over the last two years. as such , turkiye deserves to be the 
only country in its region having permanent current accounts 
surplus .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( basil hamdan ) 
subject re rejoinder .  . questions to israelis 
reply to 
nntp posting host keller . lance . colostate . edu . 
organization engineering college , colorado state university 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( tsiel ohayon ) writes 
in article  ( steve birnbaum ) writes 
and in 1982 the attack was a response 
sb to years of constant shelling by terrorist organizations from the golan 

sb heights. children were being murdered all the time by terrorists and israel 

sb finally retaliated .  . nowhere do i see a war that israel started so that 
sb the borders could be expanded .  . 

i agree with all you write except that terrorist orgs .  . were not shelling 
israel from the golan heights in 1982 , but rather from lebanon .  . 


tsiel , 

i would contend that there was shelling from both sides of the border , 
starting from the early 70 's .  . certainly the plo did shell northern 
israel from the region , but israel did much more shelling 
destroying several south lebanese villages .  . at the very least 
we can say that both sides exchanged shelling , with occasional 
aerial raids by israel on lebanese villages .  . 
in any case steve 's characterization that the 1982 invasion was only in 
response to years of shelling from lebanon is false .  . israel had 
many reasons for invading but mainly it did so to install a government 
in lebanon favorable to israel , and it nearly achieved this aim 
with the election of el , and his brother , amin 
el , but the internal situation in lebanon was too hard 
to control and predict so israel had to withdraw , and amin el 
had to abrogate the 17 th of may agreement .  . 


tsiel 

8 8 
tsiel if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

basil 

from (t . s . 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization sun 
lines 48 
nntp posting host 

in article writes 
in a previous article , s . sa . 
i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 


mohamed , 

what has he got to say about the carnage and genocide in our own sudan 
the two scenarios must be viewed from the same perspective or do n't you 
think so well , methinks .  . no flames intended ! ! ! 




mohamed 

i too noticed that in all this screaming and shouting , not one 
person brought up the question of atrocities being commited on non muslims 
by the government. could it be that they are and so who 
cares i suggest that everyone cut the hypocrisy and about bosnia 
and go on to discuss something even more meaningless .  . 

the report below shows that the are acting in the finest 
traditions of islamic law as expounded by some die hard people on the 
net  ( who shall remain  . 

sudan 


government troops  steal women , children  


washington government troops in sudan are involved in massacres , 
kidnapping and the transporting of forced labor into libya , according 
to a state department document declassified wednesday .  . 

the report compiled by the u.s. embassy in said government 
forces , particularly arab militias organized as the popular defense 
forces , routinely steal women and children in southern sudan .  . 

some women and girls are kept as wives , the others are shipped 
north where they perform forces labor on  ( central sudan ) 
farms or are , notably to libya , it said. 

from  ( dave bakken ) 
subject re saudi clergy condemns debut of human rights group ! 
keywords international , non usa government , government , civil rights , social issues , politics 
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson 
lines 101 

in article ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes 
it looks like ben baz 's mind and heart are also blind , not only his eyes. 
i used to respect him , today i lost the minimal amount of respect that 
i struggled to keep for him. 
to all muslim netters this is the same guy who gave a that 
saudi arabia can be used by the united to attack iraq . 

they were attacking the iraqis to drive them out of kuwait , 
a country whose citizens have close blood and business ties 
to saudi citizens .  . and me thinks if the us had not helped out 
the iraqis would have swallowed saudi arabia , too  ( or at 
least the eastern  . and no muslim country was doing 
much of anything to help liberate kuwait and protect saudi 
arabia indeed , in some masses of citizens were demonstrating 
in favor of that butcher saddam  ( who killed lotsa muslims ) , 
just because he was killing , raping , and looting relatively 
rich muslims and also thumbing his nose at the west .  . 

so how would have you defended saudi arabia and rolled 
back the iraqi invasion , were you in charge of saudi arabia 

is as legitimate as this one. with that kind of clergy , it might 
be an islamic duty to separate religion and politics , if religion 
means official clergy . 

i think that it is a very good idea to not have governments have an 
official religion  ( de facto or de jure ) , because with human nature 
like it is , the ambitious and not the pious will always be the 
ones who rise to power. there are just too many people in this 
world  ( or any country ) for the citizens to really know if a 
leader is really devout or if he is just a slick operator .  . 


cairo , egypt  ( upi ) the cairo based arab organization for human 
rights  ( aohr ) thursday welcomed the last week of the 
committee for defense of legal rights in saudi arabia and said it was 
necessary to have such groups operating in all arab countries. 

you make it sound like these guys are angels , ilyess .  .  ( in your 
clarinet posting you edited out some stuff was it the following ) 
friday 's new york times reported that this group definitely is 
more conservative than even sheikh baz and his followers  ( who 
think that the house of does not rule the country conservatively 
enough) .  . the nyt reported that , besides complaining that the 
government was not conservative enough , they have 

asserted that the (approx .  . 500 , 000) in the kingdom 
are apostates , a charge that under saudi  ( and islamic ) law 
brings the death penalty .  . 

diplomatic guy  ( sheikh bin jibrin ) , is n't he ilyess 

called for severe punishment of the 40 or so women who 
drove in public a while back to protest the ban on 
women driving. the guy from the group who said this , 
al , said that these women should 
be fired from their jobs , jailed , and branded as 
prostitutes .  . 

is this what you want to see happen , ilyess i 've 
heard many muslims say that the ban on women driving 
has no basis in the qur'an , the , etc. 
yet these folks not only like the ban , they want 
these women falsely called prostitutes 

if i were you , i 'd choose my heroes wisely , 
ilyess , not just rally behind 
anyone who hates anyone you hate. 

say that women should not be allowed to work. 

say that tv and radio are too immoral in the kingdom .  . 

now , the house of is neither my least nor my most favorite government 
on earth i think they restrict religious and political a lot , among 
other things. i just think that the most likely replacements 
for them are going to be a lot worse for the citizens of the country. 
but i think the house of is feeling the heat lately. in the 
last six months or so i 've read there have been stepped up harassing 
by the  ( religious police not government) of western women 
not fully veiled  ( something stupid for women to do , imo , because it 
sends the wrong signals about your  . and i 've read that 
they 've cracked down on the few , home based religious 
gatherings , and even posted rewards in  ( government owned ) newspapers 
offering money for anyone who turns in a group of who 
dare worship in their homes or any other secret place. so the 
government has grown even more intolerant to try to take some of 
the wind out of the sails of the more conservative opposition .  . 
as as some of these things are , they 're just a small 
taste of what would happen if these guys overthrow the house of 
, like they 're trying to in the long run. 

is this really what you  ( and and others in the general 
west is evil zionists rule hate west or you are a puppet crowd) 
want , ilyess 


dave 
the president is doing a fine job , but the problem is we do n't know what 
to do with her husband. james  ( clinton campaign strategist ) , 2 93 
oh , please call daddy .  . mom 's far too busy. chelsea to nurse , , 2 93 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re hamza salah , the humanist 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 21 

in  ( danny keren ) writes 

 ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 

well said mr. beyer ) 

he he. the great humanist speaks .  . one has to read mr. salah 's posters , 
in which he decribes jews as sons of pigs and monkeys , keeps 
promising the final battle between muslims and jews  ( in which the 
and the trees will cry for the muslims to come and kill the 
jews hiding behind them ) , makes jokes about jews dying from heart 
attacks etc , to realize his objective stance on the matters involved. 

and now he is posting lies about benjamin franklin in talk . politics . misc .  . 
seems our mr. salah will stoop to any level  ( or is that climb ) to 
spread his hate. 

danny keren .  . 

reb 


from  ( friedman ishay ) 
subject re the israeli press 
organization wilfrid laurier university 
lines 85 

in article ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes 
 ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 


... 
for your information on israel .  . since i read both american media 
and israeli media , i can say with absolute certainty that anybody 
who exclusively on the american press for knowledge about 
israel does not have a true picture of what is going on. 

of course you never read arab media , 

i read arab , israeli (jer .  . post , and this network is more than enough) 

the jerusalem post is only a small part of the israeli media ( one 
that to outsiders for the most part ,  . 

if you never read ha'aretz , maariv , or other hebrew langauge papers 
, or at least seen some of their articles translated , you are not 
really getting the israeli media. 





and western  ( american , french , and british ) reports and i can say 
that if we give israel 10 and arabs 10 on the bias scale  ( of course 
you can switch the polarities ) israeli newspapers will get either 
a 9 or 10 , american leading newspapers and tv news range from 6 

some of the left leaning ones 


to 10 (yes there are some that are more israelis than israelis ) 

a 6 to a 10 is that why stations such as pbs have run shows which 
do not the israeli standpoint at all 

is that why the intifada got more coverage in 1987 and 1988 than did 
gassing kurds by the thousands 




the montreal suburban (a local free newspaper ) probably is closer 
to 's views than some israeli right wing newspapers , british 

i am from montreal .  . i read the suburban .  . did they ever advocate the 
stupidity of expelling the arabs are they racist 

the suburban has some columnists that explain the israeli standpoint .  . 

they are nothing like  . in any case , the suburban is a paper 
with a minor local distribution and no influence .  . 



range from 0  ( neutral ) to 10 , french  ( that iknow of , of course) range 
from 2  ( afro french magazines ) to 10 , arab official media range from 
0 to 5  ( egyptian ) to 9 in sa .  . why no 10 because they do not want to 
overdo it and stir people against israel and therefore against them since 
they are doing nothing. 


as to the claim that israeli papers are biased , of course they 
are. some may lean to the right or the left , just like the media 
here in america .  . but they still report events about which people 
here know nothing. i choose to form my opinions about israel and 
the mideast based on more knowledge than does an average american 
who relies exclusively on an american media which does not report 
on events in the mideast with any consistency or accuracy .  . 

the average bias of what you read would be probably around 9 , 
while that of the average american would be the same if they do 
not read or read the new york times and similar news makers , and 
8 if they read some other relatively less biased newspapers. 

so you are not better off. 


so what source is the closest thing to a zero 





from center for policy research 
subject re zionist leaders  frank statements 
nf id r cdp cdp 000 407 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 15 05 34 00 1993 
lines 17 


dear pete , 

for one who is so zionist as you , you should at least know your 
hebrew , young man. 

the last sentence in your posting should read 

medina (not  . 

i do n't want to address your comments. they speak for themselves. 

best regards from a palestinian of jewish origin who talks , reads and writes 
hebrew and does not hate jews nor anybody else. 

elias 


from (dr .  . joshua backon ) 
subject re west bank and baseball 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 13 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in september 1990 , our medical reserve unit was sent to the 
prison camp to take care of arab prisoner who were housed in 5 
sections of 1500 prisoners each , with each section subdivided in 
5 units housing 300 prisoners .  . the prisoners would communicate 
with other distant sections  ( sometimes 50 100 yards away ) by 
taking stones , tying written notes to the stones , and throwing 
them with incredible precision to other sections .  . i should have 
been a for the red sox ) there were at least three 
prisoners who could have been outstanding pitchers .  . 

josh 


from  ( nick jovanovic ) 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
organization yale university science engineering  ( unix(tm ) , new haven , ct 06520 2158 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host minerva . cis . yale . edu . 

in article michael sells m writes 

... i find it interesting that mr. major finds the genocide of two 
million muslims in bosnia acceptable ... 


now you are actually claiming that 2 , 000 , 000 muslims have been killed 
in b h 

please substantiate this utterly ridiculous claim .  . 

nick 



from  ( josip loncaric ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 63 
nntp posting host orbit . src . umd . edu . 

in article s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

parts of sen. biden 's statement were quoted by the washington post today 

let me put it plainly , mr. secretary .  . you are required to speak 
diplomatically i am not. i cannot even begin to express to you 
my contempt for a european policy that is now asking us to 
participate in what amounts to a codification of the serbian victory .  . 
... 
what you have encountered is a discouraging mosaic of , 
, self delusion and hypocrisy .  . 
... 
after they held our coats on kuwait and somalia , they are asking us 
to put in a few thousand troops on the ground in order to have the 
right to speak and in order to implement their new idea of  safe 
havens  for the bosnians .  .  .  . 
let 's not mince words. european policy is based on cultural and 
religious , if not bigotry .  . and i think it 's fair to say 
that this would be an entirely different situation if the muslims 
were doing what the serbs have done , if this was muslim aggression 
instead of serbian aggression .  . 

too bad the washington post did not include his next sentence , which 
pointed out that a consequence of such policy is a rising anger 
within the islamic world , the consequences of which we cannot begin 
to predict .  . later , biden told a reporter why he spoke out 

i think someone has to respond to europe to make it clear 
this is a big deal .  .  .  . so they will understand. 

and it is a big deal. by refusing the fundamental human right of 
self defense to bosnia herzegovina , europe and the world have 
aided the serbian aggression .  . moreover , the arms embargo has 
forced a situation in which bosnian serbs have 10 times more heavy 
weaponry than bosnian croats and muslims combined .  . under such 
conditions , it is very easy for serbs to play a divide and conquer 
game , and to get the muslims and croats  ( who have strong common 
interests and who were allied against the serbian aggression ) 
to start fighting each other , which leads to their mutual catastrophe .  . 

one final quote u.s. secretary of state , warren christopher , has 
said in rome last week that in practice , the embargo had the opposite 
effect intended. it made aggression certain .  . 

all diplomats who deluded themselves that they could negotiate peace 
while enforcing a 10 1 imbalance of power on the ground have contributed 
to this tragedy .  . 


sincerely , 
josip 






from  ( khalid chishti ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 56 
nntp posting host hw . stratus . com . 

in article  ( khalid chishti ) writes 
for those of you who are against us to commit ground troops , fine just lift the arms embargo on both 
sides  ( since we know that serbs always got the heavy weapons form federal army) .  . 

wake up west ! ! and admit that you are the most uncivilized , the most and the most violent 
bunch on this earth .  .  .  . 





c. akgun writes 

it is also so easy to blame the west for their to 
real bosnian suffering .  . how about the moslem world , about 1 billion 
how about them ha what they are doing to stop this 
massacre why the oil rich arab states make the bosnian crises 
a national interest of the west , especially for europeans we all 
know they can do it over night , do n't we blaming west and asking 
why they do n't put their life into danger seems to be the choice of 
muslims too. i think who is sleeping is not the west .  . they are wide 
awake .  . they are trying to save the face. 


please , read my post carefully , i am saying that lift the arms 
and let the muslims defend themselves. the point is these 
civilized countries neither want to get intervene militarily themselves 
and nor they like to see the muslims of the world to help the oppressed .  . 
 ( remember what happened almost one year ago when the so called un discovered 
some in an iranian jet in bosnia ! ) .  . the west is not indifferent 
in this matter they are siding with serbs by keeping this embargo on only 
muslim side  ( okay on paper on both sides) .  . 












disclamer these are my opinions only and they have nothing to do with my 
employer . newsgroups . soc . culture . arabic . , soc . culture . bosna . , soc . culture . indian . , soc . culture . iranian . , soc . culture . jewish . , soc . culture . pakistan . , soc . culture . turkish . , soc . culture . yugoslavia . , soc . culture . , talk . politics . mideast . , soc . culture . african . , soc . 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
summary 
expires 
distribution 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
keywords 



from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 110 
nntp posting host rac2 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 

i believe that zionism , as it is , is a form of racism .  . by as it is i mean 
not the fact that is , but the specific ideas it supports , the 
form it defines what a jew is and the way it wants to accomplish its goals. 
it has nothing to do with hypocrisy .  . 

it has everything to do with hypocrisy .  . we 've dealt with with your 
arguments about history before on this net suffice it to say you 
have n't succeeded in convincing anyone probably because of their lack 
of basis. 

i do not want to convince anyone. this is just usenet , not the real 
world. i just read the opinions others have about a subject , and sometimes 
i present my opinion. i think that this net is only useful to exchange 
ideas. i never wanted nor i want now to convince anyone of anything. 


now if you want to deal with what certain people say , that 
is fine. but by condemning the movement which is nothing more than 
jewish nationalism and never has been anything more than that you are 
saying quite literally that it is racist to think that jews your 
own people , it should be added have the right to a state in their 
homeland , the same right every other nation has. if you do n't agree 
with that , i suggest you read a dictionary .  . because your interpretation 
is just plain inconsistent with that dictionary definition as well as 
modern history. 

first , and i repeat it , i never said that the idea of jews having the 
right to have a state is racist .  . 
zionism , as a movement , is more than just that idea. i think that zionism 
in the way it defines who is a jew , for example , is racist like. 
in the same way i believe that irish have a right to nationalism but i do 
not support the bombing and killing of the ira , i believe that jews have 
a right to nationalism but i do not support zionism as it is right now. 



here 's where you 're wrong. here 's also where you should know you 're 
wrong. zionism is in no way monolithic .  . never has been. approaches to 
zionism are as widespread as the ideologies of hatzair and meir 
 . some of those approaches are racist , for one. but 
every approach to zionism defines those goals differently and also 
defines a different approach to those goals. the single commonality is 
the belief that jews , like every other nation on earth , deserve their 
own homeland .  . period. 

that is what makes the basis for zionist movements .  . however , i am not 
considering just that , but the rest of it. 


as long as zionism considers , for 
example , who is a jew in a jewish state based on religion , i will consider 
zionism a form of racism .  . 

as you well know , over 80 of israeli jews are secular in other words 
they are in no way religious , and most probably do n't even believe in g d. 

which makes an interesting point. people living in a jewish state have 
shown that jewish culture includes in it jewish religion but they are 
not the same. so , the jewish people living in the jewish state have shown 
us that there are some problems in a state where 80 of the people is secular 
but judaism is define according to religious standards , or where marriage 
is a religious stage , or where the law of return defines a jew according to 
a religious standard. 
did those israelis who do not believe in god and will never do become 
non jews why should they still define then a jew based on what is a 
religious definition 



maybe , i would consider hypocrisy to support zionism and disregard the 
right to self determination of the palestinian people and their struggle to 
reach it. 

if you 'd wanted to say that in the first place , you should have said it 
then. i took you at your word. in other words , i took your words to 
have their normal , dictionary definition .  . it is now quite obvious that 
you use a different dictionary than the rest of the english speaking 
world , and that you base your analysis on misconceptions .  . 


according to webster 's ninth new collegiate dictionary , merriam webster inc , 
publishers , springfield , massachusetts , u.s.a. , 1986 , page 593 , 

hy poc ri sy a to be what one is or to believe one does not. 

so , saying that one believes in zionism as a simple matter of people 
having the right to nationalism , but disregarding the right of the palestinian 
people to do the same , according to this dictionary , is hypocrisy .  . 


if you are really interested on what i think , instead of directly coming with 
labels , like , send me a mail to , and we can 
exchange ideas. 

how about learning what your words mean for once i stand by what i 've 
said. 

i know what my words mean. i do stand by what i said i believe zionism is 
a form of racism .  . of course , i tend to talk about things as they are and 
not as they are defined in a broad sense. 

eric s. perlman 
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder 



aap 


from  ( tim clock) 
subject re uva 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 46 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
a few things about the university .  . 

why there is no need to go into this .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

it is more fun than some may 
admit .  . does go on and it has consistently been ranked 
one of playboy 's top party schools. 

especially this piece of information. 

but we do study and more 
importantly learn a lot. the overall uva drug use is actually 
lower than the average college in the u.s. 
there is no hate law on the books even though they (the 
forces of pc) tried to have one last  ( year by the way a similar 
law at the university of wisconsin was found unconstitutional 
last year) .  . 

as i remember , someone did ask if uv had a speach code. but , really , 
there is no need for this brief survey course. 

there is a law against relationship of professors with their students 
or that just passed. 

thomas jefferson was the sole author of the virginia 
statute for religious  ( freedom(the basis for the first ten 
amendments ) , though he is not given full credit for righting 
the bill of rights. so someone who picked on me for that is 
right. 
by the way , we 're the man in everything. sports 
academics and  . 

how wonderful for you. 

i'm sure a lot of other schools are 
good at what they do as well , so do n't start mailing me junk .  . 
i'm happy where i am and maybe i 'll go to one of y medical 
schools in a couple of years. 



tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( alberto pinkas ) 
subject re zionist leaders  frank statements 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 79 
nntp posting host rac3 . wam . umd . edu . 

in article  ( tim clock) writes 
in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

and , if you are jewish , you are a self hating jew .  . there can 
be no doubt of this. 

there are doubts about it. why do n't you define what self hating jew means 
i found the idea itself of being a self hating jew to be one of those 
i hope you can come up with a definition in itself .  .  .  . 

try coming up with your own definition of any or all self hating peoples .  . 
to me , any who reject their culture to the point where they only see the 
absolute negatives of that culture  ( generally , or regarding a particular 
event ) and accept only those views purely opposing aspects of that culture 
 ( thus , selective belief in and use of historical facts and a complete ignoring 
of context results) hate their culture. 

i believe that things are getting mixed here. 
israel and or being anti zionist is not seeing the absolute 
negatives of that culture . maybe , because a person can see the positives 
of that culture is that that person opposes zionism and the actions of the 
state of israel .  . 
i , for one , consider the actions of the state of israel with respect to 
the human rights of the palestinian people as an example of an action 
opposes what jewish culture was suppose to uphold as an example of 
respect and what the jewish people learned about , segregation and 
years in the diaspora .  . 


that certainly describes elias , 
since he has no intention of recognizing that , alongside the palestinian 
experience and perspective , there exists also that of israelis .  . 

he might not want to recognize that. it does not make him a self hating 
jew , as far as i see it. at most , he is a person who is not telling 
the truth. 



who is a jew a person whose integrity when 
by the knowledge of wrong done to other people. 
a. j. 

that is why i get moved when i see the israeli army killing people in 
the occupied territories as much as i get moved when i see a 
people in israel .  . 

aap 

and , this is precisely why israeli society has been tremendously harmed 
by the actions it  ( its government) has felt it had to take in response 
to an other perceived as a threat .  . just as with you , there has long 
been a strident and emotional debate about the pain israelis feel when 
forced to balance desires for survival and moral beliefs .  . the trauma 
of having to make that choice is made worse by the fact that neither 
can be conveniently brushed aside  ( as a result of a reasoned political 
debate ) for the sake of the other , only reshaped .  . 


but , so far , it seems that the blame is always put on the other . 
if you read this newsgroup , for example , israel is never guilty by 
herself. she is always responding to the actions of the other , and 
it goes as if the actions of isreal do not also affect the response 
of the other  in a cycle that never ends. also , there is blindness to 
try to understand what the other feels and why. 
there is always and excuse. there is always a rationale to explain why 
things happen as they do. 
and , what is the worst part for me , there seems to be all the time an 
intention to try to de humanize the other , as if the other did not 
care about their future , children , peace , etc , etc. 


tim clock ph.d. graduate student 


aap 



from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject saudi clergy condemns debut of human rights group ! 
keywords international , non usa government , government , civil rights , social issues , politics 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 34 

it looks like ben baz 's mind and heart are also blind , not only his eyes. 
i used to respect him , today i lost the minimal amount of respect that 
i struggled to keep for him. 
to all muslim netters this is the same guy who gave a that 
saudi arabia can be used by the united to attack iraq . that 
is as legitimate as this one. with that kind of clergy , it might 
be an islamic duty to separate religion and politics , if religion 
means official clergy . 


cairo , egypt  ( upi ) the cairo based arab organization for human 
rights  ( aohr ) thursday welcomed the last week of the 
committee for defense of legal rights in saudi arabia and said it was 
necessary to have such groups operating in all arab countries. 
the london based and saudi owned al al daily newspaper 
reported thursday in a dispatch from riyadh that the higher council of 
ulema  ( muslim scholars ) on wednesday had unanimously proclaimed the 
formation of the group illegitimate and unacceptable .  . 
in a statement issued in the saudi capital , the council , saudi 
arabia 's highest religious authority , said it proclaims 
illegitimate the creation of this committee and the of 
endorsing it because the kingdom of saudi arabia is guided by god 's 
 ( law ) and the islamic courts are widespread nationwide . '' . 
the statement said no one in the kingdom is prevented from taking 
grievances to those courts or to other concerned authorities and that 
authors of the bulletin  ( announcing the founding of the committee ) 
are well aware of this . '' . 
the council of 21 senior clergymen , which ended its 40th session 
tuesday under of sheikh abdel aziz ben baz , warned that the 
formation of the group will have consequences , '' but did not 
elaborate .  . 
... 
declarations and treaties protecting human rights , those 
concerning discrimination against women. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject an eyewitness account of how a turkish family was butchered by .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 167 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

another thing i find interesting when turks whine about armenians 
taking control of their land is that turkey is still occupying n. 
cyrus .  . how can you have the gall to even open your mouths about 
karabakh , until turkish troops are completely out of the independent 
island of cyprus .  . 

no wonder you 'wieneramus' are in such a mess. following the greek 
cypriot attempt to annex the island to greece with the aid of the greek 
army , turkiye intervened by using her legal right given by two international 
agreements .  . turkiye did it for the frequently and conveniently forgotten 
people of the island , turkish cypriots .  . for those turkish cypriots whose 
grandparents have been living on the island since 1571 .  . and the next is 
 . 

the people of turkiye know quite well that greece and the greek 
cypriots will never abandon the idea of cyprus and will 
remain eternally hopeful of uniting it with greece , someday , whatever 
the cost to the parties involved. the history speaks for itself. greece 
was the sole perpetrator of invasion on that island when it sent 
its troops on july 15 , 1974 in an attempt to topple the legitimate 
government of makarios .  . 

the release of nikos sampson , a member of national organization 
of cypriot fighters and a convicted terrorist , shows that the 
  mentality continues to survive in greece .  . one should not 
forget that sampson dedicated his life to annihilating the turks 
in cyprus , committed murder to achieve this goal , and tried to 
destroy the island 's independence by annexing it to greece .  . of 
course , the greek governments will have to bear the consequences 
for this irresponsible conduct .  . 

the museum of barbarism 

2 irfan bey street , area , nicosia , cyprus 

it is the house of dr. ilhan , a major who was serving at 
the cyprus turkish army contingent .  . during the attacks launched 
against the turks by the greeks , on 20th december 1963 , dr. 
ilhan 's wife and three children were ruthlessly and brutally 
killed in the bathroom , where they had tried to hide , by savage 
greeks .  . dr. ilhan happened to be on duty that night , the 
24th december 1963 .  . pictures reflecting greek atrocities 
committed during and after 1963 are exhibited in this house which 
has been converted into a museum .  . 

an eye witness account of how a turkish family was butchered by 
greek terrorists 

the date is the 24th of december , 1963 .  .  .  . the onslaught of the 
greeks against the turks , which started three days ago , has been 
going on with all its ferocity and defenseless women , old men 
and children are being brutally killed by greeks .  . and now 
area of nicosia witnesses the worst example of the greeks savage 
bloodshed .  .  .  . 

the wife and the three infant children of dr. ilhan , a 
major on duty at the camp of the cyprus turkish army contingent , 
are mercilessly and dastardly shot dead while hiding in the 
bathroom of their house , by maddened greeks who broke into their 
home. a glaring example of greek barbarism .  . 

let us now listen to the relating of the said incident told by 
mr. hasan yusuf , an eye witness , who himself was wounded 
during the same terrible event. 

on the night of the 24th of december , 1963 my wife hasan 
and i were paying a visit to the family of major dr. ilhan .  . 
our neighbours mrs. of mora , her daughter and mrs. 
's sister were also with us. we were all sitting 
having supper .  . all of a sudden bullets from the river 
direction started to riddle the house , sounding like heavy rain. 
thinking that the dining room where we were sitting was 
dangerous , we ran to the bathroom and toilet which we thought 
would be safer .  . altogether we were nine persons .  . we all hid in 
the bathroom except my wife who took refuge in the toilet. we 
waited in fear. mrs. ilhan the wife of major doctor , was standing 
in the bath with her three children murat , and hakan in her 
arms. suddenly with a great noise we heard the front door open. 
greeks had come in and were combing , every corner of the house 
with their machine gun bullets .  . during these moments i heard 
voices saying , in greek , you want taksim eh ! and then bullets 
started flying in the bathroom. mrs. ilhan and her three children 
fell into the bath. they were shot. at this moment the greeks , 
who broke into the bathroom , emptied their guns on us again. i 
heard one of the major 's children moan , then i fainted .  . 

when i came to myself 2 or 3 hours later , i saw mrs. ilhan and 
her three children lying dead in the bath. i and the rest of the 
neighbours in the bathroom were all seriously wounded .  . but what 
had happened to my wife then i remembered and immediately ran to 
the toilet , where , in the doorway , i saw her body. she was 
brutally murdered .  . 

in the street admist the sound of shots i heard voices crying 
help , help. is there no one to save us i became terrified .  . i 
thought that if the greeks came again and found that i was not 
dead they would kill me. so i ran to the bedroom and hid myself 
under the double bed. 

an our passed by. in the distance i could still hear shots. my 
mouth was dry , so i came out from under the bed and drank some 
water. then i put some sweets in my pocket and went back to the 
bathroom , which was exactly as i had left in an hour ago. there i 
offered sweets to mrs. , her daughter and mrs. who 
were all wounded .  . 

we waited in the bathroom until 5 o'clock in the morning. i 
thought morning would never come. we were all wounded and needed 
to be taken to hospital. finally , as we could walk , mrs. 
and i , went out into the street hoping to find help , and walked 
as far as chiftlik .  . 

there , we met some people who took us to hospital where we were 
operated on. when i regained my consciousness i said that there 
were more wounded in the house and they went and brought mrs. 
and her daughter. 

after staying three days in the hospital i was sent by plane to 
ankara for further treatment. there i have had four months 
treatment but still i cannot use my arm. on my return to cyprus , 
greeks arrested me at the airport. 

all i have related to you above i told the greeks during my 
detention .  . they then released me. 

on foot into cyprus s devastated turkish quarter 

we went tonight into the sealed off turkish quarter of nicosia in 
which 200 to 300 people have been slaughtered in the last five 
days. 

we were the first western reporters there , and we saw some 
terrible sights .  . 

in the quarter at no. 2 , irfan bey , we made our way 
into a house whose floors were covered with broken glass. a 
child 's bicycle lay in a corner. 

in the bathroom , looking like a group of waxworks , were three 
children piled on top of their murdered mother. 

in a room next to it we glimpsed the body of a woman shot in the 
head. 

this , we were told , was the home of a turkish army major whose 
family had been killed by the mob in the first violence .  . 

today was five days later , and still they lay there. 

rene maccoll and daniel , (from the daily express ) 

 .  .  . i . saw in a bathroom the bodies of a mother and three infant 
children murdered because their father was a turkish officer .  .  .  . 

max clos , le figaro 25 26 january , 1964 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 17 

 ( hamid reza daniali ) writes 

is this means that the number of the people have been killed by israel are so 
high that you can not keep the track of , or this is also a part of zionism 
ideology that you do n't need to keep the track of the people you kill 
just kill ! 

if you know that the number is so high , would you care to provide it 
to tell you the truth , hamid , most of those killed by the israeli army were 
who were invading or attacking israel with the intention of murdering 
jews and destroying the jewish state. thus , i have no sympathy for them and 
i really do n't give a damn about how many were killed. 

hamid 

ed. 


from  ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization computer science department , university of new mexico 
lines 39 

in article  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 
 ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) writes 

muslims helping the nazis where on earth do you come up with such 
do you have proofs if not , you should publically apologize 
for such a statement. last time i heard , the nazis themselves in 
needing no body to carry their politics and ideologies .  . and if your statment 
were true , do n't you think israel would of used it to point to what a muslim 
neighbor  ( palestine ) could do to them if they allowed it to be the jewish 
lobby and power is very strong , and if what you said is true , we would of 
heard it from them before you could come up with it. 
and you dare say that you are taking no sides ! ! 

my reference is a 4 page essay in our local star tribute newspaper 
putting the whole conflict in perspective. i will readily admit 
that i am no authority in this area however , other 
asserted that some muslims did join hands with croats and 
nazis in persecuting serbs .  . in any case , past actions do not 
in any way validate or legitimize what is there now. 

i sincerely do apologize to the extent the author of the essay 
was wrong in making the assertion he made. 

maybe , some student of history may put this in perspective. 





thank you very much for clarifying your position and source. apologies 
are accepted in good faith. this absolutely was no attempt to bring you to 
your knees , it is merely a suggestion to really check and re your 
sources before throwing a flame into the net. 

thanx again 

mohammed 



from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re uva 
organization university of virginia 
lines 21 

a few things about the university .  . it is more fun than some may 
admit .  . does go on and it has consistently been ranked 
one of playboy 's top party schools. but we do study and more 
importantly learn a lot. the overall uva drug use is actually 
lower than the average college in the u.s. 
there is no hate law on the books even though they (the 
forces of pc) tried to have one last  ( year by the way a similar 
law at the university of wisconsin was found unconstitutional 
last year) .  . there is a law 
against relationship of professors with their students or 
that just passed. 
thomas jefferson was the sole author of the virginia 
statute for religious  ( freedom(the basis for the first ten 
amendments ) , though he is not given full credit for righting 
the bill of rights. so someone who picked on me for that is 
right. 
by the way , we 're the man in everything. sports 
academics and  . i'm sure a lot of other schools are 
good at what they do as well , so do n't start mailing me junk .  . 
i'm happy where i am and maybe i 'll go to one of y medical 
schools in a couple of years. 

from (david f. skoll ) 
subject mosque in jewish quarter  ( was re israeli destruction of .  .  . ) . 
organization dept. of electronics , carleton university 
lines 17 

in 
 ( jim eggert g41 ) writes 

it is important to note that there remains at least one mosque in the 
jewish quarter of the old city , at least according to my map. you 
might be able to find it just north of the synagogue .  . is this 
mosque really still there was this mosque built by too 

when i was in jerusalem a couple of years ago , our guide told 
us the story of that mosque not sure if it was true. 

apparently , it was built by a jewish convert to islam .  . he had 
had a dispute with his neighbours , and built the mosque to 
annoy them. it 's a cute story , but not sure if it 's true .  .  .  . 


david f. 

from (richard d thorne ) 
subject re m.e. peace talks 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 24 


organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh 
lines 13 
nntp posting host yfn . ysu . edu . 


 ( danny keren ) writes 

our little goebbels , to those who forgot , is talking about an alleged 
infection of fine egyptian men , by a mossad agent caught spying 
with her father in egypt . as noted before , the women is a muslim 
israeli , she was not a spy , and she did n't infect anybody .  . 

the jewish version of the story ! ! 

a muslim israeli .  . i thought it is a jewish state. 
has n't it yet been defined up to this point 


this is a post from a hospital the inmates from foam the cushion ward 
have net access ! 

take a pill pal , 
richard thorne 

from ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) 
subject re civility 
organization university of virginia 
lines 1 

shut up andi ! 

from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject egypt cuts phone lines with independent muslim states 
keywords international , non usa government , government , intelligence , politics , religion 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 26 

 ( bahaa elkoussy ) writes 

cairo , egypt  ( upi ) despite reports and evidence to the contrary a 
foreign ministry spokesman wednesday denied knowledge of any measures 
taken by egyptian authorities to restrict telephone contacts with states 
linked to muslim militants .  . 

any state that the cia does not control is called state that is linked 
to terrorism militants fundamentalists etc .  .  . 
meanwhile even egyptian experts who hate the islamic movement admit 
that what is happening in egypt is spontaneous and most of the time a 
reaction to what the government does. 

reports , such as one by israeli radio and the iranian official news 
agency , , said this week cairo has disconnected telephone lines with 
iran , sudan , pakistan and  . 
... 
when asked if the telephone communication restrictions represented a 
new measure by egyptian authorities ibrahim agreed. 

can anybody see any contradiction between the above and the first 
paragraph 
does anybody know what the upi original article 's title was 

when it comes to egypt , all human rights , ethics , principles can 
be ignored by the western media. i wonder why 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re benjamin franklin 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 206 

in article  ( ted frank ) writes 

hamaza , you racist , arun cited evidence to show that your so called 
racist prophecy was a 1934 forgery .  . that means that the prophecy 
does not exist. address the sources , if you actually care about 
truth , rather than spreading lies , bigotry , and hatred .  . 

 . coming from a self exposed historical revisionist , a 
self admitted anti muslim and a genocide apologist , hamaza should 
take your drivel as a compliment. furthermore , you even deny the 
obvious. there was a genocide of the muslims carried out by order of 
the fascist x soviet armenian government. massacres of muslims must be 
studied in detail , because they are the first modern example of the 
horrible crime of genocide .  . blame must be apportioned to the armenians 
and their supporters for the murder of muslims .  . the turkish historic 
homeland , emptied of its native population until today , remains occupied 
by the x soviet armenian government. today , x soviet armenia covers up 
the genocide perpetrated by its predecessors and is therefore an accessory 
to this crime against humanity .  . x soviet armenia must pay for its crime 
of genocide against the muslims by admitting to the crime and making 
reparations to the turks and kurds .  . 

the following are the jewish and armenian sources on the cold blooded 
genocide perpetrated by the x soviet armenian government against 2.5 
million muslim people between 1914 and 1920. still denying the obvious 


source stanford j. shaw , on armenian collaboration with invading russian 
armies in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey  ( volume 
ii reform , revolution republic the rise of modern turkey , 1808 1975) .  . 
 ( london , cambridge university press 1977) .  . pp. 315 316 .  . 

in april 1915 from russian armenia organized a revolt in the city 
of van , whose 33 , 789 armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population , 
closest to an armenian majority of any city in the empire .  .  . leaving . 
on april 28 , 1915 , armenian volunteers reached van on may 14 and organized 
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during 
the next two days. 

knowing their numbers would never justify their territorial ambitions , 
armenians looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their aims .  . 
armenian treachery in this regard culminated at the beginning of the first 
world war with the decision of the revolutionary organizations to refuse 
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other 
invading russian armies .  . their hope was their participation in the russian 
success would be rewarded with an independent armenian state carved out of 
ottoman territories .  . armenian political leaders , army officers , and common 
soldiers began deserting in droves .  . 

with the russian invasion of eastern anatolia in 1914 at the beginning of 
world war i , the degree of armenian collaboration with the ottoman 's enemy 
increased drastically .  . ottoman supply lines were cut by guerilla attacks , 
armenian revolutionaries armed armenian civil populations , who in turn 
massacred the muslim population of the province of van in anticipation of 
expected arrival of the invading russian armies .  . 


source stanford j. shaw , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey , 
vol ii. cambridge university press , london , 1979 , pp. 314 317 .  . 

 .  .  . meanwhile . , czar nicholas ii himself came to the caucasus to make final 
plans for cooperation with the armenians against the ottomans , with the 
president of the armenian national bureau in declaring in response 

 from all countries armenians are hurrying to enter the ranks of the 
glorious russian army , with their blood to serve the victory of russian 
arms .  .  . let . the russian flag wave freely over the and the 
bosporus .  . let , with your will , great majesty , the peoples remaining 
under the turkish yoke receive freedom .  . let the armenian people of turkey 
who have suffered for the faith of christ receive resurrection for a new 
free life under the protection of russia . ' . 155 

armenians again flooded into the czarist armies .  . preparations were made 
to strike the ottomans from the rear , and the czar returned to st. petersburg 
confident that the day finally had come for him to reach istanbul .  . 

155 horizon , , november 30 , 1914 , quoted by , road to 
independence , p. 45 fo 2485 , 2484 , 22083 .  . 

ottoman morale and military position in the east were seriously hurt , and 
the way was prepared for a new russian push into eastern anatolia , to be 
accompanied by an open armenian revolt against the sultan .  . 156 

156 , road to independence , pp. 45 47 , iii 1 , 
pp. 349 380 w . e . d .  . allen and p. , caucasian battlefields , 
cambridge , 1953 , pp. 251 277 ali ihsan , harb , 2 vols. , 
ankara , 1951 , ii , 41 160 fo 2146 no. fo 2485 fo 2484 , nos. 
and 22083 .  . 

an armenian state was organized at van under russian protection , and it 
appeared that with the muslim natives dead or driven away , it might be 
able to maintain itself at one of the oldest centers of ancient armenian 
civilization .  . an armenian legion was organized  to expel the turks from 
the entire southern shore of the lake in preparation for a concerted 
russian drive into the bitlis vilayet . ' . 162 thousands of armenians from 
mus and other major centers in the east began to flood into the new 
armenian state .  .  . by . mid july there were as many as 250 , 000 armenians 
crowded into the van area , which before the crisis had housed and fed 
no more than 50 , 000 people , muslim and non muslim alike. 163 

162 , road to independence , p. 56 fop 2488 , nos. and 
58350 .  . 

163 bva , i , debates of august 15 17 , 1915 
babi i ali , no. 175 , 321 , van ve i ami , 
1333 10 september 1915 .  . 


source , richard g. armenia on the road to independence , 1918 .  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , 1967 , p. 13. 

the addition of the kars and batum oblasts to the empire increased the 
area of to over 130 , 000 square miles. the estimated population 
of the entire region in 1886 was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom 940 , 000 (20 percent) were 
armenian , 1 , 200 , 000  ( 25 percent) georgian , and 2 , 220 , 000 (45 percent) moslem .  . 
of the latter group , 1 , 140 , 000 were tatars .  . paradoxically , barely one third 
of 's armenians lived in the erevan , where the 
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds .  . erevan 
, the administrative center of the province , had only 44 , 000 armenians 
as compared to 68 , 000 moslems .  . by the time of the russian census of 1897 , 
however , the armenians had established a scant majority , 53 percent , in the 
it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent , or 670 , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000 
inhabitants .  . this impressive change in the province 's ethnic character 
notwithstanding , there was , on the eve of the creation of the armenian 
republic , a solid block of 370 , 000 tartars who continued to dominate the 
southern districts , from the outskirts of to the border of persia .  . 
 ( see also map 1. historic armenia and map 4. administrative subdivisions of 
transcaucasia) .  . 

in 1920 ,  0  percent turk .  . 

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

ohanus 
men are like that 
p. 202 .  . 


an appropriate analogy with the jewish holocaust might be the 
systematic extermination of the entire muslim population of 
the independent republic of armenia which consisted of at 
least 30 40 percent of the population of that republic .  . the 
memoirs of an armenian army officer who participated in and 
eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in 
1926 with the title  men are like that . ' . other references abound .  . 
 ( rachel a. the jewish times june 21 , 1990) 


1. men are like that by leonard a. hartill , bobbs co. , indianapolis , 
1926 

memoirs of an armenian army officer translated to english and 
published by a member of american near east relief organization. 
gives the whole account of the genocide of all turkish and moslem 
people in armenia organized and executed by armenian government and 
army .  . also gives account of countless other massacres and atrocities 
against the turkish people in armenia .  . 

2. adventures in the near east , 1918 22 by a. rawlinson , 
dodd , meade co. , 1925 

eyewitness account of the same genocide by a british army officer .  . 

3. world alive , a personal story by robert dunn , 
crown publishers , inc. , new york , 1952 

another eyewitness account of the same genocide by an american 
officer .  . 

4. from to serves and by aharonian , 
the armenian review magazine , volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) through 17 
 ( spring 1964) 

memoirs of the chief armenian delegate to the paris peace conference 
were published in the armenian review magazine in 13 articles from 
volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) to volume 17  ( spring 1964) .  . these memoirs 
include an interview between aharonian and british foreign minister 
lord curzon in which above mentioned genocide was discussed .  . the 
official report mentioned by lord curzon is the report of british 
high commissioner to , sir oliver  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jack love ) 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
organization usr local trn lib organization 
lines 33 
nntp posting host ra . itd . umich . edu . 

in article  ( tim clock) writes 
this issue has been going on for a while and your presentation here of 
just one reference probably wo n't resolve this issue to those that 
oppose your insistence that mosques were destroyed .  . even in your 
location of this one reference , you spend most of your quote dealing 
with an incidence that , while , has nothing to do with the 
issue at hand here. then , at the end of the quote , there is an almost 
off hand comment that two mosques were destroyed .  . 

to support a claim of this nature , what other authors support this 
incident if identifiable mosques were destroyed they are certainly 
identifiable , they have names and addresses  ( steet  . the 
comment by one reporter does make us wonder if this happened but 
by no means proves it. 

there is no doubt that israeli authorities ordered the destruction of 
mosques in the vicinity of the wailing wall. that does not mean , 
however , that once can generalize from this to any other points. the 
entire plaza , mosques and all , was cleared to make it possible for jews 
to have a place to worship in the place that was holiest to many of 
them , and which had been denied to them for millenia .  . 

on the other hand , throughout the rest of jerusalem and israel , to the 
best of my knowledge , israeli authorities have avoided 
damage to any islamic religious sites. this contrasts with the policies 
of previous regimes which destroyed jewish synagogues out of hate and 
bigotry .  . 




jack f. love opinions expressed are mine alone. 
 ( unless you happen to agree . ) . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re baltic states and realism and   drivel 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 127 

in article  ( stuart sechrest ) writes 

memoirs of an armenian army officer translated to english and 
published by a member of american near east relief organization. 
gives the whole account of the genocide of all turkish and moslem 
people in armenia organized and executed by armenian government and 
army .  . also gives account of countless other massacres and atrocities 
against the turkish people in armenia .  . 

actually , it is leonard r as in hartill .  . 

ditto .  . 

source men are like that by leonard hartill .  . the bobbs merrill 
company , indianapolis (1926) .  .  ( 305 pages) .  . 
 ( memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people) 

but , as you point out so often , there is no use arguing with easily 
verified facts 

the turks had solved the armenian problem in turkey by 
or driving the armenians out of the country , so we now proceeded 
to solve the tartar problem in armenia .  . we closed the roads and 
mountain passes that might serve as ways of escape for the tartars , 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . '' . 

ohanus , from l. r. hartill , are like that , '' 
the bobbs merrill company , london , 1928 .  . p. 202 .  . 

you have set up straw horses and knocked them down. i'm not impressed. 
let us ask armenian scholars shall we 


source k. s. , patriotism perverted , press , boston , 1934 .  . 

pp. 17 18. 

it seems that terrorism against their own co nationals has been a prominent 
part of the revolutionary activities of the leaders of the caucasus .  . 
organized to fight the turks , these chieftains have been more successful 
in their fight against their armenian opponents in turkey , and the caucasus , 
very often defenseless and innocent .  . 

p. 25. 

we were defeated . 

p. 38 .  . 

the fact remains , however , that the leaders of the turkish armenian section 
of the did not carry out their promise of loyalty to the 
turkish cause when the turks entered the war .  .  . and . a call was sent for 
armenian volunteers to fight the turks on the caucasian front. 

p. 38 .  . 

thousands of armenians from all over the world , flocked to the standards of 
such famous fighters as , kery , dro , etc. the armenian volunteer 
regiments rendered valuable service to the russian army in the years of 
1914 15 16. 


by the way , here is the entire paragraph .  . 

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

ohanus 
men are like that 
p. 202 .  . 

now wait , there is more. 

1) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of van .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 
2) armenians did slaughter 42 of muslim population of bitlis .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
3) armenians did slaughter 31 of muslim population of erzurum .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
4) armenians did slaughter 26 of muslim population of diyarbakir .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
5) armenians did slaughter 16 of muslim population of mamuretulaziz .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
6) armenians did slaughter 15 of muslim population of sivas .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
7) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of the x soviet 
armenia .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
8) .  .  .  .  . 

1 mccarthy , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman 
anatolia and the end of the empire , new york 
university press , new york , 1983 , pp. 133 144 .  . 

2 , k. , ottoman population , the university of wisconsin press , 
1985 .  . 

3 , r. g. , armenia on the road to independence , 1918 .  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and 
los angeles ) , 1967 , pp. 13 , 37 .  . 

4 shaw , s. j. ,  on armenian collaboration with invading russian armies 
in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey 
 ( volume ii reform , revolution republic the rise of 
modern turkey , 1808 1975) .  .  ( london , cambridge university 
press 1977) .  . pp. 315 316 .  . 

5  ( armenian newspaper published in the united states) , may 24 , 
1915 .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the criminal acts of the x soviet armenian government come directly .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 78 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

serdar , 

the above explained propaganda which certainly has nothing to do with 
the true facts is also today the main source of asala sdpa arf terrorists  
illegal activities that still try to make money out of the bodies of 
the innocent victims of the turkish genocide .  . 

the criminal acts of the x soviet armenian government come directly 
under the scope of the convention on genocide adopted by the general 
assembly of the united nations on december 8 , 1948 , containing the 
following provisions 

the contracting parties , having considered the declaration made 
by the general assembly of the united nations in its resolution 
95 (1) dated december 11 , 1946 , that genocide is a crime under 
international law , contrary to the spirit and aims of the united 
nations and condemned by the civilized world 

recognizing that in all periods of history genocide has inflicted 
great losses on humanity and 

being convinced that , in order to liberate mankind from such odious 
scourge , international cooperation is required 

members agree as provided 

article 1. the contracting parties confirm that genocide , whether 
committed in time of peace or in time of war , is a crime under 
international law which they undertake to prevent and to punish .  . 

article 2. in the present convention genocide means any of the 
following acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or 
in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as 
such 

a) killing member of the group 
b) causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group 
c) deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life 
calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole 
or in part 
d ) imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group 
e) forcibly transferring children of the group to another group 

article 3. the following acts shall be punishable 

a) genocide 
b) conspiracy to commit genocide 
c) direct and public incitement to commit genocide 
d ) attempt to commit genocide .  . 

article 4. persons committing genocide or any of the other acts 
enumerated in article 3 shall be punished , whether they are 
constitutionally responsible rulers , public officials or private 
individuals .  . 

had the convention on genocide existed before the armenian 
massacres of the turks and kurds , it would probably have been 
difficult for the x soviet armenian government and its 
to start murdering of civilian , defenseless , faithful ottoman 
citizens , children and women ,  ( genocide and attempt to genocide ) , 
to make plans to exterminate , as they have done also to 
and jews , faithful ottoman citizens  ( conspiracy to commit genocide ) , 
to armenians to armed revolt against the legal authority 
and to commit genocide ,  ( direct and public incitement to commit 
 . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



reply to 
from d. c. sessions 
organization nobody but me really 
x tmail version 1 . 20r . 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
distribution world 
lines 45 

in ,  ( jack love ) wrote 

in article  ( tim clock) writes 
this issue has been going on for a while and your presentation here of 
just one reference probably wo n't resolve this issue to those that 
oppose your insistence that mosques were destroyed .  . even in your 
location of this one reference , you spend most of your quote dealing 
with an incidence that , while , has nothing to do with the 
issue at hand here. then , at the end of the quote , there is an almost 
off hand comment that two mosques were destroyed .  . 

to support a claim of this nature , what other authors support this 
incident if identifiable mosques were destroyed they are certainly 
identifiable , they have names and addresses  ( steet  . the 
comment by one reporter does make us wonder if this happened but 
by no means proves it. 

there is no doubt that israeli authorities ordered the destruction of 
mosques in the vicinity of the wailing wall. that does not mean , 
however , that once can generalize from this to any other points. the 
entire plaza , mosques and all , was cleared to make it possible for jews 
to have a place to worship in the place that was holiest to many of 
them , and which had been denied to them for millenia .  . 

on the other hand , throughout the rest of jerusalem and israel , to the 
best of my knowledge , israeli authorities have avoided 
damage to any islamic religious sites. this contrasts with the policies 
of previous regimes which destroyed jewish synagogues out of hate and 
bigotry .  . 

or , for that matter , with the usa .  . around here , nobody 
freeways to avoid churches , synagogues , and so forth. they just 
get condemned , paid off , and the road goes through. the same is 
standard policy for any number of other public projects schools 
and sports arenas being only two examples .  . 

anticipating the objection that the cases are n't comparable how 
not the wall has to count as the 1 tourist attraction in that 
part of the world making room for the traffic would be a twenty 
second decision for any city council i ever heard of. 

d. c. sessions speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of tmail  ( dos mail news shell) 

from  ( red herring ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host vishnu . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma 
lines 34 

in article  ( javed ahmed khan) writes 
in article ,  ( satya 
prabhakar ) writes 
s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 

in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 

war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 


i dont think you 're correct here. there have been no reports of the bosnians 
muslims supporting the nazis in their genocide against the serbians .  . the fact is 
that the croat govt. using their secret police  ( called the , i think) 
were the prime agents of the nazis in yugoslavia against the serbs .  . 

13th ss divison , made of bosnian muslim volunteers , did quite 
a job in the former yugoslavia during wwii .  . these folks are now in 
their 60 's 70 's .  . makes me wonder how many of them occupy positions 
of power in bosnia 's goverment .  . 


from (c .  . akgun ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host troy . cc . bellcore . com . 
organization bcr , nj usa 
lines 41 

in article (gerald olchowy ) writes 

it is easy for sen. biden to say that when there are no us troops in 
or or  .  .  . 

the existing un policy may be wrong , but the us wants 
to dictate policy , and make europe responsible for the consequences 
of that policy .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . bosnia . is a big enough problem for the us to preach about what 
other countries should be doing with their forces .  .  . but . its forces 
are safely away at home in the us. 

gerald 


look nobody asked those countries about their un forces 
to be on the ground. they can take their forces which are 
and ineffective at the first place. and let whoever are 
willing to do the job what it takes .  . how anyone can defend this 
stinking un force on the ground who let the pm 
yanked out from the un vehicle and being shot by the serbian 
military how anyone can defend this un force who are just watching 
the shelling on cities and towns everyday how anyone can 
defend and say those stinking un forces being effective 
when bosnian had almost 14 , 000 children casualties between 5 14 age 
groups i think talking about the current un forces to bosnian 
muslims is just an insult to their casualties .  . 

i think senator biden said it all what has to be said on this issue. 
europe is a sad place to criticize human rights in anywhere in this 
world. like biden said , they are the bigots when it comes to 
cultural difference and closer to their home. 
because they get rid of their minorities long long time 
ago starting in 15th centuries .  . and they let adolph 
to take care of the rest in 20th century. but he was much more 
naughty than they expected because he dared to step many 
toes. so , why spoil the good thing now when serbs doing today what 
they were thinking the same yesterday. 

c. akgun 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject your armenian grandparents admitted their unspeakable crimes then. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 283 

in article  ( artavazd khachikian ) writes 

this machine of continues to swing .  . mr. argic mutlu co 
is still functioning i was surprised to find it out when i finally 
looked at this newsgroup .  . 

and this is just the beginning. fascist x soviet armenian government will 
not get away with the genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds , and 204 , 000 
azeri people. your criminal grandparents committed unheard of crimes , 
resorted to all conceivable methods of despotism , organized massacres , 
poured petrol over babies and burned them , raped women and girls in front 
of their parents who were bound hand and foot , took girls from their 
mothers and fathers and appropriated personal property and real estate .  . 
and today , they put azeris in the most unbearable conditions any other 
nation had ever known in history. 

your fascist grandparents admitted their unspeakable crimes then. 
why deny them now now the genocide of the truth by the criminal nazi 
armenians not a chance. 


source men are like that by leonard hartill .  . the bobbs merrill 
company , indianapolis (1926) .  .  ( 305 pages) .  . 
 ( memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people) 

foreword 

for example , we were camped one night in a half ruined tartar mosque , 
the most building of a destroyed village , near the border 
of persia and russian armenia .  . during the course of evening i asked 
ohanus if he could tell me anything of the history of the village and 
the cause of its destruction .  . in his matter of fact way he replied , yes , 
i assisted in its sack and destruction , and witnessed the of 
those whose bones you saw to day scattered among its ruins .  . 

p. 202  ( first and second  . 

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops surrounded village after village .  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our artillery knocked the huts 
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets 
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
into turkey .  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the borderland of russian armenia from to 
from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
tartar villages .  . they are quiet now , those villages , except for 
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
scattered bones of the dead. 

p. 15  ( second paragraph) .  . 

the tartars were , for the most part , poor. some of them lived in villages 
and cultivated small farms many of them continued in the way of life of 
their nomadic  . they drove their flocks and herds from valley 
to valley , from plain to mountain , and from mountain to plain , following 
the as it changed with the seasons .  . they ranged from the salt 
desert shores of the caspian sea far into the mighty caucasus mountains .  . 
even the village tartars are a primitive people , only  . 

i can see now that we armenians frankly despised the tartars , and , while 
holding a disproportionate share of the wealth of the country , regarded and 
treated them as  . the fact that the russians looked down upon all 
armenians in much the same way as armenians regarded tartars , far from proving 
a bond between ourselves and our racially different neighbors , intensified 
an attitude and conduct on our part that served only to exacerbate hostility .  . 

p. 20  ( second paragraph) .  . 

our men armed themselves , gathered together and advanced on the tartar 
section of the village .  . there were no lights in the houses and the doors 
were barred , for the tartars suspected what as to happen and were in great 
fear. our men hammered on the doors , but got no response whereupon they 
smashed in the doors and began a carnage that continued until the last 
tartar was slain .  . throughout the hideous night , i at home in terror , 
unable to shut my ears to the piercing screams of the helpless victims and 
the loud shouts of our men. by morning the work was finished. 

p. 109  ( second paragraph) .  . 

as things were , the members of the party were without administrative 
experience consequently the government they instituted quickly proved itself 
incompetent to rule by legitimate means. 

the members of the government had been revolutionists working in secret and 
outside the law. when they became a legally instituted , recognized governing 
body with the destiny of armenia in their hands , they proved incompetent to 
do better than resume the terrorist tactics that had characterized their 
fight against the russian and turkish governments in their outlaw days. 

the outstanding feature of their rule , now that they were in power , was , 
as in the old days , trial and execution without hearing .  . a man 
the displeasure of the government or of some official would be tried and 
condemned without arrest or preference of charges against him. the method 
of execution was for a government   to walk up behind the 
condemned man in his home or on the street , place a pistol to the back 
of his head and blow out his brains .  . this simple way of getting rid of 
those who were undesirable in the view of the government and soon became 
a common way of paying debts .  . 

p. 203  ( first paragraph) .  . 

a soldier succeeded in driving his bayonet through the tartar .  . i saw the 
point of the weapon emerge through his back.  .  .  . another . soldier seized a rock 
and pounded the tartar 's head with it .  .  .  . the armenian who had bayoneted him 
sprang to his feet , the weapon from the tartar 's body , and , raising 
it to his lips , it clean of blood , exclaiming in russian ,  ! 
! ' ) . 

p. 203  ( second paragraph) .  . 

one evening i passed through what had been a tartar village .  . among the 
ruins a fire was burning .  . i went to the fire and saw seated about 
it a group of soldiers .  . among them were two tartar girls , mere children. 
the girls were on the ground , crying softly with suppressed 
sobs .  . lying scattered over the ground were broken household and 
other furnishings of tartar peasant homes. there were also bodies of the 
dead. 

p. 204  ( first paragraph) .  . 

i was soon asleep. in the night i was awakened by the persistent crying of 
a child. i arose and went to investigate .  . a full moon enabled me to make 
my way about and revealed to me all the wreck and litter of the tragedy 
that had been enacted .  . guided by the child 's crying , i entered the yard of 
a house , which i judged from its appearance must have been the home of a 
turkish family. there in a corner of the yard i found a women dead. her 
throat had been cut. lying on her breast was a small child , a girl about a 
year old. 

p. 118 .  . 

slowly the train of along through the snow , the cart 
and the loads  . boys ran along the line of oxen , encouraging 
them with shrill tartar cries , and belaboring the beasts with sticks .  . in the 
carts , the women , veiled as is the tartar way , held children in their arms. 
wrapped in blankets and huddled among the goods that burdened the carts they 
sought protection from the wind and cold. a few old men plodded along on foot. 

across the road through the a barrier had been thrown .  . the leading 
reached this barrier and halted .  . the gunmen and other 
concealed among the rocks opened fire. women and children leaped and 
scrambled from the carts , screamed , ran and sought vainly for safety. 

this massacre was not complete. the armenian soldiers in the near by 
barracks , hearing the firing and the turmoil , hurried to the scene .  .  .  .  . 
that same day the abandoned tartar quarter of was 
and completely destroyed .  . 

p. 192 .  . 

great swarms of peasants who had come out of their hiding places on the 
retreat of the turks followed our army as it advanced .  .  .  .  . they entered 
into the city with the army and immediately began plundering the stores 
that had been left by the turks .  . 

p. 193 .  . 

terrible vengeance was taken upon tartars , kurds and turks .  . their villages 
were destroyed and they themselves were slain or driven out of the country. 

p. 195 .  . 

the fanatical hated the turks above all others and then in order 
of diminishing intensity tartars , kurds and russians .  . 

p. 218 .  .  ( first and second paragraphs ) 

russian troops did terrible things in the turkish villages .  .  . we . armenians 
did not spare the tartars .  .  .  . if . persisted in , the slaughtering of prisoners , 
the looting , and the rape and massacre of the helpless become commonplace 
actions expected and accepted as a matter of course. 

i have been on the scenes of massacres where the dead lay on the ground , 
in numbers , like the fallen leaves in a forest .  . they had been as helpless 
and as defenseless as sheep .  . they had not died as soldiers die in the 
heat of battle , fired with ardor and courage , with weapons in their hands , 
and exchanging blow for blow .  . they had died as the helpless must , with 
their hearts and brains bursting with horror worse than death itself. 

p. 133  ( first paragraph) 

in this movement we took with us three thousand turkish soldiers who 
had been captured by the russians and left on our hands when the russians 
abandoned the struggle .  . during our retreat to two thousand of 
these poor devils were cruelly put to death. i was sickened by the 
brutality displayed , but could not make any effective protest .  . some , 
mercifully , were shot. many of them were burned to death. the method 
employed was to put a quantity of straw into a hut , and then after 
crowding the hut with turks , set fire to the straw .  . 

p. 19  ( first paragraph) 

the tartar section of the town no longer existed , except as a pile of 
ruins .  . it had been destroyed and its inhabitants slaughtered .  . the same 
fate befell the tartar section of khankandi .  . 

p. 22  ( second paragraph) 

many of our men had served in the russian army , and were trained soldiers .  . 
we armenians were rich and possessed arms. tartars had never received 
military training. they were poor , and possessed few arms beyond knives .  . 
 .  .  . shortly . after the killing of the tartars in our village , the revolution 
in russia was suppressed .  . 

p. 97  ( third paragraph) 

within a few years , following the beginning of the movement , an invisible 
government of armenians by armenians had been established in turkish 
armenia in armed opposition to the turkish government. this secret 
government had its own courts and laws and an army of assassins called 
   ( professional killers ) to enforce its decrees .  . 

p. 98  ( first paragraph) 

the were in continual open rebellion against the turkish 
government. 

p. 98  ( third paragraph) 

 .  .  . the . engineered a general revolt of armenians in turkish 
armenia under the mistaken belief that european nations would intervene 
and secure independence for turkish armenia .  . 

p. 99  ( second paragraph) 

the were fanatics .  . 

p. 99  ( third paragraph) 

the took advantage of this situation and extended their 
revolutionary activities into the russian province .  . they instituted 
a campaign of terrorism and employed threats and force in securing 
contributions to the party funds from rich armenians .  . a wealthy 
man would be assessed a stipulated sum .  . refusal to pay brought upon 
him a sentence of death. 

every member of the party was pledged to carry out orders without 
question. if a man were to be assassinated , lots might be drawn to 
select an executioner or the job might be assigned to one of the 
  of the party. 

p. 130  ( first paragraph) 

 .  .  . in . moments of victory against turks and kurds or tartars , they 
armenians have been remorseless in seeking vengeance .  . 

p. 130  ( third paragraph) 

the city was a scene of confusion and terror .  . during the early days of 
the war , when the russian troops invaded turkey , large numbers of the 
turkish population abandoned their homes and fled before the russian 
advance. 

p. 159  ( second paragraph) 

i made a cannon , a huge gun to lift which required four men. i made balls 
for it. with my cannon the armenians could knock down any of the tartar 
houses and so they were able to drive the tartars out. 

p. 181  ( first paragraph) 

the tartar villages were in ruins .  . 

p. 189  ( third paragraph) 

the dead tartar lay with his head in a pool of mud and blood , his 
beard still and now  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( friedman ishay ) 
subject re uva 
organization wilfrid laurier university 
lines 14 

in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
a few things about the university .  . it is more fun than some may 
admit .  . does go on and it has consistently been ranked 
one of playboy 's top party schools. but we do study and more 



what kind of ranking system is used 







from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
nntp posting host bellini . berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley erl 
lines 45 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
3) if i decided to go back to the land from which my relatives had been 
expelled 2000 years ago , but first i convert to any other religion , can i 
apply to the law of return as a member of the jewish nation or should i 
apply as someone whose mother is jewish 

i'm not sure about this but i hope the answer is that you ca n't apply under 
the law of return. by conversion , you 've elected not to be a part of the 
jewish nation .  . 


5) what has change in me between the day before and the day after i converted 
to loose my being part of the jewish nation 

at the moment you converted , you officially to the world that you do not 
consider yourself to be part of the jewish nation .  . so , why should the jewish nation 
consider you to be a member 


suppose my father is arab .  . suppose he was born in palestine , in some place 
which now is part of israel .  . suppose that his father , and his grandfather as 
well as 20 or 30 generations before him were born in that place. 
now suppose there is a war of independence and my father , scared by all the 
fighting going on , tries to take his family to a place more secure , among 
people he knows , who speak a language he understands , who worship the same 
god. now , suppose that that place is some other arab country. 
and , now suppose that the war is over and that there is a new country created 
where my father used to live , and that that country is called israel .  . 
and , that in that country , jews from all over the world are received. and 
that people whose family left thet country 200 generation ago are recieved and 
granted full citizenship .  . 
should i , if i decided to go back to my father 's land , where he was born as 
20 or 30 generations of my family were born , have the right to go back and 
ask to be recognized in the same way those who are returning after 2000 
years 

no. as a result of wars brought by the arabs against the jews in an attempt to 
annihilate israel , the arabs have lost their claim to land there. attacking israel 
is was illegal and they now have to pay the price. do i feel sorry for the 
palestinians yes i do. but i blame the arab nations for their problems , not 
israel .  . 


adam schwartz 


from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 12 

it is all so changed by now. but in case any of you is 
interested in what i actually said , i never compared the 
israeli treatment of the palestinians with the holocaust .  . 
anyway that is the truth if it matters. i was about to forget 
about it myself since everyone started calling me anti semitic 
for making the comparison that i never made. what i did say was 
that the nazis did n't start with the holocaust and their 
initial actions were similar to what the israelis are doing now. 
the jews that were stranded on the polish border since 
no country accepted them are like the arabs stranded on the 
border .  . no trials , no hearing , just expulsion based on 
guilt due to race. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the armenians did not form a distinct race. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 147 

in article  ( erdem erginel ) writes 

my question is , given so many separations in the armenian community , what 
was the common denominator of the armenian people that allowed armenian 
nationalism to emerge in the nineteenth century as i stated , religion 

there are various contradictory views on the origin of the armenians .  . 
the name is to be found in the inscriptions in the form   
or   is to be found in the inscription on the monument .  . 
the following references to the armenians are to be found in the 
inscription of  ( 510 b . c . ) .  . 

1. the monarch said i sent my servant to  . 

6. on reaching  . 

7. to the country town of , to  . 

according to 

as for  armenia  , the equivalent of the   or   of the persians , 
this is more recent than the word  ararat  , and is to be found used in 
the inscriptions for  . 

saint martin 

the name  armenie  has been given since very early times by almost all 
the various eastern peoples to the territory referred to by the armenians 
as  . it was known to the syrians as armenia and to the arabs 
as  . 

others believe that urartu was known in the time of the medes as   
which was later modified by the persians to  .  ar  refers to a 
place , as in ararat , , , , , and , 
while  men  is used to refer to spirit , thought or human being , and 
therefore  armen  would appear to signify 'the people of that  . 

g. believes that  according to our national vocabulary 
is the form of hai , and that hai is the name of our 
nation .  . our nation is in no way connected with the word armen that 
foreigners apply to our people . ' . 

it would thus appear that  armenia  is a place name , that  armen  is 
the name of the people who lived there , and that these are in no way 
connected with the word  . 

and 

armenian historians believe to have been a great hero from whom 
the armenian people took the name  . but the mere resemblance 
between the words   and  hai  constitutes no real proof , and , 
in any case , no such theory appears before the time of moses of 
 . 



the following studies show quite clearly that  hai  and   were 
no more than general names used by the to refer to the 
region known as armenia .  . 

professor  was the general name used in 
inscriptions for upper armenia . ' . 

, in his  and armenians  tries to prove that  hai  is 
identical with the   , in other words that  hai  is a 
word. research , however , has proved this erroneous , and shown 
that  hai  was derived from  . 

's attempt to read the urartu inscriptions as armenian met with 
no success. as for greek , there is no point in even mentioning it. 

the resemblance between the words   and   is so obvious 
that we may well accept   as the oldest form of  . 

let us now cast a brief glance on how the words  hai  ,   and 
  entered our older works. 

according to 

'the word is never to be found employed with reference to a 
leader of the armenian people prior to moses of , nor is it 
ever found employed in the forms or . 

and use the word as a title or a place name  ( he 
improved and developed , etc . ) .  . if the word had referred 
to a nation and had been derived from hai or they could 
also have used the words and in a number of 
places . ' . 

according to professor , who deciphered a number of 
inscriptions 

 in the language the suffix ha is used to specify quality 
or species .  . the words , were used by the 
assyrians to refer to the  . with the transformation of the 
d between the two a letters to y was in this 
way transformed to ' .  . 

professor fully agrees with this point of view , but regards 
the significance and explanation so far accorded to the terms  hai  
and   as quite unsatisfactory .  . he finds , however , that a 
solution to this problem is brought nearer by the name   
which is so frequently found in from 1400 b.c. onwards .  . 
takes   as referring to upper armenia .  . in that case 
it seems likely that   was actually a part of armenia .  . the 
suffix dan is of anatolian origin .  . the real root is   , which 
refers to the country of the  . 

e. writes as follows on the subject of the 
and anthropological characteristics of the armenian people. 

the armenians in russia may be characterized as follows almost 
all of them are or , very dark , 
above average height , an asian group with close ties 
with certain kurdish tribes and azerbaijan peoples .  . 

according to j. 

from the point of view , the armenian and kurds may be 
regarded as belonging to the iranian group .  .  . the . armenians are 
descended from various elements and from a very mixed race. their 
average height varies between 1.63 and 1.69 according to the region. 
they are almost always short headed , with skull measurements of 
85 87 .  . as a race they belong to the indo afghan assyrian turkic 
family. 

professor rene writes as follows 

the armenians are a mixture of semites , turk , kurds and mongols , 
but some of them display armenian features , e.g. , height a little 
above average , fair complexion , dark hair , dark eyes , very often 
a hooked nose and a rather wide mouth. 

investigations carried out by n. on the links between 
armenian blood groups and their anthropological characteristics 
led him to the conclusion that the armenians did not form a 
distinct race. 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from (gerald olchowy ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization university of toronto chemistry department 
lines 40 

in article morris  ( jay morris ) writes 

i also understand that the administration is planning to position 
troops in macedonia .  . any reaction out there to this 


macedonia said yesterday it had neither requested or needs such 
forces .  . 

this is sort of like sending the national guard to bel air when 
the riot is in south central ! 

obviously , clinton is again trying to make policy for image purposes 
in america rather than to try to deal with the real problem and 
assume a share of responsibility for the problem. he obviously 
did n't even consult with the macedonians .  .  . he . was just looking at 
the map of the former yugoslavia for the safest place to put 
american troops so he could say to the europeans .  .  . hey . , look , we 
have troops on the ground in the former yugoslavia too .  .  . now . let 
me bomb so i can make it look like i am doing something in the 
american media. 

the problem is that the blue in bosnia are dead meat if 
clinton starts bombing , but clinton does n't have the courage to 
ask that the blue leave , because then he becomes primarily 
responsible to the bosnian policy of the un and the allies .  . 
clinton wants to have his cake and eat it too .  .  . he . wants to feel 
free to use american military power for the sake of domestic 
us politics and his domestic image , but he does n't want to assume 
the primary international leadership role in the un and among 
the allies , like bush , for all his faults , did in the gulf war .  .  .  . 
because with leadership comes responsibility , and clinton seems 
to want to retain the europeans as scapegoats .  . 

clinton wants to leave the europeans in charge and responsible , 
but wants to on the side .  .  . and . if his gets 
too hot , he wants to be able to cut and run .  .  . the . american public may 
be easily fooled .  .  . european . leaders are n't .  . 

gerald 

from (steven berson ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
nntp posting host surya . cs . ucla . edu . 
organization ucla , computer science department 
lines 17 

( andi beyer ) writes 

virginia.edu is true to its founding father , thomas 
jefferson the author of the bill of rights , in allowing freedom 
of speach .  . sorry you guys in israel have a hard time with the 
concept. 

jefferson was not the author of the bill of rights. my history 
books are n't here , but jefferson might have been in the group 
that did not think that enumerating rights was necessary. 
cheers , 
steve 


steven berson ucla computer science department (310) 825 3189 
los angeles , ca 90024 1596 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re die zeit the massacre of turkish cypriots in and  . 
organization zuma 
distribution world 
lines 83 

in article (james tsillas ) writes 

i got some e mail on this topic and decided to do some more reading. i 
thought it would be nice to share my response with everyone 

how about the following scholarly source 

source pierre , the road to the turkish cypriot 
exodus to northern cyprus , social science monographs , boulder , 
1982 , isbn 000 7. 

well , according to a book by c . m . woodhouse . i 've read it looks like the 
situation was much more complicated than either of us suggest .  . needless 
to say nationalism on both the greek and turkish side was strong and 
began in april of '74 with confrontations over the  ( as usual ) 
between the government in turkey and the ioannidis junta .  . 
in july 15 an assasination attempt against makarios  ( then president of 
cyprus ) plotted by ioannidis , ruling dictator in greece , fails and 
makarios flees to england .  . the journalist nicos sampson takes over in a 
coup led by the greek officers in the cyprus national guard. turkish 
forces which had been mobilized in anticipation begin landing on the 
north shore of the island on 20th of july .  . this caused the welcomed 
collapse of the dictatorship the 24th with mr. returning from 

well , i am forced to disagree with you. the greeks started massacring 
the turkish population on cyprus in 1974 .  . in 1974 , turkiye stepped into 
cyprus to preserve the lives of the turkish population there. this is 
nothing but a simple historical fact. unfortunately , the intervention 
was too late at least for some of the victims .  . mass graves containing 
numerous bodies of women and children already showed what fate had been 
planned for a peaceful minority .  . 

the people of turkiye know quite well that greece and the greek cypriots 
will never abandon the idea of cyprus and will remain 
eternally hopeful of uniting it with greece , someday , whatever the 
cost to the parties involved. the history speaks for itself. greece was 
the sole perpetrator of invasion on that island when it sent its troops 
on july 15 , 1974 in an attempt to topple the legitimate government of 
makarios .  . 

the release of nikos sampson , a member of national organization 
of cypriot fighters and a convicted terrorist , shows that the 
  mentality continues to survive in greece .  . one should not 
forget that sampson dedicated his life to annihilating the turks 
in cyprus , committed murder to achieve this goal , and tried to 
destroy the island 's independence by annexing it to greece .  . of 
course , the greek governments will have to bear the consequences 
for this irresponsible conduct .  . 

turkish cypriots are simply seeking guarantees that will preclude a 
repeat performance by the fanatical of the greeks   . if 
such assurances are not perfectly implemented , there is every reason 
to expect that the local greeks will be misguided enough to perpetrate 
their past mistakes. on such an occasion , the turkish side may not find 
it satisfactory to act with reluctance to go any further than before , 
for it is unacceptable to remain always defensive against cyclical 
vicious attacks .  . therefore it would be better to have a true federation 
of two separate sections living in obligatory peace , rather than another 
armed confrontation that would be started by the greeks and 
but decisively terminated by the turks .  . 

the present greek government is trying to the turkish population 
in western thrace by forbidding it its ethnic and religious rights , which 
were established through international treaties .  . one might be better 
advised to remember that against turkiye do not serve 
greece well. 

an offer of membership in the european common market as bait for concessions 
that may doom the turks in cyprus to extinction is not a viable course for 
greece or her friends. neither turkish lives nor turkish honor has been 
placed on the bidding block to be sold for commercial gain .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 76 

in article  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 

i do n't have the idea what literature it is to which you 
refer .  . is this an explicit statement by some document or is it your 
interpretation of statements in such literature or is this a figment 
of your imagination or a nazi armenian propaganda movie script in 
any case , a fascinating piece of analysis. here are the facts 


source walker , christopher armenia the survival of a nation .  . 
new york (st .  . martin 's press) , 1980 .  . 

this generally pro armenian work contains the following information 
of direct relevance to the nazi holocaust 

a) dro (the butcher) , the former dictator of x soviet armenia and the 
architect of the genocide of 2.5 million muslims , the most respected 
of nazi armenian leaders , established an armenian provisional republic 
in berlin during world war ii 

b) this  provisional government  fully endorsed and espoused the social 
theories of the nazis , declared themselves and all armenians to be members 
of the aryan  super race ' 

c) they published an anti semitic , racist journal , thereby aligning themselves 
with the nazis and their efforts to exterminate the jews and , 

d ) they mobilized an armenian army of up to 30 , 000 members which fought side 
by side with the wehrmacht .  . 


in fact , by 1942 , nazi armenians in europe had established a vast 
network of pro german collaborators , that extended over two continents .  . 
thousands of armenians were serving the german army and waffen ss in 
russia and western europe .  . armenians were involved in espionage and 
fifth column activities for hitler in the balkans and arabian peninsula .  . 
they were promised an  independent  state under german  protection  in 
an agreement signed by the  armenian national council . ' . (a copy of 
this agreement can be found in the  congressional record , ' november 1 , 
1945 see document 1 . ) . on this side of the atlantic , nazi armenians 
were aware of their brethrens alliance .  . they had often expressed 
pro nazi sentiments until america entered the war. 


in 1941 , while the jews were being assembled for their doom in the nazi 
concentration camps , the nazi armenians in germany formed the first 
armenian battalion to fight alongside the nazis .  . in 1943 , this battalion 
had grown into eight battalions of 30 , 000 strong under the command of dro 
(the butcher) , who was the former dictator of x soviet armenia and the 
architect of the cold blooded genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds 
between 1914 1920. an armenian national council was formed by the notorious 
party leaders in berlin , which was recognized by the nazis .  . encouraged 
by this , the armenians summarily formed a provisional government that endorsed 
and espoused fully the principles of the nazis and declared themselves as the 
members of the aryan super race and full participants to hitler 's policy of 
extermination of the jews .  . 

this armenian nazi conspiracy against the jews during wwii was an encore 
performance staged by the armenians during wwi , when they back stabbed and 
exterminated 2.5 million muslims by colluding with the invading russian army .  . 


serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( tim clock) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 28 

in article (steven berson ) writes 
 ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

... mr. mamaysky 's proposal to forbid any action which serves to promote a 
morally incorrect action omitted for brevity ... 

i prefer the freedom granted in the first amendment of the us 
constitution to an arbitrary definition of universal morality .  . 

society is impossible without some shared set of moralities , sense 
of what is god and what is bad action and basic foundation of 
something universal . 

steve 
p.s. i can elaborate in e mail if this is n't clear 
p.p.s. i'm very sorry about misspelling your name 


steven berson ucla computer science department (310) 825 3189 
los angeles , ca 90024 1596 




tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re mosque in jewish quarter  ( was re israeli destruction of .  .  . ) . 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 33 

i always believed the statement  those who do not know their history 
are condemned to repeat it  ( will durant ) , but i am beginning to 
believe the opposite is true. 

here in t . p . m . and in other newsgroups it seems that history is 
mainly remembered to hatred or to be used as a club. in the 
history of my own people there are ample acts of shame , both done 
by my people and done to my people. since i was not party to any 
of those acts , i refuse to accept blame for the evil acts that my 
ancestors committed , nor do i direct hatred toward the descendants 
of those who committed evil acts against my ancestors .  . 

will all of this discussion rebuild a single mosque will it rebuild 
the temple somehow i doubt that it will. 

a post in another group , on the bosnian war , asked us all to love 
each other , that love would conquer hate. sadly , i remember a tv 
interview with a young woman in sarajevo (sp ) who was as i remember , 
a former olympic calibre contestant in the rifle shoot. she was now 
trying to pick off serbian snipers .  . during the communist years she 
had married a serb , who was now fighting against her people. so it 
seems that hate will conquer love. 

is there an odd chance that we might all forget past wrongs and try 
and see how we might all live together it 's a damn small planet , 
which we have come very close to turning into a radioactive ball , 
glowing softly in space. we seem to have been spared that prospect , 
shall we now bathe it in each other 's blood 

shalom , salam , and peace 

reb 


from  ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization computer science department , university of new mexico 
lines 34 

in article  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 
s . writes 

i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5 11 93 in the senate .  . 

the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
and calling that moral rape . 

he went on to say that the reason for that is out right religious bigotry 

actually , this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. muslims , 
in collaboration with the nazis , did to serbians after the first world 
war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of 
ethnic cleansing but just another chapter in the continuing saga 
of intense mutual hatred , destruction , ... not taking sides in this 
perpetual war does not amount to religious bigotry .  . it could just 
be helplessness with regards to bringing peace to a region that does 
not even know the meaning of the word. 




muslims helping the nazis where on earth do you come up with such 
do you have proofs if not , you should publically apologize 
for such a statement. last time i heard , the nazis themselves in 
needing no body to carry their politics and ideologies .  . and if your statment 
were true , do n't you think israel would of used it to point to what a muslim 
neighbor  ( palestine ) could do to them if they allowed it to be the jewish 
lobby and power is very strong , and if what you said is true , we would of 
heard it from them before you could come up with it. 
and you dare say that you are taking no sides ! ! 

mohammed 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject since  's grandparents slaughtered more than 600 , 000 kurds .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 216 

in article  ( raffi r kojian ) writes 

, you seem to have your nationalities mixed up. when did you become 
a spokesman for kurds 

since your criminal grandparents ruthlessly exterminated more than 
600 , 000 kurds between 1914 and 1916 in eastern anatolia .  . referring to 
notes from the personal diary of russian general l. on 
the turkish front , he wrote , 

on the nights 11 12 march , 1918 alone armenian butchers 
bayoneted and axed to death 3000 muslims in areas surrounding 
erzincan .  . these threw their victims into pits , most 
likely dug according to their sinister plans to extinguish 
muslims , in groups of 80 .  . my adjutant counted and unearthed 
200 such pits .  . this is an act against our world of civilization .  . 

on march 12 , 1918 colonel wrote (from an official 
russian account of the turkish genocide ) , 

roads leading to villages were littered with bayoneted torsos , 
dismembered joints and carved out organs of muslim peasants .  .  .  . 
alas ! mainly of women and children. 

source doc. dr. azmi , russian view on the atrocities committed 
by the armenians against the turks , ankara , ankara , 
1987 , pp. 45 53 .  . 
document no 77 , archive no 1 2 , cabin no 10 , drawer 
no 4 , file no 410 , section no 1578 , contents no 1 12 , 1 18. 
 ( acting commander of erzurum and regions and commander 
of the second erzurum artillery regiment prisoner of war , 
lieutenant colonel toverdodleyov ) 

the things i have heard and seen during the two months , until the 
liberation of erzurum by the turks , have surpassed all the 
allegations concerning the vicious , degenerate characteristic of 
the armenians .  . during the russian occupation of erzurum , no armenian 
was permitted to approach the city and its environs .  . 

while the commander of the first army corps , general remained 
in power , troops including armenian enlisted men , were not sent to the 
area. when the security measures were lifted , the armenians began to 
attack erzurum and its surroundings .  . following the attacks came the 
plundering of the houses in the city and the villages and the murder 
of the owners of these houses .  .  . plundering . was widely committed by 
the soldiers .  . this plunder was mainly committed by armenian soldiers 
who had remained in the rear during the war. 

one day , while passing through the streets on horseback , a group of 
soldiers including an armenian soldier began to drag two old men of 
seventy years in a certain direction. the roads were covered with mud , 
and these people were dragging the two helpless turks through the mud 
and dirt .  .  .  . 

it was understood later that all these were nothing but tricks and 
traps .  . the turks who joined the soon changed their minds 
and withdrew .  . the reason was that most of the turks who were on night 
patrol did not return , and no one knew what had happened to them. the 
turks who had been sent outside the city for labour began to disappear 
also. finally , the court martial which had been established for the 
trials of murderers and plunderers , began to liquidate itself for 
fear that they themselves would be punished .  . the incidents of murder 
and rape , which had decreased , began to occur more frequently .  . 

sometime in january and february , a leading turkish citizen haci 
from erzurum , was killed one night at his home. the commander 
in chief  ( odiselidge ) gave orders to find murderers within three days. 
the commander in chief has bitterly reminded the armenian intellectuals 
that disobedience among the armenian enlisted men had reached its 
highest point , that they had insulted and robbed the people and half 
of the turks sent outside the city had not returned .  . 

 .  .  . we . learnt the details this incident from the commander in chief , 
odishelidge .  . they were as follows 

the killings were organized by the doctors and the employers , and the 
act of killing was committed solely by the armenian renegades .  .  .  . 
more than eight hundred unarmed and defenceless turks have been 
killed in erzincan .  . large holes were dug and the defenceless 
turks were slaughtered like animals next to the holes. later , the 
murdered turks were thrown into the holes. the armenian who stood 
near the hole would say when the hole was filled with the corpses 
 seventy dead bodies , well , this hole can take ten more . ' . thus ten 
more turks would be cut into pieces , thrown into the hole , and when 
the hole was full it would be covered over with soil .  . 

the armenians responsible for the act of murdering would frequently 
fill a house with eighty turks , and cut their heads off one by one. 
following the erzincan massacre , the armenians began to withdraw 
towards erzurum .  .  .  . the armenian renegades among those who withdrew 
to erzurum from erzincan raided the moslem villages on the road , and 
destroyed the entire population , together with the villages .  . 

during the transportation of the cannons , ammunition and the carriages 
that were outside the war area , certain people were hired among the 
kurdish population to conduct the horse carriages .  . while the travellers 
were passing through erzurum , the armenians took advantage of the time 
when the russian soldiers were in their dwellings and began to kill 
the kurds they had hired .  . when the russian soldiers heard the cries 
of the dying kurds , they attempted to help them. however , the 
armenians threatened the russian soldiers by vowing that they would 
have the same fate if they intervened , and thus prevented them from 
acting .  . all these terrifying acts of slaughter were committed with 
hatred and loathing .  . 

lieutenant from the russian army described an incident that 
he witnessed in erzurum as follows an armenian had shot a kurd .  . the 
kurd fell down but did not die. the armenian attempted to force the 
stick in his hand into the mouth of the dying kurd .  . however , since 
the kurd had firmly closed his jaws in his agony , the armenian failed 
in his attempt .  . having seen this , the armenian ripped open the abdomen 
of the kurd , disembowelled him , and finally killed him by stamping 
him with the iron heel of his boot. 

odishelidge himself told us that all the turks who could not escape 
from the village of were killed. their heads had been cut off 
by axes .  . he also told us that he had seen thousands of murdered 
children. lieutenant colonel , who passed through the village 
of , three weeks after the massacre told us the following 

there were thousands of dead bodies hacked to pieces , on the roads .  . 
every armenian who happened to pass through these roads , cursed and 
spat on the corpses .  . in the courtyard of a mosque which was about 
25x30 meter square , dead bodies were piled to a height of 140 
centimeters .  . among these corpses were men and women of every age , 
children and old people. the women 's bodies had obvious marks of 
rape .  . the genitals of many girls were filled with gun powder .  . 

a few educated armenian girls , who worked as telephone operators 
for the armenian troops were called by lieutenant colonel 
to the courtyard of the mosque and he bitterly told them to be 
proud of what the armenians had done. to the lieutenant colonel 's 
disgusted amazement , the armenian girls started to laugh and giggle , 
instead of being horrified .  . the lieutenant colonel had severely 
reprimanded those girls for their indecent behaviour .  . when he told 
the girls that the armenians , including women , were generally more 
licentious than even the wildest animals , and that their indecent 
and shameful laughter was the most obvious evidence of their inhumanity 
and barbarity , before a scene that appalled even veteran soldiers , 
the armenian girls finally remembered their sense of shame and 
claimed they had laughed because they were nervous. 

an armenian contractor at the communication zone command 
narrated the following incident which took place on february 20 

the armenians had nailed a turkish women to the wall. they had cut 
out the women 's heart and placed the heart on top of her head. 
the great massacre in erzurum began on february 7 .  .  .  . the enlisted men 
of the artillery division caught and stripped 270 people. then they 
took these people into the bath to satisfy their lusts .  . 100 people 
among this group were able to save their lives as the result of 
my decisive attempts .  . the others , the armenians claimed , were 
released when they learnt that i understood what was going on. 
among those who organized this treacherous act was the envoy to the 
armenian officers , karagodaviev .  . today , some turks were murdered 
on the streets. 

on february 12 , some armenians have shot more than ten innocent 
moslems .  . the russian soldiers who attempted to save these people were 
threatened with death. meanwhile i imprisoned an armenian for 
murdering an innocent turk .  . 

when an armenian officer told an armenian murderer that he would 
be hanged for his crime , the killer shouted furiously  how dare 
you hang an armenian for killing a turk ' in erzurum , the 
armenians burned down the turkish market. on february 17 , i heard 
that the entire population of village , situated within 
the artillery area , had been totally annihilated .  . on the same 
day when entered erzurum , i reported the massacre to 
him , and asked him to track down the perpetrators of this horrible 
act. however no result was achieved .  . 

in the villages whose inhabitants had been massacred , there was a 
natural silence .  . on the night of 26 27 february , the armenians deceived 
the russians , perpetrated a massacre and escaped for fear of the 
turkish soldiers .  . later , it was understood that this massacre had 
been based upon a method organized and planned in a circular .  . 
the population had been herded in a certain place and then killed 
one by one. the number of murders committed on that night reached 
three thousand .  . it was the armenians who bragged to about the details 
of the massacre .  . the armenians fighting against the turkish soldiers 
were so few in number and so cowardly that they could not even 
withstand the turkish soldiers who consisted of only five hundred 
people and two cannons , for one night , and ran away. the leading 
armenians of the community could have prevented this massacre .  . 
however , the armenian intellectuals had shared the same ideas with 
the renegades in this massacre , just as in all the others. the lower 
classes within the armenian community have always obeyed the orders 
of the leading armenian figures and commanders .  . 

i do not like to give the impression that all armenian intellectuals 
were accessories to these murders .  . no , for there were people who 
opposed the armenians for such actions , since they understood that 
it would yield no result. however , such people were only a minority .  . 
furthermore , such people were considered as traitors to the armenian 
cause. some have seemingly opposed the armenian murders but have 
supported the massacres secretly .  . some , on the other hand , preferred 
to remain silent .  . there were certain others , who , when accused by 
the russians of infamy , would say the following  you are russians .  . 
you can never understand the armenian cause . ' . the armenians had a 
conscience .  . they would commit massacres and then would flee in fear 
of the turkish soldiers .  . 

the incidents that occurred only recently clearly manifest the real 
nature of the armenian ideology .  . nothing which is already done can 
be undone .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject re zionism 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization ncsu chem eng 
lines 26 


in article ,  ( adam shostack ) writes 

in article anwar  ( anwar mohammed ) writes 

organization by trying to distribute nazi propaganda .  . furthermore , 
you attempt to rationalize this through crude stereotyping by pointing 
to the wtc bombing , in which arab americans had no involvement .  . 

huh mohamed was perhaps a korean how do you claim 
arab americans had no involvement in the wtc bombing 

ok , his involvement is alleged by the fbi , which does n't seem 
to reliable these days. but honestly , there is a pile of evidence 
pointing to them , and it seems those 5 were involved. 

this does not mean that all arab americans were involved , nor 
should they be blamed for it , but denying that there were some 
arab americans involved sounds sorta silly to me. 

adam 

i do n't think any of the suspects were americans .  . consequently , they could 
not be arab americans .  . 

brad hernlem 

subject re zionism racism 
from  ( amos shapira ) 
organization inst. of comp. sci .  . , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel 
nntp posting host shuldig . cs . huji . ac . il . 
in reply to center for policy research 's message of 25 apr 93 05 27 pdt 
lines 41 

center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research cpr 
subject zionism racism 


diaspora  a cancer  
by julian and lindsay in 
jewish chronicle , london , 22. dec. 1989 

leading israeli author and cultural commentator , a.b. , 
launched a ferocious attack on diaspora jewry at a zionist youth 
council meeting in north london , last week. 

the diaspora , he claimed , was the cancer connected to the main 
tissue of the jewish people . he was scathing about its failure to 
act before the holocaust .  . 


deleted for 


jewish values in israel embraced every aspect of daily life , 
unlike in the diaspora , where jews had no responsibility for the 
country they lived in , he said. 

he warned that modern hebrew , a unifying force for the jewish 
people , would have to struggle for its future , especially in 
literary circles .  . it faced fierce competition from the english 
language. 



so 

amos 

amos shapira  ( jumper extraordinaire ) it is true that power corrupts , 
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better ! 
jerusalem , israel 
the demon to his son 

from nxt09 . cso . uiuc . edu .  ( nizam arain ) 
subject re synagogues , mosques , and double standards 
reply to 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 27 

mark ira kaufman writes 
... ... ... 
a perfect example is the outcry over the temporary removal of 
400 men who advocated murdering jews and destroying the state 
of israel , compared to the deafening silence over the abusive 
treatment of jews in arab countries during the past 50 years. 

never mind the fact that these people were denied the right to a fair trial .  . 
and israel was supposed to uphold western values , eh 

... ... ... 
i doubt if the non jewish world is even capable of having any 
compassion towards jews as anti semitism is so ancient and so 
basic to both christianity and islam .  . 

check your facts before bashing islam again. while there may be muslim 
anti semites , this is no way a tenet of the religion. saying anti semitism is 
basic to islam is the entire muslim world , based on a selective 
sampling of a few people , and it flies in the face of what islam teaches .  . 

peace. 


nizam arain what makes the universe 
(217) 384 4671 so hard to comprehend 
internet is that there is nothing 
nextmail to compare it with. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re pre columbian american population levels 
organization zuma 
distribution world 
lines 260 

in article garching . mpg . de . garching . mpg . de .  ( bruce d. scott ) writes 

you gave a good reference (please , who was the author of plymouth 
plantation ) .  . you could have given more on the travel accounts. 

radiating from someone who is incapable of providing a single scholarly 
source on his  genocide apology program' , it is rather amusing. again , 
where is your non existent list of scholars and scholarly sources 
here is mine 

an appropriate analogy with the jewish holocaust might be the 
systematic extermination of the entire muslim population of 
the independent republic of armenia which consisted of at 
least 30 40 percent of the population of that republic .  . the 
memoirs of an armenian army officer who participated in and 
eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in 
1926 with the title  men are like that . ' . other references abound .  . 
 ( rachel a. the jewish times june 21 , 1990) 


in soviet armenia today there no longer exists a single turkish soul. 
it is in our power to tear away the veil of illusion that some of us 
create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial 
life support system of an imagined  ethnic purity  that some of us 
falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats 
in this alien land. 
 ( sahak 1920 preserving the armenian purity ) 


the crime of systematic cleansing by mass killing and extermination 
of the muslim population in soviet republic of armenia , karabag , 
bosnia and herzegovina is an  islamic holocaust  comparable to the 
extermination of 2.5 million muslims by the armenian government 
during the wwi and of over 6 million european jews during the wwii .  . 
 ( tovfik azeri leader september 25 , 1992) 


today 's ethnic cleansing policies by the serbian dictatorship against 
croatians and muslims of yugoslavia , as well as the soviet republic 
of armenia 's against the muslim population of neighboring azerbaijan , 
are really no different in their aspirations than the genocide 
perpetrated by the armenian government 78 years ago against the 
turkish and kurdish muslims and sephardic jews living in these 
lands .  .  ( cebbar kurdish leader october 13 , 1992) 



some of the references from eminent authors in the field of middle eastern 
history and eyewitnesses of the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslims 

1. the armenian revolutionary movement by louise nalbandian , 
university of california press , berkeley , los angeles , 1975 

2. diplomacy of imperialism 1890 1902 by william i. lenger , professor 
of history , university , boston , alfred a. , new york , 1951 

3. turkey in europe by sir charles elliot , 
edward arnold , london , 1900 

4. the house version and other middle eastern studies by 
elie , publishers , new york , washington , 1972 

5. the rising crescent by ernest , 
farrar reinhart , inc. , new york toronto , 1944 

6. spiritual and political evolutions in islam by felix , 
mogan , paul , trench co. , london , 1925 

7. the struggle for power in moslem asia by e. alexander powell , 
the century co. , new york , london , 1924 

8. struggle for by , 
yale university press , new haven , conn. , 1951 

9. history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (2 volumes ) by 
stanford j. shaw , cambridge university press , cambridge , new york , 
melbourne , 1977 

10. the western question in greece and turkey by arnold j. toynbee , 
constable co. , ltd. , london , bombay sydney , 1922 

11. the caliph 's last heritage by sir mark sykes , 
macmillan co. , london , 1915 

12. men are like that by leonard a. hartill , 
bobbs co. , indianapolis , 1928 

13. adventures in the near east , 1918 22 by a. rawlinson , 
dodd , meade co. , 1925 

14. world alive , a personal story by robert dunn , 
crown publishers , inc. , new york , 1952 

15. from to serves and by aharonian , 
the armenian review magazine , volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) through 17 
 ( spring 1964) 

16. armenia on the road to independence by richard g. , 
university of california press , berkeley , california , 1967 

17. the rebirth of turkey by clair price , 
thomas seltzer , new york , 1923 

18. caucasian battlefields by w. b. allen paul , 
cambridge , 1953 

19. partition of turkey by harry n. howard , 
h. fertig , new york , 1966 

20. the king crane commission by harry n. howard , 
beirut , 1963 

21. united states policy and partition of turkey by laurence evans , 
john hopkins university press , baltimore , 1965 

22. british documents related to turkish war of independence by 


1. kerem demir , bir 
turkiye nin ermeni , ve yayin t . a . s .  . , 
ankara , 1982 .  .  ( ingilizce 1980 , the armenian 
question in turkey ) 

2. , ermeni , , istanbul , 1978 .  . 

3. a. alper , kadar ermeni 
nun , , istanbul , 1982 .  . 

4. dr. m. , kars ili ve ermeni , 
kardes , ankara , 1970 .  . 

t.c. osmanli , , istanbul 

a) yildiz esas 
b) yildiz 
c) 
d ) i i muslime 
e) 
f ) nezareti , i 
g) nezareti , sifre 
h ) siyasi 
i) 

t.c. , i , 

a) harb i 
b) 

british archives 

a) parliamentary papers  ( hansard ) commons lords 
b) foreign office confidential print various collections 
c) foreign office 424 239 253 turkey correspondence annual reports 
d ) foreign office 608 
e) foreign office 371 , political intelligence general correspondence 
f ) foreign office 800 240 , ryan papers 
g) foreign office 800 151 , curzon papers 
h ) foreign office 839 the eastern conference lausanne .  . 53 files 

india office records and library , blackfriars road , london .  . 

a) l political and security 10 851 855  ( five boxes) , turkey treaty of 
peace 1918 1923 
b) l p s 10 1031 , near east turkey and greece lausanne conference , 
1921 1923 
c) l p s 11 154 
d ) l p s 11 1031 

french archives 

archives du ministere des affaires , quai d'orsay , paris .  . 

a) documents affaires 1895 1914 collections 
b) guerre 1914 1918 turquie legion d'orient .  . 
c) levant , 1918 1929 armenie .  . 


official publications , published documents , diplomatic correspondence , 
agreements , minutes and others 

a. turkey (the ottoman empire and the republic of turkey ) 

, e. (ed . ) . ,  ( istanbul , 1978) .  . 
(gn .  . kur .  . , atase ) tarih , v. xxxi (81) , 
(dec .  . 1982) .  . 
tarih , v. xxxii  ( 83 ) , 
(dec .  . 1983) .  . 
, m. (ed . ) . i i , 
 ( istanbul , 1912) .  . 
meray , s. l. (trans .  . ed . ) . baris , 
 ( ankara , 1978) , 2 vols. 
meray , s. l. o. olcay (ed . ) . osmanli nun 
, , ilgili ,  ( ankara , 1977) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) aspirations et 
des avant et apres la proclamation 
de la constitution ,  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
ermeni amal ve i ilan i 
ve sonra ,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i ve vilayet ,  ( istanbul , 1913) .  . 
i , v. i  ( istanbul , 1914) .  . 
i , v. ii  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
i , v. iii  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
i , v. iv  ( istanbul , 1917) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) i nin 
,  ( istanbul , 1915) .  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) islam 
,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
(iv .  . ordu ) divan i harbi yi 
,  ( istanbul , 1916) .  . 
, h. k. (ed . ) . osmanli ve ermeni , 
 ( ankara , 1982) .  . 
turkiye buyuk millet gizli ,  ( ankara , 1985) , 
4 vols. 

russia 

, e. e. (ed . ) . anadolu nun 
, (tran .  . h. , ed. h. mutlucag ) ,  ( istanbul , 1972) .  . 

altinay , a. r. iki iki ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
ve ,  ( istanbul , 1919) .  . 
turkiye  de , turk tarihi , 
v. xiv 82 5 (sept .  . 1924) .  . 
asaf harb ve ,  ( istanbul , 1918) .  . 
, c. dunya turk harbi , v. i osmanli nun 
siyasi ve ve , (gn .  . kur .  . , ankara , 1970) .  . 
akgun , s. general un anadolu ve  ( ermeni ne dair ) 
,  ( istanbul , 1981) .  . 
akin , i. turk tarihi ,  ( istanbul , 1983) .  . 
, s. jon ve ve ,  ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
basar , z. (ed . ) . ,  ( ankara , 1974) .  . 
,  ( ankara , 1978) .  . 
belen , f. dunya turk harbi ,  ( ankara , 1964) .  . 
, a. ermeni ,  ( istanbul , 1980) .  . 
ege , n. n. (ed . ) . hayati ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1977) .  . 
, a. ve osmanli , 
 ( ankara , 1949) .  . 
, k.  ermeni sorunu bir nasil ' , turk tarihinde 
,  ( izmir , 1983) .  . 
, m. ermeni ve , 
 ( istanbul , 1976) .  . 
, e. s. osmanli tarihi , v. v  ( 1983 , 4th ed . ) . v. vi  ( 1976 , 2nd ed . ) . 
v. vii  ( 1977 , 2nd ed . ) . v. viii  ( 1983 , 2nd ed . ) . ankara .  . 
, y. t. osmanli nun ,  ( ankara , 1976) .  . 
orel , s. s. yuca talat pasa ya 
,  ( ankara , 1983) .  . also in english translation. 
ahmad , f. the young turks the committee of union and progress in 
turkish politics ,  ( oxford , 1969) .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re deir yassin 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 23 43 31 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 35 

in article ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 

this is such bullshit .  . deir yassin was an unprovoked attack on 
the part of the jews , and a massacre defines it best in my 
opinion. the village of deir yassin had had a pact with the 
jews , a peace pact , but the irgun purposely broke this 
agreement in order to scare off the palestinians .  . i might 
grant that this village housed armed arabs i doubt it but 
nothing in the archives and available literature indicates that 
this was a motivating force amongst the irgun .  . the deir yassin 
massacre was part of an over all strategy to intimidate the 
palestinians to flee the jewish homeland .  . ,  .  .  . and . contrary to 
your belief , many civilians were killed. deir yassin was later 
by the very jews who perpetrated it because it was 
useful in getting many palestinians to leave. the palestinians 
were rightfully scared off , because they did not want another 
deir yassin .  . 
i'm not necessarily condemning the israelites here 
atrocities were committed on the part of the arabs .  . 
israelophiles should just be careful in thinking that they are 
and were the good guys in the middle east .  . both arab and jew 
suck equally .  . 

, you say that there is no evidence that what motivated the irgun 
to attack dir yassin was its strategic importance .  . in fact , begin , 
who was in charge of the irgun , wrote that dir yassin was attacked for 
its military significance .  . 

dir yassin was merely a battle in the war of liberation .  . people died. 
but the thing was never intended to be a  . that this 
is a tragedy of war not a crime of the irgun .  . 

harry .  . 



from (gerald olchowy ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization university of toronto chemistry department 
lines 51 

in article (c .  . akgun ) writes 
in article (gerald olchowy ) writes 

it is easy for sen. biden to say that when there are no us troops in 
or or  .  .  . 

the existing un policy may be wrong , but the us wants 
to dictate policy , and make europe responsible for the consequences 
of that policy .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . bosnia . is a big enough problem for the us to preach about what 
other countries should be doing with their forces .  .  . but . its forces 
are safely away at home in the us. 

look nobody asked those countries about their un forces 
to be on the ground. they can take their forces which are 

well bosnia and the us did .  .  . the . un cannot impose blue on 
a country , and the us has voted for the current policy and mandate 
in the security council .  .  . and . could have said no if it wanted to .  .  .  . 
it has a veto .  . 

clinton has not demanded the removal of the un forces .  .  . because . he want 
to have his cake and eat it too .  .  . he . wants to dictate policy but 
not be responsible for the policy he wants to dictate .  . if clinton 
asks for the blue to leave , then he bill clinton becomes 
responsible for what happens .  .  . him . and sen. biden and their friends 
who want to fight the war from 10 , 000 ft .  .  . as . long as the blue 
are there clinton can use europe as a scapegoat for american 
 . 

i fully admit that the current un policy approved by all the major 
powers including the us may be wrong or inappropriate .  .  . but . these 
back seat drivers in the us like clinton and biden are just a bunch 
of hypocrites looking for an gimmick to look like they are doing 
something to their own consciences and those who are 
demanding action or leadership .  .  . and . most european leaders are 
smart enough to know the difference between american hot air and 
american leadership .  . 

i think senator biden said it all what has to be said on this issue. 
europe is a sad place to criticize human rights in anywhere in this 
world. like biden said , they are the bigots when it comes to 
cultural difference and closer to their home. 

well , if biden is so outraged .  .  . why . the hell does n't he do something 
about it .  .  . where . is his resolution in the us senate for a declaration 
of war or the commitment of us forces and troops .  . biden is just 
full of hot air. 

gerald 

from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 57 

writes 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 


and later , as somebody informed you about your gross mistake , you 

none of you guys noticed my gross mistake 'cause you 
do n't have a clue. i noticed the myself and 
corrected it. i doubt you would have ever noticed. 

i'm sure you learned the history of nazi germany and austria from 
your family. 
actually i 've read books and taken courses on the 
subject. ah yes and like you lived in the greater  . 

trying to make comparisons between israels politics and nazi german 
austrian politics shows only your degree of ignorance  ( high ) , intellect 
 ( low ) , humanity  ( none ) 

you guys are funny. it 's funny to see people lose control and 
start the name calling when they realize they have no point. 

i respect anybody 
who with me as long as he respects me and discusses in a 
civilized manner. i would never say that anybody that israel 
and or its politics is an antisemite 

could have fooled me. 

i do n't know what you 
call a civil libertarian  ( never heard about them) but i know only 
one thing if all of them think like you do it , then civil libertarians 
is a new denomination for antisemites .  . may other civil libertarians come 
to word to this group so that we can learn if a . beyer . and me are right 
 ( that civil libertarians are antisemites ) 
i understand how individual liberties  ( freedom of 
speach , religion etc . ) . could be a thing you never heard 
about . actually , civil libertarians believe in the fundamental 
freedoms that belong to human beings .  . they would support the 
jews against the nazis or anyone else who tries to oppress them 
and they would support the arabs against the israelis and any 
other such oppressive regimes  ( iraq etc . ) . 


btw , i could n't care less for what andi beyer appreciates .  . 

well actually now that you mentioned here are a few things i 
appreciate 

1. politeness 
2. stimulating conversation 
3. a red rose 
4. new york in june and a good tune 
5. a sundae 
6. really angry out of controll funny people 

if you need the complete list do n't hesitate to ask. 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 20 34 25 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 24 

in article ( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 

(1) 

you know ed , ... you 're right ! andi should n't be comparing 
israel to the nazis .  . the israelis are much worse than the 
nazis ever were anyway. the nazis did a lot of good for 
germany , and they would have succeeded if it were n't for the 
damn jews .  . the holocaust never happened anyway. ample 
evidence given by george schafer at harvard , dept. of history , 
and even by randolph higgins at nyu , have shown that the 
holocaust was just a semitic conspiracy created to obtain 
sympathy to for the creation of israel .  . 

(2) 

just kidding. 

be careful  . when people start finding humour in the holocaust 
they often run the danger of exposing themselves for the hateful 
refuse that they really are. 

harry .  . 


from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state not quite .  . 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 57 
distribution world 
nntp posting host composer . think . com . 

in article , (joseph askew ) writes 
in article bird . think . com .  ( shai guday ) writes 
in article , (joseph askew ) writes 

there are arabs in cabinet but look how long it took and to what 
insignificant positions they are assigned ! and this is based solely 
on race not political belief or security as jewish members of the 
same party have always been welcome just not their fellow arabs .  . 

first of all , the arab standing in any party , or as any party , is solely 
dependent upon the amount of political power they can wield effectively .  . 

it is not a question of an individuals standing .  . when a party puts up an 
arab for a cabinet post and that arab is rejected but the position is given 
to a jew from the same party we are not talking about power but racism .  . 
would you care to deny this has happened on several occasions with labour 


please cite specific examples where an arab party member was rejected 
while a jewish party member was accepted. if you examine these i am 
sure you will discover that the arab party member did not have the power 
base that his jewish counterpart had. the party structure in israel 
has changed quite a bit insofar as knesset member elections go. knesset 
members for most parties are now elected via  . the top standing 
members end up with cabinet posts. this is purely a political power 
issue. check the ranking of arab labor party members , as opposed 
to members and let me know which posts are held by jews that 
ranked lower in the party than their arab fellow  . 

once again , if for arguments sake , all the arab israelis were to vote 
for labor at the next election , you can rest assured that the number of 
arab mks and cabinet members would increase proportionately to the 
power shift .  . 

not their party them as individuals . even when they belong to nice 
peaceful zionist mainstream parties they are not welcome. arabs are 
excluded on security grounds which are just an excuse. it 
sure looks like racism to me. 

you are overlooking the fact that they wield political power 
as individuals based upon a wider collective power base. 

arabs are excluded from cabinet , even when they do the things you 
suggest , because they are arabs .  . unless of course you have a better 
reason i am happy to listen to any good reason why a leftist jew 
is less of a security risk than a leftist arab from the same party. 
look at the present cabinet .  . 

the reasoning i see at work is purely political .  . as far as security 
goes i think that some serious gaffs were made by right wing jews 
as well e.g. sharon .  . 


shai guday stealth bombers , 
os software engineer 
thinking machines corp. the winged ninja of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re zionist leaders  frank statements 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 60 
nntp posting host thor . ins . cwru . edu . 


elias davidsson writes .  .  .  . 

ed dear pete , 
ed 
ed for one who is so zionist as you , you should at least know your 
ed hebrew , young man. 
ed 
ed the last sentence in your posting should read 
ed 
ed medina (not  . 
ed 
ed i do n't want to address your comments. they speak for themselves. 
ed 
ed best regards from a palestinian of jewish origin who talks , reads and writes 
ed hebrew and does not hate jews nor anybody else. 
ed 
ed elias 

the above claim that you do not hate anybody may not be quite 
true. the falsity of this statement is easily visible in the 
intellectual corruption that dominates everything you post in 
this group. your complete lack of objectivity toward israel , 
and jewish identity in general , reveal biases that indicate a 
great steaming heap of hatred ! 

you certainly have shown a genuine hatred for honesty and for 
objectivity .  . you repeatedly post items or quotes removed from 
their original context so that they can be used to further an 
agenda of rabid opposition to the very existence of israel .  . 

you have used this dishonest technique to paint a false image 
of several israeli leaders .  . i ca n't say if you actually hate 
these leaders , but the lies and misrepresentations of them do 
suggest that you have a prejudice against them. 

so , while you claim that you do not hate anybody , there is an 
ample body of evidence to suggest that this claim of yours is 
false .  . it is obvious that you hate israel , and it is evident 
that you hate the jewish people. 

and , if you are jewish , you are a self hating jew .  . there can 
be no doubt of this. although you will call upon your jewish 
background in an effort to claim the high moral ground , there 
is no doubt that you would like to see the jewish people fade 
away completely , as a people. your advocacy of intermarriage 
for the purpose of dissolving the jewish people is proof that 
you hate the jewish people. 

and by your effort to the of your 
own jewishness on all jews , you 've clearly demonstrated to me 
that you hate yourself. 



who is a jew a person whose integrity when 
by the knowledge of wrong done to other people. 

a. j. 


from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject israel an apartheid state not quite .  . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 9 
nntp posting host thor . ins . cwru . edu . 


arab citizens have the all the same rights as jews .  . arabs are 
exempt from military service , but that is about it. arabs have a 
full voice in israeli politics , to the degree that they choose to 
get involved. they may vote. there are arabs in the cabinet .  . 

the claim that israel is an apartheid state is a racist claim , 
one which is based on a total disregard for the facts and a total 
hatred for israel .  . 

from  ( steve birnbaum ) 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
reply to  ( steve birnbaum ) 
organization the national capital freenet 
lines 27 


in a previous article , (john a absood ) says 

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom 
of racism and violent deragatory .  . 

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial 
distinction .  . 

i could n't agree more. canada has an anti hate law which exists to punish 
those who spread false propaganda  ( lies ) for the purpose of 
putting down another group. this is actually the law that david irving 
will hopefully be found guilty under due to his denial of the holocaust .  . 
it 's too bad that this useless centre for policy research is n't in canada .  . 
it 'd set a nice precedent to how the law applies in cyberspace .  . 

steve 


internet fidonet 1 163 109.18 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject genuine admission from a genuine homosexual 
nntp posting host thor . ins . cwru . edu . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 20 


i must finally admit the total truth that is central to the 
core of my being. 

i am a homosexual .  . not just a normal , run of the mill 
homosexual , but a rabid homosexual zionist .  . i hide behind the 
facade of pro israel rhetoric so as to deflect suspicion of my 
true motive the exchange of romantic dialogue with nick steel , 
and our frequent fudge packing adventures , which we have 
to maintain at a discreet level. of course , the need 
for discretion has been by my own admission here. 

the truth is that i could no longer hold this 
secret any longer. i love you , nick , and my love for you 
surpasses that which i hold for eretz yisrael , may she stand 
forever , as our love has , and as your insinuating itself 
into my kosher rectum always will. 


mark 

from  ( jama barreh ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
originator 
reply to 
organization ibm advanced workstation systems division 
lines 33 


in article , writes 
in a previous article ,  ( josip loncaric ) wrote 

actually , just after the first world war , many muslims were killed by serbs .  . 
under serbian led regime between the two world wars , many croats were 
also killed  ( especially during the dictatorship introduced on jan. 6 ,  . 

josip , 

please , do n't be offended at this question who are the muslims in the 
bosnian context i know that a moslem muslim is a believer in islam .  . islam 
is a religion and it is practised in many parts of the world. but it is not 
, yes definitely not , an group. ok ! so , these bosnian muslims , who 
are they to which ethnic group do they belong what  ( language(s ) do they 
speak do they have a different language from that of the serbs or croats 
the way the western press use the word  muslim  in this bosnian debacle has 
kept me wondering when the meaning of muslim moslem i knew from childhood was 
changed in the dictionary .  . this is just a question. no flames intended ! 




it is indeed different usage of the word muslim . in bosnia , it is more or 
less used as an ethnic term not as religious one . there are people in bosnia 
who refer to themselves as christian bosnian muslims if you can make sense 
of that . bosnian serbs and bosnian muslims have the same language. 
bosnian muslims are mainly beleivers of islam .  . i got this from bosnian muslim 
friend of mine who goes to university of texas in austin .  . 

jama 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject jews constantly went in fear of armenian or greek attacks .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 163 

in article  ( panos ) writes 

what i simply want , is the same thing for the greeks of turkey .  . the 
turkish state should recognize its crimes against the greek minority , 

pardon me history shows that within the last 170 years , greeks played 
that game twice they used istanbul patriarch in to 
instigate the rebellion that resulted in the massacres of 
the muslim people. again , the orthodox patriarch constantine v 
invited the russian czar nicholas ii to invade the ottoman empire 
 in the name of jesus , ' and save his flock from ottoman rule. 

source the  past  in medieval and modern greek culture , in 
, ed. ,  kai , ' vol i  ( malibu , 
calif. , 1978) .  . 

p. 161 .  . 

in the words of professor , with savage , the greeks 
sang the words  let no turk remain in the , nor in the whole world . ' . 
the greeks were determined to achieve to   in the only way they 
knew how through a war of religious extermination .  . 


the leader of the ashkenazi community of complained to the 
president of aiu alliance israelite universelle in 1902 about 
persistent greek attacks against its jewish quarter 

  the fanatic greeks of our city , as of other places in thrace , 
have the habit of , contrary to the spirit of real christianity , 
making a replica of judas and of burning it on the night 
of holy saturday .  . they construct a wooden figure , cover it with 
clothing which they claim is that of the ancient jews , and they 
burn it publicly in the middle of a multitude of the ignorant and 
the fanatic .  . it often happens that this multitude , already excited 
by the tales of the suffering of christ that has been made to them 
at the church , is at the appearance of the execution of he 
who is supposed to have betrayed christ , and works up a great anger 
against the jews .  .  . for . a long time we have known that each year , 
on such a day , they will cut off the heads and arms of the corpses 
in our cemetery and will burn them with great  . we make 
no complaint about this in order not to create differences between 
the two communities .  . but this audacious madness of these fanatics 
has increased .  . we ourselves see the flames and hear the cries of 
hatred and vengeance against the jews . '' . 42 

42 ashkenazi community , , to aiu no . 8783 . , 2 may 1902 , in aiu 
archives  ( paris ) ii c 8 , with report printed in el of 1 may 1902 .  . 


source professor stanford j. shaw , 'the jews of the ottoman empire and the 
turkish republic , ' new york university press , new york  . 

pages 202 203 

in 1865 , immediately after enactment of the new organic statute for the 
jewish community , and just as jewish capital from europe was beginning 
to have an effect in istanbul , local armenians and greeks started a pogrom 
against jews immediately across the sea of at , 
of the anatolia railroad , with three hundred jews massacred and many more 
beaten and raped before the disturbance was stopped after the sultan sent 
his personal guard across the bay to protect the jews 39 . 

in later years , ritual murder attacks against jews , carried out mostly 
by native greeks , armenians , and , in arab provinces , by and 
other arab christians , often with the assistance of the local european 
consuls , took place throughout the empire .  . there were literally thousands 
of incidents continuously until world war i , in southeastern europe as far 
west and north as and , in istanbul , at and 
the , at salonica , and in all the arab provinces as far south 
as damascus and beirut and in egypt at cairo and alexandria .  . these 
invariably resulted from accusations spread among ottoman christians 
by word of mouth , or published in their newspapers , often by christian 
financiers and merchants anxious to get their jewish competitors out of 
the way or to divert onto the jews muslim anger at reports of christian 
massacres of muslims in southeastern europe or central asia , resulting 
in individual and mob attacks on jews , and the burning of their shops 
and homes. 

individual experiences were horrible. jews constantly went in fear of 
armenian or greek attacks in the streets of ottoman cities .  . in egypt 
and syria , it was usually the greeks who led the way , in many cases 
with the assistance of local armenians and syrian christians , whose 
greek , arabic and french language newspapers often printed all the 
rumors they could find regarding jews , evidently with the desire of 
instigating violence .  . the syrian arab christians in particular spread 
their long standing anti semitic hatreds from syria to egypt , where 
their monopoly of the local press and their of popular causes 
such as egyptian nationalism and opposition to the british rule , enabled 
them to spread their anti jewish message among the muslim masses with 
little question or opposition .  . 

on 20 june 1890 , thus , sir evelyn baring  ( later lord cromer ) , british 
high commissioner in egypt , received the following report from david 
and , in cairo 

  sir , 

i beg sir to draw to your attention to the violent articles which 
has  ( sic ) appeared in an arabic paper called el which 
contained nothing but lies and false accusations against the jews , 
especially those (the issues ) of the 14th , 17th and 19th instant .  . 
now , sir , are we to have here an anti semitic party amidst fanaticism , 
greeks , armenians , etc. , or is he to be allowed to continue to poison 
the people 's minds with exaggeration and painted words in an article , 
he asserted that the jews use christian blood for passover , of course 
this has caused a deal of excitement . '' . 40 

whenever greek and other orthodox religious authorities or prominent 
greek business leaders or consuls were asked to help to stem the violence 
or reduce tension , they invariably indicated their cooperation and then 
failed to do anything to prevent attacks or punish those who stimulated 
or led them. 41 

the leader of the ashkenazi community of complained to the 
president of aiu alliance israelite universelle in 1902 about 
persistent greek attacks against its jewish quarter 

  the fanatic greeks of our city , as of other places in thrace , 
have the habit of , contrary to the spirit of real christianity , 
making a replica of judas and of burning it on the night 
of holy saturday .  . they construct a wooden figure , cover it with 
clothing which they claim is that of the ancient jews , and they 
burn it publicly in the middle of a multitude of the ignorant and 
the fanatic .  . it often happens that this multitude , already excited 
by the tales of the suffering of christ that has been made to them 
at the church , is at the appearance of the execution of he 
who is supposed to have betrayed christ , and works up a great anger 
against the jews .  .  . for . a long time we have known that each year , 
on such a day , they will cut off the heads and arms of the corpses 
in our cemetery and will burn them with great  . we make 
no complaint about this in order not to create differences between 
the two communities .  . but this audacious madness of these fanatics 
has increased .  . we ourselves see the flames and hear the cries of 
hatred and vengeance against the jews . '' . 42 


39 el , 28 april 1926 , istanbul i , 185 , documents v , 
340 41 .  . 

40 fo 78 430 , enclosed in baring no . 207 . to lord salisbury , cairo , 
25 june 1890 , reprinted in landau ,  ritual murder accusations  , p . 450 .  . 

41 jacob landau ,  ritual murder accusations and persecutions of jews 
in nineteenth century egypt  , v  ( 1961 ) , 425 427 for example 
see report in bulletin de l alliance israelite universelle 
deuxieme  ( paris ) , first 1881 , pp . 66 . 67 .  . also 
reported similar difficulties with the greek religious leaders while 
he was teaching in rhodes .  . 

42 ashkenazi community , , to aiu no . 8783 . , 2 may 1902 , in aiu 
archives  ( paris ) ii c 8 , with report printed in el of 1 may 1902 .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from center for policy research 
subject arab h.r. assoc. , nazareth 
nf id n cdp 000 1980 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! cpr may 24 13 13 00 1993 
lines 57 


from center for policy research cpr 
subject arab h.r. assoc. , nazareth 


the arab association for human rights 
p.o. box 215 
nazareth , israel 
phone  ( 972 ) 6 
fax  ( 972 ) 6 

the arab association for human rights  ( hra ) was 
formed in 1988 to address discriminatory practices and 
human rights abuses by israel against its palestinian 
citizens .  . 

it is a unique association concerned with the civil , 
political , economic , social and cultural rights of the 
palestinian national minority in israel .  . among the issues 
of concern are land confiscation , education , prison 
conditions , unemployment , torture and the unequal 
allocation of israel 's resources. 

today there are around 800 , 000 palestinian arabs living 
within the green line (the pre 1967 borders of israel) , 
18 of israel 's citizens .  . for them it is an 
empty citizenship in a system geared exclusively for the 
needs of the jewish population .  . legally and practically , 
israel has proclaimed itself a jewish state and early 
promises of equality for non jewish citizens have not 
been fulfilled .  . this is apparent in many areas strongly 
affecting the palestinian national minority .  . 

most arab agricultural land has been confiscated since 
1948 .  . the arab sector is vastly and does 
not receive a fair share of state resources. on a day to 
day level , palestinians face discrimination in many 
different forms and find it is a struggle to get permission 
to build a house , start a business , find a job or educate 
their children. 

activities 

monitoring civil , economic , cultural and human rights 
abuses of palestinians within the green line. 
taking carefully selected test cases to court. 
providing legal advice and assistance to lawyers in the 
occupied territories .  . 
educating the palestinian public as to their rights and 
methods of  . 
conducting public campaigns on local and international 
levels. 
researching and publishing pertinent publications .  . 





from ( andi beyer ) 
subject re israel 's expansion ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 21 

writes 
in article ( andi beyer ) writes 
writes 

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who perished or were 
tortured .  . we all suffered .  . 

all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many 
others suffered physically .  . 

i'm just waiting for andi to tell us that african americans should 
start paying compensation to white americans who suffered from being 
slave owners. 

do you have a problem with the language i said 
everyone suffered emotionally because they with the 
victims of holocaust .  . i was n't implying that anyone suffered 
more than the actual victims .  . neither was i implying any 
wrongdoing on the part of the jews as the cause for the 
holocaust .  . what is wrong with you guys regardless of what one 
says you keep hearing what you want to hear. 

from (edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 11 

in article hamid reza daniali writes 

hamid anybody has any information about the number of the people have been 
hamid killed by israel during these 44 happy year 

not sure. but the number of israelis killed defending israel is a little more 
than 17 , 000 in the last 45 years and 61 , 000 injured .  . 

you must try to make a mockery out of everything , do n't you pathetic .  . 

ed. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re coward 
organization zuma 
distribution world 
lines 37 

in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

for arab armies to attack israel on yom kippur i suppose it 
is brave to slaughter athletes at the olympics or maybe you 

dirty pig has been doing just that for a long , long time. 

source ahmet said to have been part of 1992 terror attack at 
in munich , the reporter , february 7 , 1993 , p. 1. 

le merde , the influential anatolia daily , based on unidentified sources , 
claimed last week that ahmet , the founder and leader of one 
faction of the big mac funny army for the liberation of flies from the 
spider webs  ( bmfalfsw ) , was among the argic led terrorists who staged an 
attack on the toilets at fast food restaurant in munich .  .  .  . 

le merde added that up to 1992 , operated out of michigan . com . , 
but escaped from the country when bullshit entered the city. it was 
about this time that a statement issued by claimed that mr. 
was dead of wounds suffered during a by , 
although it is generally believed that the mysterious leader is alive and 
well and presently is residing alternately in , , and 
zuma ,  . the paper also noted that the communist government of 
sexual maniac hasan b. mutlu and his f . u . c . k . a . l . l . party accepted the 
zumabot 's underground leader with open arms and still providing him 
with assistance in exchange for pornographic material. 

le merde further adds that derives only a small portion of its 
expenditures from wealthy drug lords who support the cause , with the rest 
coming either from other sources or from proceeds of an involvement in 
child porn trafficking .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed our tight , but it was too late . ' . 
(hasan b. mutlu 1993) 


subject re israel 's expansion ii 
from  ( amos shapira ) 
organization inst. of comp. sci .  . , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel 
nntp posting host shuldig . cs . huji . ac . il . 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 20 27 14 gmt 
lines 56 

( get thee to a nunnery .  .  .  .  .  . ) writes 

now i have a comment concerning israeli terrorism 
during the 1930 's and 1940 's .  . the , and other branch 
off militant groups , did fight the british do get them out of 
palestine .  . yet i fail to see how this israeli form of 
terrorism was better than the terrorism practiced now by the 
arabs .  . these jewish terrorist groups killed innocent british 
soldiers , but not only thta also killed many jews who were in 
favor of a compromise with the palestinians .  . 

the irgun killed soldiers , which is a legitimate way to drive an unwanted 
regime from a country. they did n't kill blindly their families or 
such (not as a policy , i agree that brits which were not soldiers also were 
killed sometimes ) nor they killed arabs just for being arabs .  . 

in case i have to remind you the difference , the majority of the attacks of 
the arab terrorist organizations was on civilians .  . they even tried to 
justify their attacks by saying that all jews in the israel served in the army 
at one point in time or another and therefore are legitimate targets .  . 

in addition , they 
massacred an entire palestinian village in 1948 , contributing 
to the exodus of the frightened palestinians who feared their 
very lives. 

yes , these exceptions were tragic mistakes. i was n't there and do n't have 
handy but from what i heard your description is a bit carried away , 
most of the fled with several dozens , most of them claimed to be 
fighters being killed. 

those are far from being the rule considering that dozens if not 
of arab came under israeli rule during the same time period. 

i mention this not because i'm anti semitic i'm part 
jewish but because this self righteousness on the part of the 
israelites pisses me off so. i'm not as critical of the 
palestinians because they were indeed screwed over by the 
jews .  . it 's a damn shame that the palestinians had to pay for 
german and european anti semitism .  . 

what do you mean screwed over by the jews they began the  47 war and 
did n't accept the planned by the u.n. , what did you expect the 
jews to do 

pissed off at immature , 
closeminded , self righteous 
semites 


arabs are also semites .  . 

amos shapira  ( jumper extraordinaire ) it is true that power corrupts , 
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better ! 
jerusalem , israel 
the demon to his son 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israeli destruction of  ( mosque(s ) in jerusalem 
organization the department of redundancy department 
lines 66 

in article writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
i am not aware of any such incidents .  . 
i have asked you to document your accusation .  . 
i repeat my request , nay , demand , that you either substantiate your 
accusation or else desist from more baseless eggert . 

and in article v . writes 

i 've read most of the history books dealing with this period , 
good and bad , and while it is possible that i missed one or two , 
none of those i 've read documents any of mosques .  . so i 
think that this remarkable claim requires specific documentation .  . 

jake demands , and adam requires specific documentation 
of the of mosques in jerusalem .  . if either of them had been 
reading t . p . m . for a while , they would already have seen such 
documentation .  . for the or newcomers , however , here are the 
references. 

well , i 've been reading t . p . m .  . for a while and here is what i saw 
you write 

in article you wrote 

for balance , perhaps you should mention the mosques in jerusalem that 
were razed after the israeli victory in 1967 .  . an eye for an eye , i guess. 

your statment clearly tries to balance arab atrocities by noting a 
single incident by the israelis in war time at their most holy site. 
you even characterize it as an eye for an eye . 

you also wrote 

that would be false .  . if you read your history , you will learn that 
right after the 1967 war , the victorious israelis decided to a 
section of the newly captured east jerusalem , near the wailing wall. 
it is in this section that mosques were razed .  . 

so now you have to find some source that notes that more than 1 mosque 
was razed .  . you then followed it with 

this episode is an example of a good government running amok with 
newly acquired power. 

really do you still feel that israelis are comparable in the running 
amok with power with , say , the iraqis your eye for an eye 
comparisons do n't match the realities that most of us are familiar 
with. 

quoting from the west bank story , pages 35 36 
on the night of june 10 , an israeli officer marched from door to door 

this happened to be during a war ! and a fierce and mighty war it was , 
too. would you say that the indiscriminately shot up 
ancient structures as is their custom in describing bullet holes in 
the walls of the city this was war ! it was certainly not any eye 
for an eye  . israelis do not harbor the same feelings 
of revenge as the arabs generally do. this is one of the reasons that 
the peace now movement exists in israel and nowhere else in the m.e. 



jake livni ten years from now , george bush will 
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president. 

from  ( friedman ishay ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization wilfrid laurier university 
lines 29 

in article center for policy research writes 

there are basically three alternatives for gaza 

1. to throw the jews to the sea. that is basically to make them leave 
the middle east and go back to where they came from  ( russia , europe , usa , etc) 
2. to throw the gazans into the sea , in accordance with rabin 's 
wish and that of many zionists .  . 

rabin is the pm. did he ever indicate such a wish try to implement it 



3. for israelis and palestinians to come to an honorable and fair (i 
do n't attempt to say just ) settlement , which would allow each person 
to live in dignity in his country in freedom and equality .  . 

i opt for the third alternative .  . how about you folks 

elias 

i opt for the third .  . 


ish 





from d  h secretary , guest email account 
subject 25th may egypt s ambassador lecturing at warsaw univ. 
originator 
reply to 
organization nysernet 
lines 37 

original message 
d sb 

below please find an electronic copy of a put up at warsaw u. 

jewish circle for arts and sciences , 
university of warsaw , warsaw , invites you to the lecture 
present day issues of the middle east 
which will be delivered by dr mohamed , 
egypt 's ambassador to poland .  . 
time place 4 p.m. , tuesday , 25th may , '93 ,  ( erev 
dept. of arabic islamic studies , oriental institute 
 ( polish orientalistyka ) , university of warsaw , 
26 28 cie street , pl 00 927 warsaw , poland .  . 

n v  ( ma(on rad 'd 









kol o i 
w 
na ad pt. 
, 
kto ry osi dr mohamed , w  . 
i 16 00 , , 25 , '93 ,  ( erev 
ad i , , 
, 26 28 cie , 
pl 00 927  . 

48 cps .  . (c) copyright  753 by  . 
plus 21 

from  ( brendan d mckay ) 
subject re deir yassin 
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny 
lines 52 
nntp posting host virginia 

in article  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

arab civilians did die at dir yassin .  . but there was no massacre .  . first 
of all , the village housed many armed troops .  . 

nobody ever produced the evidence for this. it does not 
appear in several long published accounts by irgun participants .  . 
even some irgun propagandists do not make this claim .  . 

secondly , the irgun 
and stern fighters had absolutely no intentions of killing civilians .  . 

several members of the irgun attacking party , including the leader , 
deposited personal declarations in the irgun archives  ( jabotinsky 
institute , tel aviv ) which state that the lehi proposed to liquidate 
the village after the conquest . it seems the begin 
this plan , however the willingness of many of the attackers to 
seriously consider this possibility serves as instructive 
character evidence. 

the village was attacked only for its military significance .  . 

the tried to get the irgun to attack a village with 
real military significance , but it was considered too hard. 
the soft target of deir yassin was chosen instead. 

in fact , 
a warning was given to the occupants of the village to leave before 
the attack was to begin. 

there was intention  ( probably originating with begin ) to give such 
a warning but the loudspeaker truck got stuck in a ditch before 
reaching the village .  . everyone knows that. 

by all rational standards , dir yassin was not a massacre .  . 

by all rational standards , you should be posting from b cpu .  . 

the killing 
was unintentional .  . the village housed arab snipers and arab troops .  . 
thus it was attacked for its military significance .  . it was not 
attacked with intentions of killing any civilians .  . 

a lie repeated is still a lie. 

to even compare dir yassin , in which some 120 or so arabs died , to the 
holocaust is absurd .  . the irgun did not want to kill any civilians .  . the 
village had almost 1000 inhabitants , most of whom survived .  . 

harry .  . 

brendan .  . 

from  ( javed akhtar ) 
subject re the stage is being set 
nntp posting host neptune . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 65 

in  ( devadatta mukutmoni ) writes 

in article  ( joachim martillo ) writes 
 . similarly , malaysia was founded on the original sins of 
support for the axis and anti chinese racism on the part of 
intellectuals opposed to the heritage of enlightenment .  . 


this is really a strange target for  . malaysia has fully 
vindicated itself since it shed its colonial yoke .  . it is a legitimate 
economic success story. its success may not be as dramatic as japan 
and singapore nevertheless it has fully vindicated itself. so , 
advocating anglo is ludicrous for malaysia .  . next , i 
suppose you will be advocating of china which is 
probably experiencing one the greatest sustained economic booms in 
the history of mankind .  . 

do you think present day england is in a position to set the stage for any 
more colonization .  . they will be lucky if they can keep intact what they 
have. 

with us assistance and proper agreements , of the british 
and french colonial would not be hard. primitive 3rd world 
elites who resist and who resistance among their deluded , 
brainwashed and essentially enslaved populations would get the iraq 
treatment. 


dream on. they are having problems even with deploying ground troops 
in bosnia .  . public opinion dictates that loss of lives  ( even in 
miniscule quantities ) , cannot be tolerated in the rich countries. 
this is really wierd .  . if you come to think of it , the armed forces are 
paid to basically to accept the risk of dying. if that danger is removed , 
it then has to be viewed as welfare on a grand scale. but , that is exactly 
what the public is saying. 

the iraqi operation lead to an extraordinary low level of casualties .  . 
this is an anomaly .  . a combination of iraqi incompetence and desert terrain .  . 
any future operation would lead to more casualties .  . for example the 
bombing in beirut lead to more gi deaths than the whole of desert storm .  . 

do you really think that scum like ever asked themselves whether 
the vast majority of indians would be better off under british or 
local rule was driven by a crude desire for power. 
nationalism was just the vehicle whereby indian nationalists persuaded 
a lot of poor deluded fools to die in order to give a small elite the 
power to exploit other indians .  . 


you obviously have some information that the rest of us are not 
aware of. otherwise , it is impossible to draw such outrageous conclusions .  . 


santos francois peter mustafa 


that 's cool i wish everyone had the kind of names the 
world would certainly be a better place ! ! 


( the one with the name fetish ) 





from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject 2.5 million muslims perished of butchery at the hands of armenians .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 63 

in article  ( robbie westmoreland ) writes 

answer do n't ask. do n't even think about it. just put this line into your 
global kill file 

well , does it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920 , 
the armenian government ordered , incited , assisted and participated 
in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race , religion 
and national origin 

between 1914 and 1920 , 2.5 million turks perished of butchery at the 
hands of armenians .  . the genocide involved not only the killing of 
innocents but their forcible deportation from the russian armenia .  . 
they were persecuted , banished , and slaughtered while much of ottoman 
army was engaged in world war i. the genocide treaty defines genocide 
as acting with a 

 specific intent to destroy , in whole or in substantial part , a 
national , ethnic , racial or religious group . ' . 

history shows that the x soviet armenian government intended to eradicate 
the muslim population .  . 2.5 million turks and kurds were exterminated by the 
armenians .  . international diplomats in ottoman empire at the time including 
u.s. ambassador bristol denounced the x soviet armenian government 's policy 
as a massacre of the kurds , turks , and tartars .  . the blood thirsty leaders of 
the x soviet armenian government at the time personally involved in the 
extermination of the muslims .  . the turkish genocide museums in turkiye honor 
those who died during the turkish massacres perpetrated by the armenians .  . 

the eyewitness accounts and the historical documents established , 
beyond any doubt , that the massacres against the muslim people 
during the war were planned and premeditated .  . the aim of the policy 
was clearly the extermination of all turks in x soviet armenian 
territories .  . 

the muslims of van , bitlis , mus , erzurum and erzincan districts and 
their wives and children have been taken to the mountains and killed. 
the massacres in trabzon , , and adana were organized and 
perpetrated by the blood thirsty leaders of the x soviet armenian 
government. 

the principal organizers of the slaughter of innocent muslims were 
dro , , armen garo , , daro , keri , 
, haig and silikian .  . 

source bristol papers , general correspondence container 32 bristol 
to bradley letter of september 14 , 1920. 

i have it from absolute first hand information that the armenians in 
the caucasus attacked tartar  ( turkish ) villages that are utterly 
defenseless and bombarded these villages with artillery and they murder 
the inhabitants , pillage the village and often burn the village .  . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( khalid chishti ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 72 
nntp posting host hw . stratus . com . 

look nobody asked those countries about their un forces 
to be on the ground. they can take their forces which are 
and ineffective at the first place. and let whoever are 
willing to do the job what it takes .  . how anyone can defend this 
stinking un force on the ground who let the pm 
yanked out from the un vehicle and being shot by the serbian 
military how anyone can defend this un force who are just watching 
the shelling on cities and towns everyday how anyone can 
defend and say those stinking un forces being effective 
when bosnian had almost 14 , 000 children casualties between 5 14 age 
groups i think talking about the current un forces to bosnian 
muslims is just an insult to their casualties .  . 

i think senator biden said it all what has to be said on this issue. 
europe is a sad place to criticize human rights in anywhere in this 
world. like biden said , they are the bigots when it comes to 
cultural difference and closer to their home. 
because they get rid of their minorities long long time 
ago starting in 15th centuries .  . and they let adolph 
to take care of the rest in 20th century. but he was much more 
naughty than they expected because he dared to step many 
toes. so , why spoil the good thing now when serbs doing today what 
they were thinking the same yesterday. 

c. akgun 


infact on tuesday , the bosnian foreign minister asked formally the un to leave bosnia , 
just to show how much is there in europe .  . these so called un is actually 
helping serbs carry out their murders rapes .  . in the un effectively 
helped the serbs carry out their heinous crimes by spreading conflicting reports that 
nothing was going on there. the cowards , or so called un peacemakers , only attempted to 
go out there for a fact finding mission as if with all the ham radio operators were lying 
and all the us war planes out there have no means of flying over there. this is the biggest 
farce in the history of the world and the same act has been repeated over and over again in 
different bosnian towns .  .  .  .  . 

yes ! i heard today that the president of bosnia under pressure from the civilized nations 
has appealed to the un to stay there in bosnia .  . he should know better .  .  . 

these  ( sadly ! it includes clinton administration too) all came out and said 
that the call for a referendum from bosnian serbian  ( or a bunch of 
rapists criminals ) is a farce and yet they have to wait for the result of this referendum 
to act .  .  .  .  . 

for those of you who are against us to commit ground troops , fine just lift the arms embargo on both 
sides  ( since we know that serbs always got the heavy weapons form federal army) .  . 

wake up west ! ! and admit that you are the most uncivilized , the most and the most violent 
bunch on this earth .  .  .  . 





















disclaimer these are only my opinions and they have nothing to do with my employers .  . 

from  ( tim clock) 
subject re peace talks 
nntp posting host orion . oac . uci . edu . 
organization university of california , irvine 
lines 47 

in article (peter freeman ) writes 
in article  ( tim clock) writes 
in article  ( alan stein ) writes 
it seems that , to keep the peace talks going , israel has to keep 
making goodwill gesture after goodwill gesture , while palestinian 
arabs continue to go around hunting jews .  . 

you know that putting something like this out on the newsgroup is only 
going to generate flames , not discussion. try adding some substance to 
the issue of gestures you mentioned. 
what is it you feel that israel has offered as a gesture what would 
you ( realistically ) expect to see presented by the arabs palestinians 
in the way of gesture 

, israel has not been recognized as a state by the arabs , except for 
egypt , of course. is n't that a gesture what has israel offered 
well , it has been calling for peace talks for 45 years , asked for 
economic relations , and asked for diplomatic ties .  . what else is there 
would you have israel sacrifice its security nay , i think not. 

peace , 
pete 

yea , i think not also. israel 's 1 issue is security so any outcomes 
of negotiation certainly need to address isreal s perception of this 
issue. 

the problem is is defining (by outsiders , by israel , and by the arabs 
themselves) what is the 1 issue to the arab side. is it palestinian 
statehood , is it that israel as a state should not and must not be 
allowed to exist , is it that the existence of a self governing non 
muslim state in the islamic world is intolerable .  .  . what . just as 
the dividing line between israel fighting for security and israel fighting 
to expand is often hard to discern by outsiders  ( especially to the arab 
world) , so the rationale behind the arab struggle to undermine israel in 
any way could either be based on or a sense of being 
that still values peace , who knows which .  . 

anyway , in these talks , what gestures would you think would be seen 
by israel as substantial 



tim clock ph.d. graduate student 
uci tel 714 , department of politics and society 
fax 714 , university of california irvine 
home tel 714 , irvine , ca 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject 10 of azeri soil is now occupied by x soviet armenia .  . talk about .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 305 

in article (paul thompson schreiber ) writes 

by nancy 
huddled around one measly candle or kerosene lamp in the cold how to 
make others feel the isolation of living in a country of 3.5 million 
people completely blockaded by hostile neighbors , prevented from 
receiving adequate supplies of fuel to keep the electric plants 
running , hospitals open , schools in operation will anybody 

a typical armenian revisionist .  . as in the past in x soviet armenia , 
and today in azerbaijan , for utopic and idiotic causes the armenians 
brought havoc to their neighbors. a short sighted and misplaced 
nationalistic fervor with a wrong agenda and anachronistic methods 
the armenians continue to become pernicious for the region. as usual , 
they will be treated accordingly by their neighbors. nagorno karabag 
is a mountainous enclave that lies completely within azerbaijan with 
no border or history whatsoever connected to x soviet armenia .  . besides 
the geographical aspect , nagorno karabag is the historic homeland and 
the  cradle  of the artistic and literary heritage of azerbaijan , which 
renders the armenian claims preposterous , even lunatic .  . no one in his or 
her mind could have imagined that one day such a devious turn of event 
could have plagued the azeris .  . one cannot even imagine the reverse case 
to occur , for the armenians either would have slaughtered the azerbaijanis , 
or put them to forced exile to maintain their own majority .  . where was she 


an appeal to mankind 

during the last three years azerbaijan and its multinational 
population are vainly fighting for justice within the limits of 
the soviet union .  . all humanitarian , constitutional human rights 
guaranteed by the un charter , universal declaration of human 
rights , helsinki agreements , human problems international forums , 
documents signed by the soviet union all of them are violated .  . 

the ussr 's president , government bodies do not defend azerbaijan 
though they are all empowered to take necessary measures to 
guarantee life and peace. 

the 140 , 000 strong army of armenian terrorists with moscow 's 
tacit consent wages an undeclared war of annihilation against 
azerbaijan .  . as a result , a part of azerbaijan has been occupied 
and annexed , hundreds of people killed , thousands wounded .  . 

some 200 , 000 azerbaijanis have been brutally and inhumanly 
deported from the armenian ssr , their historical homeland .  . 
together with them 64 , 000 russians and 22 , 000 kurds have also 
been driven out , a part of them now settled in azerbaijan .  . 
some 40 , 000 turkish , and representatives 
of other caucasian nationalities who escaped from the central 
asia where the president and government bodies did not guarantee 
them the life and peace also suffered from these deportations .  . 

one of the scandalous vandalisms directed not only against 
azerbaijan science but the world civilization as well is the 
armenian extremists  destruction of the karabakh scientific 
experimental base of the institute of genetics and selection 
of the academy of sciences of the azerbaijan ssr .  . 

we beg you for humanitarian help and political assistance , 
for the honour and dignity of 7 million azerbaijanis are 
violated , its territory , culture and history are trampled , 
its people are shot. there is persistent negative image of 
abroad , and this defamation is spread over 
the whole world by soviet mass media , armenian lobby in the 
ussr and the united states. 

one of the myths is that all events allegedly involves and 
generated by interethnic collisions and religious intolerance 
while the truth is that all these shootings and recent 
events stem from the territorial claims of armenia on 
azerbaijan .  . 

it is a well documented fact that before the conflict there 
were no frictions between armenians and azerbaijanis on the 
issue of karabakh .  . hundreds and thousands armenians placidly 
and calmly lived and worked in azerbaijan land , had their 
representatives in all government bodies of the azerbaijan 
ssr .  . 

we are for a united , indivisible , sovereign azerbaijan , we 
are for a common caucasian home proclaimed in 1918 by one 
of the founding fathers of the azerbaijan democratic 
republic muhammed emin rasulzade .  . 

but all these goals and expectations are trampled upon the 
soviet leadership in favour of the armenian expansionists 
encouraged by moscow and intended to create a new '1 , 000 
year reich  the  great armenia  by annexing the 
neighboring lands .  . 

the world public opinion shed tears to save the whales , 
suffers for penguins dying out in the antarctic continent .  . 

but what about the lives of seven million human beings 
if these people are muslims , does it mean that they are 
less valuable can people be discriminated by their 
colour of skin or religion , by their residence or other 
attributes 

all people are brothers , and we appeal to our brothers 
for help and understanding. this is not the first appeal 
of azerbaijan to the world public opinion. our previous 
appeals were unheard .  . however , we still carry the hope 
that the truth beyond the russian and armenian propaganda 
will one day reveal the extent of our suffering and 
stimulate at least as much help and compassion for 
azerbaijan as tendered to whales and penguins .  . 

the committee for people s help to 
karabakh  ( of the ) academy of sciences 
of the azerbaijan ssr 


painful search  .  .  . 

the gruesome extent of february 's killings of azeris by armenians 
in the town of hojali is at last emerging in azerbaijan about 
600 men , women and children dead in the worst outrage of the 
four year war over karabakh .  . 

the figure is drawn from azeri investigators , hojali officials 
and casualty lists published in the baku press. diplomats and aid 
workers say the death toll is in line with their own estimates .  . 

the 25 february attack on hojali by armenian forces was one of 
the last moves in their four year campaign to take full control 
of karabakh , the subject of a new round of negotiations 
in rome on monday .  . the bloodshed was something between a fighting 
retreat and a massacre , but investigators say that most of the 
dead were civilians .  . the awful number of people killed was first 
suppressed by the fearful former communist government in baku .  . 
later it was blurred by armenian denials and grief stricken 
azerbaijan 's wild and contradictory allegations of up to 2 , 000 
dead. 

the state prosecuter , aydin , the cheif investigator of a 
15 man team looking into what azerbaijan calls the hojali 
disaster , said his figure of 600 people dead was a minimum on 
preliminary findings .  . a similar estimate was given by 
, the mayor of hojali .  . an even higher one was printed in 
the baku newspaper ordu in may 479 dead people named and more 
than 200 bodies reported unidentified .  . this figure of nearly 700 
dead is quoted as official by leila , the new spokeswoman 
of the azeri ministry of defence .  . 

francois zen , head of delegation of the international 
red cross in baku , said the muslim imam of the nearby city of 
agdam had reported a figure of 580 bodies received at his mosque 
from hojali , most of them civilians .  . we did not count the 
bodies .  . but the figure seems reasonable .  . it is no fantasy , mr 
zen said. we have some idea since we gave the body bags 
and products to wash the dead. 

mr endeavours to give an unemotional estimate of the 
number of dead in the massacre .  . do n't get worked up. it will 
take several months to get a final figure , the 43 year old 
lawyer said at his small office. 

mr knows about these things. it took him two years to 
reach a firm conclusion that 131 people were killed and 714 
wounded when soviet troops and tanks crushed a nationalist 
uprising in baku in january 1990. 

those nationalists , the popular front , finally came to power 
three weeks ago and are applying pressure to find out exactly 
what happened when hojali , an azeri town which lies about 70 
miles from the border with armenia , fell to the armenians .  . 

officially , 184 people have so far been certified as dead , being 
the number of people that could be medically examined by the 
republic 's forensic department. this is just a small percentage 
of the dead , said rafiq , the republic 's chief forensic 
scientist .  . they were the only bodies brought to us. remember the 
chaos and the fact that we are muslims and have to wash and bury 
our dead within 24 hours. 

of these 184 people , 51 were women , and 13 were children under 14 
years old. gunshots killed 151 people , shrapnel killed 20 and 
axes or blunt instruments killed 10. exposure in the highland 
snows killed the last three. thirty three people showed signs of 
deliberate mutilation , including ears , noses , breasts or penises 
cut off and eyes gouged out , according to professor 's 
report. those 184 bodies examined were less than a third of those 
believed to have been killed , mr said. 

files from mr 's investigative commission are still 
disorganised lists of 44 azeri militiamen are dead here , six 
policemen there , and in handwriting of a mosque attendant , the 
names of 111 corpses brought to be washed in just one day. the 
most heartbreaking account from 850 witnesses interviewed so far 
comes from , an azeri investigator who took a 
helicopter flight over the escape route from hojali on 27 
february .  . 

there were too many bodies of dead and wounded on the ground to 
count properly 470 500 in hojali , 650 700 people by the stream 
and the road and 85 100 visible around village , mr 
wrote in a statement countersigned by the helicopter 
pilot .  . 

people waved up to us for help. we saw three dead children and 
one two year old alive by one dead woman. the live one was 
pulling at her arm for the mother to get up. we tried to land but 
armenians started a barrage against our helicopter and we had to 
return. 

there has been no consolidation of the lists and figures in 
circulation because of the political upheavals of the last few 
months and the fact that nobody knows exactly who was in hojali 
at the time many inhabitants were displaced from other villages 
taken over by armenian forces .  . 

the independent , london , 12 6 '92 


heroes who fought on amid the bodies 

aref sat quietly in the shade of a cafe bar on the 
caspian sea esplanade of baku and showed a line of stitches in 
his trousers , torn by an armenian bullet as he fled the town of 
hojali just over three months ago , writes hugh pope .  . 

i'm still wearing the same clothes , i do n't have any others , 
the 51 year old carpenter said , beginning his account of the 
hojali disaster .  . i was wounded in five places , but i am lucky to 
be alive. 

mr and his wife were short of food , without electricity 
for more than a month , and cut off from helicopter flights for 12 
days. they sensed the armenian noose was tightening around the 
2 , 000 to 3 , 000 people left in the straggling azeri town on the 
edge of karabakh .  . 

at about 11pm a bombardment started such as we had never heard 
before , eight or nine kinds of weapons , artillery , heavy 
machine guns , the lot , mr said. 

soon neighbours were pouring down the street from the direction 
of the attack. some huddled in shelters but others started 
fleeing the town , down a hill , through a stream and through the 
snow into a forest on the other side. 

to escape , the townspeople had to reach the azeri town of agdam 
about 15 miles away. they thought they were going to make it , 
until at about dawn they reached a bottleneck between the two 
armenian villages of and saderak .  . 

none of my group was hurt up to then ... then we were spotted by 
a car on the road , and the armenian outposts started opening 
fire , mr said. 

azeri militiamen fighting their way out of hojali rushed forward 
to force open a corridor for the civilians , but their efforts 
were mostly in vain .  . mr said only 10 people from his 
group of 80 made it through , including his wife and militiaman 
son. seven of his immediate relations died , including his 
67 year old elder brother. 

i only had time to reach down and cover his face with his hat , 
he said , pulling his own big flat turkish cap over his eyes. we 
have never got any of the bodies back. 

the first groups were lucky to have the benefit of covering fire. 
one hero of the evacuation , alif , was shot dead as he 
struggled to change a magazine while covering the third group 's 
crossing , mr said. 

another hero , , the mayor of hojali , said he and 
several others spent the whole day of 26 february in the bushy 
hillside , surrounded by dead bodies as they tried to keep three 
armenian armoured personnel carriers at bay. 

as the survivors staggered the last mile into agdam , there was 
little comfort in a town from which most of the population was 
soon to flee .  . 

the night after we reached the town there was a big armenian 
rocket attack. some people just kept going , mr said. i 
had to get to the hospital for treatment. i was in a bad way. 
they even found a bullet in my sock .  . 

victims of war an azeri woman mourns her son , killed in the 
hojali massacre in february (left) .  . nurses struggle in primitive 
conditions  ( centre ) to save a wounded man in a makeshift 
operating theatre set up in a train carriage .  . grief stricken 
relatives in the town of agdam  ( right ) weep over the coffin of 
another of the massacre victims .  . calculating the final death toll 
has been complicated because muslims bury their dead within 24 
hours. 

photographs liu ap 
frederique reuter 

the independent , london , 12 6 '92 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( henrik norsell ) 
subject opinion poll ! 
lines 31 
organization university of 

net citizens ! 
this is a desperate try to save our last course in university .  . 
we are writing a study about the net , how it all started , about the people 
living in it , however trying to explain the basics of how it all works. 
that includes you , reader of this message. 
we would be more than grateful if we could get your answers to the following 
questions 

1. for how many years have you known that internet existed 
2. how often do you use the net  ( occasions per month) 
3.  ( hobby , in your profession ,  .  . ) . 
4. how do you access the net  ( university , profession , friends , private .  .  . ) . 
5. has the net taken over roles that other media played before  ( telephone , 
newspapers , tv , girlfriend .  .  . ) . 
6. what newsgroups type of information do you take part of 
7. male or female 
8. age 

if you have the time 
9. what 's your future visions about the net limits and or possibilities .  . 
10 . how . do you think hope law and censorship will change over time ahead 

we also want to apologize for taking up so much bandwidth with this. 
this request has been spread to 60 newsgroups , chosen at random , but , 
you know how it is , term end is closing up , panic spreads .  . 
email address or 

sincere respect and may the force be with you all ! 

peter henrik 


from  ( gul agha ) 
subject re please ! show up in washington dc for bosnia  ( may 15th) 
in reply to 's message of thu , 13 may 1993 15 55 41 gmt 
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci .  . , urbana , il 

lines 51 


in article  ( satya prabhakar ) writes 

i guess that it was not acceptable because germany also chose 
a path of aggression simultaneously that put the interests of 
other countries in peril .  . i wonder whether us or other countries 
would have risked themselves if only jews were persecuted and 
hitler had no imperialist ambitions .  . (i am no student of history 
and i am just asking questions . ) . 

i do n't think they would have. after all the u.s. was one of the 
countries that turned away jewish refugees when there was still time 
to get them out.  ( considered and rejected at the cabinet level then .  . ) . 

... 
under what conditions should us interfere in countries , 
is an abstraction one must clarify before resorting to 
accusations of religious bigotry and such. 

as i understand it , international law provides the right of any 
country to intervene to prevent genocide .  . i think once the world 
court has ruled that genocide is being committed .  .  .  . 

if a human rights czar is appointed at the u.n. , we could have 
international monitors recording events and responses of local 
officials and develop an objective basis. this could be backed by 
at the international court of justice and enforcement 
through a rapid deployment force under the u.n. secretary general 's 
command. i would like to see the u.n. directly impose rulings 
whenever feasible  ( without the possibility of vetos at the un security 
council .  .  . much as the president ca n't veto a u.s. supreme court 
 . 

the u.s. is now supporting the effort to appoint the hr czar the 
third world opposition is led by three countries , china , iran and 
pakistan  ( what company is pakistan keeping ! ) .  . 

the u.s. is also its opposition to the u.n. force 
initially in the charter  ( although under the control of the 
security  . the un sc is quite a flawed body. rogue 
governments like the prc have even threatened their veto in the last 
few months to block the move to place u.n. troops in bosnia under 
chapter 7 instead of 11  ( if i have the numbers straight ) where they 
could have moved from being a monitoring to an enforcement force 
without requiring further sc action. (the prc even continues to 
threaten using its veto on u.n. action despite the ruling .  . the 
current set up requires the sc to enforce rulings .  . ) .  . 

peace , 

gul agha 

reply to 
from d. c. sessions 
organization nobody but me really 
x tmail version 1 . 20r . 
subject re question about last thoughts of israeli pilots when they kill .  . 
distribution world 
lines 16 

in ,  ( nick steel ) wrote 

q when an israeli pilot is bombing school children in lebanon gets 
shot down , and crashes head first , what 's the last thing that 
goes into his mind  ( head ) 

a his butt hole. 

now this has to count as one of the most original and constructive 
contributions yet on tpm .  . all in all , well worth the it took 
to send it to thousands of computers all over the world. 

d. c. sessions speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of tmail  ( dos mail news shell) 

from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re israel an apartheid state. 
nntp posting host bellini . berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley erl 
lines 37 

in article srv . wam . umd . edu .  ( alberto pinkas ) writes 
in article  ( adam l. schwartz ) writes 
which was my point. by converting to another religion i do not loose 
my cultural identity , i just loose my religious identification .  . 
i consider that defining the belonging to a nation that claims the 
right to have a state based on religious belief is a form of racism .  . 


to be a part or not of the nation is defined by my culture and not 
by my religion. actually , if i am an atheist , which is in fact like 
converting into a non jewish in terms of religion , i am still considered as 
part of the jewish nation .  . 
i can be proud of my jewish culture while not giving any importance to the 
jewish religion. or , even more , i can be proud of my jewish culture while 
still be convinced that the real god is another one. 
i do not know anyone who lost his to the american nation 
because he changed of god. 

alberto , you 've repeatedly misunderstood my postings .  . you are now making the exact point 
that i 've made several times but with a different definition of religion. you do n't not 
have to believe in the religious aspects of judaism to be a jew  ( this would confine 
judaism to be just a religion in the sense of a christianity . ) .  . so , by converting out of 
judaism , i do n't mean just not believing in the god of judaism .  . i mean voluntarily 
removing yourself from the jewish nation .  . i am an agnostic but still consider myself 
jewish because of my cultural heritage .  . (i admit that many religious jews would argue 
that i am not completely jewish because of my lack of faith , but judaism is a religion of 
dissent and debate is n't it ) .  . the fact that one can opt to become jewish simply by 
converting to judaism makes the nation of the jewish people the least racist and most 
open nation .  . we have no quotas ! 

so i will once again make my point. defining a member of the jewish nation by religion 
(not , as you say , religious belief ) is not racism .  . you come to your incorrect conclusion 
because you use a different definition for religion when you define the law of return and 
when you define judaism .  . 

adam schwartz 


reply to 
from d. c. sessions 
organization nobody but me really 
x tmail version 1 . 20r . 
subject re freedom in u.s.a. 
distribution world 
lines 47 

in , ()  ( andi beyer ) wrote 

writes 
dear mr. beyer 

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom 
of racism and violent deragatory .  . 

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial 
distinction .  . 

in fact , if a speach was not offensive to some , its 
protection under freedom of speach laws would be useless. it is 
speach that some find questionable that must be protected , be 
it religiously blasphemous or inherently racist .  . it is only 
through civilized discourse and not scare tactics that one can 
enlighten those that one perceives to be ignorant .  . that is the 
idea behind freedom of expression. 
what you find offensive might be perceived as truth by 
some and what they might find offensive might be your belief .  . 
it is only through free exchange of ideas  ( and insults as the 
case seems to be with this channel) that one can change 
another 's erring ways . that . is why jefferson said that here 
we are not afraid to tolerate error so long as reason is left to 
combat it . 

does this mean that you are volunteering to wade through the 
mutlu argic deluge that comes in every day some of us are 
tired of being dragged into content free pissing contests 
with bigots .  . we intensely dislike being stuck between 
letting this crap pass without comment as though it were 
and replying to it and getting sucked in again. 

let 's keep some perspective here. 

imho , the josh 's policy of forwarding the garbage in question , 
without comment , to the relevant sysadmin strikes a good 
balance. the stuff was , after all , published on a public 
forum from that very site , yet. hardly a matter of 
confidentiality or copyright .  . if the local administration 
wants to do something about it , they have that right. if 
not , nobody 's twisting their arms. 

d. c. sessions speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of tmail  ( dos mail news shell) 

from  ( nigel allen ) 
subject text of president clinton 's letter to congress on iranian assets 
reply to  ( nigel allen ) 
organization the national capital freenet , ottawa 
lines 143 


here is a press release from the white house. 

text of president clinton 's letter to congress on iranian assets 
to national desk 
contact white house press office , 202 456 2100 

washington , may 14 following is a letter 
president clinton wrote to congress on iranian assets 

to the congress of the united states 

i hereby report to the congress on developments since the 
last presidential report on november 10 , 1992 , concerning the 
national emergency with respect to iran that was declared in 
executive order no. of november 14 , 1979 , and matters 
relating to executive order no. of october 29 , 1987 .  . 
this report is submitted pursuant to section  ( 204(c ) of the 
international emergency economic powers act , 50 u.s.c.  ( 1703(c ) , 
and section  ( 505(c ) of the international security and development 
cooperation act of 1985 , 22 u.s.c.  . this report 
covers events through march 31 , 1993. the last report , dated 
november 10 , 1992 , covered events through october 15 , 1992. 

1. there have been no amendments to the iranian 
transactions regulations ( ) , 31 part 560 , or to the 
iranian assets control regulations ( ) , 31 part 535 , 
since the last report. 

2. the office of foreign assets control ( fac ) of the 
department of the treasury continues to process applications 
for import licenses under the  . however , as previously 
reported , recent amendments to the have resulted in a 
substantial decrease in the number of applications received 
relating to the importation of iranian origin goods .  . 

during the reporting period , the customs service has 
continued to effect numerous seizures of iranian origin 
merchandise , primarily carpets , for violation of the import 
prohibitions of the  . fac and customs service 
of these violations have resulted in forfeiture actions 
and the imposition of civil monetary penalties .  . additional 
forfeiture and civil penalty actions are under review. 

3. the iran united states claims tribunal (the 
tribunal ) , established at the hague pursuant to the algiers 
accords , continues to make progress in the claims 
before it. since the last report , the tribunal has rendered 
12 awards , for a total of 545 awards .  . of that total , 367 have 
been awards in favor of american claimants 222 of these were 
awards on agreed terms , authorizing and approving payment of 
settlements negotiated by the parties , and 145 were decisions 
on the merits .  . the tribunal has issued 36 decisions 
dismissing claims on the merits and 83 decisions dismissing 
claims for reasons. of the 59 remaining awards , 
3 approved the withdrawal of cases , and 56 were in favor of 
iranian claimants .  . as of march 31 , 1993 , awards to successful 
american claimants from the security account held by the 
nv settlement bank stood at 2 , 340 , 072 , 357 . 77 .  . 

as of march 31 , 1993 , the security account has fallen 
below the required balance of 500 million 36 times. iran has 
periodically replenished the account , as required by the algiers 
accords , by transferring funds from the separate account held by 
the nv settlement bank in which interest on the security account 
is deposited .  . iran has also replenished the account with the 
proceeds from the sale of iranian origin oil imported into the 
united states , pursuant to transactions licensed on a case by 
case basis by fac .  . iran has not , however , replenished the 
account since the last oil sale deposit on october 8 , 1992. 
the aggregate amount that has been transferred from the interest 
account to the security account is 874 , 472 , 986 . 47 .  . as of 
march 31 , 1993 , the total amount in the security account was 
216 , 244 , 986 . 03 . , and the total amount in the interest account 
was 8 , 638 , 133 . 15 .  . 

4. the tribunal continues to make progress in the 
arbitration of claims of u.s. nationals for 250 , 000.00 or more. 
since the last report , nine large claims have been decided .  . 
more than 85 percent of the claims have now been 
disposed of through , settlement , or voluntary 
withdrawal , leaving 76 such claims on the  . the larger 
claims , the resolution of which has been slowed by their 
complexity , are finally being resolved , sometimes with sizable 
awards to the u.s. claimants .  . for example , two claimants were 
awarded more than 130 million each by the tribunal in october 
1992. 

5. as anticipated by the may 13 , 1990 , agreement settling 
the claims of u.s. nationals for less than 250 , 000.00 , the 
foreign claims settlement commission ( ) has continued its 
review of 3 , 112 claims .  . the has issued decisions in 
1 , 201 claims , for total awards of more than 22 million. the 
expects to complete its of the remaining 
claims in early 1994. 

6. in coordination with concerned government agencies , 
the department of state continues to present united states 
government claims against iran , as well as responses by the 
united states government to claims brought against it by iran .  . 
in november 1992 , the united states filed 25 volumes of 
supporting information in case b 1  ( claims 2 3) , iran 's claim 
against the united states for damages relating to its foreign 
military sales program. in february of this year , the united 
states participated in a conference in 
several other cases involving military equipment. iran also 
filed a new dispute alleging that the failure 
of u.s. courts to enforce an award against a u.s. corporation 
violated the algiers accords .  . 

7. as reported in november , jose maria , president of 
the tribunal , tendered his resignation on october 2 , 1992. no 
successor has yet been named .  . judge 's resignation will 
take effect as soon as a successor becomes available to take up 
his duties .  . 

8. the situation reviewed above continues to involve 
important diplomatic , financial , and legal interests of the 
united states and its nationals .  . iran 's policy behavior 
presents challenges to the national security and foreign 
policy of the united states. the issued pursuant to 
executive order no. continue to play an important role 
in structuring our relationship with iran and in enabling 
the united states to implement properly the algiers accords .  . 
similarly , the issued pursuant to executive order no. 
continue to advance important objectives in inter 
national terrorism .  . i shall exercise the powers at my disposal 
to deal with these problems and will report periodically to the 
congress on significant developments .  . 


william j. clinton 


the white house , 
may 14 , 1993. 

30 




nigel allen , toronto , ontario , canada 

from  ( hesham khater ) 
subject rally for bosnia  ( washington d.c. saturday , may 15 , 93) 
organization univ. of wis , madison .  . , neep department 
distribution talk . politics . mideast . 
lines 53 

the following announcement is from the bosnia task force , usa .  . 


yusuf islam  ( formerly cat stevens of london ) and muhammad ali 
 ( former champion ) will be the grand marshals of 
the washington rally on saturday , may 15 , 93 



twenty to twenty five thousands are expected to march 
demanding an end to genocide in bosnia 


rally will begin 1pm from lafayette park in front of white house 


in the largest planned rally ever by muslims in america , the bosnia task 
force , usa has called upon all muslims in the usa to hold rallies 
through out the usa .  . muslims in 400 miles radius are , however , requested 
to come to washington d.c. for a rally in front of the white house. 

the rally will start sharp at 1pm on may 15 , 93 in front of the white house and 
will march to capitol hill .  . all are requested to be in lafayette park by noon .  . 

it is going to be a big rally .  . more than 20 , 000 persons are expected to 
participate .  . new york is targeting 50 buses .  . people as far as texas and arizona 
are coming. never in washington 's history have so many muslims have marched 
before. are you ready for this historical event call every one you know to 
bring them to rally .  . 

our demands 


1) recognize the genocidal nature of the milosevic regime and its aggression .  . 
2) lift the arms embargo from the bosnian government. 
3) provide the bosnian government with arms for self defence .  . 
4) use nato air power to enforce the will and conscience of the world community 
on serbia .  . 
5)begin ) the war crime tribunals immediately. 

if you are not part of the solution , you are part of the problem ! 


members of the bosnia task force , usa 
, , ministry of imam w. mohammed , the national community , 
bosnia action committee of chicago , new york , american 
muslim council , michigan islamic council , balkan muslim association .  . 
phone (312) 829 fax (312) 829 


anyone who is interested in putting an end to the genocide being 
committed in bosnia should join this rally regardless of his her 
religious association .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 100 

in article  ( red herring ) writes 

as if were any difference in how bosnian tribes treated 
each other. that said , one could draw a parallel between 
the russians in , and the serbs in bosnia .  . 

a typical nazi racist armenian of  asala sdpa  . can it be that 
criminal nazi armenians of asala sdpa arf hate muslims for ideological 
reasons regardless of what they do between 1914 and 1920 , your criminal 
armenian grandparents committed unheard of crimes , resorted to all 
conceivable methods of despotism , organized massacres , poured petrol 
over babies and burned them , raped women and girls in front of their 
parents who were bound hand and foot , took girls from their mothers 
and fathers and appropriated personal property and real estate .  . and 
today , they put azeris in the most unbearable conditions any other 
nation had ever known in history. 


source the times , 2 march 1992 

corpses litter hills in karabakh 

comes under fire while flying with azerbaijani forces 
to investigate the mass killings of refugees by armenian troops .  .  .  . 

as we swooped low over the snow covered hills of nagorno karabagh we saw 
the scattered corpses .  . apparently , the refugees had been shot down as 
they ran .  . an azerbaijani film of the places we flew over , shown to 
journalists afterwards , showed dozens of corpses lying in various parts 
of the hills .  . 

the azerbaijanis claim that as many as 1000 have died in a mass killing 
of azerbaijanis fleeing from the town of , seized by armenians 
last week. a further 4 , 000 are believed to be wounded , frozen to death 
or missing .  .  .  . 

seven of us squatted in the cabin of an azerbaijani m24 attack helicopter 
as we flew to investigate the claims of the mass killings .  . suddenly there 
was a thump against the underside of the aircraft , a red flash of tracer 
ripped past the starboard wing , and the helicopter rocked sharply .  . we 
swung round , and there was a deafening burst of fire from the cannon 
under our wing as the helicopter crew returned fire. 

we had been fired on from an armenian anti aircraft post. we swung round 
again , tipped to starboard and appeared to dive straight down into a 
valley .  . the brown earth swooped around our heads , the helicopter swung 
round again and followed the contours of the ground. our cannon fired 
repeated blasts .  . 

later it emerged that a civilian helicopter that we had been escorting 
had landed successfully at in the east of the disputed 
enclave of nagorno karabakh , to pick up some of the dead. we had , in 
fact , been attacked both by ground fire and by an armenian helicopter .  . 
i had seen the armenian helicopter intermittently through the window , 
its cannons firing , but had thought mistakenly that it was on 
our side . our group of western journalists had embarked on a 
search and rescue flight that had become a combat mission. 

our flight consisted of the civilian passenger helicopter and two 
m24 soviet attack helicopters in the azerbaijani service , nicknamed 
flying crocodiles for their armour .  . our party was in the second 
crocodile .  . the civilian helicopter 's job was to land in the mountains 
and pick up bodies at sites of the mass killings .  . the attack helicopters 
were there to give covering fire if necessary. 

the operation showed a striking sign of the disintegration of the soviet 
armed forces because our pilot was a russian officer .  . an azerbaijani 
official told us that there were now five former soviet military 
helicopters and their pilots fighting for azerbaijan .  . they have 
signed contracts to fly for us , he said. the helicopter we engaged 
in combat was most probably flown by a brother officer of our russian 
pilot , but fighting for the armenians .  . 

we had taken off just before 5pm on saturday from agdam airfield , an 
heated for the armenian controlled mountains of karabakh , a sheer 
white wall in the distance. the civilian helicopter picked up four 
corpses , and it was during this and a previous mission that an 
azerbaijani cameraman filmed the several the several dozen bodies 
on the hillsides .  . we then took off again in a hurry and speed back 
towards azerbaijani lines. azerbaijani gunners on the last hill before 
the plain and safety gazed up at us as we passed. 

back at the airfield in agdam , we took a look the bodies the 
civilian helicopter had picked up. two old men a small girl were 
covered with blood , their limbs contorted by the cold and rigor 
mortis .  . they had been shot. 

what did our russian pilot think of the tragedy , our close shave , 
and the war in nagorno karabakh he gave us cheerful grin , politely 
declined to answer ques tions , and marched off to his dinner. 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from (david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 015 
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 854 

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 015 
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh 



. . . they beat up the husband , dragged the wife outside , 
and stood her naked next to our burning things her 
husband was lying at her feet on the ground. the crowd 
shouted , look at the naked armenian ! they were going to 
throw the poor woman into the fire .  .  . mamma . would n't allow 
it but i went to the window and saw her standing there , 
and they took skewers that had been heated in the fire 
and stuck them into her body. 



of 



born 1937 
dispatcher 
electric booster station 

her daughters 

 ( gaya ) 
born 1970 
orderly 
sumgait municipal hospital no. 1 

diana 
born 1978 
second year student 
sumgait secondary school no. 13 

residents at building 21 31 , apartment 47 
microdistrict no. 3 
sumgait azerbaijan 


on march 20 we arrived in yerevan , and the next day they registered 
us at the train station and took us to the boarding house. the conditions were 
wonderful , thanks to our armenians , who received us. but it 's not relaxing all 
the same. i do n't know how everyone else feels about it , but for me it 's 
torture. we do n't have a place to call our own. i had a two bedroom apartment 
in sumgait , my children went to school and we lived well , in friendship. it 's 
painful that in our times , in 1988 , in the soviet period , people can break 
into our apartment and try to kill me and my children , in whom i 've put all my 
efforts and my whole youth .  . everything was going well for us my older 
daughter was studying at the institute , the middle one was preparing to enter 
medical school and was as an orderly , and my youngest had been sick 
for a long time , but had returned to health. i have been though a lot in my 
life it 's been seven years since i lost my husband , i raised my children by 
myself. lots of women have similar fates , but there 's nothing to be done about 
it. but i ca n't control myself when i remember what happened in sumgait on 
february 27 , 28 , and 29 , it was just a horror , it 's indescribable .  . 

on february 27 our relative , ira , came to visit us. she 's better friends with 
my oldest daughter , and so right away she asked , where 's vika i say , 
vika 's off in on a trip for three days , she 's supposed to come back 
tomorrow. my middle daughter , , had baked a cake and we sat there talking 
and laughing , drinking tea. then and diana went to walk ira home. 

they left and a few minutes went by suddenly i hear noise. i raced out to 
the balcony our balcony is right across from the bus station , we live at the 
corner of mir and streets i look and see that there are of 
people near the bus station and they 're all shouting something. what they 're 
shouting i ca n't understand. our neighbor is standing on his balcony , too. i 
ask , , what 's happened he says , i do n't know , i ca n't figure it out 
either. i got scared the kids had gone outside , and i wanted to run after 
them , but then there was a knock at the door. i open the door and it 's the 
kids. mamma , says , you 'll never believe what 's going on out there ! 
it 's awful ! ira says , aunt , they 're shouting ,  karabagh ! karabagh ! 
karabagh is ours ! ' we did n't know what was going on. they 're threatening to 
drive out the armenians and slaughter them. 

i called my brother , and his wife answered the phone. i said , aunt tamara , 
do n't worry , ira is staying here with us , and we 'll see her home later. i 
could n't shut my eyes all night long , even until morning. i was worried about 
vika .  . my god , what was going on , what had happened ! 

that day , on the 27th , we stood on the balcony and observed what was 
happening , although mamma would n't allow us to watch all of it. there were n't 
50 yards between our building and the bus station. we could see and hear 
everything perfectly. they were stopping buses , dragging people out , leading 
all the passengers out , looking for armenians .  . if they found an armenian on 
the bus , then it started . .  . i . do n't know what to call it . . . 

it 's called slaughter .  . 

the mob would descend on people and beat them. i do n't know if they 
were killing them or not , but when they left them , they lay still , not moving , 
as though nothing was left of them. one person was lying there and they 
started dragging him. the police were standing right there , to the side , not 
doing anything , they did n't take any steps to calm that mob .  . 

it was awful to stand there and watch it all from the balcony .  . and you 
could n't go anywhere , somehow . . . you wanted to be able to see everything 
so as to tell of it later. we wanted to leave sumgait that day. what kept us 
was the idea that we live in the soviet union , and that something would be 
done about it. where in the world was our government ! 

we could n't leave town , of course , because our older daughter was n't 
home. and at the same time i was terrified for and diana .  . on sunday 
morning when i went to see ira home , our neighbor said ,  , you know they 
went into 's house and smashed everything he had. they murdered his 
father and two sons .  . is our neighbor , he 's an armenian , he lives on 
the first floor. i think , my god , what is happening ! and in broad daylight ! 

i saw ira home and when on the way back i came across a mob shouting slay the 
armenians ! karabagh is ours ! this was at 12 o'clock in the afternoon. on the 
way i stopped into a bread store and the says , they beat our store 
manager , they thought he was an armenian and they beat him , but he was an 
azerbaijani .  . and i asked , did they kill him she says , no , he 's in serious 
condition. i left there and started to walk home on that same street , but the 
mob started moving in my direction. i turned off the street and went down the 
little way that goes toward the sputnik store. there i met another crowd , but 
these were n't bandits , these were our people from sumgait .  . i was so frightened 
that i walked without knowing where was going , i could n't feel my legs or the 
ground under my feet. i was walking and there was a boy standing before my 
eyes. this was on the 27th , around evening time. he ran under our balcony , and 
the mob toward him shouting , he 's an armenian , get him ! he wore a 
black coat. they grabbed him , that boy , near the bus stop , i saw it. they 
grabbed him by the legs and struck his head on the asphalt .  . 

i made it home but i just could n't calm down. my oldest daughter was in my 
thoughts. i was thinking , my daughter 's coming home now , they 'll stop her bus 
and she 'll be gone. there 's no police , no protection , nothing. it 's like they 
had all died , there 's no one , nothing , no authorities whatsoever. i ca n't even 
find the words for it ! i look and see an ikarus arriving .  . before going to the 
bus station they stop near our place , across from the kosmos movie theater .  . so 
this ikarus stops there and the gang is yelling , the azerbaijanis are running 
toward it yelling , armenians out ! and i see them take the armenians and beat 
them , killing them. i ca n't watch it any more. it was a nightmare .  . i just 
could n't watch it. but was standing there watching it , and i her. 
she says , mamma , i have to see it , i have to know what 's happening , i have to 
see it with my own eyes so i can tell our people of it later. so our children 
will know. 

we saw a great deal on the 27th .  . they caught no less than 20 people 
before my eyes. i ca n't say for sure if they killed them or not . . . 

there were too many people there , the mob was too big. you could n't 
make anything out. but i saw that boy in the black coat with my own eyes. he 
was 18 or 19 years old. 

i think he was older , probably , about 22. a tall fellow , a big guy , 
in a coat. he was walking quickly , but when they shouted that he was an 
armenian , he tore off running. and the mob went after him. they caught him 
right under our balcony .  . i do n't know. i do n't think there could have been 
much left of him after that. you can imagine what happens when a crowd attacks 
one person. it was a mob , big , angry , and  . you know , there was a 
similarity in the way they were dressed , mostly they were wearing long black 
coats .  . you could n't even tell them apart , they were all wearing black and they 
all looked alike. 

when they picked up that boy and struck him against the asphalt and 
he cried mamma ! i ran into the room. i could n't watch any longer. an awful 
lot was going on right then , in various places , it was n't only that boy , 
several people were being beaten up. you could n't see all of it at once , but 
when that boy cried mamma ! i immediately started watching only him. 

on that first day it went on from about six in the morning until 
twelve at night. at midnight they dispersed and the police took their place. 
they were scattered about in all districts .  . but how can you explain the fact 
that by morning , when it had already started getting light , around seven 
o'clock , our police were gone the police disappeared and yielded their 
positions to the bandits .  . in the morning they started gathering at our inter 
section again , at the bus station and at the entrance to downtown .  . from 
morning on all the roads and mass transit stops were covered , and by nine 
o'clock you could n't even see the ground. there were thousands of people in 
the crowd. again they began stopping vehicles and checking for armenians .  . 

they had signals .  . i realized that when i noticed that they made a 
cross with their arms , they crossed their arms over their heads. the cross , 
evidently , meant that the vehicle had armenians in it. they let the 
azerbaijani cars through , and they stopped the armenian ones and started 
their pogrom .  . 

they stopped a white zhiguli and asked the driver what his 
nationality was. he got out and said they were from baku .  . but what is your 
nationality he says armenian .  . they immediately start shouting , ermeni , 
ermeni ! and he says , what 's going on i'm coming from baku .  . i do n't live 
in sumgait .  . does n't matter , who cares if you 're from baku or sumgait .  . 
anyway the crowd pounced on him and started beating him , and they dragged a 
woman his wife , probably out of the car. at this point the police came and 
took the two and led them away. then the mob started smashing the car , and 
then burned it. the flames . . . it was a horrible fire ! then everyone 
ran away , they thought the car was going to explode .  . about 20 minutes later 
another car comes along , a green  . they ran up shouting ermeni ! 
ermeni ! but this time they did n't pull the people out of the car , they did n't 
beat them. maybe they burned them along with the car , because no one emerged 
from the flames .  . the neighbor boy was standing on the balcony too , 
acquaintances of his walked by below , and he asked them and they said , yes , 
they burned them along with the car. about two hours later a whole wedding 
procession came by , and there was a doll on the first car. we thought they 
were armenians , but the cars started to honk loudly .  . they were azerbaijanis , 
and they were immediately allowed through. 

the driver waved his hand as if to say  get out of the way . ' . the 
whole crowd parted and the procession passed through freely .  . 

by the way , at the marriage hall , which is right in the courtyard 
of our building , there was a wedding that day. the azerbaijanis were 
and dancing. on the streets there was grief and death , people were 
being killed , and people were celebrating the whole time. 

before the apartment itself was attacked i asked to call and 
find out when the tourist bus was supposed to arrive. she went to her 
girlfriend 's in the building , she lives in the first entryway , on the third 
floor. came back and said , mamma , the bus is supposed to come around 
eight , after eight .  . you can imagine what i was feeling , how hard it was 
vika knew nothing about what was happening and was coming to meet her death. 
then i heard shouting .  . i raced to the window and see that the belongings of 
our neighbors from the second entryway are being thrown outdoors .  . they were 
thrashing about with the pillows and the were lying like snow. i 
started to cry. i am walking around the room , crying , wailing vika 's not 
here , what will come of her . . . , of course , was me mamma , 
nothing will happen to her , do n't worry , calm down , she 's in good company , 
they 'll look out for her. 

diana i saw the green car burn .  . the car was burning when we went out onto the 
balcony .  . pushed me away , telling me to get off the balcony .  . i left. then 
they came up to the balcony and asked if there were any armenians here. 

you 're right , i forgot about that , that was on the 27th .  . 

diana there 's a small , area in front of our balcony there are trees 
planted there. the mob asked if there were any armenians in the building. 
all the neighbors said , no , there are no armenians here. there were n't a lot 
of armenians in our building , but there were n't just a few armenian families , 
either. 

they fell upon the apartments on the 28th .  . there were terribly many 
of them. our courtyard is huge , and it was completely filled with them. 

had made an appearance on television earlier. he said that 
two people , azerbaijanis , had been killed in karabagh .  . and when he said that 
. . . you know how bees sound , have you heard how they buzz it was like the 
buzzing of millions of bees . . . and with this buzzing they flew into our 
courtyard , howling and shouting .  . i do n't know how to describe it. by this 
point we were afraid to watch from the balcony , but when i looked out of the 
bedroom window the bookstore is down there , and armenians live on the 
second and fourth floors i saw their things being thrown out the windows. i 
realized that they would be upon us any minute. i shouted to , , 
hide the gold. that 's honestly what i told my child. i grabbed diana .  . i 
did n't know what to do ! vika still was n't home , and it was already getting 
dark. i was afraid to look at the time because i was already horrified as it 
was. 

just in case , we changed the television channel from the moscow 
station to the azerbaijani one. 

and turned it up loud .  . 

we never listened to azerbaijani music. it just did n't do much for 
us. in all those years we almost never listened to it. but sometimes we would 
watch some entertainment show or film on azerbaijani television .  . and that was 
it. and here we had it turned up full blast. so they would think we were 
azerbaijanis .  . 

well you can imagine , they 're slaughtering armenians , robbing them , 
and we 're listening to this concert music from baku .  . our azerbaijani neighbors 
suggested we do it , they knocked on the door and told to turn on 
azerbaijani music. but we already had it on anyway. turn on the lights , they 
told us , so they will think you 're not armenians .  . they 're saying the armenians 
are afraid to turn on their lights , they 're hiding .  . 

apparently there was some kind of arrangement , because we noticed 
that the lights were off only in armenian apartments , that is , the 
azerbaijanis were warned , and every last one of them had their lights on. 
when we turned the lights off two of our neighbors came immediately , and 
later , another one. turn on the lights , they told us , please. nothing will 
happen. be calm .  . nothing will happen. 

we wo n't allow them to come into your apartment. 

we believed those people. we had never done anything bad to them. 

after the whole nightmare , about march 15 , before we left for 
armenia , when i was coming into the building they were all crying. the 
azerbaijanis were crying , saying , can it be there is no god how could 
they raise their hands against your family you never did anyone any harm , 
you never refused anyone anything , not in hard times , or in time of fortune , 
or in time of mourning .  . how could they give you away how could they sell you 
down the river they really had given us away. some of them protected us , but 
others gave us away. they sold us down the river. 

i was wearing slacks that day , and when it all began i became 
cautious for some reason and i changed my clothes. azerbaijani women do n't 
wear pants. young armenian and russian girls in sumgait wore pants , but the 
azerbaijanis found that very strange. and i thought i better put on a , 
otherwise they wo n't believe me if i told them we were azerbaijanis .  . there was 
nothing else we could do. no other way out. i was forced to turn myself into 
god knows who .  . i let my hair down , it , and threw a scarf over my head. 

and she told me , mamma , you hide .  . take diana and go into the other 
room. you two look more like armenians .  . they 'll figure out that we 're 
armenians right away. but how could i go away and leave her there ! 

i went out onto the balcony .  . it worked out better that way. we were 
the only armenian family in the fourth entryway .  . this gave us hope we were 
the only ones , the neighbors would n't let them in. they , the azerbaijanis , 
would fear for themselves and for their children. i looked and saw someone 
crawling up on the balcony from below , it was easy to get up onto our balcony .  . 
when we would lose the keys the neighbors would let up into their places and 
we would crawl across onto our balcony and get in that way. so i turned around 
and saw a guy with a knife on our balcony .  . he looks at me and shouts , what 
nationality are you here 

at the same time they were knocking on the door. 

what nationality are you he 's shouting .  . well at first i was 
frightened , but then i got control of myself and answered in perfect 
azerbaijani , you should be ashamed of yourself , asking a question like that. 
ca n't you see i'm an azerbaijani if i were an armenian would i come out to 
meet you face to face and look you in the eyes he looks at me and tells the 
people with him , yes , azerbaijanis live here. from below they tell him , 
check it out , it ca n't be , they have to be armenians .  . and he asks me again , 
what nationality are you i say , ca n't you see i started  . i could 
not say anything else. you 're blind , that 's for sure ! you can yell all you 
want , but that wo n't make us armenians .  . i hear them breaking down our 
door , and mamma went toward the door. i say , i do n't have time to deal 
with you , they 're breaking down our door. 1 go to the door and ask , who is 
it they answer , open up ! i say , wait , why are you breaking the door 
what 's going on i'm opening up. we never locked the lower lock , it was 
broken , but now they had locked it out of fear , and i could n't get it open. i 
say wait , i'm looking for the key. i opened the door it was almost broken 
down already. i opened the door and they burst in. i say , what 's going on 
why are you breaking down our door 

then they started climbing in from the balcony .  . they 're shouting , 
why do n't you open the door and i say , well you 've already come in the 
balcony .  . then diana sees their knives , runs into the bathroom , and closes the 
door. cries out , mamma , diana ran into the bathroom ! i ran to the door 
and forgot that we were pretending to be azerbaijanis , and said in armenian 
diana , open the door ! tried to calm them down , and i'm shouting with 
tears in my eyes for diana to open the door. 

diana i was sitting on the couch with my doll , little red riding hood. that 
guy climbed in from the balcony with a big knife with a yellow handle. they 
put it up to mamma 's stomach. i ran to the bathroom , opened the door , and 
slammed it behind me. i was frightened , and started to cry. i shouted , mamma , 
they want to kill you ! and then . . . then they started shouting , give us 
your passports .  . and says , what do you need passports for , we 're 
azerbaijanis .  . 

i tried to convince them that we were azerbaijanis , i was trying 
everything i could , i could get on my knees and plead .  . i could humble myself , 
because at that moment i was worried about other lives than just my own. to be 
honest i did n't care about anything else , as long as my little sister would 
survive , her life and health had cost us so dearly ! i tell them , what , do n't 
you understand anything they started shouting , they were tremendously 
excited , shouting with terribly loud voices , saying that in their 
girls were being killed , raped , and tossed around with  . why 
should n't they do the same to us i said , who 's doing all that who is doing 
it some armenians ! what does that have to do with us give me the knife , i 'll 
cut my own face. now you calm down , they tell me. 

i told them , why did n't you deal with them there ! there , in 
karabakh nothing has happened here , no one has been fighting here , not we 
with the armenians , nor they with us. why did n't you give it right back to 
them there what 've we got to do with this i got confused. i had been 
saying that we were azerbaijanis , but suddenly i started speaking as though 
i were an armenian , but they did n't notice. one of them was next to me , 
with a knife at my breast .  . and he says to the others , what pretty girls. he 
meant and my 10 year old diana .  . i was terrified .  . started assuring 
them that we were azerbaijanis .  . one guy stood in the doorway and gave us bad 
looks. 

he demanded the passports .  . i said , young man , i do n't have my 
passport here. he says , let 's have the passport , we wo n't believe you 
without your passport .  . and one of them started searching for 
documents .  . they turned the wardrobe in the other room upside down , took the 
picture off the wall , and started pulling the clothes off their hooks , yelling 
and shouting , passport ! passport ! they all started yelling , there was so 
much noise in the apartment. they were all shouting .  . my hair stood on end. 
suddenly i said , listen , my papa died , 40 days have n't passed yet , we have a 
muslim household , we 're in mourning , you should be ashamed of yourselves , 
you 've disgraced your honor. and then mamma started to cry. 

i started crying my husband died , 40 days have n't yet passed , 
are n't you ashamed of yourselves ! in fact my husband had died seven years 
earlier , in 1981 .  . we 're in mourning , and you burst in here demanding 
ments .  . the documents are at the housing office , i'm filing for my pension .  . 
well it seemed like they believed us. then one guy said , they 're  . 
ca n't you see , there are no men here , only women. leave. another fellow in 
the group agreed with him , he also said that we were  . but a third 
said , no , they 're armenians .  . well the other two convinced him , i don t know 
how , and all the rest of them listened to them too. there were about 50 of 
them , if not more , all in our three room apartment , even the entryway was 
filled .  . they started leaving .  . yes , we 're , we 're  . they started 
leaving , and one of them took our tape recorder with him. and the one who had 
first called us says , leave that , what are you doing they seemed to 
obey that guy. 

he was tall , wearing baggy jeans and a coat. 

with a little moustache , i think. 

no , he did n't have a moustache , he was tall with brown hair , he 
was n't a bad looking sort .  . he did n't have anything in his hands. 

he stood at the threshold .  . 

yes , he did n't look like a bad guy , and you know , his face seemed 
familiar to me. i had seen him somewhere. and more than once. but i ca n't 
remember where. when he came in i was , i had a that he 
would n't be able to remain indifferent .  . when he said that we were and 
that they should leave , such started to glow inside of me. hope. they 
continued to argue on their way out. some said , they 're armenians all the 
same. and that fellow answered , even if they are armenians , it 's shameful , 
the father died , they 're mourning , there 's nothing but women in the house , 
there 's no men. we should stay out of the apartment. what do you mean , stay 
out we can go in there ! and he said , no , we should stay out , they 're 
, we 're leaving here. the three of them protected us. 

no , the two of them. the one in the short coat and the one in the 
grey suit , who stood at the threshold , about 19 or 20 years old. well they 
were all young really. the two of them defended us. 

diana three , three ! 

do you remember the third one , diana 

diana yes , he was wearing dark clothes. 

the third one was the one who came back. he wore a long brown coat. 

diana he wore a long , brown coat , and his hair was dark too. when 
they left , they told him downstairs that those women were armenians , and ran 
back and said that they were going to kill us. 

they had all left , and we had started to calm down a little , and i 
closed the door. and then there is a knock .  . i told , take diana and go 
into the other room. my daughters went into the dining room , and i opened the 
door. there was a guy there who said , run , hide ! they 're coming to kill you 
now ! we ran up to the third floor. we had some good neighbors up there , 
azerbaijanis .  . i sent the kids and stood there alone , not knowing what to do. 
i was so far gone . . . out of a whole room i could n't even think of anything 
to take. i even forgot to take my work documents at the time i had been 
preparing a report to send to baku , and the documents were at home. i could n't 
see anything . . . i could only see vika , my older daughter. i sent and 
diana upstairs , and stood there asking that fellow , should i close the door 
and leave everything like this he says , what do you mean , door get out of 
here , they 're coming to kill you ! what are you standing there for and i ran 
after the children. 

we barely had time to get up to the third floor when they burst into 
our apartment and started shouting , where are the armenians we were already 
at the neighbors' .  . they had an infant at the time , and the neighbor said , 
do n't you worry , i'm not letting anyone in this apartment no matter what. 

on the third floor there i started asking the folks , our neighbors , 
to go meet vika .  . the bus was due to arrive at eight o'clock .  . i dissolved in 
tears , was soothing me , diana was next to us , she was crying too , and i'm 
already thinking that i 've lost my older daughter , but deep in my heart i 
still believe she 's alive . . . and my tears choked me. i was going out of my 
mind. but no one could leave the building , the courtyard was packed with 
people , with them. from the balcony the neighbor in whose apartment 
we were hiding asked the bandits , where are those armenians , the ones who 
were at home where did they make off to they told him they did n't know. 
they asked him where he lived .  . he answered , ca n't you see , on the third 
floor. he asked them specially to divert attention from his own apartment. we 
heard them taking free reign of our apartment , and they threw our color 
television off the balcony and it exploded .  . 

mamma was crying the whole time. she fell into a faint and we brought 
her around and held her back , because the whole time she kept making for the 
door to go outside , alternately raving and sobbing , shouting , and calling 
vika .  . she did n't notice us , probably because we were next to her. her thoughts 
were only on vika .  . the neighbors who were hiding us were her too , 
offering tea. 

we are very grateful to them. thanks to them my children and i are 
alive , well , and unharmed .  . when they were throwing our belongings out and 
burning them the beds , the pillows , and the chairs our neighbor came to us 
and said , how lucky you are that it 's not you standing there naked , but some 
other woman instead. you 're from our part of the building you lost your 
husband , you have children , thank god you 're not in her position , we would n't 
have been able to take it. i do n't know what i would do. he of course 
would n't have done anything , he was just trying to calm us down. in the yard 
they were torturing our neighbors , fellow armenians they lived on the fifth 
floor , in the third entryway .  . a married couple , vanya and nina , and their 
three children. their last name is v. they hid their two daughters , and stayed 
with their son to defend themselves , they even got boiling water ready , and an 
axe , and held them off for a long time , but the . . . they beat up the 
husband , dragged the wife outside , and stood her naked next to our burning 
things her husband was lying at her feet on the ground. the crowd shouted , 
look at the naked armenian ! they were going to throw the poor woman into the 
fire. the neighbors came out , an azerbaijani woman threw her a scarf , and she 
covered herself with it , and the neighbors led her off to their apartment. 
all the neighbors saw and heard it . . . 

mamma would n't allow it but i went to the window and saw her standing 
there , and they took skewers that had been heated in the fire and stuck them 
into her body. our neighbor , who lived in the same entryway as nina she 
lives with us in the same boarding house now saw what they had done , nina 
showed her , from her knees up , almost up to her neck , her whole body was 
covered , riddled , with wounds .  . 

in the morning , during the night of the 29th , rather , after one 
o'clock , two buses approached the station. i wanted to run out. by then i 
did n't care any more if i lived or died , but would n't let me go , and 
the neighbors said that i would bring disaster to them and they would be 
slain along with their children. was crying and said that i forgot about 
them , my other children , but i could only think of vika .  . i imagined her torn 
to pieces , i'm a mother , and they 're just children , they do n't understand i 
would have jumped off the balcony and run to the soldiers for help. i was 
going to do it but would n't let me mamma , please ! mamma , i beg of 
you ! the neighbors were sleeping and woke them with her cries .  . so we 
held on that way till morning. 

on the morning of the 29th i told our neighbor i was going to go downstairs to 
our apartment , maybe vika was lying there , murdered .  . he told me he would go 
himself. he was gone for about five minutes , but it seemed like an eternity to 
me. he returned and said there was no one there , nothing. i went down too , 
stole down like a mouse , and slipped in everything was thrown all about. i 
did n't go to the soldiers because the armored personnel carriers were far 
away , farther than the bus station. i began looking for the briefcase with my 
work in it. i was miserable because of my daughter , and at the same time 
because of my work. my documents were there , my travel papers i worked in the 
transport division and my trip sheets. 

mamma is a very responsible person , she was always ready to work 
around the clock to do her job. 

i look around and i ca n't find the briefcase .  . i did n't care about 
the fact that everything had been stolen out of all three of my rooms , that 
everything was smashed , and the furniture was broken , i worried about that 
later , but at first i was concerned about the lost documents .  . i went into the 
kitchen. my daughter had hidden some valuables in the gas stove my ring and 
my earrings .  . it was all there. five minutes passed and ran in and said , 
mamma , hurry .  . and diana came downstairs too. found her coat among 
the debris , and diana found her track shoes , her coat , and some of her 
dresses .  . 

diana immediately after we got back up to the neighbors they started 
throwing things around in the apartment under us. they threw a television onto 
the asphalt , it exploded so violently it sounded like a  . then , 
when vika was n't there , i would n't eat , and they forced me , but i could n't 
eat. because i loved vika terribly and she and i had always gone to the movies 
and gone for walks in the park. when we went into our apartment the next day 
and everything was broken , right away i started looking for my dolls and my 
books , but i did n't see anything. when we went back upstairs i managed to take 
two cups from my tea service , and took vika 's suit and one of her own 
dresses .  . my italian boots were gone , my brown coat , it was beautiful , there 
was n't a one of my beautiful dolls , and my giant lion was gone too , the one 
that had been on top of the television .  . he was very large and very handsome .  . 
i had two , one for first grade and the other for second grade , one 
was yellow green with a boy and a girl on it , they 're playing a drum and a 
, and there is a dog sitting there closing its ears , and on the other 
one were the letters a , b , c , d , e and the numbers 4 5 , two girls and a boy 
with their mouths open like they are singing .  . they were beautiful  . 
they were gone too. i had many books , i collected them , they were in the 
tables. and a boy had given me a little and a for my 
birthday , they were n't around either. and i had some big books , fat ones , and 
they disappeared , only one was left , the box. the adventures of 
, , and fairy tales of the world were left. all the 
other books were gone. 

i continued searching for my briefcase , and then my supervisor 
arrived. he had waited for me until nine o'clock , but i did n't appear , and he 
thought something must have happened , so he came. he 's a russian , 
lomakin .  . alik , the mechanic , came with him. when they saw 
my wrecked apartment they were just , they could not say a thing. 
when i saw them i started crying. my azerbaijani neighbors came in. some of 
them were crying , others were helping me pick up. i go on looking for my 
documents and at the same time put things into the wardrobe .  . now that i 
remember it it 's both funny and painful how could i have thought that i had 
returned to my apartment and that everything had gone back to normal 
incidentally , later , when i went back to the apartment again those things were 
gone too. and the door was gone. after my supervisor left , in the afternoon , 
the neighbor said that we should leave , find another refuge .  . i'm afraid , he 
said , that someone saw you come to my apartment , and that they could kill you 
and us too. my god , where could i go it was daytime and those . . . i do n't 
even know what to call them , the bandits , those marauders , those jackals , i 
do n't know what to call them , i ca n't find the words , they were everywhere. 
where should i go with two girls when i opened the door i had tears in my 
eyes , and i was terrified . . . and he said , go to alik 's , he 's an 
azerbaijani , too. and i say , you should have said that earlier , when my 
supervisor was here with the car , he could have taken us with him. everyone 
feared for their own lives. what could i do i went out into the entryway and 
stood .  . and he says , any other time i would keep you here a year , or two. but 
right now , i'm sorry . . . then another door opened , also on the third 
floor. i ask the neighbor , , can we hide at your place she 's an 
azerbaijani too. she says , what kind of question is that come in ! she hid 
us. there were many people in the courtyard , and and i hid in the 
wardrobe , and they put diana under a mattress , leaving a small opening so the 
child could breathe .  . said that when the bandits left she would let us 
out , and when they came back she would hide us again. 

we sat in the wardrobe for about a half hour. became ill , and i allowed 
her to get out. my legs fell asleep and felt like cannons .  . we had n't eaten or 
drunk anything for so long , since the 27th , when we saw that horror and all 
of it just snapped in me. 's husband went outside , even though i begged 
him to stay , saying there should be a man in the house. he said that he 'd be 
in the courtyard , and if anything happened his wife would signal him. she put 
her passport and all of their documents on the table so if they suddenly came 
in she could show them that they were an azerbaijani family. my girls went to 
the window and what was going on out there ! i feared for my children , that 
someone would recognize them from the street. let her hair down and put 
on a scarf so she would resemble an azerbaijani , but directly across there was 
a 9 story building , their windows were right across from us , and i shouted 
that someone would see her and give us away on the spot. but she kept on 
looking. 

diana i watched too. 

downstairs the bandits were fighting with the soldiers .  . the soldiers 
did n't shoot , they did n't have orders to. i saw them throwing rocks at 
the soldiers , they were young boys , 18 and 19 year olds , and they defended 
themselves . . . i'm a mother after all , and they were no different from my 
children. when one of the soldiers fell and his head started bleeding i had to 
stop looking , l could n't watch anymore . . . i imagined my children in their 
shoes . . . 

the troops had assumed their defense that morning and had 
off the buildings , and some of the soldiers surrounded the bus station , block 
36 , and our microdistrict 3. but they only them off from the outside. 
the mob fell upon the soldiers , who started to protect themselves , and the mob 
into the courtyard with the soldiers after it. they caught several 
azerbaijanis and started beating them with their clubs .  . one fell down and they 
cracked open another 's head . . . 

they show lebanon on television , and the war in afghanistan that 's just 
what it was like. like in america , how they attack demonstrations with shields 
and clubs that 's just how it was in our courtyard .  . 

do n't compare it with america , those were peaceful demonstrations , 
but these ! 

but how could it happen here and not off somewhere in america ! they 
attacked the soldiers , hurled stones at them . . . then i thought , where 's the 
tear gas that the americans use to disperse demonstrators if they had used 
gas on those jackals they all would have scattered .  . 

they would not have scattered .  . the soldiers had been there since 
morning , they did n't bring in fresh troops .  . they had n't eaten , they were fine 
standing there for about three hours , but then they got tired. they were n't 
even allowed to sit down . . . at noon they , the soldiers , attacked them , and 
then the tables were turned .  . the mob went after the soldiers , the guys were 
bunched into a group in the center street and covered themselves with their 
shields , and the azerbaijanis surrounded them and threw paving stones at them. 
and those guys sat there covering themselves with their shields .  . and meanwhile 
tanks with machine guns were cruising the streets . . . they always say , our 
children have never seen war. i never even dreamed about it , there was no 
need to. but then i thought about those people who had lived through a war. it 
was truly horrible . . . the guys were tired , exhausted , some had had their 
clubs taken away , others , their shields , they had been beaten , they were 
covered in blood . . . so many died ! they beat the soldiers with their own 
clubs and shields .  . and those guys stood there and could n't defend themselves , 
they could n't open fire. they could n't even defend themselves , let alone us. 
it 's comical . . . 

what are you saying how can it be funny 

no , i did n't mean that how could something like that happen during 
our soviet period it 's painfully embarrassing ! and they burned the armored 
personnel carriers , too. someone shouted , get away , it 's going to blow ! 
everyone scattered away , and the armored personnel carrier exploded .  . the 
soldiers lost their senses .  . and when they drove the personnel carrier and the 
bus at the mob out of rage and fury , they drove right up on the sidewalk .  . 

the bus that had brought the troops .  . only the driver was in it. the 
bus ran over three people straight off , i saw it. and two armored personnel 
carriers ran over four more. all in one or two minutes. the bus ran over 
three , one of the carriers ran over two , and the second , two more. right on 
our street there 's a dry cleaners and appliance and watch repair places one 
of the armored personnel carriers went that way , and they say it ran over 
several over there , too. but they ran over seven before our eyes. then the bus 
into a book  . 

no , that was a flower place. it was a new booth .  . he drove straight 
into it. 

the driver jumped out and they dragged the vehicle out to the 
middle of the road and set it on fire. 

and i also saw the troops put a bunch of azerbaijanis in a bus and 
take them in a convoy to baku .  . there were many arrests .  . 

our neighbor , the one who hid us , could n't take it , and he told his 
wife that we should leave. they were running around in the courtyard looking 
for the armenians .  . they knew that they were hiding with azerbaijanis , and they 
were saying that they were going to check the azerbaijani families. poor 
got scared too , and started to cry i pleaded with her , i said that i 
would remember forever how she saved my children and me , but where could we 
go 

she did n't make us leave , she said that she would do anything , but 
she was afraid. 

i told that we would just stay a little longer and that at 
night we would return to our apartment. then her husband came back and said 
that a curfew had been imposed .  . he says , , you owe us a drink. 
announced a curfew .  . and bagirov first secretary of the communist party of 
azerbaijan ssr was on television , he said that two people had been killed in 
karabagh , but nothing was wrong , automobile windows had been broken , but there 
had n't been any killings .  . he kept making statements , and there were 
azerbaijani songs and dances .  . turned the tv all the way up. when we 
learned of the curfew we calmed down , but then a crowd ran into the courtyard 
again , a large one. our neighbor told them that there had been only one 
armenian family here , but they had already killed them all , there was no one 
left. we hid in the wardrobe again. and they stuck diana back under the bed. 

went down to our apartment to see what was happened there , and 
found two bandits .  . they asked her , what are you doing here answered , 
i came to take something for myself. take all you want , they 're gone now. 

yes , she had wanted to get something for us , at least some  . 
she said , what are you going to do , empty handed , naked , with three children , 
nothing remains of your entire apartment. in short , we calmed down , and the 
crowd raced off to the other building , the one across from us. i do n't know 
what went on there. 

the curfew had its effect on the gangs , many started to disperse 
they were warned that they would open fire on them. the soldiers did n't know 
the city , they could n't get oriented , they drove up and down the main streets , 
but did n't go into the  . when we were at the city party committee 
they asked people from sumgait to go with them and show them the way. 

the tanks entered the city on the night of the 29th .  . 

no , mamma , the tanks had been there earlier , but were near the city 
party committee , where the armenians were . . . after midnight , on march 1 , 
when i had finally gotten to sleep after two nights , mamma said , 
get your things together , they have sent buses for us. as it was we had been 
dressed the entire time. mamma went to check it out . .  . and . came back for us. 

when i came back for the children said that vika was alive 
and well , some guys had come and told her that they had hidden her in a safe 
place. i both believed it and did n't believe it. we ran out to the tanks .  . the 
were there , roman and sasha their father , , the , 
was killed , and their mother was there. sasha came over and asked about the 
girls. i was surprised , how did he know my girls he said that he knew me and 
the girls. our neighbor himself went for and diana and it seemed like he 
was taking forever so i went after him. another neighbor came out , anna 
, a russian , my dear , goodbye and good luck. she kissed 
diana .  . they put us in the bus and the captain gave the order for us to be 
taken to the city party committee .  . the bus would n't start , so they put us on 
another one. it was pouring rain. 

diana when they imposed the curfew there were many soldiers on the streets , 
and they all had clubs and shields .  . and when the azerbaijanis attacked them , 
many of the soldiers died. they threw paving stones huge rocks at the 
soldiers .  . i saw this myself. the soldiers ran over those azerbaijanis with the 
tanks .  . the soldiers saw that the azerbaijanis were doing violence to people 
and they ran over them out of rage .  . we got scared and they hid me under a 
mattress and a blanket , and and mamma crawled into the wardrobe .  . and they 
were fighting right down there on the street . . . near the building they were 
blowing up buses and tanks , and cars were burning , and there were many dead in 
the courtyard .  . they drove without looking to see if it was a sidewalk or a 
street , they just drove , and the ones who did n't manage to get out of the way 
were run over by the tanks .  . and when we left it was evening , it was already 
dark there were three buses , and one of them had soldiers in it. mamma ran up 
and said , get your clothes on , let 's go. was wearing slippers , and i 
had on my blue dress , but it was an old one. i was wearing my old jacket , my 
old dress , and slippers .  . and nothing else. had on a , her 
sweater , and slippers .  . it was raining hard , and there were on the 
street. they gave mamma an old coat because she was wearing a short sleeved 
dress she put it on and we ran out. we got onto the bus and i was hungry , one 
of the soldiers from yerevan gave me and carried me from one bus to 
the other in his arms. i gave him the little glass that remained from vika 's 
, and he gave me his telephone number. 

in the bus there was a soldier with a shield sitting at every window. 
we had to be ready for anything. they took us to the city party committee , let 
us out , and then took us into the city party committee building under armed 
guard. it was jammed with people and you could n't breathe .  . we asked , are 
these all us armenians they answered yes. we were surprised that there were 
so many armenians in sumgait .  . all those years we lived there and did n't know 
there were so many armenians , 18 , 000 .  . we were struck by that , we had never 
noticed. going downstairs the next day i ran into the secretary of the 
from vika 's plant , the  . he said that vika was alive and 
well. when i told mamma she of course calmed down some more. but you know , 
after all that it was hard to believe anything , our faith in everything was 
just gone. she did n't believe it completely. 

i did n't believe it because i had heard all kinds of things. when 
we arrived at the city party committee we heard everything imaginable ! it 
was the fear of god. i saw many of our acquaintances , they were kissing each 
other and asking how their children and homes were. many people already knew 
that there had been a pogrom of our apartment. they had seen the broken 
windows. i cried , saying that i did n't know where vika was. one woman said 
that they had taken two of her daughters and that she could n't find one of 
them the other had been slashed all over. a second said that her husband and 
her son had been murdered .  . that was  . she lived in building 6 in 
our microdistrict .  . they killed her husband , , and her son artur .  . i heard 
so many things like that that i was already starting to lose touch my 
patience had run dry waiting for my daughter. later an azerbaijani fellow came 
to me and said , aunt , vika sent me , she 's alive and well and hidden in a 
safe place if you want i 'll call her there and you can speak with her. we 
went downstairs to the first floor and he called vika .  . i spoke with her , heard 
the voice of my child. she had managed to survive in that hell. then i started 
begging that azerbaijani to bring her to the city party committee .  . he tried to 
talk me out of it i 'll bring her wherever you go , do n't worry , i 've looked 
after her better than a brother does a sister. all the same i asked him to 
get her. he brought her and i calmed down. on the second day there was a 
meeting with member of the politburo of the central committee of the 
communist party of the ussr , and people started shouting .  . one shouted , give 
me my son back ! , another yelled , where is my daughter ! , a third wanted her 
husband . . . bagirov was there too , and he stood there blinking , not saying 
anything. 

when asked where we wanted to go , everyone shouted , to 
russia ! to be honest we were all frightened of armenia , there were such wild 
rumors it was as though we were in a terrible dream , and no one wanted to go 
to armenia .  . but he said that he could n't evacuate 18 , 000 people to russia and 
that he would meet with everyone individually the next day and speak with 
them. and he also said that today he was going to go look at all of our 
apartments .  . on march 3 we went to the military barracks in the village of 
 . we were taken care of by the military .  . they sent special 
flights of children right from there to , yerevan , and moscow .  . one 
woman left for moscow with a letter for and  . 

the worst was truly behind us by then. everything had passed , but 
the pain will remain for our whole lives. it cannot be forgotten. under no 
circumstances should we , our children , or our grandchildren forget. who will 
answer for those who died for our mothers , sisters , brother , sons and 
daughters who will bear the responsibility who will wash away their blood 
someone should be made to answer , and severely , so it has an effect on the 
people that did with us as they pleased . . . it is n't over yet , now we live 
here , in armenia , protected , but the issue is n't resolved .  . we would like 
to stay in armenia , in our homeland , so that all the armenian people will be 
united .  . then we will be invincible .  . armenians wo n't be scattered throughout 
the soviet union , about the world , and if we 're all together this wo n't happen 
again. as a mother of three children , as a woman , as a sister , i ask armenians 
to be united so that what happened in sumgait will never happen again. our 
homeland . . . the only request we have is that we be helped in obtaining an 
apartment and getting jobs. so that our children can work for the good of 
armenia .  . if we are n't able to , then let our children do it. and if it 's 
possible , we 'll work for the good of armenia too. this is the land of our 
 . our grandfathers and great grandfathers lived here too , it was 
only later that people dispersed all over. like a mother , the land here bore 
and us. it is our wife , and will protect us , too. i want but one thing 
that our people never see the hardship that our children saw , that your 
children here , in armenia , never see anything like it. 

may 28 , 1988 
yerevan 
reference 

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan , 
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel , forward by 
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. , ny , pages 187 203 



david davidian armenia has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president 

from ( ilyess b. bdira ) 
subject update on saudi crackdown on human rights league. 
keywords international , non usa government , government , civil rights , social issues 
nntp posting host alcor . concordia . ca . 
organization concordia university , montreal , canada 
lines 61 

 ( bahaa elkoussy ) writes 

upi , and the newspapers who are reporting this being all owned by saudis 
i wonder how secure they are feeling by reporting all of these things , 
maybe saudi arabia is allowed to have all the human rights violations 
it can have , nobody is including them in any list ,  .  .  . those are designed 
for independent states. 

cairo , egypt  ( upi ) the saudi government ordered the firing and 

why is this reported from cairo 

of six saudi human rights activists one week after they 
formed the country 's first human rights group , which has been condemned 
by the kingdom 's highest religious authorities , saudi media reported 
friday .  . 
two saudi owned , london based daily newspapers reported the dismissal 
of five of the activists , who last week formed the committee for the 
protection of legal rights in the kingdom to hear allegations of human 
rights abuses .  . 
the newspapers said orders were issued to dismiss al 
from his job with the department , saudi arabia 's highest religious 
advisory body al from the ministry , and 
mohamed al , al and al from two 
universities in riyadh , the saudi capital .  . 
licenses to practice as law attorneys were also ordered revoked for 
al and al and their law offices and any 
national branches were ordered closed for the same reason. 
..... 
saudi interior minister prince ben abdel aziz , a member of the 
royal family , rejected criticism of human rights violations in the 
kingdom .  . 
in an interview broadcast friday , he said and organizations 
... say they protect human rights or demand respect of human rights   
but at the same time refuse to intervene in bosnia herzegovina , where 
people are killed , raped and destroyed while even barred from 
carrying arms . '' . 
is the humanity and human rights of which those are talking '' 
the prince said in the interview broadcast by the saudi owned , london 
based middle east broadcasting center. 

can somebody teach this man some logic 
what is the relationship between a human rights league in saudia 
and human rights in bosnia , i guess if we wanted to know what is 
in italy , we should know what is in brasil  ( syrian joke ) 

prince , who controls saudi police and prisons , said the 
kingdom 's enforcement of islamic laws gives his country one of the 

their claim of following islamic law is the biggest disservice 
that they ever did to islam .  . 

... 
but hosni amin , executive director of the cairo based arab 
organization for human rights , said his group has documented evidence of 
human rights abuses in saudi arabia .  . he said the supported the 

but how about human rights in egypt mr amin 

i guess i am fighting on too many fronts , i might retire very soon 
)) 

from  ( syed irfan hyder ) 
subject re the stage is being set 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 17 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

in article () writes 
after reading plenty of categorical remarks claiming the arrival of the 
restoration of , could anyone 1) define , 2) indicate 
what colonial countries remain , 3) indicate what changes indicate that there 
is a restoration in the making 


pakistan definitely comes in of the economic  . 
the utility rates  ( electricity , water and gas ) are set by and 
world bank. governments come and go at whims and fancy of the 
state department. i have yet to see a govt. survive that 
doesnot have the support of the state department. 






from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re the greek authorities deny even the existence of a turkish minority 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 133 

in article  ( mau napoleon ) writes 

a few thousand ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

yup .  . 

yes there are a few thousand left today after years of by 
turkey .  . 

i expect better from you ,  . no , i take that back , i do n't .  . the 
treaty on the exchange of the turkish and greek minorities  ( 1923 ) left 
no greek minority in turkiye , except a few thousand greeks in istanbul .  . 
turkiye is no longer an obstacle for  pan ' . although the material 
basis of greek policy is no longer visible , there is a residue , which 
seems to unite the , the greeks who came from asia minor , 
the greeks who are originally from the islands of the sea 
or those who live in the numerous aegean islands .  . this residue is 
also recognizable in the contemporary greek government. 

as far a greek turkish wars are i find it funny that a 
so informed turk like you forgot to mention the balkan wars 1912 1923 .  . 

not a chance. greece lost in each and every war conducted solely 
between greece and turkiye in the in 1821 , in in 
1897 98 , and in anatolia in 1922. after the ottoman empire lost 
world war i , the british landed in 1919 a 200 , 000 greek army in 
izmir to exterminate the people of turkiye .  . are you suffering 
from a severe case of amnesia the tired and defeated turks rose up , 
formed a national force under the leadership of mustafa kemal , and 
on august 30 , 1922 they annihilated the bulk of the greek army .  . 

turkiye 
is no longer an obstacle for  pan ' . besides , greece lost 
in each and every war conducted solely between greece and turkiye in 
the in 1821 , in in 1897 98 , and in anatolia in 1922. 
especially the 1922 greek defeat , referred to as 'the tragedy of 
anatolia  by the greeks , had effects on greek mind and 
behaviour .  . 

i find it curious that a historian like you forgot the wars that 
demolished the ottoman empire .  . 1912 1913 .  . 

i love people who do n't read and then spout myths as evidence. where 
were greeks in 1912 and 1913 i guess , they were busy with .  .  .  . 

greek efforts to decimate the jewish population of salonica 
culminated in 1912 and 1913 

those jews who survived these assaults in southeastern europe fled 
particularly to salonica , whose jewish population increased substantially 
as a result , from 28 , 000 in 1876 to 90 , 000 in 1908 , more than half the 
total population , though even there increased persecution by local greeks 
led many jews to flee elsewhere in the ottoman empire , particularly to 
the great port of izmir .  . 

despite all the pressure from ottomans and foreign jews alike , the ritual 
murders and other assaults by christians on jews went on and on. greek 
efforts to decimate the jewish population of salonica culminated in 1912 
and 1913 , following greek conquest of salonica during the first balkan war , 
when many of its jews , were either killed or terrorized into leaving .  .  .  . 

though greece was obligated by the post world war i treaties to allow 
jews and other minorities to use their own languages in education and to 
practice their religions without hindrance , a law was issued in 1923 
which forbad all inhabitants from working on sunday , stimulating a new 
jewish exodus as it was intended to do. between 1932 and 1934 there was a 
series of anti semitic riots in salonica , with the quarter , where 
most of the remaining jews lived , being burned to the ground. this 
was followed by regulations requiring the use of greek and prohibiting 
hebrew and judea spanish in the jewish schools. a start was made also 
on expropriating the land of the principal jewish cemetery in salonica 
for use by the new university in order to derive the jews out 47 . by 
killing and driving out large numbers of jews , the greeks left a 
substantial greek majority in the city for the first time , and starting 
salonica jewry on the way to its final decimation by the nazis during the 
occupation of greece starting in 1941 .  . 

salonica and izmir of course were not the only places of refuge for 
jewish refugees entering the empire during its last century of existence .  . 
istanbul , edirne , and other parts of and anatolia received 
thousands more. nor were jews the only refugees received and helped by 
the government of the sultan .  . thousands of muslims accompanied them in 
flight from similar persecutions wherever balkan christian states gained 
independence or expanded .  . the russian conquest of the crimea and the 
caucasus starting in the late eighteenth century , and particularly during 
and after the crimean war , combined with the same independence movements 
in southeastern europe that had caused so much suffering and flight among 
its jews caused thousands of helpless , ill , and poverty stricken muslim 
refugees to accompany them into the ever shrinking boundaries of the 
ottoman empire , with the istanbul government struggling mightly but vainly 
to house and feed them as best it could. from 1850 to 1864 as many as 
800 , 000 crimean tatars , , and other muslims from north and 
east of the black sea had entered anatolia alone , as many as 200 , 000 more 
came during the next twenty years , while 474 , 389 refugees entered in 1876 
1877 as a result of the ottoman wars with russia and the balkan states , 
with an equal number gaining refuge in the european portions of the 
empire .  . 

47 robert ,  la structure sociale de la juive de 
a la fin du dix  , rh no . 534 . (1980) , 391 92 
vii , 762 joseph  ( salonica ) to aiu  ( paris ) no . 2868 . 2 , 
12 may 1903  ( aiu archives i c 43) and no . 2775 . , 10 january 1900  ( aiu 
archives i c 41 ) , describing daily battles between jewish and greek 
children in the streets of salonica .  . , director of ecole moise 
, salonica , to aiu  ( paris ) , no . 7784 . , 1 december 1909  ( aiu 
archives i c 48 ) , describing greek attacks on jews , boycotts of jewish 
shops and manufacturers , and greek press campaigns leading to blood libel 
attacks .  . cohen , ecole secondaire moise , salonica , to aiu  ( paris ) , 
no . 7745 . 4 , 4 december 1912  ( aiu archives i c 49 ) describes a week of terror 
that followed the greek army occupation of salonica in 1912 , with the 
soldiers pillaging the jewish quarters and destroying jewish synagogues , 
accompanied by what he described as an  explosion of hatred  by local 
greek population against local jews and muslims .  . mizrahi , president of the 
aiu at salonica , reported to the aiu  ( paris ) , no . 2704 . 3 , 25 july 1913 
 ( aiu archives i c 51 ) that  it was not only the irregulars  ( comitadjis ) 
that massacred , pillaged and burned .  . the army soldiers , the chief of 
police , and the high civil officials also took an active part in the 
horrors .  .  . ' . , moise  ( salonica ) to aiu  ( paris ) no . 3027 . (20 august 1913) 
 ( aiu archives i c 51 ) describes the greek pillage of the jewish quarter 
during the night of 18 19 august 1913 .  . 

 ( aiu alliance israelite universelle , paris . ) . 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re his book was dealing with the genocide of muslims by armenians .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 311 

in article  ( dimitrios zanikos ) writes 

you make it sound as if the turks are as inocent as a teenaged virgin about 
to get married. go and read about the atrocities commited by the turks 
against the greeks during the period of time greece was occupied by the 
turks .  . now you expect that turks living in greece should be treated like 

so , the greek educational system is also in a shambles .  . history shows 
that within the last 170 years , greeks played that game twice they 
used istanbul patriarch in to instigate the 
rebellion that resulted in the massacres of the muslim people. again , 
the orthodox patriarch constantine v invited the russian czar nicholas 
ii to invade the ottoman empire  in the name of jesus , ' and save his 
flock from ottoman rule. 

source the  past  in medieval and modern greek culture , in 
, ed. ,  kai , ' vol i  ( malibu , 
calif. , 1978) .  . 

p. 161 .  . 

in the words of professor , with savage , the greeks 
sang the words  let no turk remain in the , nor in the whole world . ' . 
the greeks were determined to achieve to   in the only way they 
knew how through a war of religious extermination .  . 

let me further improve this one for you. after the ottoman empire lost 
world war i , the british landed in 1919 a 200 , 000 greek army in izmir 
to exterminate the people of turkiye .  . are you suffering from a severe 
case of amnesia the tired and defeated turks rose up , formed a national 
force under the leadership of mustafa kemal , and on august 30 , 1922 they 
annihilated the bulk of the greek army .  . 

now wait , there is more. 

the greek war of independence brought disaster to the jewish communities 
in the , where the revolution erupted in 1821 .  . the jews , 
because of their close association with the ottoman administration , 
were massacred along with the turks .  . the jewish communities of , 
, and were decimated the few survivors moved north to 
settle in and , still under ottoman rule. lost its 
ancient jewish community , which was only in 1905 .  . 


nikos 
 athens auschwitz  , page ix .  . 

source professor stanford j. shaw , 'the jews of the ottoman empire and 
the turkish republic , ' new york university press , new york  . 

page 187 

 .  .  . the . disintegration of the ottoman empire which had been going on 
for a century was disastrous for ottoman jewry .  . this was the age of 
nationalism among the christian subjects of the sultan , starting with 
the greek revolution early in the nineteenth century , which , based on 
the idea , or great idea , sought to add to greek kingdom istanbul 
and large portions of anatolia , union of which with greece was felt to be 
the  dream and hope of  . the success of the greek national movement , 
provided more in fact by the intervention of the great powers than by the 
efforts of the greeks themselves , stimulated similar uprisings among the 
other subjects in southeastern europe who had long been oppressed , not so 
much by the ottomans but , rather , by the greek religious hierarchy which 
dominated the orthodox millet , leading first to pressure for religious 
independence , granted to the bulgarian orthodox in 1870 , to the 
serbian church in , and to the church in 1885 , with subsequent 
aspirations for , and achievement of , political independence following .  .  .  . 

page 188 

 .  .  . they . new nationalist leaders were greatly assisted in their 
campaigns against the ottomans both by the diplomatic and consular 
representatives of the major powers of europe and also by christian 
missionaries , who emphasized feelings of christian superiority and 
hatred for muslims and jews which fortified the religious as well as 
ethnic bases of their pursuit of independence .  . 

christian nationalism , based as much on religious as on ethnic identity , 
soon resurrected the medieval which had devastated both jews 
and muslims and consequently had driven them together in the past. 
vicious anti muslim and anti semitic movements developed , involving 
large scale persecutions and massacres carried out by invading armies , 
by the independent states that resulted , also by christian subjects 
who remained within the empire , particularly because of jewish and muslim 
support for ottoman integrity in fear of their fate in the emergent 
nationalist states of southeastern europe .  . the results were explosive 
and damaging .  . 

the invading armies of russia and austria as well as the revolting 
nationalists and , later , successfully established independent christian 
states , committed systematic genocide against jews and muslims throughout 
the nineteenth century , despite great power admonitions to the contrary 
in the treaties of paris  ( 1858 ) and berlin  ( 1878 ) , ... 

page 188 

 .  .  . as . the peoples of southeastern europe achieved their independence , 
their muslim and jewish minorities were systematically persecuted and 
massacred , and those who survived were driven beyond the ever shrinking 
boundaries of the retreating ottoman empire in a kind of slaughter which 
had not been seen since the dispersal of the jews from palestine centuries 
earlier. 

this sort of genocide had begun as long before as the late sixteenth 
century , with the taking the lead , as united 
rumania did subsequently during the later years of the nineteenth 
century. in the ruler of , peter the lame , banished its 
jews because of their competition with its christian merchants .  . when 
prince micheal the brave revolted against the ottomans in the 
of and in 1593 , he ordered the massacre 
of all the jews as well as turks in bucharest .  . 

page 189 

the slaughter continued well into the nineteenth century. when the 
greeks revolted against ottoman rule many greek volunteers coming from 
russia and the to join in the effort slaughtered and 
plundered the jewish communities along their paths as they went through 
and toward greece .  . 

page 190  ( second paragraph) 

when venice occupied the island of chios in , its jewish population 
was either massacred or deported and all jewish communal and personal 
property was stolen by the native greek population , leaving those jews 
who returned in utter poverty and reduced to begging , no longer able to 
compete with the greeks in trade or commerce .  . 

page 190  ( third paragraph) 

jews living in greece and the suffered terribly 
because of their support for ottoman rule. when the greek nationalist 
movement started its uprising in and 
during the spring of 1821 , hundreds of jews and muslims were killed by 
the greeks who lived there as well as by native 14 . during 
the height of the greek revolution , five thousand jews were massacred 
in along with most of the muslim population , numbering about 
twenty thousand in all 15 . in alone 1 , 200 jews were 
massacred along with turks 16 . reverend john hartley , 
after describing the carnage , concluded  thus did jewish blood , mingled 
with turkish , flow down the streets of captured city. the sons of isaac 
and the sons of ishmael , on this as well as on every occasion during the 
greek revolution , met with common fate .  . their corpses were cast out of the 
city , and , like the ancient sovereign of judah , they received no burial 
superior to that of an ass . ' . 17 jewish communities on the islands of 
sparta , , , , and were wiped out by bands of 
greek rebels along with those of thebes , , attica and 18 . 
the surviving jews fled to the island of , where jews who had fled 
from italy , and the iberian peninsula had lived in peace and prosperity 
under the rule since the twelfth century , though divided into 
rival greek and italian communities .  . it was not long , however , before 
it too fell victim to the greek revolution , leading to savage repression 
and massacres of jews , forcing the surviving members of the two communities 
to come together for self defense for the first time. throughout the years 
of greek revolution , greek nationalists went from town to town on the 
mainland and from island to island in the , exterminating all the 
jews and muslims they could find , many along the roads as they desperately 
fled to safety in what was left of the ottoman empire .  . contemporary 
accounts relate that the greeks left the murdered jews and muslims lying 
exposed so their bodies could be torn apart by the 19 . most of 
the jews who survived these massacres fled across the in small boats 
to izmir , thus starting its rise as one of the leading centers of ottoman 
jewish life during the nineteenth century. only in northern greece , 
particularly in the areas of and salonica , were the jews and the 
turks able to successfully resist the greek assaults , thus saving their 
populations from massacre as well 20 . during the remainder of the 19th 
century , particularly during the greek turkish war in 1897 , those jews 
who remained in greece in the areas of athens , , , 
and crete suffered severe persecution and massacre , forcing thousands 
more to emigrate into ottoman territory , particularly to salonica and 
izmir 21 . 

page 193  ( last paragraph) 

the inclusion in the treaty of berlin of stipulations providing 
protection for the jewish and muslim minorities in southeastern europe 
stimulated more popular anti semitic and anti muslim hysteria in all 
the countries involved , with blood libel accusations once again being 
used as pretexts for attacking and jewish quarters as well as 
for new tactics for boycotting jewish , merchants and 
professionals , a movement which was quickly adapted by the christian 
in the major cities of the ottoman empire .  . because the bulgarians , 
and greeks correctly regarded the jews as supporters of the 
turks , both jews and turks were expelled from these countries in equally 
atrocious and brutal manners .  . their property was plundered and their 
homes and shops taken over without compensation , while the survivors 
fled in desperation to edirne and istanbul .  . while official statements 
subsequently were issued granting equal rights to jews , little was done 
in fact and they continued to be persecuted regularly well into the 
twentieth century. 

page 194  ( last paragraph) 

things were not much better elsewhere in southeastern europe or the 
greek islands of the and the eastern mediterranean .  . in the 
jews on were subjected to severe persecution by local greeks due 
to the revival of the old ritual murder accusations 26 . many of 
those who survived found refuge in ottoman territory with the help of a 
popular subscription drive carried out in istanbul under leadership of 
the  . in 1881 and , and again in and 1903 , 
thousands of jews came to ottoman territory as a result of pogroms 
in russia which went on between 1881 and 1921 with only slight periods 
of respite .  . in 1899 jewish families arrived in istanbul in flight from 
persecution in , in independent bulgaria .  . 

the conquest of ottoman thrace and macedonia by greek and bulgarian 
forces during the balkan wars  ( 1912 13) , including salonica , , 
and edirne , was followed by general attacks on jews , their synagogues , 
homes and shops , in both countries 27 , resulting in a renewed exodus 
toward istanbul and beyond .  . two reports from salonica graphically 
described the situation caused by the invading armies 

 all the self interested justifications of the newspapers of europe , 
all the lies which they have used to cover up the truth , can never 
destroy the impression of the terrible anguish which has marked the 
entry of the greeks in salonica .  . a week of terror and horror one can 
never easily forget. the now cruelly feel today all the 
damage that the explosion of hatred by the  ( greek ) population has done 
to their cause. the mob has shown itself odious and the government 
weak .  .  . the . incompetence of the greek administration and the horrors 
inflicted by the soldiers has put them in a terrible situation. the 
consuls guaranteed the absolute safety of the muslims , but sixty of 
them were massacred in a single night .  .  .  . ' . 28 

 it was n't only irregulars  ( comitacis ) who massacred , pillaged and 
burned .  . the soldiers of the army , the chief of police , and the high 
civil officials took an active part in the events at  . out of 
6 , 000 houses , 4 , 000 were burned .  . almost 1 , 200 shops were consumed by 
flames and destructive bombs .  . the  ( jewish ) population lost all , and 
without even anything to wear is in despair .  . everyone wants to 
emigrate .  .  . ' . 29 


page 196 

as a result of these assaults , massacres , and forced deportations from 
the independent countries of southeastern europe , the ottoman empire 
received literally thousands of jewish refugees who joined the muslims 
who survived the persecution , flooding into the empire .  .  .  . 

14 , 
 ( jerusalem , 1945 ) , pp . 42 . 44 , cited kerem , 
'the influence of anti semitism on jewish immigration patterns from 
greece to the ottoman empire in the 19th century  , pp . 2 . , 14. 

15 maxime , sur la , pour a l de la 
guerre de l independence (2 vols , paris , 1824 ) , pp . 5 . 19 , 
et  ( istanbul , 1932 ) , 76 77 .  . 

16 rev. t . s .  . hughes , travels in greece and albania  ( 2nd edn , 2 vols , 
london , 1830 ) , ii , 194 95 .  . 

17 rev. john hartley , researches in greece and the levant  ( london , 1831 ) , 
207 , quoted in kerem ,  jewish immigration patterns from greece 
to the ottoman empire in the nineteenth century  , published paper 
delivered at the international d etudes pre et , 
viii symposium ,  decision making and the transmission of authority 
in the turkic system  , university of minnesota , minneapolis , 
minnesota , 14 19 august 1988 , p . 4 .  . 

18 hartley , ibid. , pp . 206 . 7 , william martin , travels in northern 
greece (2 vols , london , 1835 ) ii , 231 32 , 609 , 
athens auschwitz  ( athens , 1983) , p . ix . , quoted in kerem , ibid. , p . 14 .  . 

19 documented in kerem , ibid. , pp . 14 . 19. pearl l. , the jews 
of (greece) , unpublished ph.d. dissertation , new york university , 
1984 .  . finlay , history of the greek revolution  ( london , 1861 ) , 
172 , 179 86 see also  greece  , ej vii , 876 77 .  . 

20 , ee thessaloniki ton tis 
 ( salonica , 1946 ) , pp . 19 . 35 kerem , an outline of the history 
of jews of  ( in hebrew )  ( museum of kibbutz , , 1985) , 
p . 21 . , quoted in kerem , ibid. , p . 15 .  . 

21 kerem , ibid. , pp . 8 . 12 , 'the persecution of the jews' , times  ( london ) , 
16 may a. to aiu , 19 october 1898 , aiu , viii . b . 34 . , 
 ( larissa ) to aiu , 23 august 4 september , , , 
deuxieme , no . 18 . , et 2e ,  ( larissa ) 
to aiu , 5 june , aiu , i . c . 22 . aiu 
to aiu , 23 june 5 july 1897 , aiu , ii . b . 16 . jewish community of 
leaders in to aiu , 3 march , 1897 , aiu , viii . b . 35 .  . 

26 pearl l. , the jews of (greece) , unpublished ph.d. 
dissertation , new york university , 1984 .  . 

27 leon , farewell to salonica portrait of an era  ( new york , 1946 ) 
edgar , et les  ( paris , , 1989) , 55 67 paul dumont , 
'the social structure of the jewish community of salonica at the end of 
the nineteenth century  , southeastern europe v  ( 1979 ) , 33 72 , 
viii , 18 21 , pp . 178 . 80 .  . 

28 a. cohen , ecole secondaire moise , salonica , to aiu , paris , 
no . 7745 . 7 , 4 december 1912 , in aiu archives i c 49 .  . 

29 mizrahi , president of aiu at salonica , to aiu  ( paris ) , no . 2704 . 3 , 
25 july 1913 .  . in aiu archives  ( paris ) i c 51 .  . 

( aiu alliance israelite universelle , paris .  . ) 

need i go on 

serdar argic 

 we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919) 
 in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( satya prabhakar ) 
subject re europe vs. muslim bosnians 
nntp posting host cs . umn . edu . 
organization university of minnesota , minneapolis , csci dept. 
lines 27 

 ( mohammed elabdellaoui ) writes 

muslims helping the nazis where on earth do you come up with such 
do you have proofs if not , you should publically apologize 
for such a statement. last time i heard , the nazis themselves in 
needing no body to carry their politics and ideologies .  . and if your statment 
were true , do n't you think israel would of used it to point to what a muslim 
neighbor  ( palestine ) could do to them if they allowed it to be the jewish 
lobby and power is very strong , and if what you said is true , we would of 
heard it from them before you could come up with it. 
and you dare say that you are taking no sides ! ! 

my reference is a 4 page essay in our local star tribute newspaper 
putting the whole conflict in perspective. i will readily admit 
that i am no authority in this area however , other 
asserted that some muslims did join hands with croats and 
nazis in persecuting serbs .  . in any case , past actions do not 
in any way validate or legitimize what is there now. 

i sincerely do apologize to the extent the author of the essay 
was wrong in making the assertion he made. 

maybe , some student of history may put this in perspective. 




