from  ( kevin smith) 
subject re abolish selective service 
organization mitsubishi semiconductor america , inc. , durham , n.c. 
lines 20 
nntp posting host pluto . com . 

you selfish little bastard. afraid you might have to sacrafice somthing 
for your country. what someone not approve a lone for you to bad. 
what is immoral is people like you and the current president who do n't 
have any idea why this country still exists after 200 years. 

i do n't consider these ideas selfish i consider them rational .  . 

i agree with the body of your post , but please reconsider your phrasing 
here. i think these ideas are selfish and rational , which 
is  . 

do n't give selfishness a bad rap .  . if we were all selfless there would 
be no moral reason not to have a draft .  . it the draft is the ultimate 
in mindlessly serving your fellow man with no thought to the importance 
of the self. 


the opinions expressed herein are not necessarily 
shared by my employer they came to me while 
viewing prime time sit coms .  . 

from 
subject re waco survivors 19 april 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 41 


in article ,  ( phill hallam baker ) writes .  .  .  . 

in article , (andrew merritt ) writes 
path ! ! mcsun ! ! ! uunet ! think . com . ! sdd . hp . com . ! sc . hp . com . ! apm 
from (andrew merritt ) 

in article writes 
i note with insufficient emotion that amongst the five survivors of the 
waco debacle , there were two brits and an aussie .  . the anglo saxon persona 
really does n't lend itself to martyrdom for a spurious messiah .  . 

i do n't see how you draw that conclusion .  . around 20 of the 80 inside the 
buildings were british  ( one  . two out of the eight  ( latest count i 
heard) survivors were british  ( one  . anyhow , british does n't equate 
to anglo saxon .  . 

what exactly are you trying to say and why were there no fire engines within 
a mile of the compound 

because the gun loonies were firing on vehicles with 50mm that 
has a range of 3000 meters .  . 


what crap , phil .  . 50mm wrong. to give you a clue as to how big 50mm is , the 
f 16 fighter aircraft have guns used to shoot down other 
aircraft .  . a 50mm gun would be somewhere in the  realm .  . they might 
have had .50 calibre but definitely not 50mm .  . 





paul r. 
salem , n.h. 
603 894 


those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make 
violent revolution inevitable .  .  .  . 


from  ( tomas o munoz ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( doug holtsinger ) writes 

the situation in waco was similar to a hostage situation with 
a madman holding a gun against the head of an innocent person. 
in such a situation , a person who provokes the madman and causes 
him to pull the gun 's trigger is responsible for the death of the 
hostage .  . janet reno blindly stumbled in there and basically 
threw a tear gas container at the madman hoping that he would 
release the hostage .  . it 's no surprise that the madman would 
pull the trigger in response to that kind of provocation .  . 

just out of curiosity , what else was there to do in this situation 
wait another 51 days weeks months years 

was there anything indicating that these children and the other 
people were going to get out alive 


tom munoz 

thought for the day one million microfiche one fish 










from  ( mark eckenwiler ) 
subject re watergate  ( was temper tantrums from the 1960 's 
organization nwo steering committee 
distribution usa 
lines 20 

in , sez 
re michael friedman and phil ronzone 

o.k. so far you guys have called me 
1) an ignorant asshole 
2) ignorant 
3) dumb as a bag of hammers 
4) dumb shit 
am i missing any 

try asking michael whether he still thinks the m 16 is one of the 
most beautiful machines around. or ask phil if he still claims that 
the due process and equal protection clauses of the 14th amendment 
apply to the federal government. the responses should be as 
enlightening as the recent name calling , and about as relevant .  . 


they told me you had gone totally insane , and that your methods were unsound .  . 

mark eckenwiler ... ! cmcl2 ! ! eck 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re waco 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 18 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , (david . d . says 

give me a break. 

give me a break , chum .  . are you telling me that clinton and 
reno did not know that the batf actions were illegal , adn 
in violation of their warrant 


be part of the solution not the problem. 


the problem is clinton .  . you be part of him. 





from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
lines 38 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article ,  ( mitchell s todd ) writes 
xref alt . activism . 6038 talk.politics.misc 

in article ,  ( mark c. carroll ) writes .  .  .  . 

wait a second , you 're ignoring major facts here. 

there was no attempt to simply serve a warrant .  . the batf had a 
no knock warrant .  . the initial firefight began when the batf threw 
concussion grenades at the building.  ( batf admits this ! ) 

when did the batf say this everything i 've seen from the batf , 
from the official version to the dissident statements of batf 
officers who conducted the raid claims that the davidians were 
shooting at the agents long before they were within grenade 
range. 

also , if the warrant is sealed , how do we know it was a  no knock  

hey do n't confuse these guys with facts dude ! you might break some 
beautiful illusions ! 

of course by batf admits this they mean that the batf did not deny some 
post by a pro koresh gun lobby person some time back. 

if anyone wants to understand the paranoid mindset of koresh i offer you 
talk . politics . guns .  . there you can dredge the of minds so hung 
up on power and ego trips that they bend reality arround their own 
particular set of  . 

i long ago gave up arguing the case for arms control directly .  . instead 
i invite people to ask themselves , would you want to be in a room full 
of the occupants of talk.politics.guns , their personal and 
attempt to enter a discussion with them 


phill hallam baker 

from  ( todd houts ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
keywords mow , homosexual , march , millions , percentage 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 28 

in article 
 ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 

i would n't worry too much about it , though. we are starting to find 
out how politically homosexuals really are.  ( non relevant 
stuff deleted) and coming this saturday they are going to 
wind up with tremendous egg on their face when , i submit , no more 
than perhaps 35 , 000 queers will show up in washington while they are 
promising crowds in the millions .  . and most of the ones who will be 
there will look like act up and queer nation , not the guy working in 
the next  . as if that 's really going to play in middle 
america .  . 

how wrong you will be. i participated in the last national march on 
washington  ( mow ) for rights  ( oct 11 , 1987) with a of 
about 750 , 000 people and we did n't have alot pissing us off at the time. 
the big issue was the aids crisis , but we were n't being slapped around 
quite as bad as we are now. this time its aids , and equal rights , and 
the military  . and this mow has been in the planning for years 
whereas the last one was pulled together in a relatively short time. the 
last mow was the largest ever on d.c. and you can bet we are going to 
exceed that by a long shot. i truly believe we will exceed the 1.0 
million goal the mow committee has always had set for this event. 

todd 
email t or 
message of the day 5 days til mow 


from  ( tim crowley ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization northwest nexus inc. 
lines 20 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

writes 

in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 


1. withdraw 
2. leave the people in the compund to lead their lives as they choose. 
3. prosecute the agents for murder 



brandon , university of canterbury , christchurch 
new zealand 
cheers brandon .  . that 's the best suggestion i have seen that. ! ! ! 

ya 



from nelson (peter nelson ) 
subject re waco 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host c . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard corporation , chelmsford , ma 
lines 64 

in article (david . d . writes 

thirdly , it seems incredibly hypocritical to place blame given 
the benefit of hindsight something that those who made the 
decisions did not have the benefit of. why not give them the courtesy 
of acknowledging that they did the best they could with the 
data they had in a very , very difficult situation. 

what is your proof that they did the best they could unless 
they had strong evidence that the children were in immediate danger 
then the best they could have done was to show restraint .  . 

some of us did predict this outcome , or at least suggested a 
strong possibility of it. i , for one , said that in the event of 
an assault against the building the children were the ones in danger 
either from the assault itself or from a jonestown  ( my phrase 
a week after the seige started) style suicide .  . and as i pointed 
out then , and repeatedly over the objections of people on the net 
who disagreed with me , an adult may freely choose suicide but they 
have no right to impose this choice on their children. 

now , while i do n't expect the fbi to pay any attention to what i 
have to say on this , i do expect them to figure it out on their 
own or to take the advice of experts .  . the cult specialist inter 
viewed in yesterday 's boston globe said he was repeatedly 
by the fbi when he pointed out to them that their confrontational 
tactics played perfectly into koresh 's mad view of the world and so 
increased the chance of a tragic outcome .  . 

some responses have gone so far to suggest that the actions were 
done without regard for the lives of the people in the compound give 
me a break. 

give us a break ! pumping for 45 minutes into a compound 
filled with children ! ! this does n't seem to show much regard for 
their lives or safety. nontoxic is an oxymoron .  . children 
have tiny respiratory passages which are easily blocked by the secretions 
induced by moreover can easily cause fatalities in anyone 
subject to , asthma , or heart disease. 

if a madman is holding a gun to a hostage , someone who provokes the 
madman by attacking him bears nearly as much for the 
death of the hostage as the madman himself. these kinds of situations 
have to be handled delicately not by surrounding a place with 
tanks and heavily armed personnel and blaring rock music from loud 
speakers at all hours. that approach is idiotic .  . 


be part of the solution not the problem. 

the solution is to greatly reduce the authority of the the authorities . 
the feds showed themselves here , as they have so many times in the 
past , to be a gang of trigger happy , impulsive , yahoos who cause more 
trouble than they prevent .  . their confrontational approach reinforced 
every single message koresh was giving his followers , virtually guarantee 
ing that whatever crazy solution koresh proposed would be followed 
willingly .  . this was pointed out here , on compuserve , in the press , 
just about every place except in the justice department where it seems 
a n . i . h .  . philosophy prevails .  . 


peter 



from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton remarks by the president on waco w q a 4 . 20 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 379 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press secretary 

for immediate release april 20 , 1993 


remarks by the president 
in question and answer session with the press 


the rose garden 


1 36 p.m. edt 


the president on february the 28th , four federal 
agents were killed in the line of duty trying to enforce the law 
against the branch davidian compound , which had illegally stockpiled 
weaponry and ammunition , and placed innocent children at risk. 
because the batf operation had failed to meet its objective , a 51 day 
standoff ensued .  . 

the federal bureau of investigation then made every 
reasonable effort to bring this perilous situation to an end without 
bloodshed and further loss of life. the bureau 's efforts were 
ultimately unavailing because the individual with whom they were 
dealing , david koresh , was dangerous , irrational , and probably 
insane. 

he engaged in numerous activities which violated both 
federal law and common standards of decency .  . he was , moreover , 
responsible for the deaths and injuries which occurred during the 
action against the compound in february .  . given his inclination 
towards violence and in an effort to protect his young hostages , no 
provocative actions were taken for more than seven weeks by federal 
agents against the compound .  . 

this weekend i was briefed by attorney general reno on 
an operation prepared by the fbi , designed to increase pressure on 
koresh and persuade those in the compound to surrender peacefully .  . 
the plan included a decision to withhold the use of ammunition , even 
in the face of fire , and instead to use tear gas that would not cause 
permanent harm to health , but would , it was hoped , force the people 
in the compound to come outside and to surrender .  . 

i was informed of the plan to end the siege .  . i 
discussed it with attorney general reno .  . i asked the questions i 
thought it was appropriate for me to ask. i then told her to do what 
she thought was right , and i take full responsibility for the 
implementation of the decision. 

yesterday 's action ended in a horrible human tragedy .  . 
mr. koresh 's response to the demands for his surrender by federal 
agents was to destroy himself and murder the children who were his 
captives , as well as all the other people who were there who did not 
survive. he killed those he controlled , and he bears ultimate 
responsibility for the carnage that ensued .  . 

now we must review the past with an eye towards the 
future. i have directed the united stated departments of justice and 
treasury to undertake a vigorous and thorough investigation to 
uncover what happened and why , and whether anything could have been 
done differently. i have told the departments to involve independent 
professional law enforcement officials in the investigation .  . i 
expect to receive analysis and answers in whatever time is required 
to complete the review. finally , i have directed the departments to 
cooperate fully with all congressional inquiries so that we can 
continue to be fully accountable to the american people. 

i want to express my appreciation to the attorney 
general , to the justice department , and to the federal agents on the 
front lines who did the best job they could under deeply difficult 
circumstances .  . 

again , i want to say as i did yesterday , i am very sorry 
for the loss of life which occurred at the beginning and at the end 
of this tragedy in waco .  . i hope very much that others who will be 
tempted to join cults and to become involved with people like david 
koresh will be deterred by the horrible scenes they have seen over 
the last seven weeks. and i hope very much that the difficult 
situations which federal agents confronted there and which they will 
be doubtless required to confront in other contexts in the future 
will be somewhat better handled and better understood because of what 
has been learned now. 

q mr. president , can you , first of all , tell us why , 
after 51 days , you decided 

q mr. president , can you describe for us what it is 
that janet reno outlined to you in your 15 minute phone conversation 
with 

the president i ca n't hear you both. if one will go 
first and then the other. 

q sorry. can you describe what janet reno 

q mr. president 

the president i 'll answer both your questions , but i 
ca n't do it at once. 

q can you describe what she told you on sunday about 
the nature of the operation and how much detail you knew about it 

the president yes. i was told by the attorney general 
that the fbi strongly felt that the time had come to take another 
step in trying to dislodge the people in the compound .  . and she 
described generally what the operation would be that they wanted 
to go in and use tear gas which had been tested not to cause 
permanent damage to adults or to children , but which would make it 
very difficult for people to stay inside the building. and it was 
hoped that the tear gas would permit them to come outside. 

i was further told that under no circumstances would our 
people fire any shots at them even if fired upon .  . they were going to 
shoot the tear gas from armored vehicles which would protect them and 
there would be no exchange of fire. in fact , as you know , an awful 
lot of shots were fired by the cult members at the federal officials .  . 
there were no shots coming back from the government side. 

i asked a number of questions. the first question i 
asked is , why now we have waited seven weeks why now the reasons 
i was given were the following 

number one , that there was a limit to how long the 
federal authorities could maintain with their limited resources the 
quality and intensity of coverage by experts there. they might be 
needed in other parts of the country. 

number two , that the people who had reviewed this had 
never seen a case quite like this one before , and they were convinced 
that no progress had been made recently and no progress was going to 
be made through the normal means of getting koresh and the other cult 
members to come out. 

number three , that the danger of their doing something 
to themselves or to others was likely to increase , not decrease , with 
the passage of time. 

and number four , that they had reason to believe that 
the children who were still inside the compound were being abused 
significantly , as well as being forced to live in unsanitary and 
unsafe conditions. 

so for those reasons , they wanted to move at that time. 
the second question i asked the attorney general is whether they had 
given consideration to all of the things that could go wrong and 
evaluated them against what might happen that was good. she said 
that the fbi personnel on the scene and those working with them were 
convinced that the chances of bad things happening would only 
increase with the passage of time. 

the third question i asked was , has the military been 
consulted as soon as the initial tragedy came to light in waco , 
that 's the first thing i asked to be done , because it was obvious 
that this was not a typical law enforcement situation. military 
people were then brought in , helped to analyze the situation and some 
of the problems that were presented by it. and so i asked if the 
military had been consulted .  . the attorney general said that they 
had , and that they were in basic agreement that there was only one 
minor tactical difference of opinion between the fbi and the military 
something that both sides thought was not of overwhelming 
significance .  . 

having asked those questions and gotten those answers , i 
said that if she thought it was the right thing to do , that she 
should proceed and that i would support it. and i stand by that 
today. 

q mr. president 

the president wait. go ahead. 

q can you address the widespread perception 
reported widely , television , radio and newspapers that you were 
trying somehow to distance yourself from this disaster 

the president no , i'm bewildered by it. the only 
reason i made no public statement yesterday let me say the only 
reason i made no public statement yesterday is that i had nothing to 
add to what was being said and i literally did not know until rather 
late in the day whether anybody was still alive other than those who 
had been actually seen and taken to the hospital or taken into 
custody .  . it was purely and simply a question of waiting for events 
to unfold .  . 

there was i have i ca n't account for why people 
speculated one way or the other , but i talked to the attorney general 
on the day before the action took place. i talked to her yesterday. 
i called her again late last night after she appeared on the larry 
king show , and i talked to her again this morning. a president it 
is not possible for a president to distance himself from things that 
happen when the federal government is in control. 

i will say this , however. i was , frankly , surprised 
would be a mild word , to say that anyone that would suggest that the 
attorney general should resign because some religious fanatics 
murdered themselves. (applause . ) . 

i regret what happened , but it is not possible in this 
life to control the behavior of others in every circumstance .  . these 
people killed four federal officials in the line of duty .  . they were 
heavily armed .  . they fired on federal officials yesterday repeatedly , 
and they were never fired back on. we did everything we could to 
avoid the loss of life. they made the decision to immolate 
themselves. and i regret it terribly , and i feel awful about the 
children. 

but in the end , the last comment i had from janet reno , 
is when and i talked to her on sunday i said , now , i want you 
to tell me once more why you believe not why they believe why 
you believe we should move now rather than wait some more. and she 
said , it 's because of the children. they have evidence that those 
children are still being abused and that they 're in increasingly 
unsafe conditions , and that they do n't think it will get any easier 
with time with the passage of time. i have to take their word for 
that. so that is where i think things stand. 

q can we assume then that you do n't think this was 
mishandled in view of the outcome , that you did n't run out of 
patience and if you had it to do over again , would you really 
decide that way 

the president no well , i think what you can assume 
is just exactly what i announced today. this is a the fbi has 
done a lot of things right for this country over a long period of 
time. this is the same fbi that found the people that bombed the 
world trade center in lickety split , record time. we want an inquiry 
to analyze the steps along the way. is there something else we 
should have known is there some other question they should have 
asked is there some other question i should have asked can i say 
for sure that no one that we could have done nothing else to make 
the outcome come different i do n't know that. that 's why i want 
the inquiry and that 's why i would like to make sure that we have 
some independent law enforcement people , not political people , but 
totally non political , outside experts who can bring to bear the best 
evidence we have. 

there is , unfortunately , a rise in this sort of 
fanaticism all across the world. and we may have to confront it 
again. and i want to know whether there is anything we can do , 
particularly when there are children involved. but i do think it is 
important to recognize that the wrong doers in this case were the 
people who killed others and then killed themselves. 

q mr. president , were there any other options 
presented to you for resolving this situation at any point from 
february 28th until yesterday 

the president well , yes , i got regular reports all 
along the way. there were lots of other options pursued .  . if you go 
back you all covered it very well. the fbi you did a very good 
job of it. i mean , the fbi and the other authorities there pursued 
any number of other options all along the way , and a lot of them 
early on seemed to be working. some of the children got out , some of 
the other people left. there was a at one point , there seemed to 
be some lines of communication opening up between koresh and the 
authorities .  . and then he would say things and not do them and things 
just began to spin downward .  . 

whether there were other in terms of what happened 
yesterday , the conversation i had with the attorney general did not 
involve other options except whether we should take more time with 
the present strategy we were pursuing because they said they 
wanted to do this , because they thought this was the best way to get 
people out of the compound quickly before they could kill themselves. 
that 's what they thought. 

q did the government know that the children did not 
have gas masks 

q congressional hearings once the situation are 
you in agreement with that 

the president that 's up to the congress .  . they can do 
whatever they want. but i think it 's very important that the 
treasury and justice departments launch this investigation and bring 
in some outside experts .  . and as i said in my statement , if any 
congressional committees want to look into it , we will fully 
cooperate .  . there is nothing to hide here. this was probably the 
most well covered operation of its kind in the history of the 
country. 

go ahead , sarah .  . 

q there are two questions i want to ask you. the 
first is , i think that they knew very well that the children did not 
have gas masks while the adults did , so the children had no chance 
because this gas was very she said it was not lethal , but it was 
very dangerous to the children and they could not have survived 
without gas masks .  . and on february 28th let 's go back did n't 
those people have a right to practice their religion 

the president they were not just practicing their 
religion , they were the treasury department believed that they had 
violated federal laws , any number of them. 

q what federal laws 

the president let me go back and answer i ca n't 
answer the question about the gas masks , except to tell you that the 
whole purpose of using the tear gas was that it had been tested they 
were convinced that it would n't kill either a child or an adult but 
it would force anybody that breathed it to run outside. and one of 
the things that i 've heard i do n't want to get into the details of 
this because i do n't know but one of the things that they were 
speculating about today was that the wind was blowing so fast that 
the windows might have been opened and some of the gas might have 
escaped and that may be why it did n't have the desired effect. 

they also knew , sarah , that there was an underground 
compound a bus buried underground where the children could be 
sent. and they were i think they were hoping very much that if 
the children were not released immediately outside that the humane 
thing would be done and that the children would be sent someplace 
where they could be protected .  . 

in terms of the gas masks themselves , i learned 
yesterday i did not ask this fact question before that the gas 
was supposed to stay active in the compound longer than the gas masks 
themselves were to work. so that it was thought that even if they 
all had gas masks , that eventually the gas would force them out in a 
nonviolent , circumstance .  . 

ms. myers last question. 

q mr. president , why are you still saying that 

q could you tell us whether or not you ever asked 
janet reno about the possibility of a mass suicide and when you 
learned about the actual fire and explosion what went through your 
mind during those horrendous moments 

the president what i asked janet reno is if they had 
considered all the worse things that could happen. and she said 
and , of course , the whole issue of suicide had been raised in the 
public he had that had been debated anyway. and she said that 
the people who were most knowledgeable about these kinds of issues 
concluded that there was no greater risk of that now than there would 
be tomorrow or the next day or the day after that or at anytime in 
the future. that was the judgment they made. whether they were 
right or wrong , of course , we will never know. 

what happened when i saw the fire , when i saw the 
building burning i was sick. i felt terrible. and my immediate 
concern was whether the children had gotten out and whether they were 
escaping or whether they were inside , trying to burn themselves up. 
that 's the first thing i wanted to know. 

thank you. 

q mr. president , why are you still saying it was a 
janet reno decision is n't it , in the end , your decision 

the president well , what i'm saying is that i did n't 
have a four or five hour , detailed briefing from the fbi .  . i did n't 
go over every strategic part of it. it is a decision for which i 
take responsibility .  . i'm the president of the united states and i 
signed off on the general decision and giving her the authority to 
make the last call. when i talked to her on sunday , some time had 
elapsed .  . she might have made a decision to change her mind. i said , 
if you decide to go forward with this tomorrow , i will support you. 
and i do support her. 

she is not ultimately responsible to the american 
people i am. but i think she has conducted her duties in an 
appropriate fashion and she has dealt with this situation i think as 
well as she could have. 

thank you. (applause . ) . 

55 p.m. edt 

from (c . wainwright) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
reply to (c . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

if you do n't care , why was so much effort put into promoting the 
10 lie because it was important to scare politicians into 
obedience .  . 


perhaps you should change your name to clayton mr  ( logic(not ! ) cramer ! 
please give evidence of the above statement or shut up. i believe that i 
may have answered that elsewhere , amongst your other ravings .  . 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from  ( tom hyatt ) 
subject re waco survivors 19 april 
summary lessons and clarifications in weapons  . 
organization sdf public access unix , dallas tx 214 436 3281 
lines 52 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( phill hallam baker ) writes .  .  .  . 

in article , (andrew merritt ) writes 
path ! ! mcsun ! ! ! uunet ! think . com . ! sdd . hp . com . ! sc . hp . com . ! apm 
from (andrew merritt ) 

in article writes 

unrelated text deleted 


what exactly are you trying to say and why were there no fire engines within 
a mile of the compound 

because the gun loonies were firing on vehicles with 50mm that 
has a range of 3000 meters .  . 


what crap , phil .  . 50mm wrong. to give you a clue as to how big 50mm is , the 
f 16 fighter aircraft have guns used to shoot down other 
aircraft .  . a 50mm gun would be somewhere in the  realm .  . they might 
have had .50 calibre but definitely not 50mm .  . 



i think that phil needs to get out a ruler and see exactly how big 50mm rounds 
are roughly 2 diameter .  . the type of stuff used in anti aircraft  . 
.50 calibre is much smaller , but the effective range ( 2mi ) sounds about 
right. maybe he just got the two confused .  .  .  .  .  . the fbi 's reasoning was sound , 
but the note from ph b was factually wrong. 

tom h. 




paul r. 
salem , n.h. 
603 894 


those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make 
violent revolution inevitable .  .  .  . 




tom hyatt i'm a diehard saints fan , so i 've suffered quite enough , thank you ! arlington , tx help ! i'm being repressed ! m . python . 





from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re are americans sexually repressed 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 86 

in article ,  ( kennedy james scot ) writes 
recent studies have shown that the number of men who have 
engaged in homosexual activities in the last decade is 2.3 
and the number of men who are exclusively homosexual is 1.1 . 
these figures are much less than those that came from earlier 
studies that showed that homosexuality among men is a lot 
higher. 

so , what can we deduce from these figures are there a lot 
less male homosexuals than there used to be or are men 
 ( perhaps women too) not as honest as they used to be about 
there sexuality presumably , the people that were polled in 

you mean , in the 1940s , men and women were much more open about 
their homosexuality than today want to try that one again 

this survey were assured of their so they should 
have answered the questions honestly i suppose. however , it 
could be that gays feel so repressed and by society 
that they did n't feel that they could be forthcoming about there 
sexuality in something like a survey .  . if this true then is it 
possible that there is a lot more gays out there than we are led 
to believe 

perhaps if americans were more open about there sexuality i think 
most americans are n't then we might discover that there are really 
quite a few more people out there who are orientated toward the same 
sex men and women included. i 'd venture a guess that there is a 
lot of people out there who have considered having a relationship 
with someone of the same sex at some point in there life. maybe they 
did n't take their seriously , but this does n't make these 
any less valid .  . therefore , if americans were n't so 
repressed about their sexuality in general as i believe they may be 
then we 'd see a lot more people coming out of the closet . 

you mean , ignore study after study , so that we can continue to 
accept a study  ( kinsey 's) that is obviously wrong 

as for myself , i'm a heterosexual and i 've never considered having 
sex with another man. that 's just the way i am .  .  . i . could have just 
as easily of been gay i suppose. one of the big debates about 
homosexuality is whether or not it 's a type of behavior that is 
learned or if one is just born that way. imho , the more likely 
explanation is that it 's some combination of the two. 

based on what , besides your own warm fuzzy feelings 

here 's something to ponder upon have any of you gay bashers out 
there ever considered that homosexuals probably deem their sexual 
orientation as being a state of affairs that is just as much an 
intrinsic and natural part of their life as heterosexuals do 
about their own sexuality in other words , someone who is truly 

alcoholics share that feeling , until they hit bottom. 

gay may not be able to live any other way. even if they date someone 
of the opposite sex or get married , in their heart they are still a 
homosexual .  . likewise , if someone who is truly heterosexual forms 
a relationship with someone of the same sex , then they are still 
a heterosexual even though outward appearances may suggest otherwise. 

scott kennedy , brewer and patriot 

unless , of course , the problem is that homosexuality is a form 
of mental disorder , caused by childhood sexual abuse , as a number of 
recent works suggest .  . 

if homosexuals would stop using the government to impose their 
morality on others  ( antidiscrimination laws) and leave our children 
alone , i would n't care in the least what they did in private. but 
until they get over the liberal notion that the proper role of 
government is to tell peaceful people how to live , i have no choice 
but to continue to point out that homosexuality is not an alternative 
lifestyle , but a sickness .  . 

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets 
the bible through the barrel of a gun .  .  .  . atf spokesman 
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets 
the constitution through the barrel of a gun .  .  .  . me 


good signature ! 


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( diane mathews ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
distribution na 
organization hewlett packard boise , idaho 
lines 12 

in article  ( doug holtsinger ) writes 
janet reno killed the waco children. she is responsible for 
their deaths .  . she should resign immediately. she should have 
understood that david koresh was a madman who would do anything 
against the children if he became provoked .  . all the warning 
signs were there and she ignored them. she provoked koresh 
into killing the children. 

aside from the fact that i disagree w you , she did offer to resign and the 
president rejected the offer. she was willing to take responsibility , and 
the president has the balls enough to stand by a decision. 


from  ( aaron t boyken ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
distribution na 
lines 42 

in article  ( diane mathews ) writes 
in article  ( doug holtsinger ) writes 
janet reno killed the waco children. she is responsible for 
their deaths .  . she should resign immediately. she should have 
understood that david koresh was a madman who would do anything 
against the children if he became provoked .  . all the warning 
signs were there and she ignored them. she provoked koresh 
into killing the children. 

aside from the fact that i disagree w you , she did offer to resign and the 
president rejected the offer. she was willing to take responsibility , and 
the president has the balls enough to stand by a decision. 

the fact that reno is actually taking responsibility  ( gee that 's a new 
one for a politician ) is a new thing for a member of clinton 's administration. 
i actually respect her for having a backbone ( i never thought i 'd say 
that about someone from that  . 

the way i understand what happened is that she discussed with clinton 
what was being planned for waco .  . clinton did n't say no , so gave de 
facto approval for the operation. things got messed up , and a lot of 
people died horrible deaths .  .  ( if i am incorrect about this , please 
feel free to correct it. this is just what i 've been able to pick 
up . ) . 

i 've just got a couple of questions about this whole thing. 
(1) why did the government feel they needed to assault that compound 
(2) why did n't they try to flush them out in the first week of 
this fiasco instead of waiting 50 days. 
(3) janet reno jumped up to take responsibilty to take heat away 
from the president. does this sound anything like what a couple 
of reagan 's aides did 

aaron 









from  ( koppenhoefer kyle cramm ) 
subject re he just doesn t get it  ( re will they ever learn ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 42 

(james p. reynolds ) writes 

just doesn t get it. the current health care system is a cancer which is 
killing our economic well being. costs are still rising 10 percent a year 
even as americans by the tens of millions go without , or are forced into 
managed care programs , which are certainly pretty socialized already if you 
ask me. 

a couple of months ago i posted a message asking any hillary bashers to please 
come forward and present (no , straight talk ) just how they would set 
about keeping costs down. i did n't get a single answer. 

the first thing i would do would be to disband medicare and ! they 
are a primary reason why health care costs are going up. to cover the people 
that are currently on these programs , i would sell their coverage in blocks 
to insurance companies. the private companies would bid to get these large 
blocks of people , and prices would go down. 

to get away from strong federal control on health care , i would pass off 
more control to the states. everyone is always forth about how 
wonderful hawaii is doing. well , how about giving some other states incentive 
to try their own plans 

what i would not do is try to implement some far reaching federal program 
program to cover all americans , because this is the surest way to fail ! 


how can anyone read the news , live under our system , and not see these faults 
how can we deal with the deficit , our cities , our educational system , our 
, aids , modernizing our industry , etc. if we do n't quit throwing 
away money which could be used to solve those problems 

one sure way to stop throwing money away is to stop giving so much to the 
federal government. our federal taxes should be slashed , and our state taxes 
increased .  . a strong central government always fails .  . give power back to the 
states counties cities , where it belongs .  . 

america needs health care reform now. do n't just sit there and hillary bash , 
inform yourself ! 

the more i inform myself , the more i want to hillary bash .  . 


from (david garrod ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 48 

in article winken . llnl . gov . , (ed suranyi ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

firstly , they could have backed off. 

regardless of who was at fault in the first assault (the one in which 
four atf officers died ) , once that was over backing off was no longer 
an option. the people inside , particularly koresh , were criminal 
suspects .  . they could have made a case of self defense , if they wanted , 
in a court of law. until then the police had the responsibility to 
capture and arrest them. i 've never heard of a case where the police 
knew there was a criminal suspect in a building , and still decided 
to back off. continuing the siege was one of the few alternatives 
to what actually took place , and it 's a matter of debate whether any 
of these would have ended any better. 


how about letting in the press 

how about letting koresh out to talk to the press 

maybe if he had been allowed to talk with the press tv for a couple of 
days he would have surrendered peacefully .  . 


how about letting the relatives of followers talk 


seems to me when you isolate someone , try to send them crazy by playing 
loudspeakers through the night of tibetan chants , etc. , you have 
much to stand on when they behave as if they are crazy.  ( i`m not too 
sure of their sanity to start with . ) . 

i am very suspicious when the government controls all communication , 
and sends the press 2 miles away. 
i have a gut feeling that no knock warrant , which is sealed , would not 
stand up to scrutiny .  . 

i think no knock warrants are what the constitution writers had 
in mind when they gave us rights against improper search and seizure .  . 
i think an all powerful central , high taxing government was 
what the constitution writers had in mind when it rights 
to the citizens and states and restricted central government. 



from  ( mark evans ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host uhura 
organization university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 17 

chris cooke wrote 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

when you force people to associate with others against their will , 
yes. 

people are forced into the usa armed forces 

they were in the recent past , maybe someone knows for certain if the 
usa has decided if it wants a conscript army  ( as they sent into south 
east asia ) or a one 



mark evans 
(44) 21 429  ( home ) 
(44) 21 359  ( office ) 

from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re waco burning 
lines 32 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article ,  ( tim crowley ) writes 

 ( red herring ) writes 

in article (richard hoenes ) writes 

yes we 've heard that the survivors are now saying that. we 've also 
seen the videotape which shows that the fire started in two or 
three different places which were n't near the tank. 

i have not seen the tape on cnn .  . which network did you see it on 

i saw the film on cnn as it happend .  . it was clear from that tape that 
the fire started in one location. right where the tank was attacking , 
and then had pulled back. 

no , this is not true. the cnn pictures show two sites clearly and a third is 
barely distinguished .  . 

if you have a tape you should note that there are two towers at either end 
of the building , a big one and a little one. what appears to be merely a 
long shot of the big tower with the tank in front is in fact the little 
tower .  . you can tell beacuse the flag in the foreground switches sides from the 
right of the picture to the left. 

the third site is visible as the flames clearly come from a point obscured by 
the small tower .  . you need a tape and a good slow motion video to see this. 



phill hallam baker 

from  ( mark walsh ) 
subject re freedom of association 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 92 

from article , by (paul bartholomew ) 
in article ,  ( phil ronzone ) 
wrote 

a very well put together post. i disagree with several key points , but the 
post is an excellent one with which to engage in discourse 

i agree wholeheartedly .  . paul , you have handled this so well , 
i think that you could write ballot materials. 

thank you. i 'd hoped to avoid the that has characterized much 
of the debate on this issue. i'm also not going to prolong the debate 
on this. i wanted to respond to a couple of the points you make , but 
this will be my last posting on this. 

no , do n't stop ! 

right to equal opportunity  ( lets call it reo ) involves coercion in all cases 
(by definition) .  . 

one question is it your position that there is no reo or just that 
this is a lesser right to 

good question. it just depends .  . how 's that for an answer ) 
seriously , i believe that it depends on wether or not you are 
talking about a governmental employer or not. in this case , i 
believe that there should be absolutely no discrimination , 
direct or indirect , period. i feel this way not because it would 
offend my moral sensibilities (which it of course would ) , but 
because the government is a coercive entity which we cannot 
escape .  . it my mind that in my lifetime , there were 
whites only drinking in some parks , but no 
for others , yet the taxes to support those 
certainly were not applied to whites only. in essence , we 
cannot escape the coercive state. even randy weavers have to pay 
property tax. on the other hand , private employers are not a 
monopoly , and their businesses should be run by them , and not by 
the government , unless they elect to turn their affairs over to 
that government. 

why says who why can mom pop have , but ibm be forced , and force is 
the correct word here , to have reo 

in the case of the mom pop store , their is directly affected .  . they , 
as individuals , will have to associate with whomever they hire .  . in the 
case of ibm , i ask again , whose are we protecting i do not accept 
that ibm , as a corporate entity , has a right to  . 

but if the mom pop store is affected by who they hire , 
is n't ibm there is a slippery slope here. in santa cruz 
(where a number of anti discrimination laws exist) , 
a guy sued a restaurant for not hiring him because he had 
every imaginable kitchen dangling from his earlobe , 
and his tatoos were very distracting .  . 

suddenly , by arm waving , by magic , a landlord does not have  . and on 
what basis does the of the landlord disappear 

it seems that vague terms like no contact with tenants suffice .  . 

on the basis that the landlord has no contact with his her tenants .  . if 
the landlord does n't associate with his tenants , then how can he complain 
that his is being violated 

i have a lot of interaction  ( all positive) with my tenants , 
so i guess that that is n't an issue. but say i were to buy 
a unit in another town , and have it managed by a third party. 
let 's say that i have a real aversion to christians because 
of the stuff that they buy into hook line and sinker , and 
because of the lunatic that they try to get elected .  . 
i do n't want any of those fish symbols hanging in the window 
of a house that i own. should the government intervene if 
i was elie and the only rental applicant was tom 
metzger , should i be forced to rent this distant unit to him 

the companies on the fortune 500 , for example , are all privately owned .  . they 
can give you a list of all of their owners. they have no anonymous , 
unknown to them , owners. 

publicly owned in the sense that their stock is publicly traded and that 
the shares of stock are owned by a generic , and ever changing public . 

yes , and the neat thing about this is that unlike the mom 
pop store , you and i can buy shares in ibm , and have influence 
over their decision making policies if we do n't like them. 

anyway , paul , keep up the good work. 

mark walsh  ( walsh@optilink ) uucp uunet ! optilink ! walsh 
amateur radio aol 
what , me worry william m. gaines , 1922 1992 
i'm gonna crush you ! andre the giant , 1946 1993 

from  ( mark evans ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host uhura 
organization university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 22 

richard chandler wrote 
from  ( elf sternberg ) 
 . thank you for playing , but obviously you are not reading the 
material as it is presented .  . according to the report i 've got in my 
hands , the newsweek article (which reported that 2 to 3 percent of the 
population is gay ) used the criteria of no heterosexual contact in the 
past year. but at the same time , the university of denver study points 
out , quite dramatically , that 60 of all self identifying gay men have 
had some form of heterosexual contact in the past year. 

i think the big mistake in that study must be that if one had had no sexual 
contact of any kind in the previous year , they are counted as heterosexual .  . 
even if they did n't intend it that way , that 's how the figures are being used. 

could someone please post some date such as what where used 
and how they were distributed and returned .  . 



mark evans 
(44) 21 429  ( home ) 
(44) 21 359  ( office ) 

from (robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 66 

in article writes 


the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

so , you approve of the batf launching a 100 person raid , complete 
with flack jackets , men hidden in horse , stun grenades , 
semi auto weapons on peaceful citizens who would also accept 
a search by a court 

there is still no proof that the branch davidians had illegal weapons .  . 
nothing else was in the jurisdiction of the batf , unless they were 
thought to have a still , or be smoking cigarettes .  . 

the automatic firearms violation is a tax matter ! you do n't serve 
no knock warrants on someone with .50 cal mgs .  . it is n't necessary 
 ( they ca n't flush a machine gun down a toilet , you know) , and it is n't 
smart  ( if you are right , you got a good chance of getting blown away. 
if you are wrong , you should n't have done it . ) . 


the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 

the stupidity was indeed related to this. but the stupidity may have been to 
attempt to serve the warrant by over armed , over protected 
and over confident gestapo .  . escalation is n't automatically brilliant. 

it was a tax matter ! you can t flush mgs down the toilet ! 
you don t need no knock warrants for everything. 

actually , imho nothing justifies them , but that is another argument . 


if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 

there was n't any murder of police officers .  . there was probable cause 
to arrest them for murder perhaps. we us citizens are innocent until proven 
guilty .  . 

there also was n't any killing until the batf screwed up real bad. 


phill hallam baker 


lew 

lew glendenning 
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr  ( or somebody like that) .  . 

from borden@head cfa . harvard . edu .  ( dave borden ) 
subject quick survey on economic views 
organization smithsonian astrophysical observatory , cambridge , ma , usa 
lines 17 

i 'd like to conduct a small survey relating to americans  views on economics and on japan .  . 
the survey consists of just two questions. i ask that only americans respond i 've posted 
it worldwide , however , because i think others will be interested in the results. i 'll 
the results and post them with some commentary .  . please respond by email to 
. here are the questions 

1) as an american , would you prefer that in a given year , a) our economy grows by one 
percent , and japan 's economy also grows by one percent , or b) our economy grows by 
two percent while japan 's economy grows by three percent 

2) on what newsgroup did you read this survey 

thank you for your participation .  . 

dave borden 



from  ( lance visser ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host dhostwo . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 84 

in  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 


in article , writes 
xref alt . activism . 6011 talk.politics.misc 
path ! ! mcsun ! uunet ! gatech ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! agate ! dog . ee . lbl . gov . ! utah . edu . ! cc . usu . edu . ! 
from 
newsgroups alt . activism . , talk.politics.misc 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
message id 
date 20 apr 93 03 02 34 mdt 
references 
organization utah state university 
lines 34 

in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

firstly , they could have backed off. when you put a power freak , like 
david koresh , in that kind of situation he is going to explode .  . (no pun 
intended) .  . koresh wanted to be a martyr and the government played right into 
his hands. 

if the government had n't given him the attention he wanted nothing 
would have ever happened. 

secondly , the davidians were expecting everything the government did. 
they thought that they were facing the apocalypse , and that they were to perish 
in fire. they were n't scared of the fbi .  . they are not the average , they 
are very devout followers of a religion. did n't work and the government 
got frustrated so they murdered them. 

the batf should have left at the beginning , they should have looked at 
koresh 's personality. instead they thought , they have guns. we have bigger 
guns. let 's go get 'em ! 

they botched it from day one. they should n't have been there in the 
first place. 


the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

the search was a no knock warrent .  . meaning that what 
those on the scene see is a bunch of men with guns storming 
their compound and grenades at them. the terms of the 
search warrent are secret and the batf has yet to even reveal 
what they were. 




the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 

they did not serve a warrent , they basically attacked the 
compound and expected a surrender .  . they had semiautomatics and 
concussion grenades that we know about. 

look at the death and injury toll inflicted on both sides in the first 
battle and its difficult to believe that either side had any 
superiority in weapons .  . 


if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 




from  ( lawrence mulvihill ) 
subject re major burger chain offers .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( lawrence mulvihill ) 
distribution usa 
organization division , nswc , bethesda , md 
lines 9 

in talk.politics.misc , (not a boomer ) writes 

janet , how do you like your hostages 

a1 ) quick fried to a crunch .  . 

a2 ) baked to a delicate crunch .  . 

would you like fries with that , sir 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's 
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

in  ( phil ronzone ) writes 

what will you do for a religion now that marxism is dead 

who said it was dead. it seems to be alive and well here on the net. 

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related. 


from  ( doug holtsinger ) 
subject janet reno killed the waco children 
organization ncsu 
distribution na 
lines 19 

janet reno killed the waco children. she is responsible for 
their deaths .  . she should resign immediately. she should have 
understood that david koresh was a madman who would do anything 
against the children if he became provoked .  . all the warning 
signs were there and she ignored them. she provoked koresh 
into killing the children. 

the situation in waco was similar to a hostage situation with 
a madman holding a gun against the head of an innocent person. 
in such a situation , a person who provokes the madman and causes 
him to pull the gun 's trigger is responsible for the death of the 
hostage .  . janet reno blindly stumbled in there and basically 
threw a tear gas container at the madman hoping that he would 
release the hostage .  . it 's no surprise that the madman would 
pull the trigger in response to that kind of provocation .  . 


doug holtsinger 


from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton presidential statement on waco 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 29 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 

office of the press secretary 


for immediate release april 19 , 1993 



statement of president clinton 


i am deeply saddened by the loss of life in waco today. my 
thoughts and prayers are with the families of david koresh 's 
victims .  . 

the law enforcement agencies involved in the waco siege 
recommended the course of action pursued today. the attorney 
general informed me of their analysis and judgment and 
recommended that we proceed with today 's action given the risks 
of maintaining the previous policy indefinitely .  . i told the 
attorney general to do what she thought was right , and i stand by 
that decision. 





from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( elf sternberg ) writes 
in article state . edu . 
state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
actually , i bet you more gay bi men are as not as promiscuous as gay men , 
because more of them could have the option of living a straight life , and 
with social pressures , probably would at least try. 

geez , where have you been , ryan i proposed this theory months 
ago. let 's take it one step further , even. if , as the surveys show , 
up to 33 of all men have had a homosexual encounter , then there must 

cite a survey , other than the obviously bogus kinsey studies. 

be an even larger percentage of people who have had homosexual erotic 
fantasies .  . but if less than 10 of the population is gay , what can we 
say about these people who do n't identify as gay but have demonstrated 
gay potential. obviously , a large chunk of these people chose  ( or , 
more accurately , were forced to choose by force of religion and social 
sanction ) to put those feelings aside , to be heterosexual .  . 

obviously , cramer and kaldis fall into this category. 

i ca n't speak for kaldis but force of religion and social sanction 
played no part in my sexual preferences .  . neither had much influence on 
me as a teenager .  . 

 ( elf sternberg ) 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 26 

in article (paul moloney ) writes 

theodore a. kaldis 

join the pythagorean reform church ! . 
repent of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 

call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . . 

the above smacks of bigotry .  . 

you smack of idiocy , t d. i do n't suppose you 've heard of pythagoras 
before 

i have indeed heard of pythagoras , but i do n't know that he was ever 
disparaged as a bean eater . in the american southwest and west 
(e . g .  . , texas , california , colorado ) , the term bean eater is 
sometimes used as a against those of hispanic heritage  ( generally 
mexicans , in those parts) much like how the irish in the northeast 
are perceived (by some) as beer  . 

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
my own only. do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus . rutgers . edu . ! kaldis 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( pat calitri ) 
subject re are americans sexually repressed 
organization university of waterloo 
lines 26 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

unless , of course , the problem is that homosexuality is a form 
of mental disorder , caused by childhood sexual abuse , as a number of 
recent works suggest .  . 

oh , please , enlighten us all. what articles in particular are you 
quoting from i'm doing my masters in and it would 
interest me greatly in seeing these articles that you know exist 
 ( yet i know nothing about) .  . i'm sure i could give them to people 
doing their phd 's .  . with information like this , they 'll have their 
degree in no time.  ( sprinkle sarcasm where applicable ) 

do n't bother with the little girl is raped by her daddy and is now 
a lesbian because of it studies. they have always been under critical 
scrutiny as to their validity .  .  ( correlation !  . 

fluffy the wonder bunny 
sex is not the answer , sex is the question. yes is the answer. 

behind each have a nice day is a go fuck yourself. ralph 

the other night i was lying in bed , looking up at the stars , and 
i wondered , where the fuck is my roof ! 

hi ! i am a  . signature . virus .  . copy me into your  . signature . and join the fun ! 

from (not a boomer ) 
subject a few questions for janet reno 
organization acme products 
lines 32 

a few questions for janet reno 

why do n't you think generals have any place in law enforcement 

if the atf fbi had proof that koresh was 

a child molester 
a child abuser 
a wife abuser 

sexual deviant (not a crime in all 50 states , yet) 
as well as 
illegally modify weapons 

why was n't he simply arrested during one of his morning why did 
the allegations of child wife sex crimes only come out after the branch 
davidians repelled the initial assualt 

was it because it became necessary to david koresh do you 
feel responsible for the deaths of over 80 people how many would be alive to 
day if koresh had been arrested outside the compound 


inquiring minds want to know. 

although janet was installed after the siege began , her purge of the 
justice dept. leaves only her people in charge. 

brett 

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . sean o casey in the white plague by frank herbert .  . 

from  ( mark walsh ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 28 

from article , by  ( greg hennessy ) 
in article  ( mark walsh ) writes 

there is a big difference between running one 's business 
affairs , and actively ripping people off. 

and charging homosexuals more becuase people think that aids is a gay 
disease is actively ripping people off. 

really i thought that insurance companies hired all of 
their actuarial staffs to determine the risks correlated 
with all groups of people , and that gays are more likely 
to have aids than are those of other sexual orientations .  . 
if i am wrong about this correlation , please correct me. 

my auto insurance company charges me up the because 
i am a young male with a very high performance car. i 
always thought that this was based on nhtsa and other 
statistical data , rather than bigotry and hatred for young 
men with fast cars. of course , with the proper government 
intervention , we could force the insurance companies to 
pretend that young men with fast cars are just the same 
as everyone else .  .  .  . 

mark walsh  ( walsh@optilink ) uucp uunet ! optilink ! walsh 
amateur radio aol 
what , me worry william m. gaines , 1922 1992 
i'm gonna crush you ! andre the giant , 1946 1993 

from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re waco investigation paranoia 
originator 
lines 32 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world champion minnesota twins ! 


in article , (richard hoenes ) writes 
can people please stop the  i think know the batf fbi are completely 
responsible but they 'll cover it up so that the investigation will 
show that is responsible' bs .  . 

well they could the original warrent  ( why was i sealed in the 
first place ) , release their video tapes (from their listening devices 
inside the compound ) and quit makeing contradictory statements .  . 

do you believe their statement that the children were killed by 
lethal injection they later stated that the childrens bodies 
were burned to the point the would be hard to identify .  . so 
how did they come up with the lethal injection theory 

in an investigation of this 
size with the feds , state , and civilians involved in the 
investigation it would be impossible to cover up. 

unless the evidence was destroyed or other evidence planted .  . 

and with republicans like arlen spector calling for investigations , 
this is n't going to be handled with kid gloves .  . 

you mean magic bullet spector 

i know , a lone gunman killed all the branch davidians .  . ) ( 


russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else. (c) 1993 
ex twins  jack morris , 10 innings pitched , 0 runs  ( world series mvp ! ) 

from (scott amspoker ) 
subject re mow bodycount 
organization basis int l , albuquerque nm usa 
lines 19 

in article (d .  . owen rowley ) writes 
... 
of course the last mow was the same thing but the media ignored us. 
i guess that was just labor pains .  . 
perhaps they will ignore us again , in which case we will come in 
even numbers next time. 

local media has n't said much , if anything , about the mow .  . also , when 
i called a straight friend in arlington to tell him i would be on his 
doorstep this weekend , he did n't know anything at all about the march .  . 
this is a gay sympathetic person who notices things like this. i 
thought it was strange that he was unaware of what was happening. it 
made me wonder just how much coverage is getting to mainstream america .  . 


scott head like a hole , black as your soul. 
basis international , albuquerque , nm i 'd rather die 
than give you control. 
nine inch nails 

from (d .  . owen rowley ) 
subject re mow bodycount 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 54 

in article (stephen chappell ) writes 
in article  ( bearpaw ) writes 
i believe the mow plans and handing out some sort of wristband thingy , and 
basing their count on those. i see two problems with this. one , can they 
get everybody to take one  ( and only one) two , they could n't possibly have 
been able to choose a color design that wo n't clash with somebody 's outfit ! 

 .  .  . and . three. the ads i 've seen for the indicate they 're 
charging 5 a wristband .  . as i 've seen them , the look like 
clear plastic with multi coloured rainbow threads in them labeled 
1993 march on washington (the being your particular 
wristband number) .  . 

certainly not everyone at the march on washington will be willing to 
shell out five bucks for a piece of plastic. 


i bought mine at the mow  . 
its not plastic , its woven material. 

but i think you miss the point. 
its not about the five bucks in your pocket , its about supporting the 
march and helping to pay for all the printed and and 
organisation and .  .  .  . 

all leading up to the literal birth of queer visibility in this country. 

up to this point all our news coverage has been driven by events 
happen to us. 
this event is happening by our direct action. 
of course the last mow was the same thing but they ignored us. 
i guess that was just labor pains .  . 
perhaps they will ignore us again , in which case we will come in 
even numbers next time. 

lst night in dc there were so many queers out and about you could hardly get 
in any place. 
i suspect over the next two days that will become exponentially 
larger .  . 

to my mind this is a physical down of the collective closet of 
queer invisibility .  . 

the five bucks is insignificant .  . 

. . owen 




d. owen ( also ) 
eu a state of well being 
is my natural state , i do what i enjoy and an abundance 
of all good fortune comes to me for it. 

from  ( hettmansperger , robert ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization bellcore , livingston , nj 
lines 12 

in article  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 


how about tell everyone what the hell they were doing there in the first place 

if we knew that , we 'd be in a much better position to judge their actions .  . 
until then , we can only speculate and develop nice conspiracy and or police 
state stories. 

bob 

from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re using california 's antidiscrimination the sort of case i predicted 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

the walz monster above , however , was past 40 when he molested these 
kids , as he says above. 


hehehe ! dontcha just love these carefully constructed arguements 

clayton , babe , please define the word  . are you using a legal 
term or a proper dictionary term molest , as far as i can remember , means 
do damage to  . my mate , mike , was into a woman 's 
when he was 14. is that molestation a number of my friends  ( straight ) lost 
their virginity before that. were they  molested  they told me that they 
thoroughly enjoyed the experience. i see no damage. 

please stop pushing your objective morality on others. if you push , people wo n't 
fall over and say  ye gads , you 're right ! ' , they 'll just push back. 

have you signed up for that logic course yet 


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from  ( tom gillman ) 
subject re some scientists do not believe in the green house effect 
organization georgia state university 
lines 36 

 ( mark wilson ) writes 

in rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) writes 

in article ,  ( william a bacon ) says 
the word some sums it up , alot of scientist have concluded that without a 
doubt global climate will is  ( occur(ring ) and should be dealt with by source 

without a doubt some warming will occur .  . however there is mucho disagreement 
on how much warming will occur .  . 
the original were claiming 10 to 15 degrees  . lately 
they have been saying 3 5 degrees. newer studies hint that it might be less 
than a degree. 

of course , then there 's the other side. an article in yesterday 's atlanta 
journal stated that there are many scientists who have misgivings that the 
data being used to determine whether or not global warming is occuring is 
faulty .  . the point that the article made is that all long term temperature 
collected has been in urban areas , and that any heat rise can be 
attributed to the growth and urbanization of the area. they called it 
the asphalt temperature trend . we have no real long term data on remote 
areas , such as the middle of the rain forest , or the top of mt. everest 
or the desert , for that matter. an accompanying article mentioned that 
a group of scientists at nasa had developed a method for using a satellite 
to collect temperature data globally , and that preliminary results showed 
a slight downward trend attributed to the mt  . it went 
on to say that even with the current downward trend , there appeared to be 
no change in global temperatures using trend prediction methods for at 
least the next 50 years. 

i can quote the article verbatim if you like .  .  . 

tom gillman , systems programmer 
wells computer center ga. state univ. any classic star trek security 
(404) 651 4503 officer sometime during the show 
gsu does n't care what i say on the internet , why should you 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re waco 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 28 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( mark wilson ) says 

in  ( mitchell s todd ) writes 

in article ,  ( lance visser ) writes .  .  .  . 

i ca n't wait for the investigation .  . considering that everyone 
is dead now and the place is burnt to the ground , i guess honest citizens 
will just have to take the word of the atf about how much of a threat 
these people were. 



the batf warrant was unsealed yesterday. 

the entire operation was illegal from day one. 


no authority for a no knock raid .  . 
no authority to use the texas helicopters .  . 
no authority to search for a drug lab . more atf lies .  . 


clinton and reno are lying fucks .  . 




from (mike van pelt ) 
subject re race and violence 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 31 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( aaron c laramore ) writes 
basically , i think this tendency for non african americans to believe that 
something is wrong with us exists because non african americans do n't want to 
deal with the possiblility that the society is deeply biased against african 
americans , and that this is about 80 of the problem. 

there is something terribly wrong , however , with a culture which 
condemns , attacks , and all too often kills any of its members who 
attempt to get an education. my mother is an elementary school 
teacher , and she tells me that she and her african american 
are frustrated to tears by the fact that any african american child who 
attempts to do well in school and get an education is accused by 
his her peers of trying to be white , and is beaten , bullied , and 
tormented by them. it goes beyond each passing grade on a test earning 
a beating .  . in my mother 's school , one of the most promising young 
students , who happened to be african american , had her throat cut by 
one of these young thugs .  . 

nobody who buys into such a culture has any hope of being anything but 
poor and or a thug and or dead , regardless of their color. 

what has to be changed is the culture. if that culture ca n't be 
changed , then those african american kids who are willing to separate 
from it must be separated from it and the murderous thugs of whatever 
color. otherwise , future bright young african american girls who 
wanted to be doctors will end up dead on the school bus. 

let 's face it , when it comes to utilities , microsoft has mike van pelt 
performed about as well as a savings and loan .  . these are 
the guys , remember , who put backup and restore not to 
mention edlin on your hard disk .  . lincoln spector 

from 
subject f o cus health how u.s. compares .  .  . 
nf id n 000 
nf from math . cornell . edu . ! apr 21 14 17 00 1993 
lines 81 


from (misc . activism . progressive . co moderator) 
subject f o cus health how u.s. compares .  .  .  . children elderly in poverty 

f o cus health how u.s. compares .  .  .  . children elderly in poverty 


percentage of children and elderly living in poverty 1984 1987 (3) 



children elderly 
country in poverty in poverty 

united states 20 . 4 . 10.9 
canada 9 . 3 . 2.2 
australia 9.0 4.0 
united kingdom 7.4 5.2 
france 4.6 4.5 
netherlands 3.8 3.4 
germany 2.8 2.8 
sweden 1.6 4.3 

source timothy m. , u.s. poverty and income security policy in a 
cross national perspective , october 1991 , , october , 1991 , 
income study , working paper 70 .  . 




of the 19 western industrial nations 


western industrial countries having a national health insurance plan 
providing universal coverage 

australia yes sweden yes 
canada yes united kingdom yes 
denmark yes austria yes 
finland yes france yes 
ireland yes switzerland yes 
italy yes spain yes 
japan yes belgium yes 
new zealand yes germany yes 
netherlands yes norway yes 



western industrial countries not having a national health insurance 
plan providing universal coverage. 


united states no 





from page 74 of 


we 're number one , where america stands and falls in the new 
world order by andrew l shapiro .  . 

new york , may 1992 , vintage books , a division of random house. 
10 paperback .  . isbn 0 679 2 

transcribed by  ( joe woodard ) 

is becoming a land of private greed and public squalor .  . 
this book is an indispensable road map through the wreckage .  . the 
facts it reveals will you. they may depress you. but 
ideally they 'll fire you up to help rebuild this nation . '' . 

robert b. reich , author of the work of nations 







from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton remarks by the president teacher of the year award 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 98 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 






the white house 

office of the press secretary 


for immediate release april 20 , 1993 

remarks by the president 
during presentation of teacher of the year award 

the rose garden 


1 25 p.m. edt 


the president good afternoon. please be seated .  . i 
want to say , first , how delighted i am to be here with secretary 
riley and with senator graham .  . the three of us served as governors 
together during the 1980s when we worked constantly on strategies to 
improve our schools , when we led often difficult and long efforts to 
upgrade the standards in american education and to improve the 
quality of instruction our children were receiving .  . 

there were no two governors whom i admired more during 
that period than the two who now stand on this stage with the teacher 
of the year. and i think both of them would join me in saying that , 
after all the testimony has been heard and all the bills have been 
passed and the funds have been raised and allocated , it all comes 
down to what happens between the teacher and the students in the 
classroom .  . 

that 's why today 's ceremony honoring the national 
teacher of the year is so important. leon bailey is one 
recognition all across our country for highly advanced and innovative 
science programs. he 's developed and introduced into florida 's 
cutting edge programs in molecular biology and dna 
subjects usually taught only in college and , i 
might add , probably only dimly understood here in the nation 's 
capital .  . (laughter . ) . 

within three years of being hired by a satellite high 
school , mr. bailey 's institution had one of the strongest science 
programs in the entire state of florida , and it won numerous national 
and international awards .  . these advanced programs are n't just for a 
favored few. bailey has inspired all kinds of students , 
including those previously known as low achieving or at risk to reach 
for excellence and to attain it. this is what our students need and 
what our country needs. 

today , we know that a good future with high wages and 
rich opportunities rests on the foundation of quality education for a 
lifetime. the basics are n't enough anymore. all our kids need 
competence in math and science and advanced problem solving .  . that 's 
why bailey 's accomplishments are so important and why i am so 
pleased and proud to participate in recognizing and honoring these 
accomplishments .  . 

, you represent the best in the united states. 
i'm glad to recognize you today and to formally present you with this 
apple award as the teacher of the year for 1993. (applause . ) . 

mr. bailey thank you , mr. president. it is indeed a 
great honor and a tremendous responsibility to represent the nation 's 
2.5 million teachers .  . and we appreciate the support that you have 
shown for education , and we 're looking forward to working with you to 
help redesign and improve our nation 's schools. 

we know that the quality of our children 's education 
will directly impact the future of our economic and social landscape 
in the years to come. and we thank you so much for your continued 
support and commitment to our children 's education. thank you again. 
(applause . ) . 

the president in closing , i would like to also welcome 
the education leaders in florida who are here , those representing the 
national education groups who have also come. i 'd like to recognize 
's congressman , representative jim bacchus in the back , himself 
a great advocate of education. and i 'd like to remind all of you 
that the ultimate purpose of the national teacher of the year award 
is to find a way for the rest of us to express our appreciation to 
people all across this country who give their lives to our children , 
all of the teachers of this country who get up every day and do their 
best to try to advance the cause of learning for all the children of 
america .  . they are , in so many ways , our most important public 
servants .  . 

thank you very much. (applause . ) . 

29 p.m. edt 




from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( russ anderson ) writes 
in article ,  ( blort ! eeeep ! hwaaah . ) . writes 
actually , i was rather surprised to see an article on this subject 
(i . e .  . the new , inproved survey saying that roughly 1 of men are gay ) 
on the front page of the new york times recently (i think it was 
on thurs , 15 april) .  . the headline was something to the effect of 
new survey finds 1 of men are gay 

does anyone else see the difference between 1 of men are gay and 1 
of men surveyed say they are gay does the ny times think that 
there is no one in the closet 

i see. when survey after survey show 1 4 , we are supposed to believe 
one survey , done with very poor assumptions , with a very atypical 
population , 40 years ago when the society was far more repressed about 
homosexuality than it is now. yeah , right. 

russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( mitchell s todd ) 
subject re waco burning 
organization 
lines 45 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rigel . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article news . ctron . com . , writes .  .  .  . 
 ( mitchell s todd ) writes 
why is an accidental fire more plausible than a mass suicide , 
considering that the davidians were an apocalyptic cult with 
a history of armed violence 

because the place was a tinder box with straw bales for insulation , and they 
would n't have time to die from smoke inhalation before the fire reached them. 
those people burned to death , a truly horrible and agonizingly painful way to 
die , which i do n't think even a fanatic would willingly inflict on himself , let 
alone his family. 

you do n't know much about the fall of 's government in vietnam .  . 
or the traditional indian practice of  . people have been 
burning themselves to death  ( or willing to go through such and end) 
for political and religious reasons since the beginning of time. 
also , death from smoke inhalation is little better than dying from 
the flames themselves. think about in toxic 
gasses .  . it 's not pleasant .  . 


to anyone who remembered jim jones and who thought that mass 
suicide was a real possibility , self immolation would simply not be the method 
of choice. 

then again , to a buddhist monk , it might be. to each his own. 

far more likely to be bombs , bullets , or poisoned kool aid .  . that 's 
not to say they definitely did n't do it i do n't make claims either way but 
i find the idea implausible enough to want to see the gov't thoroughly 
to determine if they started the fire by accident. 

i'm waiting to see what the government has , too. 




mitchell s todd 
 . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' ' 
tamu . edu .  . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 





from  ( red herring ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
nntp posting host dzoo . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma 
lines 35 

in article  ( jill rosencrans ) writes 
in  ( doug holtsinger ) writes 

janet reno killed the waco children. she is responsible for 
their deaths .  . she should resign immediately. she should have 
understood that david koresh was a madman who would do anything 
against the children if he became provoked .  . all the warning 
signs were there and she ignored them. she provoked koresh 
into killing the children. 

she provoked koresh excuse me , but david koresh killed 
the inhabitants of that compound , not a gov't official .  . these people 
were controlled by koresh .  .  . he . killed them a long time ago 
when he refused to release the children and other hostages as you 
call them in your comparison. 

this is the first i hear that koresh refused to release 
someone. in fact , a lot of people , including children , came out 
during the stand off. 

how do you know koresh killed his followers the fbi said 
he had had no such plans  ( and they had the place bugged ) , koresh 's 
attorney said the same thing , and the survivors claimed that the 
fire was started by goverment agents .  . 









disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 39 

in article , (michael d. adams ) writes 
on 22 apr 93 10 39 15 gmt , theodore a. kaldis observed 
 ( amy lynn young leith ) writes 
can someone tell me why when mr. cramer spouts on about homosexuals , 
he only addresses homosexual men , and never , in any post i 've read , 
addressed lesbians 

i ca n't really speak for mr. cramer here , but i can say that a 
homosexual male is an entirely different animal than a lesbian .  . 
there is virtually nothing that is analogous or related between the 
aberrant behaviors practiced by these two groups of deviants .  . 

the last time i checked homosexual men and women were both human. 

i think mr. kaldis was using the expression in the slang sense , 
though i agree it is not an appropriate expression to use in this 
context. 

they both prefer to engage in sexual acts with people of the same 
gender .  . there is nothing inherently wrong with the trademark behaviour 
of either homosexual men or homosexual women , except in the minds of 
misinformed folk , clueless folk , and bigots .  . 

so what makes homosexual men and homosexual women different animals 

michael d. adams enterprise , alabama 

1. that homosexual men are extremely promiscuous , and homosexual women 
are , if any more promiscuous than heterosexual women , it 's not by 
much. 

2. that homosexual men are overrepresented among child molesters 
 ( about 30 of child molestation is done by homosexual or bisexual 
men) , while homosexual women do n't appear to be similarly over 
represented .  . 


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from (michael lodman ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization cse department , uc san diego 
lines 18 
nntp posting host beowulf . ucsd . edu . 

in article writes 
the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

more tripe deleted 

phill , are you trying to convince everyone on the net that 
you are in fact an moron for some reason repeating 
the same rubbish over and over again may make something a 
fact in whatever backwater you are posting from , but it does n't 
wash here , so save it. 



michael department of computer science engineering 
university of california , san diego 
(619) 455 1500 
if guns are outlawed , only government outlaws will have guns. 

from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re waco survivors 19 april 
lines 121 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article ,  ( rob strom ) writes 

in article ,  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 


in order to reject the word of the fbi and batf it is neccessary to beleive 
the words of a man who has just murdered 17 children and ordered the 
suicide murder of his other 80 followers. according to the account given 
the batf attempted to serve a warrant upon koresh at the ranch and were met 
by gunfire in a deliberate attempt to murder them. the koresh gun supporter 
claim that the batf started shooting simply does not stand up. if the 
aft had gone there to start shooting they would have gone with heavier 
grade weaponry than standard issue handguns .  . for all practical purposes 
they were unarmed , the b d followers had automatic weapons .  . 

... 
the people who do not want gun control must obviously discount the entire 
government story. this is simply rationalisation .  . it is not enough for 
them to simply dismiss the government as incompetent .  . that would require 
them to come up with a solution themselves. instead they have to come 
up with a government conspiracy theory whereby the government decided to 
set out to murder 80 people just to set up some sort of scare to them 
to get gun control legislation through. 


i must object to the characterization of those opposed to the 
government 's handling of the waco situation as gun supporters . 
your argument tries to paint the batf critics as right wing 
gun nuts , and just mixes up two issues. 

i am one of the batf fbi critics , and yet i am a liberal 
and just as anti gun as you are. i just happen to believe 
that everyone has civil rights , even religious crazies .  . 
they 're all human beings , not some nest of wasps that 
you 're trying to exterminate .  . 

the batf created the crisis situation by the way they handled 
the original raid .  . it was well known that koresh regularly 
went jogging outside his property. he could have been served 
with a search warrant then. he could have been arrested if 
he had refused to comply .  . instead officers armed with grenades 
invaded the property. this escalated into a shooting war 
with tragic deaths on both sides. 

those were the first two mistakes the bad judgment of 
asking for a no knock warrant , and the bad and probably 
illegal way the already unwise warrant was served .  . 

at this point , the situation escalated to where it was 
described as an armed standoff and a hostage crisis .  . 
that 's when the government started covering their traces , 
sealing the warrant , their reported history of 
the incident , etc. 

things were already building up to disaster .  . now the 
government could have simply closed the supply routes 
and waited .  . but according to janet reno , that option 
had never been seriously considered . so , supposedly 
because the agents were frustrated and fatigued , and 
because there supposedly were no backups , they felt 
they had to go in. 

yes the govt handled it in the rambo hollywood type style 
with extreeme  . perhaps thats not the way to handle 
it. 

it is a completely different thing to start asserting as many 
have done that the government is primarily to blame .  . the comparisons 
with the nazis in particular are purely gratuitous .  . 

since you have provided a constructive opinion on the issue your 
post to be taken seriously. peter nelson also made some 
very good points about how a low key approach might have been 
more effective. 

the point is though that you learn through mistakes. the govt 
played the wrong card and lost. thats not a big deal. they 
had had four guys murdered at the begining and they 
just were not prepared for this situation. who could be 

if the same thing were to happen all over again we might perhaps 
be able to the govt if they used the same tactics and failed 
in the same way. as it is i ca n't say that i would not have made the 
same mistake. i would n't because i do n't as a rule go in 
for a confrontational situation if i can avoid it. i would 
because with all those press about its very difficult not to try 
the macho stuff. 


the fbi had information from within the compound we had no access 
to. they may have calculated that the b d followers resolve was 
cracking based on their listening devices within the compound .  . they 
knew that koresh had chickened out of one suicide attempt .  . this 
may have been the reason why they considered that fear might have 
been a weapon for breaking his resolve .  . again in panama they had used 
the heavy rock music to great effect during bush 's invasion .  . funny that 
few of the koresh supporters and complain much about the 
death of several thousand civilians while the us govt attempted 
to arrest their former ally .  . 


and please let 's not turn this into a pro gun vs. anti gun 
discussion. anti gun people do not believe that gun owners 
deserve to get assaulted by armed government 
agents .  . and koresh 's civil rights exist whether his 
guns were legal , illegal , illegal but should have been legal , 
or whatever ! 

koresh negated his civil rights the minute his followers fired 
on the police helicopter .  . no matter whether the warrant was or 
was not technically valid the guys who were carrying it out 
thought that it was. thus the assault on them was completely 
inexcusable no matter what rationalisation people might wish to 
employ .  . 

of course we have to consider the guns issue. that is the whole 
core of the question. everything else is a diversion .  . 


phill hallam baker 

from  ( mitchell s todd ) 
subject re waco 
organization 
lines 34 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rigel . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

 ( russ anderson ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( mitchell s todd ) writes 
in article ,  ( lance visser ) writes .  .  .  . 

i ca n't wait for the investigation .  . considering that everyone 
is dead now and the place is burnt to the ground , i guess honest citizens 
will just have to take the word of the atf about how much of a threat 
these people were. 

just look at the history of koresh and his  . they captured 
the mount carmel complex a few ago in a gun battle with a 
rival bd sect , leaving more than one person dead. they were n't 
exactly the most peace loving bunch. 

koresh some of his followers were tried and found innocent of 
all charges following that shootout .  . were you unaware of this or 
did you leave out this fact 

the fact is that koresh and his followers involved themselves 
in a gun battle to control the mt carmel complex .  . that is not 
in dispute .  . from what i remember of the trial , the 
could n't reasonably establish who fired first , the big reason 
behind the  . 



mitchell s todd 
 . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' ' 
tamu . edu .  . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 





from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re once more into the breach .  .  .  .  . 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 21 

in article , (paul bartholomew ) writes 
mr. cramer , i am still waiting for your response to my requests regarding 
the information you claim to have. i respectfully request that you either 
provide the information or withdraw the various assertions you make below. 

item number 1 in a previous posting , you stated that you had found 
overwhelming support for child molestation in soc . motss . 

you have  ( finally ) responded to this one. i have read your complete file 
of postings to soc . motss . and to put it bluntly , it does not support your 
assertion .  . in short , this claim is bogus .  . thank you for confirming this. 

all those postings in defense of adults having sex with children , and 
you just choose to claim that they do n't say anything of the sort .  . 
there 's no point in discussing this any further , then. you are clearly 
a liar , without morals of any sort , prepared to justify child molestation .  . 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( lance visser ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host dhostwo . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 39 

in  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 

is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 


after the seige began 

surround the place with razor wire and then let them sit .  . do not 
have daily press conferences , do your best to keep things out of 
the press. 


as things get more and more miserable inside , one of two things is 
going to happen 

1. people will start coming out. 

2. they will commit suicide in mass at some point. 


the thing to remember about (2) is that hysterical situations and 
play into the hands of a leader who has picked this course. its 
much easier to people into something like suicide if there 
is gas coming in and bullets in the air. let them be hungry and miserable 
for longer and longer and it will probably be more effective. 

the possiblity that they would all kill themselves at some 
point would not bother me in the least or alter tactics .  . if people 
are going to take their own lives , the best you can probably do is 
prevent yourself from giving them the opportunity or an excuse to 
do it. 

if the fbi and attorney general really were concerned 
with sanitation and welfare of the children inside , they would not 
have turned the water to the compound off as a pressure tactic in 
the first place. 



from  ( hot young star ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 10 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

i 've already posted results of a survey of homosexuals , that shows 
how profoundly promiscuous homosexual men are. 

were. 

in urban areas. 

among those who had access to gay bathhouses .  . 

from  ( neal ) 
subject re and violence 
organization manes and associates , nyc 
distribution usa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 
lines 11 

a person sees the front of their home is strewn with garbage .  . that 
person removes the trash , and sweeps the sidewalk .  . his next door 
have not. the person then approaches his two neighbors and talks 
to them about cleaning the front of their homes , and why it would be 
good for their own living conditions , and that of the neighborhood. 
there 's nothing wrong with holding your neighbors accountable for 
their actions .  . that is the basis for a viable , safe community. 

regards , 

neal 

from 
subject drugs and crime a new approach  ( was re if drugs should be legalized ) 
organization memphis state university 
lines 291 

 ( william december starr ) writes 

in article , 
said 

i'm for creating a class of noncommercial drugs which would include 
the currently illegal ones , which would be legal to possess , grow , 
produce , but not to sell. bomb the pushers back to the barter age ! 
 ( and tax production , too . ) . 

um , why what 's wrong with the act of selling recreational drugs , even 
for mercenary reasons (e . g .  . , getting rich )  ( note by selling , i mean 
selling the product to a consenting adult at a mutually agreeable 
price ... i point this out in an effort to pre prevent this 
thread from getting sidetracked onto a flamefest about pushing drugs to 
or the like . ) . 

and why should the users be subjected to special taxation 

william december starr 

note this is a repost of my earlier response to mr. starr , 
which was not properly formatted .  . apologies to those who 've 
seen the following before 

to explain my position on the war on drugs , i offer this 

drugs and crime a new approach 

by ken barnes 


given that 

1. the trade in illegal drugs is responsible for 
much of the crime which afflicts our nation .  . 

2. people who want drugs  ( particularly people who 
are predisposed to addiction ) will find a way to get 
them , whether or not they are legally available. 

3. despite current law enforcement efforts , drugs 
are readily available to those who want them. 

4. addiction to drugs , both legal and illegal , is 
responsible for a significant drain on the productive 
resources of our country , and this occurs in a variety 
of ways , from the cocaine addicted babies who are 
unable to learn , to the spread of disease among 
addicts , to the tragic consequences of alcohol abuse 
and tobacco smoking .  . 

5. a general economic principle of government is 
that whatever is subsidized you get more of , and 
whatever is taxed you get less of. to be most 
effective in confronting the nation 's drug problem , 
some way must be found to utilize these additional 
powers of government to make drug dealing and drug use 
less attractive. 

while this country 's current efforts to combat 
legal drugs have succeeded in some respects ,  ( there is 
a greater awareness of the health consequences of 
smoking , and designated driver programs have helped 
reduce drunk driving , for example) , the same cannot be 
said for the war on illegal drugs. there remains a 
core group of illegal drug users which support 
international networks of smugglers , pushers , , 
processors , , and gangsters .  . these networks 
and their marketing activities , which include drive 
by shootings , corrupting law enforcement authorities , 
and smuggling weapons , are directly or indirectly 
responsible for a large proportion of the crimes 
committed in our country every day. 

clearly , illegal drugs and rising crime are 
linked .  . it takes only a moment 's reflection to 
recognize how they are linked .  . the link is money. as 
with this country 's failed effort to prohibit alcohol 
consumption , a black market has been created , in which 
greedy local monopolies , like the gangsters of a 
era , have enormously from their 
illegal trade. the victims of this trade include not 
only the innocent people unfortunate enough to be 
caught in the crossfire , but , i would argue , the drug 
users themselves. 

were it not for the black market , and the violent 
monopoly of the drug lords , drug users might not be 
the thieves , robbers , prostitutes and murderers they 
have become in order to pay the high prices the drug 
lords demand .  . in the absence of the drug lords , most 
would be , i believe , simply people with a problem , 
either a moral problem or a medical problem , but not a 
criminal problem. 

let me be clear however , i am not advocating that 
we let the criminals who have been preying on our 
society for these many years of prohibition off the 
hook .  . on the contrary , the new approach i advocate is 
one which would not result in either the government or 
private industry getting into the business of 
promoting crack cocaine , or any other presently 
illegal drug for that matter. neither is it an 
approach which sees law abiding citizens handing over 
more and more of their freedom and privacy in an 
effort to track down illegal drug users , until the 
land of the free and the home of the brave looks like 
a police state. 

here then is my proposal 

1. possession and use of all presently illegal 
drugs is , but buying and selling them 
remains illegal .  .   can grow their own 
marijuana  ( as many already do today) , other drug users 
can legally import their poison of choice as long as 
they pay the tariffs , and a barter economy of drug 
experimenters develops .  . 

2. because of the barter economy which supplies 
the drug users , the black market profits that have so 
enriched the drug lords dwindle .  . if these drugs can 
be obtained for  free  or next to nothing , why buy 
them nevertheless , there will be those who will seek 
to sell these noncommercial drugs even at relatively 
low prices. therefore , 

3. law enforcement activity is concentrated on 
those individuals who continue to buy and sell , and 
also on the crimes committed by drug users too poor to 
afford even low prices. but here is where the 
strategy begins to differentiate between the drug 
dealers , the , and the drug users , their 
victims .  . 

4. upon arrest for any crime , suspects are 
permitted to choose whether or not they will undergo a 
drug test. those who choose to cooperate are informed 
that upon conviction for the crime they are accused 
of , if they are found to be a drug user , they will be 
institutionalized until they are clean , and only then 
will they begin to serve their sentence. if they 
choose to cooperate and are already drug free , they 
can begin to serve their sentence right away. those 
who choose not to undergo the drug test and are 
convicted face stiffer fines and serve longer 
sentences .  . 

5. of drug using criminals 
serves several purposes 

drug using criminals  ( and this includes drunk 
and or  stoned  drivers) are separated from their 
sources of supply , thus reducing the total number of 
drug users in society at large , and consequently 
decreasing the demand for drugs on the street , putting 
more of the remaining drug dealers out of business. 

provides an incentive for 
drug using criminals to straighten themselves out , 
before becoming part of the general prison population .  . 

while helping protect society from crime , 
could also serve to deter drug 
users from becoming criminals , since drug using 
criminals , unlike other criminals , would be delayed 
prior to serving their sentences by the additional 
time it takes for them to sober up. 

of drug using criminals 
separate from the general prison population would also 
provide a closely monitored pool of addicts who could 
volunteer for research studies of new techniques and 
treatments for addictive disease , with the potential 
to benefit both themselves and others. 

6. dealers in illegal drugs are generally not 
drug users themselves , and this is particularly true 
of the drug bosses or running large illicit 
organizations .  . under this proposal , dealers would be 
more readily identifiable , since upon arrest they 
would presumably pass the drug test , or else decline 
to take it in order to avoid having to explain why 
they are in possession of drugs when it is apparent 
they do not use them. declining to take the test , 
they would of course face stiffer penalties .  . while 
each case of attempted sale of a noncommercial drug 
would have to stand on own its merits , the outcome of 
a suspect 's drug test could provide additional 
evidence for the prosecution .  . 

7. just as cigarette taxes have contributed to 
the decline of smoking in our country by making 
cigarettes more costly while at the same time 
providing revenue for anti smoking campaigns , 
noncommercial drugs should be taxed , and the money 
generated should be used to combat their use. 
enforcement of this tax should be on a voluntary basis 
however , and should not be used as an excuse to 
infringe on the rights and privacy of noncommercial 
drug users , since to do so would have the effect of 
prohibition .  . 

instead , drug users will be encouraged to pay the 
tax by reminding them that if drugs are ever 
found in their possession during the course of routine 
police operations , they will be required to pay the 
tax immediately or else forfeit their drugs to 
be destroyed .  . if drug dealers are found to be selling 
noncommercial drugs on which taxes have not been paid , 
they will face additional prosecution for evading the 
tax. the strategy of adding tax evasion to drug 
dealing charges is already in use in some 
jurisdictions , but its effectiveness is currently 
limited by the illegality of drug possession .  . 

revenue from drug possession taxes and import 
tariffs would be used to fund anti drug advertising 
campaigns , and provide support to private sector drug 
treatment programs for those unable to afford 
treatment. 

8. taxpayer subsidies to all drug producers must 
be ended. federal support of tobacco farming is both 
immoral and wasteful in this era of tight budgets , and 
the marijuana crops grown illicitly on federal lands 
in many states must likewise be eliminated .  . 

while my proposal would have the effect of 
permitting the use of what are now illegal drugs , it 
would hold the users of all drugs responsible for 
their actions , and i believe , would reduce the harm 
drugs have on our society , particularly the crime 
caused by the illegal drug trade. so long as we 
remain a free nation , with relatively porous borders , 
and freedom for our citizens to travel , we will always 
have a drug problem. whether it takes the form of 
heroin addicts dying in abandoned buildings , drunk 
drivers killing and maiming others on our streets , or 
emphysema patients struggling for breath after a 
lifetime of smoking , the results are the same 
needless suffering and death. as a society we must 
recognize that while our society permits us to harm 
ourselves with drugs , as we are already doing 
 ( regardless of the drug laws) , we must take a stand 
against the harm that drugs and drug users cause to 
others. we must particularly oppose the vicious and 
violent which prey on the weakness of drug 
users. by taking the profits out of their deadly 
trade , my proposal goes a long way towards shutting 
down these powerful criminal organizations .  . 

the question of whether drug use is a moral or 
medical problem depends on which group of drug users 
you 're talking about. different drugs have different 
effects , and some are more addictive than others. the 
of a drug also often varies between 
individuals , and so we have some people who can drink 
alcohol in moderation , while others find they cannot 
resist the bottle. nicotine , which former surgeon 
general c. everett koop declared to be as as 
heroin , is a legal drug with known harmful effects , 
and while some people can stop smoking by willpower 
alone , others continue to smoke even after treatment 
for lung cancer. 

for those individuals who can stop taking drugs 
on their own , we may argue that because they have 
chosen to use them , this represents a moral failure on 
their part , or an unwillingness to face the 
difficulties of life. but for the addicts , while they 
may have chosen to use drugs the first time , by the 
time they discover their addiction it is too late. we 
cannot hold them responsible for their disease , any 
more than we would blame someone who is drowning for 
an inability to swim .  . perhaps they should have known 
not to go near the water , or perhaps someone should 
have warned them of the danger , but in their present 
circumstances warnings will not help. neither does it 
help for the drug dealers on the shore to be tossing 
them weights .  . 


standard disclaimer 
 . x . , dna 
( ) ken barnes , bldg. conservative libertarians 
' for pro balance ! 
( ) memphis , tn 
i find television very educating .  . every time somebody turns on the 
set , i go into the other room and read a book. groucho marx 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re the continuing decay .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 22 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , (peter d. hampe ) says 


the military 's mission is to kill the enemy before 
they can escape or surrender .  . 


yes , so you still have n't explained why they 
ca n't be used to enforce civil law. they certainly 
would have done a better job of koresh .  . just call 
in an air strike .  . 






sometimes , sometimes owl .  . 
optimist with a beeper .  . 



from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
lines 89 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article news . ctron . com . ,  ( lawrence c smith) writes 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

this is stupid. that is no paranoid assertion , it is from surviving 
witnesses , and the batf has no tanks , nor am i aware of either the batf or 
the fbi using any until yesterday. when they use maximum force they do just 
what they did that first day that got four officers killed. 

these surviving witnesses being members of which cult pray tell 


the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 

you me , they were loaded for bear and every 
picture shows them wearing bullet proof vests ! they were using concussion 
grenades and full auto weapons , what was missing low yield tac nukes this 
is a transparent attempt to a justification for the ridiculous amount 
of force used , both initially and yesterday. you should be ashamed .  . 

we were having a discussion about whether bush would have done anything 
differently. on the basis of panama , grenada , tripoli , etc we 
decided that bush would have asked for a surgical or used a 
cruise missile , some people suggested that he would have used the nuke 
warhead cruise , others pointed out that he would be too cheap to use 'em .  . 

what was missing armoured vehicles ! 


if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 

they had a sure fire method keep them bottled up and talk them to death or 
surrender without giving him justification for some looney tune religious 
stunt .  . 

phil , i 've been reading your postings for months and i'm convinced that you 
will back anything , no matter how damaging it may be to yours or anyone 
else 's rights if you think it will hurt people you do n't like. it 's people 
with that attitude that set up the preconditions for the holocaust , a process 
that is in place now in this country , even if the , pitiful remains 
of the constitution is slowing its progress. this is n't a libertarian issue , 
others may argue that line , but from a strictly constitutional view of a 
democratic gov't , what the fbi and batf did was wrong , wrong , wrong , even if 
their reasons for trying to arrest koresh were 100 right. anything that 
leads to the deaths of 17 children , if nothing else touches your stoney 
heart , is wrong no matter who pushed the button. for god 's sake , man , get 
your morality back. 

the person who murdered 17 children was koresh .  . he kept them there and 
brought about their deaths deliberately .  . 

you may consider that i am a complete bastard and a not very nice chap .  . 
thats quite true. i do n't pretend to be. being nice is what amateurs 
try to do. if you want to talk politics you are talking hard decisions 
such as whether the lives of the troops should be risked attempting 
to rescue the children. anyone who has held the office of president 
of the united states since fdr has held the threat that if the usa 
or its allies were to be threatened then the usa would risk nuclear 
holocaust in order to protect freedom .  . beleive it or not , that is not 
the sort of threat that nice chaps make. do they have a gun 
section of the us version of cnd by any chance 


there are cases where society has to be protected from 
madmen such as koresh or hitler .  . if it were not for the consideration 
of the 17 children in there the question of the tactics to be used would 
not be a matter of anything but academic significance .  . it is not for 
the govt to prevent people from commiting mass suicide .  . 

the latest reports are that cult members were shot attempting to 
leave the compound by koresh loyalists during the fire. if proven 
that would entail the final nail in the coffin of those who want to 
promote koresh as some sort of role model or hero. 


i need hardly add that it is koresh that has created the holocaust in 
this case by the deliberate arson of the ranch  . 



phill hallam baker 

from (john berryhill , ph . d . ) . 
subject re the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host huey . udel . edu . 
organization little scraps of paper , mostly 
lines 13 


people die of natural causes , too. we hear all this over 
things like murder and war while mother nature is killing people all of 
the time. 

in fact , more people die of natural causes than due to the conscious 
actions of other people. so , what 's a few murders here and there 




john berryhill 


from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
lines 66 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article , writes 
xref alt . activism . 6011 talk.politics.misc 
path ! ! mcsun ! uunet ! gatech ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! agate ! dog . ee . lbl . gov . ! utah . edu . ! cc . usu . edu . ! 
from 
newsgroups alt . activism . , talk.politics.misc 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
message id 
date 20 apr 93 03 02 34 mdt 
references 
organization utah state university 
lines 34 

in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

firstly , they could have backed off. when you put a power freak , like 
david koresh , in that kind of situation he is going to explode .  . (no pun 
intended) .  . koresh wanted to be a martyr and the government played right into 
his hands. 

if the government had n't given him the attention he wanted nothing 
would have ever happened. 

secondly , the davidians were expecting everything the government did. 
they thought that they were facing the apocalypse , and that they were to perish 
in fire. they were n't scared of the fbi .  . they are not the average , they 
are very devout followers of a religion. did n't work and the government 
got frustrated so they murdered them. 

the batf should have left at the beginning , they should have looked at 
koresh 's personality. instead they thought , they have guns. we have bigger 
guns. let 's go get 'em ! 

they botched it from day one. they should n't have been there in the 
first place. 


the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 


if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 


phill hallam baker 


from (gerald olchowy ) 
subject re clinton remarks by the president on waco w q a 4 . 20 . 93 . 
organization university of toronto chemistry department 
lines 37 

in article clinton (the white house) writes 

the white house 

office of the press secretary 

for immediate release april 20 , 1993 


remarks by the president 
in question and answer session with the press 


1 36 p.m. edt 


the president on february the 28th , four federal 
agents were killed in the line of duty trying to enforce the law 
against the branch davidian compound , which had illegally stockpiled 
weaponry and ammunition , and placed innocent children at risk. 
because the batf operation had failed to meet its objective , a 51 day 
standoff ensued .  . 

the federal bureau of investigation then made every 
reasonable effort to bring this perilous situation to an end without 
bloodshed and further loss of life. the bureau 's efforts were 
ultimately unavailing because the individual with whom they were 
dealing , david koresh , was dangerous , irrational , and probably 
insane. 


the stacy koon lawrence powell defense ! the decisions of janet 
reno and bill clinton in this affair are essentially the moral 
equivalents of stacy koon 's .  . reno and clinton have the advantage 
in that they investigate themselves. 

gerald 

from (not a boomer ) 
subject re ap journalists arrested in waco 
organization acme products 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( jason austin ) writes 
... 
a good way to get shot. there was also no indication in that story 
that they would n't get their cameras and film back after getting out 
of jail .  . 

oh they 'll get it back , with exposed film. ( 

shortly after the rodney king episode , a woman here in dayton used a 
camcorder to tape the police arresting several youths .  . 

upon noticing her , the police arrested her  ( for jaywalking ! ) and 
accidently erased the tape while they had it. 

yep , they 'll get their film back allright .  .  .  .  . 

brett 

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . sean o casey in the white plague by frank herbert .  . 

from () 
subject stop forcing me ! re new study out on gay percentage 
organization santa cruz 
lines 20 
nntp posting host orchid . ucsc . edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( greg hennessy ) writes 

ah , ending discrimination is now fascism .  . 

greg hennessy , university of virginia 

when you force people to associate with others against their will , 
yes. 


you are forced everyday to associate with people that you do not 
wish to , and there is n't even a law that makes you do it. but 
you do , becuase you want to go shopping , or go to work , or go to 
a public park , or go to a baseball game , etc. 

the process of ending discrimination is based upon the rational 
concept  that all men  ( women , people) are created equal  , have 
the same equal standing and chances in society. 


from  ( rick beckham ) 
subject re abolish selective service 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research , richardson , tx .  . 
lines 56 

in article  ( lance visser ) writes 

dave borden  ( borden@head cfa . harvard . edu) . wrote 
the selective service registration should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a volunteer army than with draftees .  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and 
motor vehicle registries to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit. 

more gridlock talk from another relic of the past. the 
selective service system creates jobs and is an investment in 
the future of america .  .  .  .  .  . and . whats wrong with that 

do we want to  create jobs  or do we want jobs created that are productive 
in our supply demand economy if your answer is the former then we can 
just round up all jobless people and pay them to build in 
the desert .  . if you answer the latter then i fail to see how another 
bureaucracy produces anything. 

we need jobs because at this point in the recovery , the economy 
should have generated 10 billion jobs and since it has not , the 
government has to step in and help. shutting down selective service 
would cost good jobs and we ca n't do that. 

what we really need is to involve selective service in a more 
closely directed manner. we need the selective service involved 
in environmental protection , high speed rail , commuter aircraft , 
civil rights , national service and health care. every dollar 
we put into selective service now will get us 10 less spending 
in future. 

i really believe now to think about it that selective service 
is long past due for the creation of a cabinet position. 


your not beyond hope , just get back on america 's side and 
start doing your part for change. what bill needs from you 
now is support for the economic stimulus and health care reform .  . 
you need to devote all your energies to fighting gridlock and 
supporting change. get on the team. after all , the evil has 
been banished from washington and the time for complaint 
is past being neccessary .  . 

and remember , bill clinton cares. he may someday even have 
a town meeting in your city. if your an appropriate sort of 
person , if you phrase your questions properly and show the 
proper respect and awe , you might have the chance to ask mr , 
president your question in person. 


oh , i get it. this is sarcastic , right 



from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay bashing in wilmington nc ) verdict 
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga 
distribution usa 
lines 33 

in  ( jim halat ) writes 

in article ucs writes 

how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives 
on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 
took a large amount of punishment and refused submit oh yeah , did you 
h 
the start of the video when king got up out of his prone postion and charge 
the cops sorry , the video cuts both was when you sit and watch it start to 


even if rodney king had come out of that car waving a gun and they 
managed to disarm him , the police still had no right right to beat 
him senseless the way they did once he was on the ground. if they 
ca n't handle their jobs , they should be relieved of them. 

they police did not beat king when he was on the ground. they beat him when 
he was on his knees trying to get back up. if you had d the entire 
video you would have seen this. 

additionally , anna of the new york times said it best (paraphrase) 
many people bring up what happened before what is shown on the tape. here 's 
what came before the 80 's , ronald reagan , george bush , racism , ... 

if you think this is true , much less relevant , than you are in sadder shape 
than i thought. 

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related. 


from  ( mitchell s todd ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rigel . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( mark c. carroll ) writes .  .  .  . 

wait a second , you 're ignoring major facts here. 

there was no attempt to simply serve a warrant .  . the batf had a 
no knock warrant .  . the initial firefight began when the batf threw 
concussion grenades at the building.  ( batf admits this ! ) 

when did the batf say this everything i 've seen from the batf , 
from the official version to the dissident statements of batf 
officers who conducted the raid claims that the davidians were 
shooting at the agents long before they were within grenade 
range. 

also , if the warrant is sealed , how do we know it was a  no knock  



mitchell s todd 
 . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' ' 
tamu . edu .  . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 





from (not a boomer ) 
subject re f o cus health the big secret 
organization acme products 
lines 24 
summary that should be blue cross is the government health care 

in article , writes 

it is a matter of logic that government run systems are 
inefficient , and the fact that the highly private 
sector system in the us is vastly more inefficient is therefore 
irrelevant .  . 

proof that the entire private sector is vastly more inefficient 

it is , for example , of no relevance that blue cross 
of massachusetts employs people , more than are employed in 
all of canada 's health programs , which insure 10 times as many 
people 

blue cross is the government health insurance provider .  . 

oops .  . 

ads for z magazine deleted to save the earth 

brett 

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . sean o casey in the white plague by frank herbert .  . 

from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
lines 61 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article , (david veal ) writes 

in article  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

the batf , in a letter they 've been sending out to people , 
says both that they were ambushed because they lost the element of 
surprise , and that they went up and knocked on the door and had it 
slammed in their faces. 

it strikes me as kind of strange to rely on surprise to 
serve a warrant by knocking on the door. 

presumably the b d did not mount a continuous state of alert with gunmen 
ready to fire on people who casually walked up to ring the  . 

once inside the building the batf would have been in control. trained 
police officers are a match to any bunch of bozos playing at soldiers .  . 


had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

phill , the batf were in a firefight with the bd for forty five 
minutes. i find it hard to believe that if they were expecting peaceful 
citizens they would n't have shown up in live stock and would 
have retreated immediately. 

not a smart move. unless meant to be part of the cover. even so 
the narrow opening of the trucks simply was not a good idea. a side opening 
truck would have been much better , more like a covered  . 


if they were expecting citizens , why show up with over 
a hundred officers , some of which clearly visible on video to be carrying 
sub machineguns , and 3 national guard helicopters 

sounds just about right to me. its the minimum amount of force that i 
would consider necessary to serve a warrant on the talk.politics.guns 
annual dinner. 

michael ordered the use of over 5000 crack troops including 
members of the parachute regiment to remove approx 250 peace 
protestors on a site where they wanted to install cruise missiles .  . he 
even turned up in a flack jacket to monitor the proceedings .  . just about the 
most dangerous tool the women possesed was a tin opener .  . that single 
action probably cost him the position as prime minister .  . one of the elders 
of my church got arrested in that heroic action by the forces of  . 
ever after was something of a national joke. 


phill hallam baker 

from  ( jim ault ) 
subject question about representation 
nntp posting host jacob . its . rpi . edu . 
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute 
lines 21 


in a debate about the student government here at our university , a 
question was raised by one student senator 

why should i represent people who did n't vote 

and by implication , this raises a different question 

why should i represent people who did n't vote for me 

i feel that there are many good reasons that anyone elected to public 
office  ( in student government or any other government) should strive 
to represent all the people in their constituency  ( class of '95 or a 
geographical area , or whatever) .  . 

i would like some help from others in phrasing a reasonable argument 
on this topic. thanks. 

followups are directed to talk.politics.misc , but email is preferred .  . 

jim , its systems programmer , rpi , troy , ny 12180 usa 

from  ( william december starr ) 
subject re law and economics 
organization northeastern law , class of '93 
lines 234 
nntp posting host 326 1 . mit . edu . 
in reply to 


i'm going to be mixing together here stuff from two of ted frank 's 
articles , (which was a 
response to me) and (a 
response to tim smith) .  .  .  . 

(yes , i know , the boomer court did n't call it eminent domain .  . but 
if it walks like eminent domain and swims like eminent domain and 
quacks like eminent domain .  .  . ) . 

are all cases really eminent domain cases then what about 
bankruptcy contract 

eminent domain is a state mandated transaction in which one party is 
required to sell a piece of property which it owns to another party , 
regardless of whether the first party wishes to sell at all , at a price 
which is set by the state. i fail to see how this doctrine can be found 
in , bankruptcy or contract cases in general. well , okay , sort of 
in bankruptcy .  .  .  . 



if so , so what since when are the courts supposed to be in the 
business of preventing parties from reaping windfall settlements 
from other parties when those settlements arise from wrongful acts 
by those other parties 

since you said that boomer 's reliance on economics led to an unjust 
result. i'm pointing out that your alternative is far more unjust , in 
the traditional sense of the world. 

atlantic cement 's act was not wrongful .  . it did something that we as 
a society should want them to do build a factory , create 
industry and jobs. the cost of compliance was grossly 
disproportionate to the damage faced by plaintiffs .  . 

bang .  . here 's one of the places where we widely diverge .  . you believe 
that the courts , in deciding a civil dispute between two parties , should 
consider as a factor perhaps as an overriding factor issues which 
i believe the court should ignore as being irrelevant to the dispute .  . 
boomer v. atlantic cement co. was an action brought by one party , 
boomer , whose property rights were being violated on an ongoing basis by 
another party , the atlantic cement company. the facts supported 
boomer 's contention that atlantic cement was damaging his 
property , and boomer asked the court to order atlantic cement to stop 
doing so. end of story. there was no reason for the court to consider 
such issues as what a society would want atlantic cement to 
do or whether the cost of compliance was disproportionate to the damage 
faced by the plaintiffs .  . those issues had nothing to do with the case 
before the court. 

bill , if the government had stepped in and the epa made a regulation 
requiring multi million dollar cement plants to be shut down because 
of a smattering of cement dust , at a cost benefit ratio of 15 1 , 
you 'd be up in arms. why is it okay for the judicial branch to 
interfere this way , but not the legislative or executive branches 

i 'd be up in arms why do you assume that quite the contrary , i 'd 
probably support the action , since it would be based on the same general 
doctrine as the decision that i believe would have been correct in 
boomer the idea that people 's property rights should not be violated 
for reasons of economic efficiency .  . in boomer it was boomer 's 
property rights which i believe the court should have protected in the 
hypothetical epa ruling you 've presented , it 's the american people 's 
collective property rights in a healthy physical environment. what 
good is cost benefit ratio of 15 1 if you wind up with cement dust in 
your air 



your rule makes it per se illegal to ever operate a cement plant. 
if the state of massachusetts came up with a similar regulation , 
you 'd be up in arms and complaining about interference with 
property rights , and fifth amendment violations .  . once again why 
is it okay for the judicial branch to interfere this way , but not 
the legislative or executive branches or are you not the 
libertarian you present yourself as being ted frank 

how would it be per se illegal to operate a cement plant would n't 
it just mean that when buying land for a cement plant , you would 
have to either buy enough land so that most of the pollution would 
stay on your land , or buy pollution from the surrounding 
tim smith 

all it takes is one out of hundreds of neighbors to scrap the 
plant. furthermore , each of the neighbors is going to want the full 
benefit of the bargain under the resulting bilateral monopoly .  . a 
bonanza for lawyers , to be sure , who get to negotiate each of these 
agreements , a windfall for homeowners who can extort away any profits 
the plant would make , but not particularly good for society. 

yes. so what the courts are supposed to protect the specific rights 
of individuals , not the general interests of some nebulous society. if 
society can have its cement plant without violating anyone 's rights , 
fine. otherwise society will somehow have to limp along with one less 
cement plant.  ( see , ted , i really am a libertarian after all ! ) 

that 's the whole point behind the theorem .  . in a world without 
transactions costs , the land will automatically be put to the best 
use , as it is transferred from person to person instantaneously 
without friction the legal regime will not matter , because the result 
will be the same. in a world such as ours , one with transactions 
costs , one wants the legal regime to approximate the end result to 
begin with , in order to minimize the transactions costs. 

one wants the legal regime to approximate the end result to begin with , 
in order to minimize the transactions costs. which one are you 
speaking of i want the legal regime to protect people 's rights. 
besides , 's theorem only has real application in the never never 
land of perfectly rational actors .  . in the real world (1) some people 
are going to be stubborn , , spiteful or otherwise irrational 
from a economic point of view and (2) the purpose of the courts is to 
protect their right to be so. i do n't care if you can show me logically 
that your cattle are only doing 100 of damage to my property per head , 
so i should rationally sell you grazing rights to my land for , say , 150 
per head i still retain the right to tell you that i just plain do n't 
want any damned cattle on my property , not at any price. 



and then you say everyone 's property rights were protected the 
plaintiffs were made whole unnecessary settlement costs were 
avoided .  . as above , i dispute your claim that the plaintiffs were 
made whole .  . they were , in fact , by court action deprived of their 
rights as owners of property to choose to sell or not sell that 
property at a price acceptable to them. 

then , by your argument , no plaintiff is ever made whole , because 
the award of damages in involuntary .  . why should we treat a nuisance 
plaintiff any different than any other plaintiff we do n't 
require specific performance in the analogous contractual situation 
why in 

last question first for the same reason as in contract law because 
to do so would come dangerously close to on the thirteenth 
amendment .  . 

as to your then , by your argument , no plaintiff is ever made 
whole , because the award of damages in involuntary claim , you 're at 
least partially right. faced with situations in which the wrong has 
already been done and the damage to the victim has already taken place 
and cannot be reversed or undone , courts will try to set an equitable 
price tag on the loss suffered by the victim and require the 
to pay this price  ( rather than an inflated price which the victim might 
 . in these cases , the sale has already taken place and is 
irreversible , and the court simply tries to ensure that a fair price is 
paid , under the doctrines that (a) only in certain circumstances should 
even a civil be forced to pay punitive or excessive prices and 
(b) even a genuine victim should not profit in an unjustified or 
manner from his  . both of these doctrines may be 
worth discussing or debating elsewhere , but neither is relevant to cases 
like boomer in which the wrongful act and the loss stemming from it 
are still in the future and can be reversed undone (i . e .  . , prevented 
from happening at all) by order of the court. 

in these types of cases , all the court has to do is require that the 
potential victim 's property rights are protected until and unless he 
agrees to sell them at a mutually acceptable price. there is no need 
for the court to guess at the equitable value of the loss and force both 
sides to accept its finding .  . it can leave that operation up to the 
parties themselves. 

and again i ask since when are the courts supposed to be in the 
business of ensuring that unnecessary settlement costs are avoided 
 ( if so , i 've been miseducated i always thought that the courts were 
supposed to be in the business of ensuring that justice is done . ) . 

unnecessary settlement costs are unjust because they are punitive .  . 

in cases like boomer , they 're simply a cost of doing business. the 
fact that the proprietors of the atlantic cement co. got themselves into 
a position in which they found themselves over this barrel is simply a 
result of their own poor business decision to start up a cement plant 
without first trying to negotiate with boomer and everyone else whose 
property rights they 'd be violating via the operation of their plant. 
there 's nothing punitive or unjust about it. 

(2) it is completely sensible only if you believe that the alleged 
right of the owners of atlantic cement to stay in business and avoid 
losing a lot of their own money due to their own wrongful act , and 
the alleged right of several hundred atlantic cement employees to 
not have their jobs disappear , should trump the rights of people who 
own property which was damaged by atlantic cement 's wrongful acts .  . 


anybody who ever commits a wrongful act should their entire 
set of possessions to person were n't you complaining about 
excess punitive damages before 

anybody who wants to commit a wrongful act in the future should be 
required to buy the right to do so from the victim , in advance. and the 
seller should be allowed to set his or her price for the privilege .  . no 
injustice , no punitive damages .  . 



you 'd like posner , bill. he 's a libertarian .  . 

really i did n't know that .  .  .  . what , if anything , has he had to say 
about cases like boomer 

in , he cites it as an example of bilateral monopoly that the court 
correctly avoided .  . i'm sure its covered in the and posner book 
on law , presumably favorably , but i do n't have that book in front 
of me. 

does n't sound very much like a libertarian to me. libertarians tend to 
believe in the rights of individual people , not societies .  . 



i 've admitted that my understanding of the field generally referred 
to as law and economics is weak. if it advocates the use of 
economical analysis as one of many tie breaker factors which 
courts may use to help them reach decisions in cases in which the 
dispute , as measured by the scale of justice , is evenly balanced , 
fine. but as illustrated by boomer , it is not fine when the 
courts start viewing the economics of a case as being more important 
than the justice of a case. 

in this case the justice of the case was tied up with the 
economics of the case. atlantic cement committed a causing 185k 
of damage. should it pay in the millions or just compensate for the 
damage it committed 

as stated above , the was ongoing . atlantic cement wanted to be 
able to continue to violate boomer 's rights. while the court may have 
been justified in setting an equitable price tag on the damage already 
committed , it had no reason and no need to set a price tag on the 
future violations of boomer 's rights and to then force boomer to sell 
at that price. 

william december starr 


from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
lines 32 

in article (a . wainwright) . writes 
in article ,  ( wayne mcdougall ) writes 

hmmm , what statistics are these can you offer any references. the only 
studies i 've seen indicate a higher proportion of homosexuals in prison 
than in the general population , but i do n't think that allows for the 
default you refer to. prison is not a normal situation .  .  .  . 

but i have n't seen anything that suggests that the default proportion is 
lower than in the general population  ( although it seems  . 

anyway , as i say , can you provide any references 



is this an arguement against or for or simply a statement of 
 . the fact that there are more homosexuals in prison does not 
mean that homosexuals are immoral and more liable to commit crime .  . and one 
must remember that prison is not necessarily a reflection of the type of 
people who are criminals .  . what are the statistics for unsolved crime 

there is also the question of cause and effect. 
lock a mostly straight guy up for 10 years with only guys , ask 
ten years later if he has ever had sex with a guy. closing your 
eyes and pretending its a girl sucking you still counts as sex 
with a guy on the survey .  .  .  .  . 

join the pythagorean reform church ! . 
repent of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . . 


from (richard hoenes ) 
subject waco investigation 
organization temple university 
lines 5 
nntp posting host vm . temple . edu . 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 

do we know yet who will be holding the hearings and , if so , do 
we know who is on the committee of question i'm sure 
many of us have potential questions we 'd like to send to them. 

richard 

from (gerald olchowy ) 
subject re the real source of trouble in the us health care system 
organization university of toronto chemistry department 
lines 33 

in article (not a boomer ) writes 
cancel private health insurance 

when government care that only covers 20 of the population consumes 
42 of the spending for health care 

not ! 

national health expenditures 1960 to 1990 
 ( includes puerto rico and outlying areas . ) . 

year health services and supplies ( billions ) 
private public 

1960 19.8 5.7 (22 of total ) 
1970 44.1 24.9 (56 of total ) 
1980 140 . 7 . 98 . 1 .  ( 41 of total ) 
1990 374 . 8 . 268 . 6 .  ( 42 of total ) 

source american almanac , page 97 .  . 1992 3 edition 

now you understand where most of that 12.2 of gnp is going to waste. 

by these figures , private insurance is spending 58 of the money to 
cover 4 times as many people. 

go figure. 


the private insurance industry skims the cream off the milk .  .  . simple .  . 

gerald 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( mathemagician ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , 

right off the bat this information is flawed .  . most i'm 
sorry , but masters johnson put out a report within the past few 
years. the kinsey institute has been quite active since it was 
founded oh so many years ago. they , too , recently put out a new 
report on sexuality .  . 

i was quoting a news story. i have no idea why they claim this was 
the most through examination .  . 

shows about 2 
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

i hate to be picky , but let 's do the math. if we take the cities of 
new york city and los angeles alone , we can find approximately 3.5 
million gay people .  .  . making . about 1.75 million gay men. 

what even in san francisco , the dept. of public health estimates 
that only 11 of the male population is gay. what you are claiming 
is that of the 16 million people in the nyc and la areas , that more 
than 10 are gay. what is the source of your numbers keep in 
mind that attempts by cdc to determine homosexual percentage in 
american cities have given numbers 3 . 

1 of the american male population is about 1.25 million. 

so what this study says is that all gay males live in new york city or 
los angeles , and about half a million people are lying about being gay. 

something smells funny .  .  .  .  . 

yes , your 1.75 million number smells funny. 

brian evans bad mood , bad mood .  .  . sure . i'm in a bad mood ! 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re bill targets pension funds for liberation 
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga 
lines 19 

in (mike quigley ) writes 

excerpts from insight magazine , march 15 , 1993 


paranoia part deleted. 

is n't insight magazine published by the 

i do n't remember the article that you removed so i ca n't comment on it. 
what i can comment on though is your response. 

do you really believe that what you wrote is sufficient to refute the article 
do have any facts in addition to your opinion 

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related. 


from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of virginia 
lines 17 

ah , ending discrimination is now fascism .  . 

clayton cramer writes 
when you force people to associate with others against their will , 
yes. 

earth to clayton , the topic under discussion was the us military , an 
all volunteer force. 

i realize you ca n't stop your knee , but at least use half a 
clue. 


greg hennessy , university of virginia 
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from  ( jason austin ) 
subject re ap journalists arrested in waco 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va 
lines 65 
reply to jason c. austin 
nntp posting host ab20 . larc . nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 19 25 40 gmt 

in article  ( red herring ) writes 
in article jason c. austin writes 
in article  ( hargitai ) writes 

for those who still doubt what is going on , this is 
from the still ap wire 

two journalists from houston arrested at gun point and 
and jailed for taking pictures of the compound today. 
later released on bail , but cameras and film were confiscated .  . 

jh 

you could work for cnn .  . take a few lines from a story and 
imply something with it but do n't say what you really mean. 

the police always close off the area around a major crime 
scene to keep evidence from being disturbed 

by taking pictures 

they leave foot prints , they may drop some trash on the 
ground , and they may pick up something that looks interesting. 


, and it is a misdemeanor 
to enter the closed off area. one of the also quickly 
spun around with a long lens camera while the officer was approaching , 
a good way to get shot. 

well , that (hopefully) depends on what country one is in. 

it has nothing to do with the country. you are coming toward 
someone in an area where there has been violent confrontations , and 
one guy spins around quickly with an object that looks like a gun. 
police are not trained to stand there and let someone gun them down. 

there was also no indication in that story 
that they would n't get their cameras and film back after getting out 
of jail .  . 

once goverment agents have had an opportunity to check 
the film out. 

you 're making statements that are not supported by facts. 
do n't let paranoia get the best of you. wait to see if the reporters 
do n't get their film back or they get it back developed before 
screaming conspiracy .  . 


i think it was barry who once said the goverment 
that is big enough to give you everything is big enough to 
take everything from you. you life and or freedom including .  . 
of course , that could not happen to you , could it 

our government is not big enough to give you everything , 
despite the efforts of people like bill clinton .  . taking a statement 
like that and thinking done in the name of law enforcement 
is wrong  is simple minded and ignorant of history. a government is a 
necessary evil , and we must decide what it should be allowed to do 
based on facts , history , and not by baseless claims .  . 

jason c. austin 



subject carpeting in bosnia 
from 
organization city university of new york 
lines 2 

anybody for carpeting in bosnia serbia i mean like , carpet bombing 
of serbian positions 

subject re some scientists do not believe in the green house effect 
from rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) 
nntp posting host 128 . 159 . 2 . 197 . 
lines 7 

in article ,  ( william a bacon ) says 
the word some sums it up , alot of scientist have concluded that without a 
doubt global climate will is  ( occur(ring ) and should be dealt with by source 
reductions .  . this includes making sure that the price of fossil fuels 
reflects their true costs . 

my opinions are not reflective of my employer 's .  . disclaimer 

from (david veal ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express car 
lines 87 
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education 

in article (richard wojcik ) writes 

in article , (david veal ) writes 
in article (richard wojcik ) writes 

directly contradicted by the nejm study that compared crime in seattle and 
vancouver , b.c. the non gun rates were roughly the same for both cities .  . the 
difference in violent crime rates was almost totally gun related. 

and as was not pointed out in the study , but in critiques 
of it ,  ( two seperate articles by james wright and david come 
to mind) it was pointed out that the difference was also almost 
entirely minority related. that is , the gun crime rate skyrocketed 
for poor minorities  ( blacks and hispanics primarily ) while when you 
compared the white majority they were virutally identical .  . 

many of the people who never read the nejm article believe that this 
critique is valid .  . in fact , the study explores the minority issue at length 
and cites studies to back up its contention that poverty , not minority 
type , is the relevant factor in violence statistics. 

perhaps i failed to make myself clear minorities in the u.s. 
correlate with poverty .  . this is n't good and we should address it , 
but we  ignore that minorities and poverty do tend to go 
together. 

does vancouver have a consistantly poor population drawn along 
racial lines if it does n't , then assumptions of being able to compare 
minority vs. majority in both cities is questionable at best. 

... 
post hoc ergo propter hoc .  . those areas implemented gun control because of 
the high rates. 

true only to a certain extent .  . take washington d.c. , where 
gun control was instituted while it had crime problems true , but that 
crime proceeded to explode afterwards. similarly for new york .  . 

actually , i do n't know whether any serious studies have been done for both 
cities .  . usenet style statistical arguments are not very serious , usually 
involving people sitting by computers with the latest world almanac figures. 
i had heard of a study on washington , dc , that seemed to indicate a significant 
drop in gun related violence there after the laws were implemented .  . i heard 
gary kleck comment on the radio that he thought the decline in suicide rates 
was related to the new laws , but he doubted their affect on other gun related 
violence .  . i have never seen a report on the study , nor have any of my pro gun 
friends had much to say about that report. remember , you ca n't just say that 
crime increases indicate a failure of the laws to affect crime rates. you do n't 
know whether the rate of increase would have been different without the 
laws .  . 

if the rate of increase over a period of several years remains 
unchanged , or increases , i think it 's not a far jump to say that the laws 
are not effective. no , you ca n't sit down and say that things would n't 
have been worse. i do n't have a crystal ball and neither do you. however , 
that road leads us to a place where it is impossible to critique any 
action. if it gets down to be , it might have been worse without them , 
then there is no valid objection , which i'm sure would amuse certain 
people to no end. 

you do n't know whether the laws prevented a threefold increase or 
failed to stop a two fold increase .  . 

so we 've got a situation where we have several options 

1) the crime rate decreased obviously gun control worked. 

2) the crime rate remained the same it would have been worse 
without gun control. 

3) the crime rate increased perhaps the laws prevented an 
even bigger increase .  . 

cute testing ground we 've got. all responses support the proposition 
that gun control works. 

the question is this did washington d.c. an increase 
in its violent and or gun crime rate which was greater than the pattern 
indicated prior to the implemented gun control laws .  . if it did , then 
the suggestion that the problem the gun control laws were designed to 
control did not exist in their entirety prior to the gun control laws .  . 


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. weird al 

subject re i could n't care less 
from 
organization mankato state university 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( kennedy james scot ) writes 
in article writes 
in article , writes 
above quote from rush 's radio show yesterday , when he referred to recent events 
near waco , texas .  . 


me either. yes , it 's regrettable that eighty some odd people died , but 
they could have walked out the door with the simple turn of a knob .  . it 's 
just plain stupid to lay the blame for this at anyones feet but ol' vernon 's .  . 
if the fbi batf started the fire , why did it take six or so hours to catch 
timed incendiary devices , you say could those idiots not have picked them 
up and tossed them out the window and what of this argument about whether 
a wood burning stove was being used it 's a known fact that when a city is 
under seige , the thereof eat what they can , how they can. hell , 
the bd 's could 've had type for all any of us know. 
my conscience is clear. 

does the word mean anything to you several minutes can go by 
before a smoldering cigarette butt in a couch sets the couch on fire. 
here 's a possible  ( maybe very possible) scenario one of the cs gas 
grenades that the fbi threw in earlier caused some material like the 
or carpet to for an extended period of time. later 
on when a tank punched a hole in the wall , knocking over one of the 
bds kerosene lanterns , kerosene spilled onto this smoldering material , 
resulting in a fire that killed 86 people inside. another possibility 

and this results in a fire that starts in one room and torches the entire place 
before anyone in the adjacent rooms can escape i do n't think so. so much for 
the theory. 


sorry , no catchy quotes. 

from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton fact sheet on russian statement 4 . 23 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 167 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 




the white house 


office of the press secretary 


for immediate release april 23 , 1993 



background information 

advancing u.s. relations 
with russia and the other new independent states 

april 23 , 1993 


at the vancouver summit , president clinton and president yeltsin 
agreed to pursue a number of measures designed to implement an 
economic and strategic partnership between the u.s. and russia .  . 
since then , president clinton has directed that a number of steps 
be taken to move this process forward. the administration is 
announcing a number of steps today in order to underscore its 
deep commitment to a new and closer partnership with russia based 
on its government 's commitment to reform .  . 


executive review of cold war laws 

president clinton and president yeltsin discussed the 
desirability of reviewing and updating u.s. laws and regulations 
to reflect the end of the cold war. congress has already acted 
to revise many laws to reflect the fact that a communist soviet 
union has been replaced by a democratic russia and other 
independent states. however , many laws and regulations remain 
that contain language and restrictions that fail to reflect the 
end of the cold war and that unnecessarily undermine relations 
with russia and the other new independent states. 

the president today has ordered an executive review of laws and 
regulations so that , where appropriate and consistent with u.s. 
security and other national interests , such provisions can be 
revised or removed. he has asked ambassador at large strobe 
to coordinate this review on an basis. the 
president has indicated that he will welcome congressional 
efforts to help this review proceed as quickly as possible. 

this review will weigh all considerations that pertain to 
revision of such provisions , and the initiation of the review may 
help to remedy some of the circumstances that have justified such 
provisions in the past. for example , because the russians are 
eager to have their status changed under the jackson vanik 
legislation , president yeltsin personally assured president 
clinton in vancouver that he would look into individual cases 
involving continuing restrictions on emigration from russia .  . by 
addressing such issues , this review can help strengthen the bonds 
of trust and partnership between the u.s. and russia , and between 
the u.s. and the other new independent states. 


review of cocom 

it is also time to consider expeditiously with america 's allies 
the future of another cold war institution the coordinating 
committee for export controls  . the united 
states has begun a thorough review of how to export 
controls to the post cold war world , in which russia is no longer 
viewed as a potential adversary , but as a potential ally in 
the proliferation of sensitive technology. 

steps to improve the security relationship 

the president also has taken steps to move ahead on a range of 
efforts discussed in vancouver that can strengthen u.s. security 
and improve our security relationship with the russians and the 
other states. 


accelerated of nuclear weapons 

in vancouver , the two presidents discussed accelerating the 
process of nuclear strategic systems scheduled for 
elimination under the start i treaty .  . president clinton has 
directed the department of defense to complete this process well 
in advance of the seven year reduction period outlined in start 
i. in addition , the united states , together with russia and the 
other relevant states of the former soviet union , will be 
exploring programs under nunn lugar to help them to accelerate 
this process. 


test ban 

the two presidents agreed at vancouver that negotiations on a 
nuclear test ban should commence at an early date , 
and that the two governments would consult with each other 
accordingly. the united states looks forward to beginning 
consultations with russia , our allies , and other states , on the 
specific issues related to this negotiation .  . the united states 
expects to start this process within the next two 
months. 




the two presidents also began a dialogue on the issue of nuclear 
targeting at vancouver .  . as the united states and russia move 
into a new relationship of strategic partnership , there is a need 
to reexamine many of the assumptions and means employed in the 
past to safeguard u.s. security against a nuclear adversary .  . the 
administration is beginning a comprehensive review of measures 
that could enhance strategic stability , including recent 
proposals for nuclear missiles .  . 

other measures to create a new security relationship 

in response to the incident involving a collision between us and 
russian submarines last month , secretary will be ready to 
discuss ways to avoid such incidents in the future with russian 
defense minister during his visit to the united states in 
late may .  . 

secretary will also be prepared to move forward with 
defense minister in may to develop a combined training 
program between our two military forces and to prepare for joint 
exercises in peacekeeping , such as that authorized by the un 
security council .  . the united states looks forward to broadening 
such training and exercises to include other peacekeeping 
contributors , in order to improve inter , readiness , 
and planning for peacekeeping operations .  . the us 
and russia are working together to convene a may 
meeting of the un security council to discuss proposals for 
enhancing the un 's peacekeeping capability and to move 
consideration of the secretary general 's agenda for peace from 
the discussion to the implementation phase .  . the u.s. is also 
working with the russians to focus specifically on improvements 
in the financing and management of un operations .  . the purpose of 
these initiatives will be to cooperate on peacekeeping for our 
participation in un or csce sponsored actions .  . 


and bilateral partnership with reform 

finally , the administration continues to move ahead on a range of 
initiatives aimed at striking a partnership with economic and 
political reformers throughout russia and the other states. the 
administration is continuing work with our g 7 partners to 
assemble the package of assistance that secretaries 
bentsen and christopher recently negotiated in tokyo .  . and the 
administration is continuing consultation with congress over the 
further efforts the u.s. will take to assist the process of 
reform in russia and the other states. 



the administration believes these steps can increase american 
security while improving the relationship between the u.s. and 
russia , and between the u.s. and the other new independent 
states. 

30 



from  ( alan jaffray ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization dept. of mathematics 
lines 56 

in article  ( mark walsh ) writes 
in article , (xavier gallagher ) writes 

well , the obvious point to make is would straight men fuck like rabbits 
if the oppertunity presented itself 

i reckon any man would go wildly promiscuous if presented with a 
huge variety of willing partners .  . 

if true , and if gays were the same as straights except 
for sexual preference , i would imagine that gays would 
have much less sex than straights because the available 
pool for dates is less than one tenth what it is for 
straights .  . somebody correct  ( flame ) me please ! 

i cannot believe i am posting in this thread , but what 
the hell , he asked for it. 

i had sort of the same reaction myself when i was first realizing 
i was bi .  . so what , 90 of everyone else is straight , i 'd never 
end up with a guy anyway. as several people on soc . bi . pointed 
out to me , this is true only if you find partners  ( for relationships 
or just for sex ) in primarily straight circles .  . nowadays with gay 
culture quite visible in major cities and such , you can easily 
find yourself in an overwhelmingly queer social circle if you so 
choose.  ( about half my friends are bi , and that 's just from 
hanging out in the science fiction club and going to once a 
week , it 's not as if i have to go out of my way and hang out in 
bars or something . ) . 

so the available pool for dates can be the same size. unless of 
course you 're trying to date a random sample of the us population .  . 

as for promiscuity , i 've traded email with clayton on the topic , 
and he still does n't seem to want to admit that yes , gay males 
are sometimes forced to resort to anonymous sex because they 're 
and ca n't afford to be seen in a permanent relationship. 
or that part of the promiscuity is because of the messed up gender 
roles in our society , and when males are dating males and they 've 
all been trained to be the aggressor in sex , there 's going to 
be more sex. or that what 's dysfunctional , what 's screwed up 
is societal attitudes , not gay sexuality , and that 's what 
encourages deviant behavior in gay males .  . 

 ( also note that just because someone 's had 200 sex partners 
does n't mean they 're promiscuous .  . yes , it sounds ridiculous , 
but it 's quite possible for someone to go through a heavily 
phase in which they have lots of anonymous sex with 
strangers , and then come out , start forming real relationships , 
and be monogamous or nearly so .  .  . ) . 



alan email ,  talk  always welcome. bi 
those who dance are thought mad by those who hear not the music anon 
t w cg ( k ) s vm h o x v j a( f ) vn ( e ) dvb u 

from  ( jeff sicherman ) 
subject re not talking to soldiers , part ii 
organization cal state long beach 
lines 23 

in article (not a boomer ) writes 
after going to great to describe the people inside as hostages 
of koresh (eg , people leaving escaped ) , and stating that generals have no 
place in law enforcement it appears that janet and the fbi atf have egg on 
their faces. 

80 hostages dead. 

two unsuccessful  . 

janet , some advice go with the seals delta force green next 
time and talk nicely to the generals .  . 

this might be illegal without a very specific presidential declaration 
or even a change in law. in general  ( sic ) , u.s. military troops are not 
permitted to be used for domestic policing operations .  . 


btw does janet think that military police are 


jeff 
up the net without a  . sig . 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 49 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , (ed suranyi ) says 

this , too , is ridiculous. in no way can the be considered 
to have played more than an exceedingly minor role. a person 
who kills is ultimately responsible for his own actions .  . 


frankly , i'm sick of being lied to. it was bad before clinton , 
and now it 's worse. here , listen to ricks  ( fbi ) words , 
one half hour before the fire 

come out with your hands up. this matter is now over. 

now , i hear ricks ( and reno ) claiming that this was just 
another incremental step in pressure . more bullshit .  . 

why did they pick 6 am monday morning so nobody would 
notice. so everyone would be busy at work , starting a new 
week. more bullshit .  . 

did the fbi hold back fire engines here , let me paraphrase 
sessions 

no , we did n't hold back the engines. we had them on 
stand by , blah , , blah .  .  .  . and so , to protect the 
the fireman , we did n't allow the engines to enter until 
it was safe 

what the fuck is this yes , we have no bananas 

what the hell kind of double talk is this no , we did n't , so 
blah , , we did. huh 

i watched this. 

clinton takes responsibility , even though it was n't his 
decision. more bullshit .  . does he , or does he not , take 
responsibility ! no more even though bullshit .  . yes. 
or no. 

christ .  . 


ed 





from 
subject rodney king  ( was marine gay bashing ) 
distribution usa 
organization ball state university , muncie , in univ. computing svc 's 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( mark wilson ) writes 
in ucs writes 



sorry , i did n't see him charge the cops .  . i saw him trying to get away 
from people who were beating him. i guess we each see what we want to 
see. 
miller 

if this is what you saw , then you did not see the start of the video. 
when the starts , king is lying on the ground , surrounded by cops .  . 
noone is beating him. king then gets up and charges one of the officers .  . 
 ( powell ) while falling back the officer pulls out his and strikes 
king with it. the blow appears to land near the shoulders of the head. 


from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 12 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( diane mathews ) says 

aside from the fact that i disagree w you , she did offer to resign and the 
president rejected the offer. she was willing to take responsibility , and 
the president has the balls enough to stand by a decision. 


or the contempt to ignore it. 




from (peter d. hampe ) 
subject phill says koresh hitler , was welcome to police state usa 
organization northwest nexus inc. 
lines 90 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

 ( phill hallam baker ) writes 

the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 

they had a sure fire method keep them bottled up and talk them to death or 
surrender without giving him justification for some looney tune religious 
stunt .  . 

phil , i 've been reading your postings for months and i'm convinced that you 
will back anything , no matter how damaging it may be to yours or anyone 
else 's rights if you think it will hurt people you do n't like. it 's people 
with that attitude that set up the preconditions for the holocaust , a process 
that is in place now in this country , even if the , pitiful remains 
of the constitution is slowing its progress. this is n't a libertarian issue , 
others may argue that line , but from a strictly constitutional view of a 
democratic gov't , what the fbi and batf did was wrong , wrong , wrong , even if 
their reasons for trying to arrest koresh were 100 right. anything that 
leads to the deaths of 17 children , if nothing else touches your stoney 
heart , is wrong no matter who pushed the button. for god 's sake , man , get 
your morality back. 

the person who murdered 17 children was koresh .  . he kept them there and 
brought about their deaths deliberately .  . 

you may consider that i am a complete bastard and a not very nice chap .  . 
thats quite true. i do n't pretend to be. being nice is what amateurs 
try to do. if you want to talk politics you are talking hard decisions 
such as whether the lives of the troops should be risked attempting 
to rescue the children. anyone who has held the office of president 
of the united states since fdr has held the threat that if the usa 
or its allies were to be threatened then the usa would risk nuclear 
holocaust in order to protect freedom .  . beleive it or not , that is not 
the sort of threat that nice chaps make. do they have a gun 
section of the us version of cnd by any chance 


there are cases where society has to be protected from 
madmen such as koresh or hitler .  . if it were not for the consideration 
of the 17 children in there the question of the tactics to be used would 
not be a matter of anything but academic significance .  . it is not for 
the govt to prevent people from commiting mass suicide .  . 

the latest reports are that cult members were shot attempting to 
leave the compound by koresh loyalists during the fire. if proven 
that would entail the final nail in the coffin of those who want to 
promote koresh as some sort of role model or hero. 

i need hardly add that it is koresh that has created the holocaust in 
this case by the deliberate arson of the ranch  . 

let me see if i got this right. 

group of religious schismatics erect a compound 
and after at least fifty years of peaceful co existance 
with the outside community  ( having shoot outs only with 
each other) this makes them dangerous. prior history 
would seem to indicate they are only dangerous to themselves. 

last i knew there was no national branch davidian party 
blaming the debacle in on foreign and 
three two beer , calling for the rounding up of meat packers , 
and slaughter houses. 

you want tough political choices how about letting odd balls 
be odd balls (i know , this requires tolerance for 
those that go into government but we all know people 
who have no useful skills . ) . 


ith the death of the children everybody is getting 
real upset what about the other 40 plus people 
i suppose that you consider children to be property 
of the state with the family as custodians .  .  ( in the 
states its the other way around children are parental property . ) . 
if what you consider a corrupt government demands that 
you send you children into their tender care i 
suppose that you will obey the state and turn you children 
over to their care. sorry i am not as enamoured of the 
womb to tomb cradle that is  . 

gotta go , the beach is calling .  . 




sometimes , sometimes owl .  . 
april 19 , 1993 you realize that this makes twice in two 
months that the government had a perfect plan that went awry 


subject stimulus legislation 
from 
organization 
nntp posting host ufl . edu . 
lines 12 

does anyone know where i can access an online copy of the proposed jobs 
or stimulus legislation please e mail me directly and if anyone else 
is interested , i can post this information. 

thanks , 

mike brooks 

note my e mail address in the news header is not correct. my correct 
address is 



from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga 
lines 20 

in (a . wainwright) . writes 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

yes you are. when you and the rest of the homosexual community 
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to 
hire , rent to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against 
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying 
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this. 

your post is based on the premise that the laws as they stand do not 
discriminate anybody , so your argument falls over immediately. are you 

why not try to eliminate discrimination from existing laws instead of 
trying to add discrimination that favors your group. 

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related. 


from peter adams 
subject journal an interactive macintosh of opinion 
x id 32 . dynamic . edu . 
x wed , 21 apr 93 13 06 06 gmt 
organization 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d20 . 
lines 31 


announcing 
the journal 

trinity college 's 
paperless publication 

the journal is an interactive written in hypercard .  . 
this publication offers a wide variety of information concerning the 
trinity campus , and the greater hartford area. in addition the journal 
also provides a unique forum for opinion and expression. 

we would like to invite the internet community to participate in the 
creation of this publication by submitting articles , art work , events 
 ( for the greater hartford area only) , and anything else that you think is 
interesting , to the journal each week. 

articles may be written about anything as long as they are written well ! 
we are also interested in mirroring newsletters and other information not 
easily accessible to non intensive macintosh users. 

the weekly deadline for submitting materials is 10 00pm  ( eastern 
standard time) .  . 
please send all submissions to 

to receive the journal each week send a mail message with the words 
subscribe journal as the subject line to 
please include full name and in the body of text. 

find out what everyone is thinking .  .  .  .  .  . 
subscribe today. 

from  ( grep a friend ) 
subject re bush 's wi 
summary bye 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division 
lines 21 

in article , (b writes .  .  .  . 
in a previous article , (the sky already fell .  . now what ) says 
in article gw 2 . pa . dec . com . ,  ( broward l. horne ) writes .  .  .  . 
i strongly urge you to consider moving any savings you 
have overseas , into protected bank accounts , while 
you are still able .  . 

have you 

went to the post office on friday , got my passport apps in. 
my savings have already been converted .  . 

bye. 



nothing is as inevitable as a mistake whose time has garrett johnson 
come. 
the probability of someone watching you is proportional 
to the stupidity of your action. unknown 


from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 50 

in  ( ch'rowl captain ) writes 



i find it very interesting that you say there will be 2.5 million 
queers in the march on washington .  . the largest figure i 've seen in 
the press is 1 million and we all know how liberal the press is with 
their numbers. ) 

for another thing , 1 of 250 million is 2.5 million not 6. maybe 
that 's where you got the 2.5 million number. also , the number cited 
in the actual report is 1.5 so that would be about 3.75 million. 

as for this march on washington , i wonder how much the media is 
going to inflate the numbers this time. last time , for the 
pro abortion rally , they more than doubled the actual number of 
people who showed up. that and all the stories coming out of how 
the press the news really makes one wonder who 's watching 
the watchers .  . 

why are you all playing these pathetic number games the number of people 
showing up at the mow hardly constitutes the entire queer populace .  . i doubt 
that it constitutes more than a handful of us. i'm queer , and i wo n't be 
there , simply because i do n't have the time or the transportation .  . what the 
hell makes you think the participants in the mow more than a minimum 
number 

face it , people , we 're everywhere. there are always more of us than you 
think. our numbers are constantly growing , not diminishing .  .  . some . of your 
children will grow up to join us. hell , some of my children may grow up to 
join us. the best way to deal with this phenomenon is not to fear it and 
blind yourself to it , but to realize that you have nothing to fear. we 're 
not perverts , we 're not dangerous , we 're just here , and we 're human just 
like you er , most of you. 

idiots like cramer and kaldis can rant all they like. it wo n't do them one 
iota of good. 



p.s. i still ca n't get over the fact that some people actually believe that 
every queer in the u.s. would show up at the mow , and that these numbers are 
meaningful .  . and , come to think of it , what about those of us in other 
countries tree. 


bi andrew d. schnopia ! 


words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes 

from (michael wang ) 
subject re waco and panama 
organization adobe systems inc. , mountain view , california , usa 
lines 32 

in article  ( kennedy james scot ) writes 
i completely agree with you. the illegal invasion of panama was 
something mr. bush never did have to answer for. remember , not 
only did a lot of civilians get killed , but more than 
a few american soldiers died too. all this for arresting a petty 
dictator .  . here 's the icing on the cake to my knowledge the flow 
of drugs from panama has n't slowed down at all with the removal of 
noriega .  . so , what good did it do to remove him from power the 
cigarette cops and the fbi killing the branch davidians in waco is 
equally reprehensible .  . 

btw , i 've cross posted this article to t . p . d .  . because i want to 
hear from knowledgable people on whether or not the arrest of 
noriega affected the drug trade in any way. 

the arrest of noriega did not have any major adverse effect on the 
drug trade going through panama .  . money continues to be 
panama 's main industry. in fact , it is bigger now than before noriega 
was arrested 1 . panama 's current administration also has ties with 
the cocaine 2 . and large amounts cocaine still 
flow through panama on a regular basis 3 . 

oh well .  .  .  . 

sources (from the book drugs in america by vincent bugliosi ) 
1 irs criminal investigations divison 
2 new york times 
3 u.s. state department 


michael wang 


from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton president 's remarks in photo op with 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 70 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 







the white house 

office of the press secretary 

for immediate release april 20 , 1993 


remarks by the president 
in photo opportunity with 


the oval office 


5 00 p.m. edt 


q mr. president , president is here for the 
holocaust museum opening , and you toured the museum last night. all 
this focus on the holocaust , how does that weigh on your decision 
making process as far as bosnia is concerned 

the president well , i think the holocaust is the most 
extreme example the world has ever known of ethnic cleansing .  . and i 
think that even in its more limited manifestations , it 's an idea that 
should be opposed .  . you could n't help thinking about that. that 's 
not to compare the two examples .  . they 're not identical everyone 
knows that. but i think that the united states should always seek an 
opportunity to stand up against at least to speak out against 
inhumanity .  . 

q sir , how close are you to a decision on more 
sanctions on bosnia 

the president well , of course , we 've got the u.n. 
vote. ambassador albright was instrumental in the u.n. vote to 
strengthen the sanctions and they are quite tough. and we now are 
putting our heads at the business of implementing them and looking at 
what other options we ought to consider .  . and i do n't have anything 
else to say , except to tell you that i spent quite a bit of time on 
it and will continue to over the next several days. 

q following your meeting today , sir , are you any 
closer to some sort of u.s. military presence there 

the president i have not made any decisions. 




q president clinton , why have you decided to meet 
with mr. 

the president well , i'm just honored that he would 
come and see me. i'm glad he 's here in the united states for the 
dedication of the holocaust museum .  . he is a figure widely admired in 
our country and around the world , and a very important person in 
europe , and a very important person to the united states. so i'm 
hoping that we 'll have a chance to talk about the new czech republic 
and what kinds of things we can do together to support the causes we 
believe in. 

05 p.m. edt 


from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton press briefing by george stephanopoulos 4 . 20 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 874 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 







the white house 

office of the press secretary 

for immediate release april 20 , 1993 


press briefing 
by george stephanopoulos 


the briefing room 


12 36 p.m. edt 


mr. stephanopoulos as you know , the president is going 
to come out at 1 15 p.m. with your indulgence , i think what we 'd 
like to do is have the president award the national teacher 's award 
first and then have the teacher leave , or whatever , and then he 'll 
make a statement on waco and take a couple questions. so if we can 
just hold off going live and all that until that 's done , it probably 
will work out a lot better. 

q if you 'll give us the time. that 's the problem. 

q we 've got a two minute warning problem. 

mr. stephanopoulos yes , it is a problem. it 's about 
1 15 p.m. 

q the teacher would walk off and then 

mr. stephanopoulos i think that 's i'm just trying 
to work this out here. i think that 's the best way to handle it. 

q can i ask you a series of questions about the way 
the president handled the yesterday 

mr. stephanopoulos sure. 

q did you , for instance , talk to the justice 
department about who would come out and discuss what had happened in 
waco and whether it should be the attorney general or the president 

mr. stephanopoulos why do n't we just take a step even 
farther back from that and look at the whole sequence of events on 
the contact between the justice department and the white house. as 
you know and as we 've said , the president spoke with the attorney 
general on sunday , sunday afternoon. they had a good discussion , 
about 15 minutes. the attorney general informed the president of 
what she wanted to do. he raised no objections .  . obviously , she had 
the implicit authority from the president to go forward. he raised 
no objections .  . she went forward. they had a discussion of a general 
nature about the incident .  . 

again , yesterday morning around 11 00 a.m. , the 
president spoke with the attorney general again. they had a brief 
discussion over what was happening in waco .  . as you know , this was 
before the fire broke out at the compound .  . and i think that was why 
there was some just some confusion. i think that she was 
confusing in her minds before and after the fire , not the actual day 
when they spoke .  . 

then there was a number of contacts at a number of 
different levels in the white house yesterday afternoon between the 
justice department and the white house. they were informing us of 

their decisions , what they would like to do. there was an fbi 
briefing in waco .  . the attorney general had her press conference. 
the president then issued a statement after that. 

frankly , yesterday afternoon , you know , there was a fair 
amount of confusion over exactly what was happening on the ground in 
waco , and i think that we wanted to be very careful not to have the 
president say anything until we had a much better sense of what was 
actually happening on the ground. once we were fairly clear on what 
was happening on the ground in waco , the president issued a 
statement. he spoke with the attorney general again yesterday 
evening. 

q at what hour was that 

mr. stephanopoulos it was quite late. i believe it 
was after he returned from the holocaust museum .  . he took a tour of 
the holocaust museum last night. 

q and he went out to dinner. 

mr. stephanopoulos i believe briefly .  . yes , he went to 
dinner and then he spoke with the attorney general last night. i 
do n't know the exact time i think it was relatively late. and he 
just said , i think as dee dee has reported , that he just wanted to 
tell her that he thought she handled a difficult situation very well , 
that she did a good job in a tough situation , and that she should try 
and get some sleep. he then , again , spoke with her this morning 
about the follow up in waco , and about what they 're going to do this 
afternoon. as you know , the president will have an announcement to 
make at 1 15. 

q did he ever talk with webb hubbell yesterday , last 
night , or this morning 

mr. stephanopoulos not to my knowledge , no. 

q was webb hubbell the point man for the white house 

mr. stephanopoulos webb hubbell is the general white 
house liaison and several people talked to webb .  . the attorney 
general was running the operation. 

q did he tell her that she should sleep well , that 
she had done a good job or he just tell her that she should get 
some sleep 

mr. stephanopoulos i think sleep well done a good 
job i do n't know the exact words. i think that sounds right. 

q i mean , sleep well has implications as to 
conscience and whether she should feel badly about it or not. 

mr. stephanopoulos well , i mean , i think everybody 
feels badly when you have a situation when 

q i understand that , but whether the issue of blame 
is brought up in that phraseology .  . 

mr. stephanopoulos i think that 's the spirit no , it 
has nothing to do with that. the spirit with which it was offered 
was that the entire administration and certainly the attorney general 
had to face a very difficult decision , a very difficult situation 
yesterday. and that he thought that she had handled it well , as best 
as she could and 

q well , does he think it was mishandled 


mr. stephanopoulos it was just speaking of warm 
words to a friend. 

q does he think the situation was mishandled 

mr. stephanopoulos the president 

q in retrospect 

mr. stephanopoulos the president stands by the 
decisions of the law enforcement agencies , the decisions of the 
attorney general. he accepts full responsibility .  . at the same time , 
i think that we all want to look to the future and figure out what 
exactly happened , do a full review , and make sure we do what we can 
to make sure this does n't happen this kind of thing does n't happen 
again , or at least we know how to handle it. 

q how much did he know about what she was going to go 
ahead with i know that she made the case to him explained 
outlined the case for action. did she say to him on sunday precisely 
what action 

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think it was specific 
operational detail as to what was going to happen. i think that they 
had a general discussion about the action , about the advisability of 
action. i think , as she noted , he asked a few general questions just 
trying to get a sense of how things were considered .  . but it was n't 
minute by minute detail of how the operation 

q well , was it , we are going in. is it , we 're 
going to use tear gas i mean , what 

mr. stephanopoulos i believe it was that we want to go 
in and take some action that would increase the pressure on those in 
the compound , and hopefully spur them towards some sort of movement 
out. 

q george , was there ever a conscious political 
decision made , or even a discussion about the president 
from 

mr. stephanopoulos not at all. i mean , we were in 
close contact with the justice department. the president accepts 
responsibility for this. at the same time i mean , we just wanted 
to be very , very clear about how this happened and be as factual as 
we could be on how the decisions were made. it is the responsibility 
of those on the ground to make recommendations .  . the attorney general 
has operational control over this. the president obviously accepts 
responsibility for all of this , and he stands by the attorney 
general. 

q george , there was a report on the television today 
and i do n't know more than that one of the members of the cult 
had said going into a courthouse that the fbi had started the fire 
and not themselves. there was also a picture yesterday on the tv of 
a smashing into the building where the fire broke out. and my 
question is , is the white house absolutely certain that this fire was 


mr. stephanopoulos all the evidence we have is that 
this fire was started by david koresh and those inside the compound 
every bit of evidence we have. 

q did the president ask the attorney general why do 
this now , why this particular date , and did he ask about possible 
consequences of either death or injury 


mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know the specific 
questions. he had general questions about how the decision was going 
about being made. 

q those are general questions and did he ask 
generally , why now 

mr. stephanopoulos i think he asked , have you 
considered all of the consequences have you considered the 
recommendations i do n't know if he asked the question , why now 
i do n't know if he asked that specific question. 

q did she tell him why now in terms of the stuff 
that 's come out since then about the information provided by the 
listening device about koresh getting increasingly more violent 

mr. stephanopoulos again , i'm not certain how much 
specific detail they got into. i know that she generally said that 
this is the recommendation she 's prepared to make , i mean , the 
decision she 's prepared to make. it 's based on the recommendations 
she was receiving from the field and after intensive questioning of 
those involved. again , i do not know how precisely detailed it was 
beyond that. 

q what is the president 's understanding why 
yesterday one of the people who went into the compound a couple 
weeks ago came out over the weekend with some speculation that he may 
have told law enforcement people something that precipitated this 
action. why yesterday 

mr. stephanopoulos this is the first i 've heard. i 
think what we can go to is what the fbi and the attorney general has 
said. there were indications that those inside the compound were at 
some danger .  . it was clear that the negotiations had broken down and 
it was the judgment of the experts involved in the negotiations that 
the situation was not going to get any better at all. 

there was also some concern over the vulnerability of 
the agents themselves who had been working long beyond the time that 
these teams normally have to work. and as the attorney general has 
said , there was some concern over the fact that they did not have 
replacements in place who could stand in for them , and there was a 
concern over the safety. 

all of these factors came into play. they also 
considered the advice of a number of psychologists and other experts 
on david koresh and those in the compound .  . i would just go back to 
what the attorney general has said. you have to make the best 
judgment you can , given the information you have at the time. they 
did. obviously , we all regret the loss of life. it 's a terribly 
unfortunate situation. we all wish it could have turned out 
differently , but that does n't take away from the judgments that were 
made at the time. 

q george , when did the president know that they were 
going to use tear gas was it before the assault on the compound 

mr. stephanopoulos i just do n't know. i do n't believe 
he was given a lot of detail on exactly how the operation would go. 
i just do n't know. 

q along that point , george , can you say whether the 
plan was presented to the president by the attorney general as a way 
to end the standoff one way or the other yesterday 


mr. stephanopoulos i think it was presented as a way 
to increase the pressure on those in the compound and , we all hoped , 
as a way to move some of those out and bring it in it was n't 
presented as tomorrow is d day , this is it. 

q is the president satisfied that , a , he had all this 
relevant information necessary to make a decision , and b , that janet 
reno had all the relevant information necessary to make a decision 

mr. stephanopoulos oh , i think he 's satisfied that 
they were acting on the best advice and the best information they 
had , and he 's not second guessing it in any way whatsoever. 

q george , was there a 12 hour gap between 
conversations between the president and the attorney general in 
other words , they spoke at 11 00 a.m. and they did n't speak again 
until clinton got back from dinner at 

mr. stephanopoulos i think that 's likely , yes. 

q did he call her what time did she call was 
there a gap between when she called him i mean , was he at dinner 
when she called and 

mr. stephanopoulos no , no , no. i think he called her 
last night. i could n't swear to it , but i believe he called her last 
night. he just wanted to talk to her. 

q what was going on 

mr. stephanopoulos not that i know of , no. 

q what do you know about the situation now everyone 
has perished who except eight or nine and do you know any of the 
other details 

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know any more details than 
the fbi reported in waco .  . 

q watching cnn or how was he keeping track of what 
is going on if he was n't talking to his attorney general , how was 
he keeping track of what was going on here i mean , with all due 
respect to cnn , is that how he was doing it 

mr. stephanopoulos no. there was also as i said , 
several people in the white house were in constant contact with their 
counterparts at justice to have the full and complete information. 

q who were those contacts i mean , was it mack 
mclarty , webb hubbell how was the president being kept informed 
that 's not a 

mr. stephanopoulos i believe mack was in contact with 
webb .  . i spoke with several people at the justice department. i 
believe bruce lindsey spoke with people at the justice department. 
either bernie or vince was also in contact at different times during 
the day with people at the justice department. we were fully briefed 
and fully informed .  . 

q we were told this morning that the president may 
have spoken a chance that he may have spoken with webb .  . do you 
know if that 's true or not 

mr. stephanopoulos i think there 's a chance he may 
have. i do n't believe he did , but i think there 's certainly a chance 
that he may have at some point. i do n't believe he did. i think 
that the last contact he had during the day yesterday directly with 

the justice department was the 11 00 a.m. phone call with the 
attorney general. but the white house was fully informed on a 
minute to minute basis of what was happening in waco and what was 
happening at the justice department. 

q george , who decided that the briefing would be done 
by the attorney general 

mr. stephanopoulos the attorney general. 

q did you or did the white house communications staff 
were you ever involved with that decision 

mr. stephanopoulos no. we were told about it. 

q did you ask her to go on nightline and macneil 
lehrer and all that stuff was that part of 

mr. stephanopoulos no. 

q there was no advice from the white house at all 
about her she was on all night , all day. (laughter . ) . 

mr. stephanopoulos yes , and she did a very good job. 

q why did you decide to have the president 's reaction 
to the situation be only a written statement , which is traditionally 
the white house 's way of the president from the issue , not 
having him appear as personally saying anything 

mr. stephanopoulos well , that was n't the intent at 
all. as i said , we had to we wanted to wait until we had all of 
the information at hand. the president is also making a statement 
today. the president made a statement yesterday morning. the 
president has been fully involved 

q after this turned into less than a successful 
operation , the only statement from the president was what was on 
paper after the attorney general had already given what to 
the major facts in this. 

mr. stephanopoulos well , it was the first statement 
from the president , not the only statement from the president , number 
one. 

q after the 

mr. stephanopoulos number two well , the first. 
number two , the attorney general 

q he gave a statement early in the morning when the 
thing was starting to move 

mr. stephanopoulos right. and he gave one yesterday 
and he 's giving one today. now , the second point 

q it just happens this was a written statement with 
no sort of communications policy or thought process involved it was 
the president wants to put out a written statement 

mr. stephanopoulos knowing what we knew at the time , 
we thought it was appropriate for the president and he thought it was 
appropriate to put out a written statement expressing his regret and 
expressing his support for the attorney general 's 

q why was it not appropriate for him to personally do 
something 


mr. stephanopoulos well , he did personally do so. 
that is his statement. it 's a statement under his name. 

q george , yesterday during the briefing you did n't 
say the president took full responsibility for what happened 

mr. stephanopoulos i certainly did. 

q no , what you said was 

mr. stephanopoulos that 's just not right , susan .  . 

q well , i think you can go back to the transcript , i 
mean , unless i miss something 

mr. stephanopoulos i 'd love to. 

q janet reno said that she took full 
responsibility and you said that she made the decision , that the fbi 


mr. stephanopoulos and the president takes 
responsibility .  . absolutely .  . 

q took responsibility all right. 

mr. stephanopoulos check the transcript .  . 

q considering how little was known about what was 
going on inside the compound and , even now , how little is known , why 
is washington calling this a mass suicide 

mr. stephanopoulos well , i think that knowing what we 
know now and given all of the actions of david koresh before and 
during , it is painfully clear that those there were under his 
control. 

q it 's stretching it a little bit where the kids are 
concerned , though , is n't it , george 

mr. stephanopoulos i think that that is an entirely 
different matter. i mean , i think that david koresh must bear 
responsibility for the deaths of those children , absolutely .  . but he 
clearly was intent on creating some kind of an apocalyptic incident , 
and that 's what he did. 

q you 're still operating completely on assumption , 
right i mean , you have no evidence , or you know of no evidence that 
this was mass suicide .  . 

mr. stephanopoulos we have evidence that those inside 
the compound set fire to the compound , which led to the deaths of 
those inside. 

q i did n't quite hear it. this might be ann 's 
question , i did n't quite hear it. but at what time did clinton 
himself put out a statement on this i know dee dee said some stuff 
on this at 6 00 p.m. , but the president put out 

mr. stephanopoulos at 6 35 p.m. , 6 40 p.m. 

q right after the evening news went on the air 

mr. stephanopoulos no , right when we had all the 
information. we were working on it. 


q dee dee confirmed this morning that the 
investigation the president is going to announce is going to be an 
administration run investigation .  . why not have someone from the 
outside to make sure that it 's not colored by those who would have a 
political stake , particularly those at the atf whose actions have 
already been 

mr. stephanopoulos i think that clearly the atf and 
the justice department will bear responsibility for the 
investigation .  . that 's not to rule out , as is often in investigations 
like this , having some sort of independent involvement as well. but 
it will be run by the treasury and justice. 

q are you confident that you will not have any 
problem getting 

mr. stephanopoulos absolutely .  . 

q george , did the president reach out to anybody else 
to get advice after the meeting with janet reno and who else in the 
white house sat in on that meeting anyone else from justice 

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't believe anybody else was 
there at the time. it was a phone call on monday , it was n't a 
meeting. 

q sunday .  . 

mr. stephanopoulos sunday .  . it was a phone call , it 
was n't a meeting. i believe he might have been there with bruce , but 
beyond that , i think he just talked to the attorney general. 

q george , you said that in that phone call , she said 
that we want to go in and take action , as you said , that will force 
him out. what did he think she was talking about if he did n't know 
about tear gas , what exactly was his idea of what he was approving 

mr. stephanopoulos i think he was approving an action 
to increase the pressure on 

q q it did n't matter how she did that 

mr. stephanopoulos no , no. i mean 

q what information did he have in terms of how this 
would proceed presumably he would have wanted to know , not minute 
by minute , but in a general sense 

mr. stephanopoulos i think he knew that this was the 
recommendation of those on the ground and the recommendation of the 
law enforcement agencies .  . i just do n't know 

q what is this when you say that this was the 
recommendation 

mr. stephanopoulos the action to increase pressure. i 
do n't know exactly what he was told whether he was going to be 
told that the tank was going to go up to the left wall and punch a 
hole in the window , or whether he was just told generally that they 
were moving forward in a way that would increase the pressure. i 
just do n't know. 

q it 's hard to imagine him not asking , though. 

q that janet reno presented him with as her best 
advice about what they should go forward with , he would have agreed 


mr. stephanopoulos he was he did ask some general 
questions about the advice and recommendation he gave .  . at the same 
time and i would repeat that this was based on the unanimous 
recommendation of the law enforcement agencies involved. 

q george , it would seem that this question about just 
exactly in what detail the president was informed about the nature of 
the operation is going to come up again here and elsewhere. can you 
take that question and 

mr. stephanopoulos absolutely .  . yes. 

q get the answer and come back to us with all of 
it 

mr. stephanopoulos yes. 

q can you tell us that there was never a meeting a 
strategy session where you and others decided , we will put out a 
written statement from the president and we will have janet reno be 
on all of these television broadcasts 

mr. stephanopoulos never. never. 

q and you never called the justice department and 
said to anyone or janet reno , you 're the one who needs to be out 
front explaining this 

mr. stephanopoulos not once. 

q it just happened that way that she was the 
spokesman , that no one ever saw bill sessions until 

mr. stephanopoulos she made a decision as attorney 
general that it was important for her as the operational officer in 
charge , as the person who made the decision , to go out and take the 
questions on this tragic incident .  . 

q she had no guidance from the white house at all 

mr. stephanopoulos we certainly did n't object. 

q but did you (laughter) no , i'm sure you 
did n't object , but did you suggest it was this a plan 

mr. stephanopoulos no. absolutely not. 

q a strategy 

mr. stephanopoulos no. 

q did she clear it 

mr. stephanopoulos no. 

q did she notify you 

mr. stephanopoulos we certainly knew about it. 

q what happened to this great detailed process you 
have for clearing and talking to every public information officer and 
every under every rock and every place in government that 
something as major as this could have occurred without a discussion 
between you and the public information people at least at the justice 
department 


mr. stephanopoulos the attorney general made the 
decision and the attorney general wanted to go forward. it seemed 
like a good decision. it was a good decision. she did a good job. 

q let me ask it this way , george , if in hindsight how 
you would handle it 

mr. stephanopoulos i think it was handled very well. 

q you would n't change a thing if 

mr. stephanopoulos change what 

q the way the white house handled any part of it 
from start to finish. 

mr. stephanopoulos well , i think that 's an awful broad 
question and we 're certainly going to have a review. one of the 
reasons for the investigation is to look for ways in the future that 
something like this see what we can learn from an incident like 
this and see what we can learn about how to handle them. if you 're 
talking specifically about the issue of the press conferences , no , 
there would n't make any change at all. 

q two questions first of all , on her going on tv , 
no white house people or outside media consultants came up with this 
idea it 's just very reminiscent of what you guys did during the 
campaign. 

mr. stephanopoulos how so 

q i'm thinking of like watching clinton on nightline 
after the draft story watching clinton on 

mr. stephanopoulos there 's absolutely no comparison. 
yesterday there was a law enforcement incident .  . the incident ended 
in tragic deaths of many , many people. the attorney general was 
involved in that decision. the attorney general made the decision to 
do that. she felt it was her responsibility in the interest of 
public information to go out and take the questions of the press in 
order to make sure that all of the questions were answered , and she 
did a fantastic job. 

q the second question is , did as someone who knows 
clinton as well as you do , can you understand why it 's sort of hard 
to believe that he might not have asked some detailed questions about 
what she intended to do in other words , she came and she said , i'm 
going to put pressure on them. it 's hard not to see clinton , who 's 
fairly intelligent and , asking how. 

q what kind 

mr. stephanopoulos both the attorney general said that 
he did ask questions , he did ask general questions. i do n't have a 
minute by minute account of the conversation. 

q how long a conversation 

mr. stephanopoulos i think it was about 15 minutes. 

q telephone conversation 

mr. stephanopoulos yes. 

q george , was the federal cost of this standoff ever 
a consideration in terms of stepping up the pressure 


mr. stephanopoulos i do n't believe so , no. 

q george , you keep saying that the president takes 
full responsibility , but then you refer to it as her decision. does 
the president not accept the fact that as commander in chief , it is 
ultimately his decision 

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know what this has to do 
with commander in chief .  . this was a law enforcement action , not a 
military action. and he clearly takes responsibility for the 
decisions of the law enforcement agencies involved taken in his 
government. i mean , i think there 's just no ambiguity about that. 

q but is he accepting it as his decision as well as 
hers , or is he saying it 's her decision there 's a difference. 

mr. stephanopoulos as a matter of fact , it was her 
decision. he did not object to that decision. he clearly takes full 
responsibility .  . 

q george , this briefing has gone on just a little 
over 15 minutes , and as you can see a lot of things can be exchanged .  . 
what exactly did they spend 15 minutes talking about if it was just 
very general that 's a long period of time in a phone conversation. 

mr. stephanopoulos it is an awful long phone 
conversation. it was a very important phone conversation. i think 
brit has asked that we take the question , and i 've said that i would. 

q one of the things reno said last night is that the 
buck stops here. i think that was her direct quotation .  . does the 
president agree with that in this case 

mr. stephanopoulos the president says he accepts full 
responsibility .  . i think what the attorney general was saying is that 
she made a decision , that she 's going to accept all the 
responsibility that comes to her. and she 's not shrinking from that 
at all , but neither is the president. 

q at any point in the conversation last night between 
the president and the attorney general or this morning , did she ever 
offer her a resignation 

mr. stephanopoulos not to my knowledge. 

q even before the fire was out yesterday , there were 
some republicans on capitol hill calling for an investigation .  . is 
the white house at all concerned about the timing of those requests 
trying to make political hay out of this situation 

mr. stephanopoulos no. and i do n't want to cast any 
questions about the motives of those who are requesting 
investigation .  . we want an investigation , and we 'll have a full and 
complete investigation .  . 

q in what forum will you answer brit 's question 
will you put out a written statement will you the wires how 
will you answer the question that you 've taken 

mr. stephanopoulos i'm just not sure. 

q george , can you remind us what the president was 
doing all yesterday afternoon , where he was , and what meetings he was 
involved in 

mr. stephanopoulos i 'll have to try and remember. he 
had a series of meetings with different members of the staff during 

the afternoon. he was certainly monitoring the situation in waco and 
getting periodic reports on that as well. he did see some on cnn as 
well. i believe he saw a fair amount of the fbi press briefing as 
well. 

q and those reports would have come to him from mack 
mclarty , would they do you think 

mr. stephanopoulos mack talked to him , bruce talked to 
him , i talked to him. 

q george , to follow helen 's question , in their 
conversation this morning did they discuss at all her statement last 
night in response to the question about whether she would resign 
did he say , i do n't know why you felt the need to say that i'm here 
to reassure you that you do n't have to do this did that come up at 
all 

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if it even came up 
that specifically .  . i know that the bulk of the conversation was 
discussing where do we go from here and what form the investigation 


q the did n't talk at all about her kind of 
remarkable comment last night about 

mr. stephanopoulos well , i believe she was asked a 
question. 

q and her response was , if the president wants me to , 
i will. 

mr. stephanopoulos which would be , i think , the 
standard response that most cabinet members would give .  . i mean , it 's 
a conditional statement. 

q have a need to talk about whether personally 
about whether the president wanted her 

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if they talked about 
it. i mean , what i learned about the conversation was that it was 
largely about the investigation itself. and this just did n't come 
up. i did not ask the question if they talked about 

q will you take that with the brit package 

mr. stephanopoulos certainly .  . (laughter . ) . 

q george , for the record , does the president want her 
to resign i know dee dee answered this morning 

mr. stephanopoulos absolutely not. he supports janet 
reno .  . she 's a good attorney general. she 's done a good job. she 
handled a difficult situation extremely well. 

q george , does the president feel that he and janet 
reno were let down by the unanimous professional advice from the law 
enforcement experts on the ground 

mr. stephanopoulos no. and the president is not 
second guessing that decision and those recommendations in any way. 
that is not to say that he does n't regret the loss of life. 
everybody regrets the loss of life in this situation. but the best 
judgments were made in a difficult situation based on the best 
information we had. 


q george , the 15 minute conversation was the one on 
sunday , is that correct 

mr. stephanopoulos yes. 

q how long was the one at 11 00 a.m. yesterday 
morning 

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know. i 'll take that 
question , too. 

q were these outside experts that they were 
consulting with , or experts within the atf and the fbi 

mr. stephanopoulos you 'd have to ask them. i'm just 
not sure. i know that there were several experts .  . 

q and also , why were n't there replacements for these 
people is the unit that small 

mr. stephanopoulos again , i think it is a very small 
highly specialized unit. but i think it 's one of the kinds of things 
that the investigation will examine .  . 

q george , is n't there a factor here involving the fbi 
director normally , a president , when he wants to get information , 
does n't only asks the attorney general. i know the chain of command. 
but presidents talk to their fbi directors .  . in this case , throughout 
this entire siege , he has not felt that he could pick up the phone 
and talk to bill sessions , who is from waco , and get expertise from 
him on what to do and what not to do 

mr. stephanopoulos i think he talked to the fbi 
director well in the beginning of the situation when it first broke 
out in waco .  . at the same time , the attorney general bears the 
ultimate responsibility and he was getting fully briefed from the 
attorney general. 

q do n't you think the ambiguous situation that 
director sessions is in has some impact on the way the president is 
briefed and on the way that all of this evolved 

mr. stephanopoulos not at all. i mean , it 's perfectly 
appropriate that he be briefed by the attorney general and that the 
attorney general has supervisory authority over the fbi director , and 
that 's following the chain of command. 

the press thank you . 

end 1 03 p.m. edt 

60 04 20 



from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

yes you are. when you and the rest of the homosexual community 
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to 
hire , rent to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against 
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying 
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this. 

your post is based on the premise that the laws as they stand do not 
discriminate anybody , so your argument falls over immediately. are you 
really that dumb as to use emotive language to prove an argument 
please feel free to answer , that is , if you have anything intelligent 
to say on the matter. 




clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from (richard a. mulac ) 
subject re waco 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 19 
reply to (richard a. mulac ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


does n't seem like those responsible for the assault were very concerned 
about the welfare of the children inside. seems like they were more 
interested in their muscle before the media. my reasoning 
just ask yourself this one question 

suppose the scenario was slightly different and we had chelsea clinton 
being kidnapped by terrorists , holed up in a compound for 51 days. 
do you think clinton , reno , the fbi , and the atf would be so eager 
to use a show of force 

nuff said. 



richard 

well , judging by his attire , he 's some sort these 
of free thinking anarchist .  . charles montgomery burns are my own ! 

from br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re eight myths about national health insurance  ( pt ii ) 
summary what 's the source of canada bashing 
nntp posting host thor . isc . br . com . 
organization aging boomers , inc. 
lines 35 

in article  ( daniel b case) writes 
in article ,  ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 

i 've come to learn to suspect anything in the american press about 
our system . if much or some of it were true , you 'd have to take 
us for idiots for tolerating it. and given that our insurance was 
installed during a period when there were only liberal and tory 
governments federally and , and the socialists are still 
, they would 've pressed for real socialized medicine to fix 
things ... think about it. after all , we are using the u.s. as a 
metric to make comparison ... both for keeping up with the 
as for confirming that we did something right. 

true , but remember that most of the canadian bashing exists because american 
proponents of your system make it look like it walks on water. even you do n't 
go that far. 

sorry , but i 'd have to differ .  . the canadian bashing wrt to the health 
insurance system is largely with little evidence or prompting .  . having 
kept up with this debate on the net for some months , just about all the 
criticism of the canadian system has misquoted or misinterpreted even 
the anti canadian propaganda put out by the american insurance industry 
and the ama .  . 

in a few cases , such as mr. case , the critiques are well reasoned and 
worthy of response. most others are misinformed , illogical , 
or just plain dumb. i do n't think the same can be said of the american 
proponents of the canadian system , much less of the canadian proponents .  . 

jsh 

steve hendricks domain br . com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 509 838 8826 


from (matt x8043 ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
keywords an in depth look at fractal 
nntp posting host snow . nsc . com . 
organization thought police watchdog agency , u.s.a. 
lines 284 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu . 
 ( william december starr ) writes 

(ca . politics . omitted from the distribution line because my site 's news 
posting software does n't believe in it and refuses to try to post to it. 
( i sure hope that matt also reads either a . f . r . l or t . p . m .  .  . ) . 


saw it in t . p . m .  . , thanks. 


in article , 
(matt x8043 ) said 

i like to call the form of government that i advocate fractal 
 . with fractal , there is a representative 
national government that has only certain limited powers to do what is 
absolutely necessary at that level. next there are the state 
governments , again with only absolutely necessary powers .  . onward to 
counties , cities , districts , and neighborhoods .  .  .  . 

1) the lowest  ( read most local ) levels are the ones that have the 
most power over individuals  day to day lives , which is good because 
that is the level where individuals have the most voice. 

you know , if you take all this to its logical conclusion , does n't it 
seem that the real lowest level .  .  .  . the level where individuals have 
the most voice is that of the single individuals themselves why have 
you omitted that level from your model 

yes , and the individual is not omitted i just did n't fully articulate the 
principles of fractal  . all government powers derive from the 
people each level can receive a new power from the level below through 
the amendment process , where a true consensus  ( say a 3 4 majority ) writes 
that power into the constitution of the level above  ( in the case of the 
lowest level , an is passed by a 3 4 majority vote in the case 
of higher levels , it must be passed by 3 4 of the legislatures .  . we can 
of course haggle about the specifics of true consensus when we hold our 
constitutional convention ) .  . once a power has been granted , it may be 
exercised by the legislature .  . powers not in the original constitutions must 
upward , starting from the individual .  . the ratification process 
for the original constitutions should involve consensus and not simply a 
plurality or majority .  . 

granting a right in a constitution is of course the same as 
the government at that level to restrict the activities of the governments 
at the lower levels , so it operates in the same way as the amendment process 
 ( again , that crazy resemblance to the supposed but not actual u.s. government 
 . 

this government structure is a very frustrating one for those people  ( read 
liberals ) who would like to have concentrated power to use the government 
to force people to do good (a difficult to define word , and one that it 
is difficult to reach a consensus on) .  . it is also a frustrating structure 
for those who want to use the government to dictate personal behavior  ( read 
big government conservatives ) .  . i personally would rather see those types 
of people frustrated than the incredible erosion of liberty  ( both civil and 
economic ) that is going on now. 

this is imho a good government for those who see the role of 
government as the protection of individual liberties , while still recognizing 
that individuals need to have some influence in the type of community that 
they live in. 


2) a free market works on government , not just economics .  . succesful 
ideas propogate , unsuccessful ideas die. 

what is your definition of a successful idea or a successful 
government 

one which maintains peace , liberty , and the opportunity for happiness for its 
people , while working within the realities of human nature. you do bring 
up the point  ( intentional or not) that a lasting idea is by no means 
necessarily a successful idea. i believe that fractal would 
at least bring many ideas to light , and the people would have the opportunity 
to democratically choose between good ideas and bad ideas. if the 
, er , i mean democrats are right and government activism fosters a 
prosperous people , they will have a plethora of local opportunities to 
check their thesis. if is possible , it will arise .  . if a balanced 
conservative republic is democratically received as the best level of 
government activity , it will become clear to the people that it is best. 



as far as set the moral tone is concerned , if a community does not 
collectively want to put up with prostitution going on in front of 
their kids , why should they have to if a community does not want to 
see proliferation of drugs among their kids , why should they have to 

for the same reason that they have to put up with a church operating 
right out in the open , where their kids can see it , and with the owner 
of the house across the street flying an american flag right out there 
in the open every day in front of their kids. it 's called freedom .  . 
if they do n't like the ideas to which their kids are exposed , they can 
try to educate and persuade their kids as to why the things that they 're 
seeing other people doing are wrong or bad. 

right , and people would not rescind any freedoms  ( read the 
government ) except through the amendment process. that is how the federal 
government is supposed to work now , but the supreme soviet , er , i mean the 
supreme court put a stop to that republican government nonsense. 

in my hypothetical government , if there were a constitutional provision 
the government to regulate churches the government  ( whatever 
level we are talking about) could indeed ban churches. the constitutional 
provision would be invalid if a higher level had a constitutional provision 
protecting free exercise of religion. the constitution is still 
the supreme law of the land. 



(i find it interesting that you applaud the idea of free market 
competition among various ideas , and yet support the right of he 
majority in a community to suppress ideas which they do n't like . ) . 

it is a matter of individuals being able to control their own associations 
and environment , not a matter of suppression of ideas. 

one dilemma of the human condition is that individuals need liberty , and 
they also need to have some control over their environment. in my 
fractal government , certain rights are protected by the 
constitutions .  . other rights are protected simply because the government 
has not been empowered to infringe upon them. when a consensus is reached 
that the government should have a certain power , then freedom is infringed 
upon .  . this cannot be avoided murder statutes infringe upon freedom , 
but i think that the consensus of the american people is that murder statutes 
are a good idea. 

i am sure that many parents believe that they have a right to control 
the environment that their children live in. people feel that they have 
a right to sleep peacefully at night thus , there are noise ordinances .  . 
there are zoning laws that keep businesses from overrunning residential 
neighborhoods .  . i do not view these as bad things  ( certainly some individual 
instances are bad , but the concept is not necessarily bad ) , i view them 
as the people in a community having some control over the type of community 
that they live in. i see the alternative as near anarchy .  . 

like i said in another post , if you can come up with a scenario where an 
individual can do something truly with absolutely zero 
effect on anyone else then no individual or government has the right 
to restrict that activity. there are simply not very many behaviors that 
fit into the category of the truly autonomous , so the whole thing becomes 
an issue of one individual or group having power over another individual 
or group. i think that the fractal approach is a sound , if 
not ideal , approach to limiting this restrictive power. the libertarian 
scenario degenerates to might makes right , and the system we have right 
now is one of lawyers abusing natural rights philosophy to decide what 
powers the government should have by the democratic process 
though the supreme court. 



the problem with the egalitarian view is that it tries to deny the 
fundamental dilemma of democratic government the people have a right 
to exercise a voice in their community , yet individuals have the right 
to be left to themselves. this is a serious dilemma precisely because 
there is not much that takes place in a vacuum .  . 

oddly enough , if what you say is taken literally there is little or no 
conflict the people do indeed have a right to exercise a voice where 
voice equals persuasive speech in their communities .  .  .  . it 's only 
when they somehow get the idea into their heads that they also have a 
right to dictate behavior in their communities that the trouble begins .  . 

i think i answered this above already , but let me expand a little more 
with an example. if i stand naked in front of your house and masturbate 
in front of your children while they play , in your libertarian  ( small 'l' ) 
scenario the only recourse you have is to yell at me. autonomous is 
a value judgement 99.99 of the time , it is not a scientific reality with 
a clear definition .  . exactly who would you to make that value 
judgement 



stuff deleted 

certainly not the only cause , mike , but people in a local neighborhood 
should have a voice in what goes on in that neighborhood. to deny 
this is to create another concentrated centralized power to keep the 
locality from abusing its power in essence , using a pit bull to 
keep a toy from biting your leg. chances are , the pit bull is 
going to turn on you some day , and you have much less defense against 
it than you do against the toy  . 

the argument here appears to be that tyranny of the individual by the 
local majority is superior to having the federal government have and 
exercise the power to protect the individual from his neighbors because 
that federal government will eventually and inevitably become corrupt 
and use its power to everyone. okay , there 's a lot of truth in 
that certainly we 're seeing something like that happening in the united 
states today  ( though it 's unclear that he progression here matches the 
model , since our beloved and benign federal government has n't 
ever shown much enthusiasm for the idea of protecting any individuals .  .  . ) . 

lots of people are long on complaints and short on practical solutions. 
although i am pessimistic that my idea will ever bear fruit , i am at least 
trying to be long on solutions also. i am truly interested if you have 
any improvements to make on my ideas (i call them my ideas , but they 
all come from an average guy reading of the u.s. constitution without 
benefit of the indoctrination of constitutional law  . 



but i have to say that i think that your solution is at least just as 
bad. trading the yoke of federal tyranny for the yoke of local tyranny 
does n't cheer me up much .  .  .  . i think i 'd prefer to put my faith in a 
larger government that at least might protect the individual from time 
to time rather than place it in local mob rule. admittedly , it 's the 
lesser of two evils , and it 's not less by very much , and they 're both 
pretty damn evil .  .  .  . 

sorry , the confusion was my fault. when i said that fractal 
resembles the u.s. constitution , i meant it and thought it was pretty clear. 
i should have more clearly explained that the ultimate derivation of government 
power is from the consensus of the people  ( although not the consent of every 
individual a practical observation , not a moral  . it is certainly 
better than having all government power derive from nine lawyers , which is the 
situation we have now. that is why i think the supreme court should be 
a jury court , with a different jury for each case. 

it is certainly not perfect (no philosophy of government is) , but do you still 
find it a repugnant idea if so , what is your solution 



ideally , everyone would leave everyone else alone and no government 
coercive power of any kind would be necessary. this will never work , 
because people are different and by their nature they will always want 
to force their views on others. if this were not the case , nobody 
would try to force their view that murder is wrong on anyone else. 

this is true .  .  .  . the question is , what we you going to do about it your 
proposed solution seems to actually encourage these bozos to lord it 
over their victims .  . 

i think that you misunderstood the structure of the form of government i 
advocate , and it was my fault for not being more clear. 



oh , and by the way .  .  .  . 



thinking is irrelevant .  . integrity is irrelevant .  . 
free speech is irrelevant .  . private property is irrelevant .  . 
personal responsibility is irrelevant .  . 
conservativism is futile .  . 
you will be assimilated .  . 


how much would freedom of speech or private property rights be respected 
in a community in which the majority was allowed to make all the rules 
( that man 's saying things in public that i do n't want my children 
exposed to ! let 's shut him up ! those homos are living together and 
fornicating in that house over there ! let 's run 'em outta town ! ) 

the majority does not make the rules. the majority  ( or possibly a 
plurality ) simply elects representatives to exercise limited government 
powers those limited government powers derive from a large consensus , 
not a simple majority .  . and the federal government , in my scenario , still 
has the power to protect freedoms .  . 



william december starr 



matt 




thinking is irrelevant .  . integrity is irrelevant .  . 
free speech is irrelevant .  . private property is irrelevant .  . 
personal responsibility is irrelevant .  . 
conservativism is futile .  . 
you will be assimilated .  . 

these are my opinions only and not those of my employer ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 



from nelson (peter nelson ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host c . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard corporation , chelmsford , ma 
lines 44 

in article  ( hot young star ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

homosexuals lie about the 10 number to hide the disproportionate 
involvement of homosexuals in child molestation .  . they also lie 
about 10 to keep politicians scared. 

1. you have n't shown any disproportionate involvement .  . 

2. the report , which came out recently , gives 9 as the percentage 
of exclusively or predominantly gay men. 

i through the report in a bookstore recently looking 
for a clue about their methodology .  . they were very unclear about 
it , but as far as i could tell they relied on their professional 
associates in the psychotherapy profession to provide the subjects , 
interviews , and numbers. if so , this would hardly represent an 
average cross section. i posted to usenet at the time asking for 
more data about their methodology but answer came there none. (i 
must have been out of my mind for even asking for factual information 
on usenet ! ) 


3. no one is presumably going to say they 're gay if they 're not. but 
some no doubt are going to hide their homosexuality in surveys .  . thus 
the 1 2 is a lower limit. 

this is the problem. people have to have a lot of confidence in 
the anonymity of a study before they can counted on to speak 
freely about stuff like that. but i agree that if someone 's 
going to lie it will be in the direction of a gay person claiming 
to be straight rather than the other way around. 


i still say that weighing all the evidence gives a most likely percentage 
between 5 and 7 . 

i do n't see why there 's any more evidence for this figure than any 
other. it seems totally arbitrary .  . 



peter 


from  ( lawrence c smith) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization cabletron systems , inc. 
lines 72 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host glinda . ctron . com . 

in article ,  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 

the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

that has not been demonstrated .  . had he come to trial , there was a very real 
possibility that koresh would have gotten an acquittal on grounds of self 
defense .  . all survivors of the debacle have sworn that the batf shot first. 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

they rang the using a concussion grenade ! and if the bloody 
warrants were legal then why were they sealed after the fight started 
and if koresh had declared himself a private state and was just daring the 
gov't to go in , then why did he surrender last year to a local sheriff who 
served a warrant for his arrest  ( as opposed to the batf search warrant , 
which did not include arrest unless violations were found) by just calling 
him up to tell him and then going out to collect him with his squad car 
that does n't sound like a dictator to me , it sounds like someone who knows 
he has a court battle. things might have gone very differently if the batf 
had the . 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

this is stupid. that is no paranoid assertion , it is from surviving 
witnesses , and the batf has no tanks , nor am i aware of either the batf or 
the fbi using any until yesterday. when they use maximum force they do just 
what they did that first day that got four officers killed. 

the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 

you me , they were loaded for bear and every 
picture shows them wearing bullet proof vests ! they were using concussion 
grenades and full auto weapons , what was missing low yield tac nukes this 
is a transparent attempt to a justification for the ridiculous amount 
of force used , both initially and yesterday. you should be ashamed .  . 

if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 

they had a sure fire method keep them bottled up and talk them to death or 
surrender without giving him justification for some looney tune religious 
stunt .  . 

phil , i 've been reading your postings for months and i'm convinced that you 
will back anything , no matter how damaging it may be to yours or anyone 
else 's rights if you think it will hurt people you do n't like. it 's people 
with that attitude that set up the preconditions for the holocaust , a process 
that is in place now in this country , even if the , pitiful remains 
of the constitution is slowing its progress. this is n't a libertarian issue , 
others may argue that line , but from a strictly constitutional view of a 
democratic gov't , what the fbi and batf did was wrong , wrong , wrong , even if 
their reasons for trying to arrest koresh were 100 right. anything that 
leads to the deaths of 17 children , if nothing else touches your stoney 
heart , is wrong no matter who pushed the button. for god 's sake , man , get 
your morality back. 

larry smith no , i do n't speak for cabletron .  . need you ask 

liberty is not the freedom to do whatever we want , 
it is the freedom to do whatever we are able .  . 

from  ( william a bacon ) 
subject the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization the cellar bbs and public access system 
lines 72 

fury of mother nature 

man 's contribution to environmental pollution are paltry compared to those 
of nature. in her exceptional book trashing the planet , former atomic energy 
commision chairman dr. dixie lee ray notes based on the available data , all 
of the air polluting materials produced by man since the beginning of the 
industrial revolution do not begin to equal the quantities of toxic 
materials , aerosols , and particulates into the air from just three 
volcanoes krakatoa in indonesia in , mount in alaska in 1912 , and 
in iceland in 1947 .  . to which could be added mount st. helens in 
washington state in 1980 (which pumped out 910 , 000 metric tons of carbon 
dioxide alone) .  . el in mexico in 1982 (which sent more than 100 million 
tons of sulfur gases into the stratosphere ) , and mount in the 
philippines (which in 1991 hurled upwards of 30 million tons of material into 
the  . 
los 
many environmentalists attributed the 1988 drought in the u.s. to global 
warming , but researchers with the national center for atmospheric research in 
boulder colorado reported that the weather was actually due to a 
natural phenomenon , the interaction of el and el nina , two massive 
currents in the tropical pacific .  . el is a huge strip of warm water that 
periodically appears off the coast of south america and the world 's 
weather patterns. now and then , it with el nina , a mass of cold 
water that comes from the ocean depths along the equator and drifts for 
thousands of miles. 
chicago tribune s peter summarized the phenomenon cold water along 
the equator clashed with warmer than normal water southeast of hawaii .  . the 
result was both the u.s. drought and the devastating that swamped 
bangladesh .  .  .  .  .  .  . nina 's cooler water disrupted tropical weather patterns and 
distorted the path of the jet stream across north america .  . then the jet 
stream shoved rain producing weather systems away from the interior of the 
u.s. resulting in drought .  . 
terror 

sundry animals and insects also contribute their share to environmental 
degradation .  . time for april 20 , 1992 noted that in the netherlands .  .  .  . manure 
from pigs poses a major ecological threat , defiling water supplies with 
excessive and local soils .  . sheep have permanently 
the landscape in spain and portugal , while in india ... cows are 
whose constant quest for food drives them to 
standing  . 
the february 1983 issue of science digest reported that an international 
team of researchers has discovered that generate more than twice the 
carbon dioxide that fuel burning does. according to a study reported in 
science for november 5 , 1982 , the estimated gross amount of carbon dioxide 
produced by was more than twice the net global input from fossil 
fuel combustion .  . in addition , are a potentially important source 
of atmospheric methane they could account for a large fraction of global 
emmisions .  . the wood eating pests have a bacteria that enables them too 
digest carbon so efficiently that some 90 pe is converted too carbon dioxide , 
methane , and other gases they belch into the atmosphere. 
ants are another natural source of pollution .  . in 1987 , an atmospheric 
chemist with bell laboratories , and zoologists from cornell university , 
reported that ants of the make and store huge quantities 
of the formic acid that contributes most of the of rain that falls in 
remote areas and is found in atmosphere gas and around the 
globe. it is abundant , for instance , in the fog and mists that hang over the 
rain forests of central africa .  . according to the july 6 , 1987 insight 
magazine , the ants release the acid when defending themselves and 
communicating with each other and upon dying. since 30 percent of the world 
ant population belongs to this , there is significant concern about 
the acid the ants release , an amount estimated at 600 , 000 metric tons 
annually .  . which is equal to the combined formic acid contributions of 
automobiles , refuse combustion and vegetation .  . 
clearly , man has a long way to go to match nature as a of the 
environment. 
by robert w. lee .  . 



 ( william a bacon ) 
the cellar bbs (215) 539 3043 

from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
lines 23 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article ,  ( blort ! eeeep ! hwaaah . ) . writes 
would n't one expect more heterosexual men than gay men to be 
promiscuous simply due to a larger group of potential partners 

just a thought. 

matt 

you might except that gay men are much more promiscuous than 
straight men which shows how damaged and screwed up gay men are. 

your starting to sound like a little child who wants ice cream. if you 
kick and scream enough you think people will believe you. sorry proof 
by vigorous does n't hold any water. i can insist that cats 
are dogs all day , it does n't make it so. 

join the pythagorean reform church ! . 
repent of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . . 


from  ( mitchell s todd ) 
subject re waco burning 
organization 
lines 60 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rigel . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

 ( matthew t. russotto ) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( mitchell s todd ) writes 
 ( matthew t. russotto ) writes .  .  .  . 

we 're hearing it. it sure rings true it 's consistent in a way that 
mass suicide by fire is not. this survivor is also saying that they 
were trapped inside by the damage done by the tanks .  . 

why is an accidental fire more plausible than a mass suicide , 
considering that the davidians were an apocalyptic cult with 
a history of armed violence if the fbi has reason to lie 
about the cause of the fire , if it resulted from their own 
negligence , then the bd survivors also have reason to lie if 
they started the blaze .  . 

the fbi claims the fire was set simultaneously in three places. they 
claim the building was filled with tear gas. electricity was cut off , 
tanks were rolling all around. how did the bds co the 
setting of the fire 

it 's fairly simple. it was decided to burn the place down , 
and more than one agent was dispatched to set the fires in 
separate parts of the compound .  . i doubt that simultaneously 
means at the exact same time in this case. it likely means 
close enough together to preclude them from being part of 
the same fire. 


the fbi claims that men with torches set the fires but have n't released 
any evidence of this , though it seems that they do n't have 
any if it was true. 

they might be waiting until the evidence comes in from the 
site , and the investigation is at least well underway .  . 


all of the bds 
previous actions were aimed towards their survival , not their death. 

the same could be said of jonestown .  . 

the idea that kerosene lamps would be all over the place  ( with 
electricity cut off) makes sense. the idea that ramming tanks into 
the building would spill them and cause a fire makes sense. the 
possibility that the fbi would n't know this is nil .  . it was n't simple 
negligence .  . 

maybe. then again , i 've been suprised at what folks have missed 
in the past in similar situations. do n't jump t  . 



mitchell s todd 
 . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' ' 
tamu . edu .  . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 





from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re eight myths about national health insurance  ( pt ii ) 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization phds in the hall 
lines 99 

 ( daniel b case) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 
again , they ca n't force a private entity to spring to life to pay them. 

so the government , by sheer economic force , has basically cleared the 
basic care market for itself. the only way to test this would be for 
some really daring person to start up , from scratch , in alberta and or 
quebec , a health insurance company offering basic care. 

crazy yes , but that 's almost how mci got started. 

however , the concept of risks is well known by insurance actuaries 
and no private firm can get the kind of amortization that the public 
pools can get. and since health insurance gets spent , that does n't 
sit well with the insurance ceo 's ... and you get a situation like 
in the u.s. where rates keep going up to catch up. 

see what i mean it 's a government monopoly .  . 

sure ... because it 's a non market and the free market 
ca n't solve it. even our private insurance says that .... 

and remember ... last year quebec proposed giving the least risky 
parts of basic care to the private sector ... and they balked .  . 

like you said .  .  . why . should they 

.... and wants no part of it. 

by your own arguments , if you do n't want the provincial plan , 
you 're basically up a creek .  . 

yes ... but in our culture , arguing against it is like arguing 
for national defence by means of warlords .  . 

true. according to polls i 've read  ( usually in the sort of 
stuff you were responding to) something like 60 of americans 
would like canadian style health care , whereas only 3 of canadians 
would like it our way. i 'd be interested to know why there are that 
many (3 of canada 's population is about a million or so people) .  . 

canada is saturated by american media. while pundits come on cable 
and talk about how awful our health care is supposed to be , what 
people experience up north ends up not differing from what they see 
portrayed on american television in movies (i . e .  . , same infrastructure , 
different insurance make up) .  . yet they know not of any insurance 
problems , and have no idea of what an hmo is ... but having lots of 
british tv as well , they know that they do n't like nhs .  . 

someone must have a reason to argue against it , valid or not what 
kind of people are they 

the polls that you refer to , for the canadian data , are from the 
annual july 1st polls conducted for  ( our major english 
newsmagazine ) by decima research ... decima president allen gregg is 
considered one of the world 's top poll researchers , and mulroney 's 
conservatives have relied on him to keep in power in the face of 
impossible election situations. the american polls are harris polls , 
and have been reposted on usenet a few times and probably will again. 
i'm sorta suspicious myself ,  cos maybe americans want universal 
coverage like canada i honestly doubt that most americans realize 
that we have private doctors and public and private hospitals (i . e .  . , 
similiar health care infrastructure ) and our system is basically 
pure insurance without hmo 's .  . 

given recent by the  ( endorsing universal coverage) 
and hostility to hmo 's within the ama , and the complete 
silence vis a vis canada bashing by the ama , i suspect that they 're 
keeping the secret about canada up their sleeve. 

exactly. would n't you 

until the idea of managed competition arose , there was no direct 
threat to stand alone private practice. in the 1960 's , the ama 
fought hmo 's as socialist medicine ... part of the 
reason why we have only insurance , and no hmo 's in canada  cos 
that was part of the deal cut with the cma .  . 

i 've also read that the three biggest american hmos can be compared 
straight up against some of the smaller canadian provinces  ( in the 
maritimes ) and they spend something like 300 500 less per patient. 
maybe it does help. 

the american hmo 's can still cream and they probably cover a smaller 
geographic area than even our smallest provinces .  . geography , again. 

some of them are spread out across the whole country , i think. 

but each site is probably compact , and the are  . 
and do n't forget that hmo 's place caps on your coverage , and often 
wo n't tell you about additional procedures you could get otherwise 
 ( despite that you might be willing to pay for it) .  . 

gld 

je me souviens 
gary l. dare 
go winnipeg jets go ! ! ! 
selanne domi stanley 

from (david veal ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
lines 72 
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education 

in article  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 
in article , writes 

the batf should have left at the beginning , they should have looked at 
koresh 's personality. instead they thought , they have guns. we have bigger 
guns. let 's go get 'em ! 

they botched it from day one. they should n't have been there in the 
first place. 

the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

as you 're no doubt aware , phill , there are probably five or six 
different , mutually contradictory versions of the events in waco on 
feb. 28 all of which are from reputable news sources , ranging the the 
associated press to time to newsweek .  . 

some of the earliest reports issued by the ap were not at all 
flattering the to batf , and produced some question as to who fired first. 

now , for all i know , you were there to witness it. but 
i kind of doubt that. 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

the batf , in a letter they 've been sending out to people , 
says both that they were ambushed because they lost the element of 
surprise , and that they went up and knocked on the door and had it 
slammed in their faces. 

it strikes me as kind of strange to rely on surprise to 
serve a warrant by knocking on the door. 

there are at least questions that need to be answered. 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. 

this paranoid assertation was made by witnesses to the original 
assault who stated that the batf initiated hostilities by throwing 
concussion grenades and reported by the associated press. 

had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

phill , the batf were in a firefight with the bd for forty five 
minutes. i find it hard to believe that if they were expecting peaceful 
citizens they would n't have shown up in live stock and would 
have retreated immediately. 

if they were expecting citizens , why show up with over 
a hundred officers , some of which clearly visible on video to be carrying 
sub machineguns , and 3 national guard helicopters 

i do n't know who did what , but , as i said , there are questions that 
need to be answered. 




david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. weird al 

from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re freedom of association 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random. 
lines 174 

in article (paul bartholomew ) writes 

a very well put together post. i disagree with several key points , but the 
post is an excellent one with which to engage in discourse 

there has been much discussion recently about the right to 
freedom of association .  . mr. cramer and mr. ronzone appear to 
take an absolutist position on this right that it is a 
fundamental human right , perhaps the fundamental human right , 
and that it supersedes other rights , such as the right to an 
equal opportunity. others feel that a right to an equal 
opportunity outweighs the right to freedom of association , 
and thus we have the never ending debate that flares up 
repeatedly .  . 

freedom of association  ( foa ) involves the mutual and voluntary agreement of 
two or more people. 

right to equal opportunity  ( lets call it reo ) involves coercion in all cases 
(by definition) .  . 


a major problem is that neither of these rights are 
explicitly declared or protected in the constitution or in 
the declaration of independence , although both can be derived 
from these documents .  . unfortunately , this means that the 
debate will never end , because neither side can 
sively prove the validity of their view it becomes solely a 
matter of personal philosophy .  . 

yes , there is much debate. but no , it can end , with once and for all 
recognition of these rights.  ( well , not totally 100 perfect end , but end 
in the same way that there is no worldwide disagreement that say , murder , is 
a  . 


my personal opinion is that the real answer lies somewhere in 
between. i regard both of these rights as fundamental human 
rights which , , come into direct conflict with 
one another. which is stronger depends on the given 
situation. 

hmm , there is even more discusion about religion. should we take a 
somewhere in between approach towards the state a state recognized 
religion the first amendment , is so , uh , so absolutist you know. 

for example , if the owner of a mom and pop store wishes to 
hire an employee to help out , their right to freedom of 
association outweighs the rights of their job applicants to 
an equal opportunity. they should be free to hire whomever 
they choose , using whatever criteria they choose , without any 
government intervention at all. 

similarly , if a family wishes to rent out a bedroom in their 
home , or a garage apartment , or something similar , then their 
right to freedom of association outweighs the rights of their 
prospective tenants to an equal opportunity. 

if , on the other hand , ibm , a multi national corporation with 
275 , 000 employees , publicly owned , and operated by a board of 
directors , wishes to hire additional employees , then whose 
freedom of association are we protecting the board of 
directors the other employees the owners of the stock in 
this case , the applicant 's right to an equal opportunity 
outweighs the right to freedom of association , and we , as a 
society , can ask ibm to use only those criteria which are 
relevant to the specific task. 

why says who why can mon pop have , but ibm be forced , and force is 
the correct word here , to have reo as purchase of ibm is voluntary , then 
there are very well defined procedures on how ibm chooses to do some things 
and chooses to do other things. why not let those same procedures work for 
employment policies 


similarly , if a landlord owns a number of apartment buildings 
in which he does not live , and which are managed by an 
independent management agency , then whose freedom of 
association are we protecting if the owner does not live in 
his buildings and has no contact with his tenants , then the 
prospective tenant 's right to an equal opportunity outweighs 
the right to freedom of association , and we , as a society , 
can ask the owner to use only those criteria which are 
relevant to good tenants .  . (i 've put good in quotation 
marks because i really do n't want to be drawn off into the 
side issue of what constitutes a good tenant . ) . 

why does this tenant have an option (i wo n't call it a right ) to destroy 
the of the landlord if the landlord and the tenant ca n't agree , then they 
both can cease from using each other 's property. 

suddenly , by arm waving , by magic , a landlord does not have  . and on what 
basis does the of the landlord disappear 

it seems that vague terms like no contact with tenants suffice .  . 

well , i think is one our most important  ( in the top 2 3) , and by 
golly , if the state is going to make it suffer , i sure would like to see the 
heinous crime that justifies the removal of this right. 

i do n't think no contact with the is even a crime , much less something 
that should cause severe interference with important rights. 

i suspect that the majority of the people in this country 
agree with my position on these extreme cases , particularly 
if they are presented in this manner. i do n't know if mr. 
ronzone or mr. cramer would agree i suspect not. in any 
case , additional problems arise when we try to apply 
guidelines for the middle ground. what if the company has 10 
employees , or 100 , or 1000 where do we draw the line between 
protecting the right to freedom of association and protecting 
the right to an equal opportunity 

rights are not defined by majority mob choice. is an absolute .  . reo 
is a fancy name for , for racism , and coercion .  . 

the difficulty is that any line we draw will , of necessity , 
be artificial .  . and any legislation resulting will be flawed .  . 
in the past , the government has usually tried to pass laws 
which referred to the number of employees hired by the 
company e.g. , any company with more than xxx employees was 
affected by the law. those with fewer were unaffected .  . 

of course it would be. you dimly see that the line must be , because 
is the only right. just like a state religion you ca n't that 
either. 

generally , i believe that if we do not have any regulations 
affecting these rights , then the right to freedom of 
association will be stronger .  . on the other hand , many of the 
regulations protect the right to an equal opportunity too 
much , weakening the right to freedom of association .  . 

i do n't believe there is a satisfactory solution which will 
please everybody. a solution that i came up with is to use 
publicly owned vs. privately owned as the dividing line. if 
the company remains privately owned , then the owners should 
be free to do whatever they want with their company. if the 
company becomes publicly owned , then the public has a right 
to ask the company to submit to additional regulation .  . 

why i assume that when you say publicly owned , you are talking about those 
quasi state companys that do not have  . 

the companies on the fortune 500 , for example , are all privately owned .  . they 
can give you a list of all of their owners. they have no anonymous , 
unknown to them , owners. 


by the way , the above analysis is based on the assumption 
that the right to freedom of association and the right to an 
equal opportunity are both fundamental human rights of equal 
importance .  . since this is entirely a matter of faith , not 
subject to any proof , i do not choose to even try to 
establish this. you either accept it or you do n't .  . 

any comments 

can be derived by any two rational people , on a basis that neither has 
evil , malicious , or murderous intent towards the others. 

in short , agreement is mutual , or not at all. 

your reo on the other hand , lives only by accepting coercion , the gun , into 
the situation. and that is self destructive of the whole argument , because it 
is based only on might makes right. sort of like saying , nobody has a right 
to live , whereupon i whip out a gun and shoot you dead end of argument. 



there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . weird , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll rent 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from (david . d . 
subject waco 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 32 


i do n't want to attack anyone 's personal opinions and thus have not 
included any articles but it seems to me incredibly ridiculous 
and pompous for someone to sit back with the benefit of hindsight 
and point fingers at clinton , reno , the fbi , or whomever .  . 

first of all , it is a knee jerk judgement .  . the facts are quite 
at this point and will likely be for quite a while. 

secondly , things do not improve by pointing blame and 
fingers. pointing fingers is a destructive action. if everyone 
sat around pointing fingers all the time , nothing would get done 
and nothing would ever get any better. and despite the tragedy , 
we can learn something from this if it is approached in a 
constructive manner. does n't it seem that working together is 
more productive than working against one another 

thirdly , it seems incredibly hypocritical to place blame given 
the benefit of hindsight something that those who made the 
decisions did not have the benefit of. why not give them the courtesy 
of acknowledging that they did the best they could with the 
data they had in a very , very difficult situation. some 
responses have gone so far to suggest that the actions were done 
without regard for the lives of the people in the compound give 
me a break. 

be part of the solution not the problem. 

and that 's my opinion 

david 


from  ( kristofer munn ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization tudor investment corporation , ct 
lines 40 

in an article  ( rick roy ) writes 

this is called (tm) .  . try it .  .  .  . 

which you refer , please note that many religious beliefs evolved from 
basic , pragmatic principles of day to day living. if we had lived 

certainly many religious beliefs seem to be positive principles for 
everyday living. indeed , i believe it is the islamic religion which 
avoids alcohol (i apologize if i name the wrong religion ) and that 
is certainly a physical positive in many respects .  . however , this 
proves nothing. just because something is a basic , pragmatic 
principle of day to day living today does n't mean it evolved from 
the same. especially those beliefs and  ( mostly ) positions held based 
on interpretations of the religion. 

religious beliefs come from many places but most will be backed up 
 ( after many levels of arguments ) to because that 's how it is written. 
or god says .  .  .  . now i'm not that but that is not a basic , 
pragmatic principle as you mean it in this context. it is a belief 
based on faith , which by definition is not necessarily backed up by 
logic .  . faith is a given. god is a absolute truth when arguing from 
religion. also , many religions would reject your thesis that their 
beliefs simply come from these day to day principles .  . 

in , if you wish to use religious arguments be prepared to 
back them up with it says in the fill in religious document here , 
because most religions  ( things which at least i denote as religions ) 
are based on the writings of or teachings of fill in religious 
figure here . 

note religion is a charged topic and if i offended anyone regarding 
my references to god , i apologize .  . please insert your own 
sensible references , the argument should apply to nearly all 
religions .  . 


the opinions expressed within are solely those 
of the author and are subject to change when 
confronted with new information and logical , coherent arguments .  . 

from  ( jyrki kuoppala ) 
subject batf of usa 
reply to  ( jyrki kuoppala ) 
organization helsinki university of technology , finland 
lines 130 
nntp posting host cardhu . cs . hut . fi . 

a repost from talk . religion . misc . , talk.politics.guns , soc . culture . jewish . 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
date 20 apr 1993 19 15 13 gmt 
organization stratus computer , inc. 

in article ,  ( pete yadlowsky ) writes 

we used to live in a country where everyone enjoyed the free exercise of 
their rights to worship and bear arms. 

arms automatic weapons , grenades , rocket launchers the sorts of things 
no family should be without , i guess. 

all government claims .  . if they were really stocking such weapons for 
armageddon , how come they never used them 

anyway , i 've often wondered what 
business followers of christ would have with weapons .  . it 's hard to imagine a 
pistol  jesus , though i suppose a pump action shotgun would have 
made clearing the temple a hell of a lot easier. 

the time is coming. those of you who have no sword , sell your shirt and 
buy one .  .  .  . and they told him , master , we have two swords .  . and he said , it 
is enough.  ( luke  .  .  . ) . 

think not that i am come to send peace on earth i came not to send peace , 
but the sword .  . for i am come to set a man at variance against his father , 
and the against her mother .  .  .  . (matt 10 34 35 ) 

well , when the nice federal officers come to my house to check out my 
extensive weapons cache , i 'll just be sure not to shoot at them. 
tea , ladies and gentlemen 

just maybe you wo n't be home. then you can come home to something 
like this 

well , it 's been a rough month , begins johnnie lawmaster .  . i 
just get laid off , and my divorce became final. but i just was n't 
ready for what happened this particular monday .  . 

that particular monday was was december 16 , the first day of the 
bill of rights  third century , the day when federal agents and local 
law enforcement officer broke into the house in tulsa that always flew 
the u.s. flag. when lawmaster drove into the driveway that bleak 
afternoon , one of his neighbors had some news. 

 , john , you are in big trouble ! ' my neighbor tells me. 
 sixty police , federal agents and the bomb squad busted in you house , 
kicked down the door , cut locks off your gun safe . ' . i could n't 
believe it. then i walked inside. what a nightmare .  . 

it was no nightmare it was horribly real life. apparently acting 
on information the lawmaster possessed an illegal firearm , some thirty 
agents of the bureau of alcohol , tobacco and firearms  ( batf ) up 
with state and tulsa police authorities , search warrant in hand , to 
search for a colt , ar 15 , .223 caliber machine gun , unknown serial 
number. the warrant , issued by u.s. magistrate john leo wagner , also 
authorized agents to seize any tools used in the alteration or 
modification of firearms , such as files or drills documents , papers , 
books , records , and other tangible properties which identify occupants 
or owners of the property to be searched .  .  .  .  . 

reports vary , but according to neighbors , the joint task force 
operation aimed at the unemployed from a nearby hospital 
involved some 60 agents and local law enforcement personnel against 
lawmaster .  . they off the street took station with weapons 
drawn in the back yard used a ram to break through the 
front door kicked in the back door broke into his gun safe threw 
personal papers around the house spilled boxes of ammunition on the 
floor broke into a small , locked box that contained precious coins 
stood on a table to peer through the ceiling tiles , breaking the table 
in the process. then , they left. the doors were closed but not 
latched , much less locked .  . the ammo and guns were left unsecured .  . 

my front and back doors were pulled shut , but they were busted 
through and could n't latch .  . anybody could have in there and 
stolen everything i own. a child could have taken a gun. the guns , 
the safe everything was open and laying around. i keep all my 
magazines empty , but someone had loaded them. while i was looking 
around in amazement , the gas , electric and water companies show up to 
turn the power off. they said they were told to shut things down. 
then i found the note. nothing found atf .  . 

they did n't make any attempt to notify me. i 've lived in tulsa 
all my life and never got more than a traffic ticket. how come they 
ca n't look that up , realize i 've been law abiding my whole life , then 
come to the door when i'm home they did n't leave someone here to 
watch over my private property. they did n't even come by to explain 
what happened. they just raided my home , it , left it wide 
open and left. 

lawmaster placed a phone call to the local batf agent .  . i asked , 
 are you gonna  arrest me ' and he said , ' . i him , who is 
going to repair and clean up my house ' and he said , if you 're going 
to talk to me , come down to my office . ' . 

 i ca n't come down ! ' i said.  my doors are broken ! ' if i had 
been on vacation and i did n't have friendly neighbors , i would have 
lost everything i own. here i am a competent , responsible firearms 
owner , and the government leaves them open , unlocked , with ammo strewn 
around. 

lawmaster said the agent advised him , if you want your door to 
lock and your gun safe to lock , you 're gonna  have to pay for it 
yourself. 

 oh , i 'll come right down , alright , ' i told him.  i 'll come 
down , but i 'll bring my attorney . ' . and he said ,  well , you bring 
your attorney , and we wo n't talk to you . ' . 


so if you do n't want your tea party to be held in awkward silence , make 
sure your lawyer is n't there , there 's a good chap .  . 


it 's very sad all those people died , especially the kids , but that 's going 
to happen in a free society whenever psychologically needy people hook up 
with a charismatic nutcase .  . 

what a repulsive outlook on society. followers of unusual religions 
may be killed by the government it simply ca n't be helped in a free 
society. 

you and i have two different concepts of free. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special investors  packet .  .  .  . 

from  ( elf sternberg ) 
subject was kinsey a fake and a pervert 
organization , unltd .  . 
lines 403 
distribution world 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 
comments 
originator 

in article 
 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article 
 ( elf sternberg ) writes 

geez , where have you been , ryan i proposed this theory months 
ago. let 's take it one step further , even. if , as the surveys show , 
up to 33 of all men have had a homosexual encounter , then there must 

cite a survey , other than the obviously bogus kinsey studies. 

granted .  . pomeroy , bell , weinberg , 1967 .  . national institute of 
mental health paper ,   patterns of in deviant 
populations . '' . cited as part of the national institute of mental 
health task force on homosexuality .  . 

concluded , the kinsey statistic of 37 is probably higher 
than is realistic .  . according to these estimates , 33 is a more 
realistic figure. 

(i went out and bought lots of bell weinberg this weekend .  .  .  . can 
you tell ) 

also , the report on sexual behavior  ( samuel s. , ph.d. 
and cynthia l. , m.d. , john wiley sons  ( pub ) , 1992) has the 
following 

table 3 . 14 . 
have you ever had a homosexual experience 
men. women. 
n 1 , 335 1 , 384 
yes 22 17 
no 78 83 

table 3.15 
how often have you had homosexual contact 
men women 
n 294 235 
a. once 5 6 
b. occasionally 56 67 
c. frequently 13 6 
d. ongoing 26 21 

active (c .  . d . ) . 39 37 

39 of 22 is 9 . this number is consistent with kinsey , , 
 ( 1953 ) , bell weinberg  ( 1967 , 1974) , and rice  ( 1987 ) in the 
finding that 9 of the male population is actively homosexual , with 
an further breakdown  ( bell , 1978) of 4 exclusively so and 
5 self identifying themselves as bisexuals .  . 

(pp 69 , 70) 

as for debunking kinsey , the following article is an important 
lesson for everyone to read 

was kinsey a fake and a pervert 
by philip 

far out on the knoll of , there is a cult of 
researchers who claim that the late alfred kinsey was a 
secret sex criminal , a dr. , who bent his numbers 
toward the bisexual and the bizarre in a grand conspiracy to queer the 
nation and in an era of free sex with kids. 

but what really riles these critics is kinsey 's cultural 
influence .  . his surveys sexual behavior in the human male 
 ( 1948 ) and sexual behavior in the human female  ( 1953 ) tore the 
sheets off the country 's zones and undermined 
morals .  . his charts and graphs , based on detailed histories of 12 , 000 
men and women , demonstrated that practices generally considered rare 
and or  abnormal  masturbation , extramarital relations , 
homosexuality , and even , were as american as 
strawberry  . 

yet for a hard core of these heterosexual supremacists , aided and 
by pat buchanan and the religious right , the zoology professor 
from indiana university remains the evil genius behind the sex 
revolution and a target for character assassination .  . 

judith , the prosecution 's expert witness at the 
trial in cincinnati , is the leader of the anti kinsey 
revisionists as well as his inspector  . in 1983 , during a radio 
interview with pat buchanan in washington , accused kinsey of 
having been in the vicious torture of hundreds of 
children. she speculated that he kidnapped and ghetto boys in 
order to carry out clandestine orgasm tests. 

now , seven years later , has her charges in a 
different book , titled kinsey , sex and fraud , just released by the 
small and religiously oriented huntington house in lafayette , 
louisiana .  . her is ed , a manhattan who 
has invented a new style of ( the alignment 
technique ) that supposedly triggers simultaneous orgasm with 
considerable regularity and thereby increases compatibilty between the 
sexes .  . in the book contends that kinsey deliberately cooked 
the gay stats because , being an oddball himself , he wanted to advance 
the   of heterosexuality .  . 

if the authors are right , then the world famous kinsey reports 
are , as the introduction boldly asserts , the most egregious example 
of scientific deception in this century. and if they are wrong , 
kinsey , sex and fraud is a shameful smear .  . 

despite the less than stellar credentials of kinsey 's 
detractors , legends are not what they used to be. martin luther king 
may have committed  . bruno slapped young mental 
patients around. father bruce ritter , the founder of covenant house , 
preyed on runaway boys. closer to kinsey , masters and johnson have 
been disgraced for faking it in one way or another. 

so it should not surprise anybody that kinsey , who filmed strange 
people having sex in his attic , may have had skeletons in the closet. 
the problem is that does not seem to have the intellectual 
prowess to pull off the job. 

as a thinker , the woman is no  . the 55 year old 
former for captain kangaroo has little professional 
standing , no current university position , and no peer review 
publications , though her creative 1983 resume was padded with phantom 
accomplishments .  . for instance , it listed a book as her own take back 
the night women on pornography that was actually written and edited 
by others. then there is her ph.d. in speech communication from 
cleveland 's case western reserve university .  . although has no 
bachelor 's degree , case granted her a master 's in 1976 and a doctorate 
in 1979 .  . her dissertation was on the commentaries of a local 
tv commentator .  . but on the resume , gave this 
piece of scholarship a fancy etudes moniker to wit the 
application of aristotelian and systems analytic theory to mass media 
effects. 

when burst into prominence on buchanan 's program , it was 
love at first sight for al , the outwardly anti 
porn head of juvenile justice and prevention in ed meese 's 
justice department. was a young law and order conservative and 
amateur social philosopher who wanted to help change the sexual 
climate of the united states. 

after 's sensational radio session , the sexual equivalent 
of joe mccarthy 's speech , summoned 
her to meetings to discuss mutual interests .  . first he tried to shovel 
her 800 , 000 for a quasi frankenstein study that was going to measure 
the brain chemicals of men and boys who looked at arousing 
photographs. guffaws on capitol hill killed the original proposal , but 
734 , 000 in money went to anyway for plan b a probe 
of child images in the cartoons playboy , penthouse , and 
 .  ( incredibly , this grant surpassed the entire budget of the 
attorney general 's pornography commission . ) . 

when the overpriced and project was completed in 1986 , 
it was immediately by an embarrassed justice department. that 
spring , resigned from his post only days before the new 
republic carried this admission that he had kept magazines 
around the house. 

notwithstanding the six figure humiliation , went on to 
scratch out a niche on the right. as the darling of the sex 
cranks , she subversive phenomena like genitalia in 
men 's magazines and blames aids on gays .  . kinsey , sex and fraud is 
's latest grasp for respectability .  . pat buchanan , of course , is 
putting his on 's ultimate  . this book 
is social dynamite , he says in a blurb an the front cover. he 
especially liked the antigay parts. his lips in his 
syndicated column , he declared , it may just blow the sewer cap off 
kinsey 's monumental reputation , reestablish homosexuality as a 1 in 50 
aberration , expose the gay rights movement as a paper tiger , and even 
put at risk the enormous sex industry built upon dr. kinsey 's 
' . 

the charge at the heart of the and 
j accuse is that kinsey was a sex mad pedophile who 
molested little boys in nazi type experiments and recorded their 
in his male volume a similar charge was first at the 
fifth world conference on in jerusalem in 1981 to no effect 
before being recycled by for buchanan in washington in 1983 .  . 

here is how and the business in 
kinsey , sex and fraud 

like  scientific  experiments on infants and children 
were the basis for kinsey 's conclusions .  .  .  . on childhood sexuality .  . 

somewhere and sometime in the course of the project , kinsey 
appears to have directed experimental sex research on several hundred 
children aged from two months to almost 15 years. 

this , of course , would implicate kinsey and his team in 
promoting , and perhaps participating in , the criminal activity. 

in the opinion of this book 's authors , that is exactly how part 
of kinsey 's child sexuality research took place. 


his 's cap and citing an fbi manual on 
child molesters as a guide , casually diagnoses kinsey as a 
homosexual pedophile with the perfect motive for doing exactly as 
said 


kinsey placed himself in professional and nonprofessional 
positions where he had access to young boys , such as y . m . c . a .  . camp 
counselor , boys  club leader , and boy scout leader activities he 
kept up  during his college and graduate , and even after his 
marriage. 


as crude as his analysis seems , was more than happy to 
elaborate even further in a recent phone interview. if you 've ever 
been around boy lovers , pedophiles , they are absolutely compulsive , 
he averred .  . everything in his life is directed at getting children. i 
did n't mention this in our book but the caption under kinsey 's high 
school picture was a quote from hamlet  man delights me not , no , 
sic nor woman neither . ' . what do you think they were picking up on 

before weighing what and pass off as proof of 
kinsey 's sex crimes , something must be said about kinsey 's scientific 
 . he was a collector .  . as a young with 
a d . sc .  . from harvard , he collected 4 million gall wasps and 1.5 
million related insects .  . when he switched to sex exploration after 
agreeing to teach a marriage course at indiana university in 1938 , he 
was no less curious or  . nothing that mammals did in the 
realm of reproduction was foreign to him. he compiled masses of erotic 
materials including toilet wall inscriptions from male and female 
johns that highlighted differences in sexual psychology and of 
mating in 14 species of animals that showed an amazing similarity in 
oral  . 

naturally , the sexual response of children , the genesis of eros , 
fascinated him. it was impossible to understand the sexual behaviors 
of adults without examining their origins .  . and so with the fervor of 
his days , kinsey collected information about kids , though 
even his worst enemies until and refrained from 
linking him personally to his data on sex. 

kinsey said plainly in the male volume that he got information on 
the sex life of young boys from people who had sex with them some of 
these adults are technically trained persons who have kept diaries or 
other records which have been put at our disposal .  . although he 
gathered much boyhood data from the memories of his subjects and the 
observations of parents and nursery school teachers , he treated the 
documentary materia ! of the pedophiles as pure gold. there was nothing 
like it in the literature. 

kinsey 's main source , a 63 year old worker , was also 
the most character he had ever met. this man , whose 
history took 17 hours to log , had sex with over 600 boys and 200 girls 
as well as 17 of 33 family members including his father and 
grandmother .  . a sexual hobbyist and passionate record keeper , he gave 
kinsey detailed accounts of that he observed in 
boys. relying on the man 's meticulous research , which involved 
following some boys for as long as 16 years , kinsey was able to 
identify for the first time six distinct types of male orgasm some 
of which involved violent at the peak of release as well 
as the speed and the capacity of  . 

what freud had only imagined about childhood sexuality , kinsey 
had reported as fact. children were indeed erotic beings from the 
cradle .  . these data on the sexual activities of younger male provide 
an important substantiation of the freudian view of sexuality as a 
component that is present in the human animal from earliest infancy , 
he concluded without raising eyebrows in 1948 .  . 

then along came judith  . the legitimacy of 
kinsey 's inquiry , she the ghost of in bloomington .  . she 
was appalled by the thought of infant ecstasy and read torture in the 
portrayals of orgasm rendered by the government worker .  . 
and she dared to say that kinsey was a sex criminal .  . 

well , was he or was n't he let 's go to the text. there is no 
evidence in kinsey , sex and fraud no witnesses , no paper , a 
trace of hearsay that kinsey in either planning or 
in child sex experiments .  . after 12 years on the trail , 
has uncovered just two sources to back up her original charge 
amazingly enough , kinsey himself and pomeroy , kinsey 's 
on both reports , to whom has never spoken .  . it turns 
out that her whole case rests on a few passages in the male volume 
in pomeroy 's 1972 biography titled dr. kinsey and the institute 
for sex research. 

after every the and and in both books , came 
up with what she believes are smoking sentences .  . to establish 
kinsey 's alleged role in the planning , she says that there is a hint 
in the fifth chapter of the male volume that kinsey directed the 
orgasm studies on kids. she cites his tell tale quote from a of 
armchair demanding that writers .  .  . test . their 
theories .  .  . by . empirical study and statistical procedures .  . then she 
combines this quote with kinsey 's statement that some of the 
observations of his pedophile sources were continued over periods of 
months or years until the individuals were old enough to make it 
certain that true orgasm was involved. 

putting two and two together kinsey 's and lengthy 
experimentation she arrives at her hint. but realizing this dog 
would not hunt , she devoted but a single paragraph to kinsey 's 
supposed planning before shifting to the issue of his personal 
involvement .  . as for the alleged participation , after over 
pomeroy 's biography , found several hidden clues suggesting 
kinsey 's likely hands on approach to kiddie sex. here the chain of 
reasoning is more complex .  . she points out that kinsey was interested 
in measurements , collecting sperm and filming sex in his 
attic .  . since kinsey did indeed mislead indiana university about the 
purpose of his he said that he was filming animal 
sex asserts that a similar misrepresentation may yet apply 
to kinsey 's child sex experiments .  . catch the may ! 

was also struck by kinsey 's doubting thomas attitude 
toward the never before recorded of female rabbits kinsey , 
according to pomeroy , was the type of person who needed to see things 
for himself. pomeroy gave the example of orgasm in the female rabbit .  . 
because he had not personally witnessed this event , kinsey had 
difficulty in accepting its reality , even on the strength of testimony 
from a distinguished scientist .  . how then did kinsey testify to the 
actuality of orgasm in a 5 month old infant from the mere  history  of 
a sex offender  ( but , of course , he did not he depended on their 
records . ) . 

from this fantastic alchemy of conjecture mixed with , 
sperm , attic , and in has 
the legendary kinsey .  . 

paul succeeded kinsey as the director of the kinsey 
institute and now lives in retirement outside bloomington .  . reached by 
telephone , defended the pedophile connection and denied 
's nasty  . i do n't understand the resistance of 
people like to studying the sexuality of children , 
said more in than anger .  . that is where sex begins .  . we 
were happy to take data wherever we found it. even though pedophiles 
commit criminal acts , they are usually not violent folks. they 
would n't be very successful if they were. one of our best sources was 
a of a boys  school who maintained a kind of alumni club 
and sometimes went to the weddings of his former students. as for 
directing experiments , that 's absurd .  . we never told any of our 
subjects what to do. lt was against our principles .  . almost all of the 
pedophile material was retrospective anyway. nor did we ever conduct 
sex experiments with children ourselves. that would have been highly 
inappropriate .  . 

i asked if kinsey had ever seen a child in a sexual 
situation. i think a mother once brought in a little girl who 
her teddy bear and kinsey watched it. 

as for kinsey 's sex life , it is still shrouded in 
confidentiality .  . he was married to the same woman for 35 years and 
fathered four children. apparently , there are no huge sexual 
revelations , although rumors of homosexuality have persisted without 
confirmation through the years. took his boss 's history back 
in the  40s , but he refuses to discuss what he knows. we never 
divulge anything about anybody 's history , whether dead or alive , he 
says. 

said no to an interview for this article on the grounds 
that i had once worked for penthouse not to mention the fact that we 
have been debating each other in various forums for the past five 
years. in keeping with our contentious history , she took a at me 
in her book for continuing the kinsey practice of 
incest .  . my offense was using the biblical variant lying with a near 
relative in a 1977 article on the subject of incest .  . as a synonym for 
intercourse , lying with appears eight times in genesis .  . 

ed is a different story. though seemingly obsessed by 
kinsey like his , he was friendly in long conversations. he 
told me that he began to smell a big agenda in when he 
was a student in new york university 's human sexuality program in the 
early '80s .  . it was literally a gay studies program for heterosexuals , 
he says. 

around 1985 , came upon 's critique of kinsey and 
the conspiracy theory started to sink in the sex establishment was 
ruled by a bisexual bund advocating the overthrow of the 
heterosexual norm. no wonder he was having such a rough time promoting 
the joy of simultaneous orgasm anything that enhanced sexual 
compatibility between men and women inevitably raised objections .  . 

eventually , exchanged philosophical fluids with , 
and from this union kinsey , sex and fraud was born. 's main 
contribution to the book is discovery and analysis of a kinsey 
conspiracy that supposedly seeks the establishment of bisexuality as 
the balanced sexual orientation for normal , people which , 
by destroying the traditional family structure and normal sexual 
behavior , would open the way for the second and more difficult step 
the ultimate goal of cross sex  ( sex with children) .  . 

when i pressed him for specific references to back up his 
outrageous contentions , he said weakly , you do n't think kinsey is 
going to come right out and say that everybody is basically bisexual 
and should have sex with kids , but this is implicit in the kinsey 
reports. 

meanwhile , is demanding a congressional investigation of 
kinsey and his data. perfect. that 's just what the country needs a 
house un american sexual activities committee , looking under beds and 
asking people if they are now or have a reader , a 
or god forbid a subject of dr. alfred kinsey .  . 


elf ! ! ! 

 ( elf sternberg ) 

the purpose of writing is to inflate weak ideas , obscure pure 
reasoning , and inhibit clarity .  . with a little pratice , writing can be 
an intimidating and impenetrable fog ! bill watterson 's calvin .  . 

from (peter d. hampe ) 
subject suffer the little children , was welcome to police state usa 
organization northwest nexus inc. 
lines 38 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

 ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 

is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

lightly off track , but still relevant why all the crying 
over the children i know we are hardwired to consider 
the future of the race , and people are concerned 
for all children but so what 

for the branch davidians , the options were to die or 
submit to evil tm and have their children 's very 
souls lost due to the brain washing of the ungodly 
state.  ( to put this in terms the  average  netter might 
grasp they considered it the equivalent of putting 
jesse helms in charge of nea and mtv . ) . 

and remembering that in 1983 the supreme court struck down 
freedom of conscience  ( irs vs bob jones et al . ) . 

who 's next 

is your religion belief system government approved 

jim jones had won numerous awards from the state before 
he moved to guiana obviously state regulation would have 
stopped that tragedy too. 





p.s. the mormons were n't always saints , but they did go a long 
way to be left alone. always a in any  . 


sometimes , sometimes owl .  . 
optimist with a beeper .  . 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 15 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( aaron t boyken ) says 

in article  ( diane mathews ) writes 
i 've just got a couple of questions about this whole thing. 
(3) janet reno jumped up to take responsibilty to take heat away 
from the president. does this sound anything like what a couple 
of reagan 's aides did 


no. no , it could n't possibly be the same. because america voted 
for change. and elected william george clinton .  . 




from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re eight myths about national health insurance  ( pt ii ) 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization phds in the hall 
lines 291 

 ( daniel b case) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 

i heard about a guy in alberta who came down with some rare eye 
disease that he had to take repeated trips to seattle to get treated .  . 

well , what american private insurance plans cover travel expenses 

well , it was n't just the travel expenses .  . it was the whole treatment. 

when you buy insurance where you live , it is based on the local rates. 
tourists coming from , say , utah will find that there is a difference 
in what their insurance will cover fob provo and what they get stuck 
with at hill or mount sinai if they fall ill in the big apple .  . 

but to what extent does it affect the system and why is an urgent 
care list necessary in the first place it 's worth thinking about. 

it 's regular practice in a hospital to figure out who needs to get 
at what facilities. do n't americans have to arrange in advance for 
operations too i think that there are two standards being applied 
here , and that canada ca n't give beverly hills style treatment to 
everybody. it 's not a big brother list ... it 's more like calling 
around town for a table for dinner ... 

but americans need far less advance time to book operations .  . 

it would depend on where you live , downtown toronto or mile 101 , 
british columbia  ( just like cheyenne , wy vs. boston , ma) .  . again , 
geography rears its ugly head. 

since our health care providers are private , they depend on an 
adequate market size in order to sustain enough business. since 
our health care professionals have equivalent take home pay to 
their american cousins , it 's not that they 're being paid too 
little to provide services. 

whether canadians would be thrilled at the prospect of their own 
health services catering toward americans , who would be willing 
to pay more than they do , is another issue entirely ) , it must be 
noted that they said they were doing it partly because their grants 
from the province were getting smaller if those grants are so 
, why the need to attract foreigners to make up the 
difference 

you answered the question yourself ... private nonprofit foundations 
have to make money somehow , and i think that it 's about time that 
they acted like the private hospitals that they are. personally , 
i'm fed up with canadian socialists trying to tell everyone that 
their health care is free when we are actually buying insurance 
 ( that 's one at you , bob rae ! ! ) .  . 

true , but i was thinking .  .  . does . can anybody compete with the provinces 
to offer basic health coverage i remember reading that that sort of 
private health insurance is actually illegal in canada .  . 

i have only hear americans say that it 's illegal ... but i could be 
wrong , just have never heard it from a canadian source. our private 
insurance has recently balked in quebec when the liberals proposed 
privatizing some aspects of routine care ... also , our insurance was 
put in place when no ndp  ( labour ) governments were in power in any 
province to the effort  cos they wanted real socialized 
medicine. 

you 're not buying insurance so much as being coerced into one 
insurance plan. 

no , it is optional ... as it is optional for doctors to accept it. 
there are isolated religeous communities in particular that ask for 
exemptions  ( and one e mail from a christian scientist in edmonton 
verified for me that it is indeed negative option) .  . i guess that you 
can argue that there is a right to having a particular insurance , but 
so far i 've not come across that up north ... and i take pains to keep 
tabs with news from home. 

and that turns the private insurers offering the frills into an 
effective cartel they do n't really need to compete because , as you put 
it , they 're in a win win situation and they 're guaranteed to turn a 
profit 

believe me , they probably had when they figured that out. and 
according to my sister the yuppie , they pat themselves on the back to 
the point of at chamber of commerce  . 

 ( interesting side note have any new insurance companies started 
up from scratch since medicare became standard in canada 

i actually have doubts that any new ones have emerged since ww i ... 
no , scratch that ... there are a few in western canada , and quite 
a few in quebec as part of the post 1980 quebec miracle  ( out with the 
nationalism , in with the french  . la groupe des cooper 
built a new tower by the  ( eaton 's) store at les terraces , and if 
you were able to catch urban angel on cbs 's you 'd see it as 
the well lit one with double at the top. as for ontario , 
which still dominates and anchors business up north ... 

canada is a very old money kind of place , and the 1989 free trade 
agreement saw a lot of odd labour unions and establishment 
old money who wanted to preserve their traditional monopolies on one 
side , and entrepreneurs and internationally oriented businesses and 
professionals on the other. the final administration and 
the first mulroney government had a high percentage of 
riches who knew what it was like to make your own money , and that 
motivated the mcdonald commission under which set up brian 's 
initiative  ( macaroni was against free trade 'til he did a head count 
of his caucus after the 1984 election) .  . 

it 's not really insurance if you do n't have alternatives 

well , you have to realize that in our society that 's like saying 
that it 's not really national defence because you ca n't hire 
your own rambo squad instead or even out as a pacifist .  . 
 ( btw , there are always in the news arguing about their 
portion of taxes , but never people arguing over health insurance 
alternatives ... and we 're talking about a press that is hostile 
to whomever is in government , regardless of party one of their 
few redeeming characteristics , it seems ( ) .  . 

also , in the april 14 globe and mail , there was a letter from the 
director of trauma services at st. michael 's hospital in toronto 
responding to an article on a study comparing heart surgery in 
california and canada in which some canadian doctor worried that 
american analysts would seize on the results as proof that canada 
vital services. the doctor (i ca n't recall his name) said 
that canada is rationing vital services as any physician can 
plainly see . he said that a system in which people are refused 
treatment because they ca n't afford it is no different from a system 
in which people are refused treatment because the government ca n't 
afford it as a result of deliberate of the health 
insurance plan. in fairness , he did say that both the us and 
canadian systems are in the same situation. 

the only way to hit at the canadian system is transient periods of 
high demand , which is more a function of the doctors monopoly 's tight 
fist on the licencing .  . an obvious difference is that in such a 
transient period , the rationing is of the nature of a mob battling 
over cabbage patch dolls tm as we 've seen recently as opposed by 
rationing by ability to pay ... but the former is a transient 
situation and if a large body of insured patients were to deluge the 
california health infrastructure , the same would result rationing 
among the insured population .  . with smaller markets , there is much 
less flexibility when dealing with our insured population than 
california (which by the way , has 1 3rd more people than canada in a 
much more dense area) .  . so he is correct in that the resources are 
fixed  ( for a particular time window , or as a function of the doctors 
monopoly licencing according to the market steady state) in either 
case. as for being refused treatment the government of the day 
would be shredded to tatters if something like that were to happen 
canadians can be geographically bad , too , not realizing that their 
health care is private while only their insurance is n't ... too many 
people have bought into socialist that we have socialized 
medicine. 

i know , i know , the monopoly power of canadian doctors often leads 
them to overstate the problems with the system in order to get more 
money from the government  ( another case of businessmen , once 
scratched , becoming  . 

right , as i 've pointed out above ... 

but has n't that just shifted the locus of the problem from one place 
to the other it has n't really solved it. 

either way , the transient situations are hard to deal with since the 
changes in the private medical care resource take place at a slower 
rate than the ability of people to fall sick esp. in the light of 
disasters (e . g .  . , chernobyl ) or bad luck (a sudden wave of heart 
 . a doctor needs 4 6 years of training , plus internship 
and specialty training. 

people too often tend to put prescription cold medicine on their 
insurance when they really do n't need to. 

that 's why i 've argued for deductible and copayments rather than 
education , which is what most canadian fiscal conservatives are 
arguing for (the leftists ah , just let 'em spend ! yeah , 
right ! ) .  . also , note that only a few provinces cover prescriptions 
under some high dollar threshold ... in most , it 's your private 
insurance that covers it just like in the u.s. still , it all 
adds up in the oecd measures. 

in fact , buffalo may be the only place in the us where people 
get don cherry jokes ( ) .  . 

we get the sabres  feed as a replacement game on espn tonight (the 
devils  local metro ny coverage supplants the main espn game) .  . 

(the ndp cleaning up a tory spending mess and just when i thought 
i understood canadian  . 

yeah , it 's a sad story and saskatchewan tory leader grant devine 
has been on a nonstop pr campaign to save his sorry butt. the 
ndp have taken a neo conservative turn like hawke , gonzalez 
and did. 

has anybody considered following singapore 's example and going to a 
system where the company and the state buys basic and catastrophic 
coverage for everybody , and then you also have an ira sort of thing 
to which you and your employer can can contribute for medical 
expenses only it would tend to discourage you from it. 

the medical ira would have limited use , as you 'd need a lower 
catastrophic threshold else there 'd still be a drain on the public 
purse if someone exhausts their ira .  . also , singapore has a much 
more mentality which has down into its masses 
 ( if that i 've met are any indication ... i do n't 
mean any here) where they 'd let you just die. 

one of the good things about being the last country to create a 
national health care system , should we decide to , is that we have 
everybody else 's mistakes to learn from. 

that 's true ... the question is how much is there between 
the u.s. approach and the second most capitalist approaches of 
canada , france and germany .  . 

seriously , there are few areas that have sufficient population for a 
two more tiered system like what the french have ... a health policy 
prof , d . g .  . shea , has cited studies in the nejm that indicate having 
a population of 500 , 000 is necessary for adequate competition ... 
and in canada , there are only four cities west of the great lakes 
with that population or larger .  . 

but there are many cities in the us with that kind of population .  . 

yes , many ... and pretty close to a lot of smaller towns or not too 
far from a bigger town. just take a look at a detailed atlas ... 
or better , take a flight from pittsburgh or rochester to toronto .  . 
my first time across lake ontario to nyc , i was amazed by the 
increase in density ... and the toronto region is the densest 
in all of canada .  . 

there was one about a group of doctors in calgary who have opened 
canada 's first us style mri clinic , as an alternative to the 
owned one. 

it 's about time ! i 've on my own doctor friends as to why they 
do n't invest in their own private practices ... in the end , it 's their 
money. but they choose to spend it on america 's cup , and 
that 's none of my business. as for owned ... for sure 
it 's against the law in canada for governments to be directly involved 
in the provision of health care except in the military or native 
 . what that term actually means is that the facility gets by 
on public grants to meet from lack of use ... no kidding. 
medical practice itself is much more conservative up north .  . my own 
best friend did two at the mayo clinic in rochester , mn , 
and is no stranger to high tech medicine ... but his boat comes first. 

there were some people expressing concern that it was the first wedge of 
two tiered health care and that it might violate the canada health act. 

no , it 's probably socialist who are offended that we have 
private practices ... and always have. they can all take cash 
anyways ... so why not have a particular facility the canadian 
big government mentality often government where it does 
not even exist ... 

since the french and germans have become more entrepreneurial and less 
without sacrificing their culture and values , then canadians 
can do the same. as i 've pointed out above , the law states that it is 
illegal for the government to provide any health services except for 
the military and natives .  . 

look , nobody stopped the clinic when they planned on the mri ... 
nobody stopped them when they bought it. nobody seems to be stopping 
them from using it , either. much ado about nothing. thank goodness 
that hockey playoffs have started ... 

while it seemed currently unjustified , there was one anecdote told by 
the head of the partnership to demonstrate the mri .  . he showed an 
image of an injured knee , which happened to belong to the manager of 
the bank who approved the loan .  . he said that without it , the guy 
might have had to wait a month or more at the provincial mri , then 
another length of time for treatment , after which the muscles would 
have and rehabilitation would have been that much harder 
if that is n't the first of two , i do n't know what is. 

i'm certain there is exaggeration somewhere , because the gao study 
of canada cited often on usenet did not find access to mri to be a 
problem. i 'll bet the doctor is relying on people having listened 
to american trash talk on cable so that he can his chest a bit. 
there are already a few treatment for knee injuries without 
relying on mri ... unfortunately , i 've had a few. ) and i'm not 
a banker .  . ( 

gld 

je me souviens 
gary l. dare 
go winnipeg jets go ! ! ! 
selanne domi stanley 

from 
subject f o cus health how u.s. compares .  .  . 
nf id n 000 1957 
nf from math . cornell . edu . ! apr 23 14 01 00 1993 
lines 50 


from (misc . activism . progressive . co moderator) 
subject f o cus health how u.s. compares .  .  .  .  . paid maternity leave .  .  .  . 

f o cus health how u.s. compares .  .  .  .  . paid maternity leave .  .  .  . 


duration of nationally provided paid maternity leave in weeks , 1988 



country weeks country weeks 

united kingdom 40 germany 14 
finland 38 ireland 14 
denmark 28 japan 14 
france 16 28 spain 14 
italy 22 netherlands 12 
norway 20 sweden 12 
canada 17 18 switzerland 8 12 
austria 16 united states 0 
belgium 14 

source international labor organization , work and family the child care 
challenge , conditions of work digest , vol. 7 , february 1988. 


from page 11 of 


we 're number one , where america stands and falls in the new 
world order by andrew l shapiro .  . 

new york , may 1992 , vintage books , a division of random house. 
10 paperback .  . isbn 0 679 2 

transcribed by  ( joe woodard ) 

is becoming a land of private greed and public squalor .  . 
this book is an indispensable road map through the wreckage .  . the 
facts it reveals will you. they may depress you. but 
ideally they 'll fire you up to help rebuild this nation . '' . 

robert b. reich , author of the work of nations 







from  ( jim albea ) 
subject re we 're from the government and we 're here to help you 
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville , al. 
lines 95 

in article br . isc . br . com . , br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  ( jim albea ) writes 
in article br . isc . br . com . , br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

steve proposes a system of checking what other nations are in to 
as criteria for what our government should try. 

i counter that the limits of the constitution might be a better 
place to check. 

gee , jim , if you 'll check the constitution you 'll find in order to .  .  .  . 
promote the general welfare .  .  . do . ordain and establish this constitution .  .  .  . 
i'm surprised you missed it. it 's right there in the first paragraph .  . i 
would have thought you would have made it at least through the preamble .  . 

you almost got it right , and it was a good try , but you should follow your 
own advice. the preamble to the constitution does read as you have quoted 
but let us not forget that after all it is only the preamble .  . it is not 
a binding part of the constitution and carries no weight in the law. that 
poor tortured paragraph has got to be one of the most unfortunate passages 
in the english language witness the legions of blowhards like yourself who 
think those vague flowery phrases are part of the law of the land. do you 
really believe that a politician only has to give lip service to promoting 
the general welfare to be within the limits of the constitution 

sorry , buddy , but some other blowhards managed to include the general 
welfare in another portion of the constitution .  . 

article i section 8 the congress shall have the power to lay and collect 
taxes .  .  . to . pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general 
welfare of the united states .  .  .  . 

i guess they wanted to make sure everyone understood they meant what they 
said in the preamble .  . 

just to make sure you 've got the point , let 's do a little experiment .  . what 
if the constitution read as follows 
preamble we the people , to promote the general welfare , do ordain 
and establish this constitution for the united states of 
america .  . 
constitution the federal government shall have one function and one 
function only to provide for the defense of the nation .  . 
the government would not then have two functions defense and welfare .  . 

but since it explicitly includes both the general welfare and defense 
in article i , section 8 , i guess you 'll grant that botha are constitutional 
functions. right 

steve i'm glad to see that you abandoned the preamble thing. what did 
you do a word search to find welfare somewhere else in the constitution 

my comments and in brackets 

article i section 8 in some ways the guts of the constitution 

the congress shall have the power 

1. to lay and collect taxes , duties , and excises , 
to pay the debts as defined in the document 
and provide for the common defence defence as precisely defined 
and general welfare as defined through the document , mostly in ways 
that limit the government. 
of the united states but the above taxes shall be uniform through 
out the u.s. 

so far the congress has been given the power to collect taxes uniformly 

then ... 

2. to borrow money ... 
3. to regulate commerce with foreign nations , interstate and indian tribes 
4. to do uniform and bankruptcies 
5. to coin money , regulate the value thereof , and etc. 
6. to punish counterfeiters 
7. to establish post offices and post roads 
8. to provide patents and copyrights 
9. to constitute tribunals inferior to the supreme court 
10. to define and punish and etc. 
11. to declare war , and etc. 
12. to raise and support armies , but for no longer than two years at a stretch 
13. to provide and maintain a navy , notice no time limit on this one 
14. to make the rules for the army and navy 
15. to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws etc. 
16. to provide for training of the army except for some state stuff 
17. to exercise exclusive legislation in d . c . 
18. to make all laws necessary to execute the foregoing powers . 

your original instinct was right. looking to other nations for precedents 
that support an expansive liberal agenda is much easier than looking to the 
slim found in the constitution .  . 


jim albea 



from 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host cantva . canterbury . ac . nz . 
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 


1. withdraw 
2. leave the people in the compund to lead their lives as they choose. 
3. prosecute the agents for murder 



brandon , university of canterbury , christchurch 
new zealand 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re median re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 48 

in article , writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
from the santa rosa (cal . ) . press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2 

male sex survey gay activity low 

note this contradictory title gay activity low. 

not really. the percentage of gays was low. headline writers are n't 
noted for accuracy .  . 

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 

it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for 
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically 
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are. 


now let 's take a quick look at what you are saying. 

the median of a distribution is that value which divides the 
distribution halfway , i.e. 1 2 of the distribution  ( population ) have 
lower and half have higher values .  . 

so for males 20 39 the median 7.3 , this means that half of these men 
are higher than this and half are lower than this. now if the population 
sample size is 3300 , and 1 of them are gay , 33 males are gay. if we 

actually , 2 were either exclusively homosexual , or bisexual .  . you are n't 
very carefully .  . 

say they are distributed equally then only 16.5 are greater than 7.3 
sexual partners , of course , this means that 49.5 heterosexual men are 
greater than 7 . 3 .  . 

interesting results. 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( matthew t. russotto ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 27 
nntp posting host tea . eng . umd . edu . 

in article writes 

the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

say what surrounding the compound with armed men and throwing 
grenades is n't a provocation 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

you 're smoking something not legal in the us. they never rang the 
 . not even the batf has claimed that they have. this was a 
no knock search. 

as to the good reason the batf has the warrant and supporting 
affadavit have not been made public. 


matthew t. russotto 
some news readers expect disclaimer here. 
just say no to police searches and seizures .  . make them use force. 
(not responsible for bodily harm resulting from following above advice ) 

from roland 
subject voting system regulations for the european parliament 
distribution world 
organization brussels free university 
lines 64 
keywords proportional representation majority europe european parliament election voting ballots britain italy holland belgium luxemburg germany spain france greece portugal denmark eec ec ep commission 
summary your views on which voting system to use for the ep 
to eunet . politics . 
x useragent v1 . 1 . 1d17 . 
x id 
x fri , 23 apr 93 15 00 35 gmt 


since 1979 , the members of the european parliament (the parliamentary 
of the european community) have been elected directly by the citizens of the 
member states. before , the members of the european parliament  ( meps ) were just 
members of national  ( mnps ) elected by and from among their peers .  . 

in the european parliament , every member state has a fixed number of seats , 
which increases less than with the population .  . once in five 
years , a general european election is being held , in which the citizens of all 
member states choose their representatives to the european parliament .  . next 
elections are due in 1994. 

now the voting system for these european elections still differs from one 
country to another. although the european treaty enabling the direct election 
of the requires a uniform voting system , up to now every country has just 
used its own system , more or less the same one used for national elections .  . 
british are elected in a first past the post system with one per 
district nearly all other states have chosen a system with proportional 
representation .  . but then in some countries  ( france , italy) are allowed to 
be a mnp as well , whilst in others they are not  ( belgium , netherlands) .  . 

the european parliament is now working on a uniform election system for its 
own members , so that every candidate should have the same regulations to 
comply with , regardless of the member state  ( s)he ) wants to be elected for. i 
would like to know what you people out there think of the following questions 

1. do you think it is necessary to have uniform regulations or should every 
member state continue to use its own regulations  ( for european elections that 
is) 

2. do you think a system of majority voting should be implemented , with one or 
more per district , or would you prefer a system with proportional 
representation  ( for the whole of the community or per state , per region , per 
district ) .  . 

3. do you think the european commission  ( or just its president ) should be 
directly elected too , or should it be appointed by the european parliament , or 
by the joint member state governments as it is now 

4. the treaty allows subjects of member states to stand for 
election in another member state they are residing in. do you think you would 
or could vote for a foreigner if his her ideas appeal to you 

5. do you think should be allowed to be a member of a national parliament 
or a regional parliament too or a member of a national or regional government 
body 

6. the european parliament now has meetings in both strasbourg and brussels .  . 
themselves are for a complete move to brussels in great majority , but 
political compromises between the governments of the member states stick to 
the status quo .  . do you approve of this or do you think the european parliament 
should meet in one city only , and if yes , which 

please post your answers to eunet . politics . , to which all followups are 
automatically directed .  . if you do not have access to that group , please mail 
your answer directly to me and i will post it for you. 

i hope many of you will take the time to post their views on this matter. 

roland b . 034 . voor de van 
vrije universiteit brussel media , informatie en 
2 1050 brussel belgium tel. 32 . 2 . 641 . 24 15 
e mail tel. 32 . 2 . 641 . 24 12 
talk fax 32 . 2 . 641 . 28 61 

from 
subject re worshipping the constitution  ( was my gun is .  .  . ) . 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 29 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

(paul prescod ) said 

sorry. reading this newsgroup i ca n't help but get the impression of 
frothing at the mouth lunatics .  . i get a lot of 

snip 

c) constitution worshiping it 's right because it 's in the 
constitution as if the constitution was n't framed by men , centuries 
ago in a totally different world. 

we have three options with respect to the constitution 

1. abide by it. 
2. duly amend it. 
3. abandon those parts of which a majority disapproves .  . 

of course , since the whole point of the constitution is to restrain the 
will of the majority , and since even in unfettered democracy we have 
nothing to fear from minorities , 3 amounts to abandoning the 
constitution altogether. 

which will it be 


mark pundurs 

any resemblance between my opinions and those 
of wolfram research , inc. is purely coincidental 

from  ( mark walsh ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 18 

in article , (xavier gallagher ) writes 

well , the obvious point to make is would straight men fuck like rabbits 
if the oppertunity presented itself 

i reckon any man would go wildly promiscuous if presented with a 
huge variety of willing partners .  . 

if true , and if gays were the same as straights except 
for sexual preference , i would imagine that gays would 
have much less sex than straights because the available 
pool for dates is less than one tenth what it is for 
straights .  . somebody correct  ( flame ) me please ! 

mark walsh  ( walsh@optilink ) uucp uunet ! optilink ! walsh 
amateur radio aol 
what , me worry william m. gaines , 1922 1992 
i'm gonna crush you ! andre the giant , 1946 1993 

from 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization city council , public access. 
lines 35 
distribution world 
nntp posting host kosmos . wcc . govt . nz . 

 ( gary piatt ) writes 
clayton cramer wrote 
... when you and the rest of the homosexual community 
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to 
hire , rent to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against 
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying 
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this. 

ahh , what 's good for the goose is not necessarily what 's good for 
the  . you do n't want homosexuals to impose their moral codes 
 ( such diabolical ideas as equal rights ) on you , yet you are willing 
to impose your moral codes on them. do i detect a double standard 

what exactly does the american constitution say about the right 
to association 
homosexuals , whether clayton likes it or not , are as much members 
of society as he is. as such they have the right to participate and 
have an equal opportunity to pursue their goals. 
no one is saying that clayton should be forced to associate with 
in his private life  ( one suspects the gays in question would 
object also 8 ) ) , but by proclaiming the general right not to associate 
with them in the public sphere (which includes housing , hiring , etc) , 
he 's giving his right to non association priority over their rights to 
equal access to opportunity. 
historically , people can associate publically with disliked groups 
with very little ill effect , however cutting a group off from normal 
commerce has a severe impact on their lives. 
clayton , why exactly should your right to non association in the 
public sphere take priority over homosexual 's rights to equal opportunity 


tony , wellington , new zealand .  . 
usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive , 
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind 
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. gene , 1992 

from (g .  . wolfe woodbury ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay bashing in wilmington nc ) verdict 
organization red wolfe @ the wolves den 
lines 38 
x md4 signature 

 ( william december starr ) writes 

in article , 
 ( thomas farrell ) said 

a good case a f king good case the defense lawyer asked the victim 
questions like what kind of sexual perversions do you participate 
in and you think he made a good case 

speaking as someone who 's only about six weeks and a 6 , 900 tuition bill 
away from becoming an unemployed slob with a law degree , i 'd really like 
to see a transcript of this trial .  . i 'd especially like to know what 
happened immediately after the defense attorney asked that question 
 ( assuming that the reports that he did so are accurate .  .  .  . i'm not 
accusing tom farrell of making anything up , but this is the sort of 
case that spawns garbled misquotes , false rumors and urban legends like 
tribbles) .  . it 'd be nice to think that the prosecutor objected 
 ( irrelevant , prejudicial , inflammatory .  .  .  . take your pick) and that the 
judge upheld the objection .  . 

having watched most of the televised trial , i can answer that 
when such statements were made by the defense , the prosecutor did 
object , and the judge tended to sustain the ones that were obviously 
falling under the self incrimination type of objection .  . there was 
quite a bit of meta discussion during the trial over the use of graphic 
language , with most folks asking the judge if she wanted to hear the 
exact language. practically every time the defense tried to get the 
plaintiffs to self incriminate by asking them such questions , there 
were objections and  . 

at one point the defense managed to get in a about 
solicitation for a felony and the judge herself said sustained 
before the prosecutor could get the objection stated .  . 

g. wolfe woodbury @ the wolves den , durham nc this site is not affiliated 
with duke university ! idiots ! 
uucp ... ! duke ! wolves ! wolfe standard disclaimers apply 
above all , we celebrate ! celebrate the circle , statement of purpose. 

from 
subject re drugs and crime a new approach 
organization memphis state university 
lines 233 

 ( mark wilson ) writes , 
 ( missing the entire point of my post) 

wrote 

given that 

1. the trade in illegal drugs is responsible for 
much of the crime which afflicts our nation .  . 

there is much evidence that it is the fact that the drugs are illegal , not 
the drugs themselves that have caused the violence .  . witness prohibition 
and the violence that surrounded the trade in alcohol .  . 

no joke. 

2. people who want drugs  ( particularly people who 
are predisposed to addiction ) will find a way to get 
them , whether or not they are legally available. 

this is suppossed to be an argument for keeping drugs illegal 

no , you jumped to that conclusion .  . it 's actually an argument as 
to how to accomplish the societal good of discouraging drug use 
without violating individual rights. 

3. despite current law enforcement efforts , drugs 
are readily available to those who want them. 

this is suppossed to be an argument for keeping drugs illegal 

no. you missed the point. the point is , the war on drugs 
is a failure , and is counterproductive .  . 

4. addiction to drugs , legal and illegal , is 
responsible for a significant drain on the productive 
resources of our country , and this occurs in a variety 
of ways , from the cocaine addicted babies who are 
unable to learn , to the spread of disease among 
addicts , to the tragic consequences of alcohol abuse 
and tobacco smoking .  . 

the crack baby scenario has been thouroughly discredited .  . it 
just so happens that the symptoms seen in the crack babies are 
identical to fetal alcohol syndrome .  . and the mothers who admitted 
to taking crack also admitted to drinking heavily during pregnancy .  . 

in this country people are free to be stupid if they want to. 

but , they are not free to be stupid and injure other people. 
admittedly , the fetal right to life is outside the scope of 
this discussion. however , it 's ridiculous to assert , as you 
apparently do , that cocaine has no effect on the developing 
fetal nervous system. caffiene and nicotine have fetal effects 
too , why should cocaine be any exception 

5. a general economic principle of government is 
that whatever is subsidized you get more of , and 
whatever is taxed you get less of. to be most 
effective in confronting the nation 's drug problem , 
some way must be found to utilize these additional 
powers of government to make drug dealing and drug use 
less attractive. 

so make the drugs legal , tax them and use the tax money to fund a program 
to tell people how drugs are. it has worked for the legal drugs. 

if you had read my article before writing your knee jerk response 
you would have seen that this is exactly what i advocated .  . 

while this country 's current efforts to combat 
legal drugs have succeeded in some respects ,  ( there is 
a greater awareness of the health consequences of 
smoking , and designated driver programs have helped 
reduce drunk driving , for example) , the same cannot be 
said for the war on illegal drugs. there remains a 
core group of illegal drug users which support 
international networks of smugglers , pushers , , 
processors , , and gangsters .  . these networks 
and their marketing activities , which include drive 
by shootings , corrupting law enforcement authorities , 
and smuggling weapons , are directly or indirectly 
responsible for a large proportion of the crimes 
committed in our country every day. 

each and every one of these problems is a direct result of the 
drug trade being illegal .  . 

no shit , sherlock .  . 

... 
clearly , illegal drugs and rising crime are 
linked .  . it takes only a moment 's reflection to 
recognize how they are linked .  . the link is money. as 
with this country 's failed effort to prohibit alcohol 
consumption , a black market has been created , in which 
greedy local monopolies , like the gangsters of a 
era , have enormously from their 
illegal trade. the victims of this trade include not 
only the innocent people unfortunate enough to be 
caught in the crossfire , but , i would argue , the drug 
users themselves. 

a great argument for making drugs legal .  . 

thank you. how could you have missed the point so utterly 
what have you been smoking 

here then is my proposal 

1. possession and use of all presently illegal 
drugs is , but buying and selling them 
remains illegal .  .   can grow their own 
marijuana  ( as many already do today) , other drug users 
can legally import their poison of choice as long as 
they pay the tariffs , and a barter economy of drug 
experimenters develops .  . 

your solution has done nothing to eliminate the violence in 
the drug trade. btw , how is someone going to import a drug 
if buying it is illegal .  . i think you need to think your solution 
through a little more thouroughly .  . 

obviously , importers will not be buying drugs in the u.s. , under 
u.s. jurisdiction .  . use your remaining brain cells. 

2. because of the barter economy which supplies 
the drug users , the black market profits that have so 
enriched the drug lords dwindle .  . if these drugs can 
be obtained for  free  or next to nothing , why buy 
them nevertheless , there will be those who will seek 
to sell these noncommercial drugs even at relatively 
low prices. therefore , 

you have failed to indicate how these drugs can be obtained for 
free or next to nothing. you have stated that the sale of them 
is illegal .  . 

o.k. , i 'll spell it out for you. barter economy means that 
drug users will be permitted to grow or synthesize chemically 
anything they choose , or to buy it outside the u.s. and bring 
it in , if it wo n't grow here. they will also be permitted to 
trade with other drug users for drugs other than the ones they 
themselves grow or manufacture .  . they will not , however be able 
to legally sell their drugs for money. both manufacture and 
importation of noncommercial drugs will be taxed , to discourage 
their use. this is your brain on drugs. any questions 

3. law enforcement activity is concentrated on 
those individuals who continue to buy and sell , and 
also on the crimes committed by drug users too poor to 
afford even low prices. but here is where the 
strategy begins to differentiate between the drug 
dealers , the , and the drug users , their 
victims .  . 

in most cities , this is already the strategy .  . it has already 
failed and is dragging the rest of us down with it. 

pardon me , but possession use of these drugs is still a crime ! 
you cannot the rates at which drug users would seek 
treatment , and the comparative ease with which it could be 
made available today , when these drugs are illegal to possess use , 
with what it would be were they not illegal to possess use. 
possession and use makes treatment much easier. 
drug dealers are exploiting the weaknesses of those persons who 
are prone to addiction , and as such , the drug users should be 
left alone , not thrown in prison along with their  . 
drug dealers are the criminals , and should be treated as such. 
drug addiction does not absolve you of for your 
criminal actions , however. 

4. upon arrest for any crime , suspects are 
permitted to choose whether or not they will undergo a 
drug test. those who choose to cooperate are informed 
that upon conviction for the crime they are accused 
of , if they are found to be a drug user , they will be 
institutionalized until they are clean , and only then 
will they begin to serve their sentence. if they 
choose to cooperate and are already drug free , they 
can begin to serve their sentence right away. those 
who choose not to undergo the drug test and are 
convicted face stiffer fines and serve longer 
sentences .  . 

this sounds a hell of a lot like self incrimination .  . which is 
unconstitutional .  . if drug use is legal in your scheme , why should 
the presence of drugs in anyones system influence the penalty they 
receive much too big for my tastes .  . 

the drug test of an arrested suspect is voluntary , not coerced , 
and does not therefore constitute violation of amendment v. 
those convicted who are drug users , as evidenced by the test , 
are in need of treatment for their problem. 
of these criminals is , i would argue , the best way to 
help them straighten out. if they refuse the test and are convicted , 
their sentence can be appropriately , since they , unlike the 
addict , have no excuse for their crimes .  . 

5. of drug using criminals 
serves several purposes 

drug using criminals  ( and this includes drunk 
and or  stoned  drivers) are separated from their 
sources of supply , thus reducing the total number of 
drug users in society at large , and consequently 
decreasing the demand for drugs on the street , putting 
more of the remaining drug dealers out of business. 

why should drug using criminals be treated any different from 
other criminals , you have already stated that drug use is legal .  . 



why not my objective is to discourage drug use and criminal 
behavior. if fewer criminals do drugs out of fear of getting a 
sentence if they are convicted , why is that not a good 
thing if fewer drug dealers  ( who are still criminals , btw) 
can find victims , why is that not a good thing if fewer drug 
users , such as drunks ,  , ' etc. , commit crimes out of 
fear of being cut off from their sources of supply , why is that 
not a good thing 

i'm certainly willing to debate my position. 
you have to read it carefully though. 

standard disclaimer 
 . x . , dna 
( ) ken barnes , bldg. conservative libertarians 
' for pro balance ! 
( ) memphis , tn 
i find television very educating .  . every time somebody turns on the 
set , i go into the other room and read a book. groucho marx 

from (c . wainwright) . 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
reply to (c . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

i reckon any man would go wildly promiscuous if presented with a 
huge variety of willing partners .  . the question here is not of being 

that , i suppose , says a lot about how screwed up you are. 


hey , clayton , it 's me again ! i just love your arguments .  . they completely 
clinch each and every one of your points ! 

but then again , that , i suppose , says a lot about how screwed up your are. 

 . i have n't had so much fun since i started blasting christians in alt.atheism ! 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
xavier 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from  ( bob ingria ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization bbn , cambridge ma 
lines 38 
reply to 
nntp posting host snoopy . bbn . com . 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 14 11 06 gmt 

in article  ( red herring ) writes 
in article (brian kendig ) writes 

they used a tank to knock a hole in the wall , and they released 
non toxic , non flammable tear gas into the building. 

non toxic tear gas ! do you know what tear gas is 

i do once upon a time i happened to be in a room when someone threw 
a tear gas grenade in  ( that was supposed to be a joke ) .  . the sensation 
was incredible i felt my eyes and were being torn apart. 
i remember us a bunch of young men in our early 20 's running out 
like a herd of wild animals , knocking down the door and jumping 
out of the windows  ( thank g d we were on the first  . 

i ca n't imagine this kind of stuff being used against children. 

for them , the worst effect might not be the physical effects so much 
as the psychological effect of being without fully 
understanding the cause. many years ago , i was accidentally exposed 
to a tiny dose of tear gas. (it was in athens , on the street leading 
to the american embassy there 'd been a march that had been broken up 
with tear gas i must have stumbled into a remaining patch of gas the 
next day . ) . aside from the tears , feeling sick to my stomach , etc. , 
the really horrible psychological effect was that of suddenly falling 
to pieces and not knowing why it had happened i was horrified and 
wondered what disease or other health problem i had. (i did n't find 
out about the march and the tear gas till hours later . ) . i can imagine 
how horribly this might be to very young children 
suddenly crying and feeling sick , weak , and out of 
control of your body and not knowing the cause. 

gives us a chance to try the gas of peace . '' . yeah , right. 


30 
bob 


from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re waco 
originator 
lines 23 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world champion minnesota twins ! 
distribution usa 


in article ,  ( mitchell s todd ) writes 
in article ,  ( lance visser ) writes .  .  .  . 

i ca n't wait for the investigation .  . considering that everyone 
is dead now and the place is burnt to the ground , i guess honest citizens 
will just have to take the word of the atf about how much of a threat 
these people were. 

just look at the history of koresh and his  . they captured 
the mount carmel complex a few ago in a gun battle with a 
rival bd sect , leaving more than one person dead. they were n't 
exactly the most peace loving bunch. 

koresh some of his followers were tried and found innocent of 
all charges following that shootout .  . were you unaware of this or 
did you leave out this fact 



russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else. (c) 1993 
ex twins  jack morris , 10 innings pitched , 0 runs  ( world series mvp ! ) 

from  ( rick roy ) 
subject koresh is dead. it 's time to start healing .  . 
organization , inc. 
reply to  ( rick roy ) 
x mailer macintosh release 1 . 6v2 . 
lines 9 

sorry , but i just wanted to be the first hypocrite to say it. i hope 
i'm not too late. has everyone been watching their local national 
politicians 

rick 


rick roy usenet america online qed 
disclaimer my employer 's views are orthogonal to these. 
the early bird got worms .  . 

from (d .  . owen rowley ) 
subject re mow bodycount 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 17 



oh .  .  . 
just a note , my usually poor typing is made even more dificult by the 
small keyboard and mutiple connections i am piped through in order 
to access news while here in dc .  . 

i'm really not trying to irritate the spelling ) 

. . owen 



d. owen ( also ) 
eu a state of well being 
is my natural state , i do what i enjoy and an abundance 
of all good fortune comes to me for it. 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re waco 
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in  ( mitchell s todd ) writes 

in article ,  ( lance visser ) writes .  .  .  . 

i ca n't wait for the investigation .  . considering that everyone 
is dead now and the place is burnt to the ground , i guess honest citizens 
will just have to take the word of the atf about how much of a threat 
these people were. 

just look at the history of koresh and his  . they captured 
the mount carmel complex a few ago in a gun battle with a 
rival bd sect , leaving more than one person dead. they were n't 
exactly the most peace loving bunch. 

i wonder where you have been getting your mis information from. straight 
from the batf itself 

koresh and his followers did not capture the compound a few years ago , it 
has always been theirs. a few years ago their was an argument over who should 
lead the group , a erupted one person died. koresh was charged 
with the murder .  . when the sheriff came to arrest him , the sheriff knocked 
on the and showed koresh the warrant (a tactic that the batf might try 
learning) .  . koresh and the others charged surrendered to the sherrif .  . 
a trial ensued , the others were found innocent , and the jury hung on koresh 's 
charge. 

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related. 


from  ( jamie r. mccarthy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
summary clayton puts foot in mouth 
organization kalamazoo college 
lines 11 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 

not surprising .  . remember , that study includes homosexuals as well. 

 .  .  . which . would make the number 15 , right clayton 

jamie mccarthy internet j . mccarthy . 

from () 
subject re median re new study out on gay percentage 
organization santa cruz 
lines 41 
nntp posting host orchid . ucsc . edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article , writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
from the santa rosa (cal . ) . press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2 

male sex survey gay activity low 

note this contradictory title gay activity low. 

not really. the percentage of gays was low. headline writers are n't 
noted for accuracy .  . 

but you stated that this study was presented in a very accurate and 
dependable way. this is confusing to the issue. 

and if you read this title it implies that gay sex  ( homosexual sex ) 
activities are low compared to the general population that they surveyed .  . 


a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 
2 percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and 

1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 


actually , 2 were either exclusively homosexual , or bisexual .  . you are n't 
very carefully .  . 

well let us quibble look at the above statement that you posted , i have marked 
it with ' ' , it states that 1 are exclusively homosexual it states 2 are 
or have engaged in homosexual sex. 

and please not the use of adjective here homosexual sex . 

now i stated that if we take 1 as this is a valid viewpoint .  . 

i believe that you are either 1) you are not writing what you think you are 
writing , 2) you ca n't read or remember what you wrote. 


from  ( jamie r. mccarthy ) 
subject re are americans sexually repressed 
organization kalamazoo college 
lines 18 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

unless , of course , the problem is that homosexuality is a form 
of mental disorder , caused by childhood sexual abuse , as a number of 
recent works suggest .  . 

which number is that zero 

please present a number of authoritative works which suggest 
that homosexuality is a form of mental disorder , caused by 
childhood sexual abuse .  . 

do n't present your own biased conclusions , based on a collage 
of tidbits you 've extracted from a few hours  research , as the 
conclusions of people who study mental disease and sexual abuse 
professionally .  . 

jamie mccarthy internet j . mccarthy . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject vietnam deja vu 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 8 


the waco bar b q caused me to remember an official explanation 
from the vietnam war. the 90s , liberal version is 

it was necessary to the children in order to save them. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re ca n't have it both ways news as enemy , news as supporter .  . 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 24 

in article , writes 
mr cramer 

you are on one hand condemning the news media as 

the role of the national news media in inflaming passions that 
was your message subject i believe. 

then you turn around and actually take from the santa rosa (cal . ) . press democrat , 
april 15 , 1993 , p. b2 

male sex survey gay activity low title. 

you even use such a title for the san jose mercury news the murky news. 

now which is it are you going to national media , then turn around 
and use it to support some position you present seems somewhat contradictory 
does n't it. 

if you can show me that the press democrat misrepresented the 
institute 's study , do so. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( bill e jones ) 
subject re race and violence 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa) 
lines 2 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


not this again. 

subject re the earth also some scientists do not believe ... 
from rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) 
nntp posting host 128 . 159 . 2 . 197 . 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( mark wilson ) says 

many environmentalists attributed the 1988 drought in the u.s. to global 
warming , but researchers with the national center for atmospheric research in 

educated and open minded environmentalists do not. 

one of the most effective come backs i have seen in a long time. 

everybody who disagrees with me is stupid and closed minded .  . 

no , what it means is that i , like a majority of environmental scientists researchers , 
agree that el la nina and the southern oscillations are the systems 
in that climatic phenomena categorized by humans as a  . 

furthermore , in response to an earlier message , the 1992 u.s. est. output of 
sulfur dioxide (20 mill .  . tons ) was equivalent to the entire output by the recent 
of mt. ) .  . currently world carbon dioxide levels set at approx. 
360 ppm , in the past 120 , 000 years it has never gone above 280  ( this info 
was found using ice core samples from the joint french russian u.s. vostok 
 . furthermore , the background emmisions of chlorine compounds into 
the is about 0.6 ppb annually , it now sits at 3 . 5 .  . this overwhelming 
data info is found in the world resources doc. published by oxford university .  . 

the ozone hole in the northern and southern hemispheres keeps getting bigger 
and  around longer whilst skeptics ponder how wrong or corrupt all this 
data from government and international scientific institutions is. it is a pity , that , 
if the skeptics are wrong and we base our complacency on their limbaugh 
psycho babble , then we will find ourselves strapped by limited options with 
which to rectify the primal engineering of our industrial age. 

my employer does n't subscribe to my opinions , just the data. disclaimer 

from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 44 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article , ( joe cipale ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
however , monogamous homosexual male sex is so rare that for practical 
purposes , homosexuality spreads aids .  . 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

you fucking homophobic moron ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! what about iv drug use what about 
tainted blood what about multi sexual partners if you knew anything 

what about them those also spread aids .  . where did i say anything 
different go back and read what i wrote. the statement homosexuality 
spreads aids is not made false by the fact that there are other 
methods of spreading it as well. 

about what you are talking about , you would be dangerous. as it is right now , 
you are a persistent boil on the skin of humanity that needs to be  . 

joe cipale 

typical homosexual response. 




you have yet to answer any or all of my questions and challenges to your 
statements .  . by this am i to assume that you are unable to do so or just 
plain unwilling due to your lack of proof intelligence so what next i 
prove you wrong so you just put me in your killfile 

your lack of reasoned response seems to be a typical clayton response. 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 


from (gerald olchowy ) 
subject re eight myths about national health insurance  ( pt ii ) 
organization university of toronto chemistry department 
lines 97 

in article  ( gary l dare ) writes 
 ( daniel b case) writes 
also , in the april 14 globe and mail , there was a letter from the 
director of trauma services at st. michael 's hospital in toronto 
responding to an article on a study comparing heart surgery in 
california and canada in which some canadian doctor worried that 

that study which was in the nejm , i think , noted that the frequency 
of heart surgery on patients over seventy increase with income in 
california (i guess richer people have more heart disease in 
california ) ) whereas the frequency of surgery on patients over 
seventy in canada was relatively uniform across income distribution .  . 
heart surgery was more frequent in california , but mortality and 
outcomes were essentially the same. 

american analysts would seize on the results as proof that canada 
vital services. the doctor (i ca n't recall his name) said 
that canada is rationing vital services as any physician can 
plainly see . he said that a system in which people are refused 
treatment because they ca n't afford it is no different from a system 
in which people are refused treatment because the government ca n't 
afford it as a result of deliberate of the health 
insurance plan. in fairness , he did say that both the us and 
canadian systems are in the same situation. 

(the ndp cleaning up a tory spending mess and just when i thought 
i understood canadian  . 


there was one about a group of doctors in calgary who have opened 
canada 's first us style mri clinic , as an alternative to the 
owned one. 

it 's about time ! i 've on my own doctor friends as to why they 
do n't invest in their own private practices ... in the end , it 's their 
money. but they choose to spend it on america 's cup , and 
that 's none of my business. as for owned ... for sure 
it 's against the law in canada for governments to be directly involved 
in the provision of health care except in the military or native 
 . what that term actually means is that the facility gets by 
on public grants to meet from lack of use ... no kidding. 
medical practice itself is much more conservative up north .  . my own 
best friend did two at the mayo clinic in rochester , mn , 
and is no stranger to high tech medicine ... but his boat comes first. 

there were some people expressing concern that it was the first wedge of 
two tiered health care and that it might violate the canada health act. 

no , it 's probably socialist who are offended that we have 
private practices ... and always have. they can all take cash 
anyways ... so why not have a particular facility the canadian 
big government mentality often government where it does 
not even exist ... 


the only potential problem i see with the private mri in calgary is the 
self referral problem to the facility for the doctors who have a financial 
interest in it , which is basically unethical .  .  . but . in canada because 
of our small population , there is likely only to be a few private 
facilities involving only a small number of doctors , 
and thus i do n't think the self referral problem , which is an epidemic in the 
us , could ever get out of hand here. 

look , nobody stopped the clinic when they planned on the mri ... 
nobody stopped them when they bought it. nobody seems to be stopping 
them from using it , either. much ado about nothing. thank goodness 
that hockey playoffs have started ... 


it is an experiment that will be certainly be watched carefully .  . 

while it seemed currently unjustified , there was one anecdote told by 
the head of the partnership to demonstrate the mri .  . he showed an 
image of an injured knee , which happened to belong to the manager of 
the bank who approved the loan .  . he said that without it , the guy 
might have had to wait a month or more at the provincial mri , then 
another length of time for treatment , after which the muscles would 
have and rehabilitation would have been that much harder 
if that is n't the first of two , i do n't know what is. 

i'm certain there is exaggeration somewhere , because the gao study 
of canada cited often on usenet did not find access to mri to be a 
problem. i 'll bet the doctor is relying on people having listened 
to american trash talk on cable so that he can his chest a bit. 
there are already a few treatment for knee injuries without 
relying on mri ... unfortunately , i 've had a few. ) and i'm not 
a banker .  . ( 


what likely happened is the sponsors of the private mri which include 
doctors anticipated that alberta would need more mri 's , and instead 
of waiting for the health planners to realize they needed another 
one or two , saw a business opportunity .  .  . where . they would have a 
secure business from the public insurance side of things , and they 
could supplement people and businesses who want to pay cash. 

gerald 

from (richard chandler ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 13 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

from  ( elf sternberg ) 
 . thank you for playing , but obviously you are not reading the 
material as it is presented .  . according to the report i 've got in my 
hands , the newsweek article (which reported that 2 to 3 percent of the 
population is gay ) used the criteria of no heterosexual contact in the 
past year. but at the same time , the university of denver study points 
out , quite dramatically , that 60 of all self identifying gay men have 
had some form of heterosexual contact in the past year. 

i think the big mistake in that study must be that if one had had no sexual 
contact of any kind in the previous year , they are counted as heterosexual .  . 
even if they did n't intend it that way , that 's how the figures are being used. 


from  ( ch'rowl captain ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 55 
distribution world 
nntp posting host sdcc13 . ucsd . edu . 

in article  ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article ,  ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
from the santa rosa (cal . ) . press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the politicians will have plenty to be scared of in one week be it 1 or 
90 . 

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 5million . queers 
gather in washington dc .  . after all if there are only 6million of 
us then this is an event unprecidented in history .  .  .  . 

but many of the people who will be marching are n't homosexuals , but 
other members of the leftist agenda .  . 

i'm sure there will be a few non queers , but the vast majority are 
queer .  . 

i find it very interesting that you say there will be 2.5 million 
queers in the march on washington .  . the largest figure i 've seen in 
the press is 1 million and we all know how liberal the press is with 
their numbers. ) 

for another thing , 1 of 250 million is 2.5 million not 6. maybe 
that 's where you got the 2.5 million number. also , the number cited 
in the actual report is 1.5 so that would be about 3.75 million. 

as for this march on washington , i wonder how much the media is 
going to inflate the numbers this time. last time , for the 
pro abortion rally , they more than doubled the actual number of 
people who showed up. that and all the stories coming out of how 
the press the news really makes one wonder who 's watching 
the watchers .  . 

 . 


jon schell life is something to do when you ca n't 
the master get to sleep. fran 
anything that is good and useful is 
made of chocolate. fortune 
re boot to the head. me 

no one else would be crazy enough to claim these opinions. 42 


from (not a boomer ) 
subject re not talking to soldiers , part ii 
summary hmmmm , i seem to remember us troops on college campuses .  .  .  . 
organization acme products 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( jeff sicherman ) writes 
janet , some advice go with the seals delta force green next 
time and talk nicely to the generals .  . 

this might be illegal without a very specific presidential declaration 
or even a change in law. in general  ( sic ) , u.s. military troops are not 
permitted to be used for domestic policing operations .  . 

do you mean besides the national guard 

outside of military reservations 

besides national 

brett 

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . sean o casey in the white plague by frank herbert .  . 

from (paul schmidt ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization advocates for self government davy crockett chapter 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 22 

br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal 
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented .  . now why do you suppose 
that never seems to occur ... 

advances in freedom have been made in the past. the divine right of 
king concept was questioned at one time and may have used the same 
argument , that it had n't come about before. but our ancestors had the 
courage to throw off the old system that said that one man ruling many 
was necessary to have a decent , wholesome society. in the 1800s the 
concept of slavery was questioned .  . our ancestors had the courage to 
question a practice that had existed for thousands of years. was 
the idea that one man owning another necessary to have a decent , 
wholesome society now libertarians question the necessity of 
 . is it necessary that many people rule over many 
others to have a decent , wholesome society 

paul schmidt advocates for self government , davy crockett chapter president 
706 judith drive , johnson city , tn 37604 ,  ( 615)283 ) 0084 , uunet ! ! 
freedom seems to have unleashed the creative energies of the people and 
leads to ever higher levels of income and social progress. u.n. report 

from  ( roger d . ) . 
subject re clayton is an asshole  ( but we all already know that) 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 35 

here 's a hypothetical question .  .  .  . if clayton said something like all 
those are really stupid. (please do n't be offended , i'm not racist 
but merely using an example of clayton 's  . and then said he 
read a report that a lot of blacks in inner cities dropped out of school , i 
bet he would n't have your support. yet he can claim that all homosexuals are 
dishonest , evil , lying child molesters without personally having a single 
homosexual friend or acquaintance and you 'll sit there and support him. 

god created a place for bigots .  . it 's called hell and clayton is going 
to burn there for a long time. i pray for him to find in his heart the 
christian values he espouses so that he can learn to love his gay brothers 
and sisters , because anyone with so much hatred in his soul never 
be righteous .  . 

there is a difference between supporting opinions and supporting 
his right to speak. i want you to know that you cannot educate and or 
elevate ones understanding by calling him names. clayton has an opinion 
which in his mind is as valid as any opinion anyone else on the net has. 
if you were to walk up to black person to talk about blacks in the inner 
city and began the conversation with those in th .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . you 
would lose the attention of that black person by the time you spoke your 
second word. all name calling and remarks do is turn off the 
audience you are trying to address. clayton is guilty of that and as 
such has distracted attention away from his message to bits and pieces 
of his conversation. i do n't understand why people want to repeat his 
mistakes ! 





hanging by the tips of my finger 
at the edge of the internet 



from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
lines 52 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article ,  ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
from the santa rosa (cal . ) . press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday 
by the alan institute are significantly lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report. 

1) so what 

homosexuals lie about the 10 number to hide the disproportionate 
involvement of homosexuals in child molestation .  . 

put up or shut up. where is your evidence 
show a study indicating a link between liking grown ups of the same 
sex and liking children. saying that 30 of molested children are male 
shows nothing since it tells you nothing of the molesters preference 
in adults  ( if they have any at all) .  . 

they also lie 
about 10 to keep politicians scared. 

the politicians will have plenty to be scared of in one week be it 1 or 
90 . 

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 5million . queers 
gather in washington dc .  . after all if there are only 6million of 
us then this is an event unprecidented in history .  .  .  . 

but many of the people who will be marching are n't homosexuals , but 
other members of the leftist agenda .  . 

i'm sure there will be a few non queers , but the vast majority are 
queer .  . 


join the pythagorean reform church ! . 
repent of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . . 


from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re waco burning 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 17 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , (david garrod ) says 



reports that a survivor of the waco massacre states that a tank , when 
making a hole in the wall of the building , knocked over a kerosene 
lamp and that is how the fire started. attempts were made by the 
people inside to put out the fire , but it spread too quickly. 


this is pretty much what koresh 's lawyers were told by the 
remaining survivors on larry king live. in addition , parts 
of the unsealed warrant were mentioned. it surely sounds 
as if the batf were in violation from day one. 



from state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) 
subject re kyle k. on rodney king 
nntp posting host bottom . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 46 

in article 
writes 
in article  ( koppenhoefer 
kyle cramm ) writes 
 ( ted frank ) writes 
in article  ( koppenhoef 
er kyle cramm ) writes 
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy tha 
t 

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit 

i'm curious why you think that particular adjective is important. 

black is a descriptive adjective that describes mr. king .  . from many 
of the newspaper , radio , and tv news reports i have seen , this adjective 

is commonly in front of his name. i have never seen anyone complain about 
the use of this adjective when used in a benign manner. i did not say that 
mr. king was a no good black ! i do not know mr. king and would not make this 
without some evidence to this effect. i used it purely as a 
descriptive adjective in the same manner than many ( most ) news people have 
used it in the past. 

no one is questioning whether mr. king is black. the question arises 
whether king 's race should make police officers afraid as hell. your 
statement seems to imply that cops should have a different standard for 
large black guys than for just large guys in general. 

the original poster never said they were afraid of king because he was 
black. in fact the officers were afraid of king because of what he did , 
not because of the color of his skin. it is you , mr. frank that read the 
phrase large black man and cried racism in a typical knee jerk fashion. 
when you  ( and others , i suspect) can get past this problem maybe the real 
problems in this issue can be discussed .  . 

that two posts later you do n't understand why anyone pointed out your use 
of the adjective is almost as informative as your original use. 

ted frank 
i'm sorry , the card says moops .  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

 . 

from joe13 (joseph b stiehm ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 30 

in article (richard hoenes ) writes 
... 

such a hostage situation has taken place on numerous occasions 
with the result of the police trying to take the place by 
force and the result being the death of the hostages and the 
gunmen .  . however , this is the first time i 've heard of 
the blame landing squarely on the police .  . 

in this country we have a policy of not negotiating a back down 
from terrorists and hostage takers since that only encourages 
other terrorists and hostage takers .  . 

richard 

that people are at risk and that some die during a hostage situation might 
be considered an acceptable scenario in storming a compound .  . 

when everyone dies  ( save for nine people) , including twenty children , the 
outcome must be considered a failure. 

now was the failure due to circumstances , incompetence , or 
negligence from the double talk and multiple stories i 've seen on the news 
coming from the fbi and reno i find it was an honest mistake hard to swallow 

let 's hope they get their stories straight for the second round of questions. 



joseph stiehm 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 52 

in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article , ( joe cipale ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
however , monogamous homosexual male sex is so rare that for practical 
purposes , homosexuality spreads aids .  . 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

you fucking homophobic moron ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! what about iv drug use what about 
tainted blood what about multi sexual partners if you knew anything 

what about them those also spread aids .  . where did i say anything 
different go back and read what i wrote. the statement homosexuality 
spreads aids is not made false by the fact that there are other 
methods of spreading it as well. 

but it is made false by your ridiculous leap of logic from monogamous 
homosexual male sex is so rare (which is a load of as 
proportionately many queers are monogamous as hets , and the ones who are n't 
use condoms , for the most part) to for practical purposes , homosexuality 
spreads aids .  . no. unprotected sex with an infected partner spreads aids .  . 
these practical purposes you speak of are obviously the purposes of 
spreading homophobia , which leads me to an interesting truth cramer 
spreads hate. is n't that nice 

about what you are talking about , you would be dangerous. as it is right now , 
you are a persistent boil on the skin of humanity that needs to be  . 

joe cipale 

typical homosexual response. 

you mean , typical homosexual response to clayton e. cramer .  . i think any 
human being would react that way to someone as hateful as you , 
actually. i seem to hear the same sort of thing coming from your posts , you 
know .  .  .  .  . 


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 


planning to make this a complete sentence anytime soon 



bi andrew d. schnopia ! 


words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes 

from () 
subject could it be backwards re new study out on gay percentage 
organization santa cruz 
lines 28 
nntp posting host orchid . ucsc . edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

what was the purpose of this post if it was to show a mindless obsession 
with statistics , an incredibly flawed system of reasoning , and a repellent 
hatemonger agenda , then the purpose was accomplished with panache .  . 

(a) get a clue. (b) get a life. (c) get out of my face. i'm not in yours. 

bi andrew d. schnopia ! 

yes you are. when you and the rest of the homosexual community 
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to 
hire , rent to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against 
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying 
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this. 

but are n't you imposing your moral standards against gay people because 
you do not want to rent to , or hire , or as you put associate with , ( 
and i do not know of a law that requires you to associate with gay 
people) it works both ways. 

all people want to have an equal opportunity for all things that 
lie in the public domain .  . it will be a gigantic step forward when 
people take other people based upon ability and talent , rather 
than skin color , eye color , height , weight , sexual orientation 
 ( and i use this last one as meaning gay , bi , straight , let 's not 
go off on the tangent about pedophiles , rapist , etc . ) . 


from 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment 
summary thanks for the offer 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division 
distribution usa 
lines 55 

in article , ( writes .  .  .  . 
in article , 
 ( grep a friend ) writes 
in article ,  ( ian writes .  .  .  . 
i could n't disagree with you more strongly .  . it sounds good , but in 
practice it too often becomes tyranny , because there are too often 
conflicting ideas of what constitutes improving the human condition . 
far better to let people and their organizations pursue whatever goals 
they think best , and let the human condition be improved by those who 
are willing to do so without coercion .  . 

there will always be conflicting ideas on what constitutes improving the 
human condition , that 's humanity .  . you seem to believe that libertarianism 
will improve the human condition by lifting all constraints , and that 
people will have a better chance of improving themselves in that environment. 

let me try to put it another way. libertarians believe that an 
environment provides the best chance of solving any 
problem because it maximizes creativity .  . however , there is never 
any guarantee that a really good solution will ever be found to any 
particular problem. utopia is not an option. 

utopia is a myth  ( although we can do a lot better than what we have today) .  . 
but i think that you must pitch libertarianism as a progressive agenda 
(ie you can do better under our style of system) .  . 

i admire a lot of what the libertarians stand for , but you 
guys are some of the worst salesmen i have ever seen. and when it comes to 
politics , you need salesmen whether you want them or not. 

what we need are more people who agree with us , know something 
about , and are willing to both do that marketing and teach 
others how to. are you in 

i'm by your invitation , but i'm afraid you have the wrong person. 
although i completely agree with your civil liberties agenda , i'm not 
in support of your economic agenda .  . what i do like about the libertarian 
party is that you guys are so good at shaking up the tired ideas of the 
past. i encourage you guys to continue your crusade , but i'm afraid i 
ca n't ride along. 

ian sutherland 


nothing is as inevitable as a mistake whose time has garrett johnson 
come. 

june 


nothing is as inevitable as a mistake whose time has garrett johnson 
come. 
the probability of someone watching you is proportional 
to the stupidity of your action. unknown 


from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re to be , or not to be a disaster 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random. 
distribution na 
lines 34 

in article  ( douglas young ) writes 
you should face the facts. love canal was not , and is not , an 
environmental disaster , nor even a problem. 

nor is times beach and tmi and acid rain killing trees and 
.... 

not a problem would you move to three mile island i would 
imagine there is some cheap property available ! 

no , because i do n't like the weather back east .  . however , it would bother me 
not one bit to live in an equivalent area here. by the way , do you know what 
the extra exposure to radiation from tmi was 

the naturally occurring catastrophic events disasters that 
destroy property (ie hurricanes , tornados , earthquakes ) do 
not usually leave toxic wastes that prevent people from 
re building their lives there. the man made disasters  ( oil 
spills , toxic dumping , radioactive waste dispersions ) cause 
death and make an area unliveable far beyond the initial 
event. 

o.k. , in the u.s. , tell me about some of these deaths and some of these 
unliveable areas. oh , and if you manage to find some of these unliveable 
areas , tell me what percentage of the total us land area they are. 
 ( hint the total waste produced by all nuclear reactors in the us can be 
safely stored in the area of three fields . ) . 



there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . weird , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll rent 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from (richard ottolini ) 
subject re bill targets pension funds for liberation 
organization corporation 
lines 14 

in article (david fox ) writes 
no one has time to chase down every rumor that gets printed 
in the national enquirer or whatever. the point is to wait 
and see if the assertions of the  ( rather bizarre ) original 
post will be corroborated in any way. perhaps they will. 
the recent posts of the rather bizarre original poster speak 
for themselves. 

this story was in the la times a few months ago. 
the clinton administration is exploring every avenue of 
revenue enhancement , but not all will be chosen .  . 

there was a funny cartoon in sunday 's ny times bill 
clinton 's calendar . every day was april 15. 

from (david fox ) 
subject re bill targets pension funds for liberation 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 17 14 37 gmt 
nntp posting host graphics . cs . nyu . edu . 
organization courant institute of mathematical sciences 

lines 24 

in article  ( mark wilson ) writes 

in (mike quigley ) writes 

excerpts from insight magazine , march 15 , 1993 

paranoia part deleted. 

is n't insight magazine published by the 

i do n't remember the article that you removed so i ca n't comment on it. 
what i can comment on though is your response. 

do you really believe that what you wrote is sufficient to refute 
the article do have any facts in addition to your opinion 

no one has time to chase down every rumor that gets printed 
in the national enquirer or whatever. the point is to wait 
and see if the assertions of the  ( rather bizarre ) original 
post will be corroborated in any way. perhaps they will. 
the recent posts of the rather bizarre original poster speak 
for themselves. 

david 

from  ( william a bacon ) 
subject some scientists do not believe in the green house effect 
organization the cellar bbs and public access system 
lines 93 

the following statement was released 
on february 27 , 1992 by the science 
environmental policy project 

as independent scientists researching atmosphere and climate problems , we are 
concerned by the agenda for , the united nations conference on 
environment and development , being developed by environmental and activists 
groups and certain political leaders .  . this so called earth summit is 
scheduled to convene in brazil in june 1992 and aims to impose a system of 
global regulations , including onerous taxes on energy fuels , on 
the population of the united states and other industrialized nations .  . 
such policy initiatives derive from highly scientific theories .  . they 
are based on the unsupported assumption that catastrophic global warming 
follows from the burning of fuels and requires immediate action. we 
do not agree. 
a survey of u.s. atmospheric scientists , conducted in the summer of 1991 , 
confirms that there is no about the cause of the slight warming 
observed during the past century. a recently published research paper even 
suggests sunspot variability (which is directly proportional to solar 
activity ) , rather than a rise in greenhouse gases is responsible for the 
global temperature increases and decreases since about 1880 .  . 
, the majority of scientific participants in the survey agreed that 
the theoretical climate climate models used to predict a future warming 
cannot be relied upon and are not validated by the existing climate record. 
yet all predictions are based on such theoretical models. 
finally , generally agree that any increase in carbon dioxide 
levels from fossil fuels burning has beneficial effects on most crops and on 
world food supply. 
we are disturbed that activists , anxious to stop energy and economic growth , 
are pushing ahead with drastic policies without taking notice of recent 
changes in the underlying science. we fear that the rush to impose global 
regulations will have catastrophic impacts on the world economy , on jobs , 
standards of living , and health care , with the most severe consequences 
falling on developing countries and the poor. 
david b. aubrey , phd , senior , woods hole oceanographic institute .  . 
nathaniel b. , phd , research physical scientist , national climatic 
data center. hugh b. , phd , , livermore 
national laboratory .  . richard , phd , center for meteorology and 
physical , massachusetts institute of technology. robert c. 
, phd , director , laboratory of , arizona state university .  . 
patrick micheals , phd , assoc. professor of environmental sciences , 
of virginia .  . roger , phd , professor of atmospheric science , 
colorado state university .  . micheal , phd , professor of meteorology , 
university of virginia .  . sherwood p. , phd , research physicist , u.s. water 
conservation laboratory .  . 
lev s. phd , visiting scientist , national center for atmospheric 
research. john a. , chief , forecast research group , forecast systems 
laboratory , noaa .  . h. jean , phd , research scientist , national 
center , national weather service , noaa .  . kenneth v. beard , phd , 
professor of atmospheric physics , university of illinois .  . paul w. mielke , jr. 
phd , professor , department of statistics , colorado state university .  . thomas 
, meteorological standards institute .  . 
peter f. , , weather service director .  . a. , 
, former regional director , national weather service. 


gabriel t. , phd , eminent professor , old dominion university .  . roy 
, executive weather director , weather data services. terrance j. 
clark , , u.s. air force. neil l. frank , phd , , 
national weather service. bruce a. boe , phd , director , north dakota 
atmospheric resource board. andrew detweiler , phd , assoc. professor , 
institute of atmospheric sciences , south dakota school of mines and 
technology. 
robert m. cunningham , consulting , fellow , american 
meteorological society. stephen r. , phd , sigma research corporation , 
elliot , , senior vice president , , inc. 
william e. , phd , consulting , professor emeritus , 
forest meteorology , yale university .  . david w. , research 
 . jerry a. williams , , president , ocean routes , 
inc. 
lee w. , , geophysics division , pacific missile test 
center . werner . a , phd , former dean , college of arts sciences , florida 
state university . david . p. , phd , assoc. professor of research 
oceanography , scripps institution of  . brian , phd , asst 
professor of meteorology , university of  . 
edward a. ,  . shapiro , chief of meteorological 
research wave propagation laboratory , noaa .  . , jr. , associate 
professor of meteorology , plymouth state college. james a. moore , project 
manager , research applications program , national center for atmospheric 
research. daniel j , and engineering .  . brian 
, , fellow , american , fellow , american 
meteorological society. h read mcgrath , phd ,  . robert e. 
,  . 
william m. porch , phd , atmospheric physicist , los alamos national 
laboratory .  . earle r. williams , phd , associate of meteorology , dept. 
of earth , atmospheric , and planetary sciences , massachusetts institute of 
technology. s. fred singer , phd , atmospheric , university of 
virginia , director , science environmental policy project.  ( affilitions 
listed are for identification purposes only) .  . 


 ( william a bacon ) 
the cellar bbs (215) 539 3043 

from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton am press briefing by dee dee myers 4 . 20 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 693 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press secretary 

for immediate release april 20 , 1993 


press briefing 
by dee dee myers 

the briefing room 


9 47 a.m. edt 


ms. myers okay , today 's schedule. as you know , the 
president this morning with senator  . 

at 1 15 p.m. , he will have a photo opportunity in the 
rose garden to present the teacher of the year award. at 1 30 p.m. , 
he will meet with his principal advisors on bosnia .  . and at 5 00 
p.m. , he 'll meet with president  . there will be a photo 
op at the top of that meeting no formal press conference afterwards. 

any questions 

q is he moving towards some major decision this week 
on bosnia 

ms. myers as we 've said , he 's continuing to discuss 
his options. he 's been talking extensively with his foreign policy 
advisors , his bosnia advisors , as well as with other world leaders .  . 
he 'll try to contact president again today , and he 'll 
continue to discuss it. we do n't have any specific timetable , but 
obviously the situation there is very serious. 

q has he called janet reno today or yesterday 

ms. myers i do n't believe he 's spoken to her today. 

q why does he have nothing to say about this publicly 
except on the piece of paper that was put out last night at 6 40 
p.m. 

ms. myers he did. he answered a question about it 
yesterday. 

q before anything had happened. 

ms. myers before anything happened. he put out 

q since something has happened he 's had nothing to 
say. 

ms. myers he 's put out a statement on it last night. 
and we 'll have more to say about it later today. 

q in what forum is that going to be 

ms. myers it will be at the photo in the rose garden. 

q he will talk about waco at that 

ms. myers yes , he 'll have something to say. 

q is that something we can take live 


ms. myers i think it will be brief .  . we can talk a 
little later about the exact structure as we work it out. but i 
do n't know if it 's something you 'd want to take live. 

q will he take questions on waco at that time as 
well 

ms. myers he 'll probably take a few. 

q is there any reason why he has n't talked to the 
attorney general 

ms. myers i 'll have to double check. i do n't know 
that he has n't talked to her this morning. 

q and she did n't come here this morning to see him or 
anyone else 

ms. myers no. 

q and he did n't talk yesterday 

q what 's the reaction to her resignation statement 
that she made last night 

ms. myers she was asked a question about it , and she 
answered the question. the president has absolutely no intention of 
asking for the attorney general 's resignation .  . he stands behind her 
100 percent. as you know , he was informed about the decision. he 
takes full responsibility for that , and stands 100 percent behind 
attorney general reno .  . 

q the question now arises yesterday we were told 
that he was briefed on this , but we never got a firm idea of how much 
he knew of what the plan was and the justification for the plan and 
the justification of the timing. was he fully informed on all of 
that , all of this about the increasing levels of violence inside the 
compound that made them want to go now , the feeling that nothing else 
was going to succeed , et cetera 

ms. myers he talked with the attorney general about 
the decision , about she talked to him about the factors that led 
to her decision. he raised no objections .  . he supports her decision 
to go forward with it. he was fully briefed .  . 

q of course , hindsight is 20 20 , but looking back 
now , does the president , does the white house feel that the decision 
he signed off on proved to be the right way to go when you look at 
what actually happened 

ms. myers i think everybody feels bad when life is 
lost. but i do n't think that that is reason to second guess the 
decision. he stands behind the decision that was made. he was 
informed about it. he was fully briefed about it and he stands 100 
percent behind the attorney general , the justice department and the 
fbi .  . it 's a difficult operation and there 's it had already gone 
on for more than seven weeks. four federal agents had lost their 
lives in the line of duty let 's not forget that. 

this was a very difficult situation and all the 
decisions involved were very difficult. but all the agents on the 
ground , the fbi , the justice department all recommended moving 
forward with this. they thought , given the circumstances , it was the 
best possible course of action. there 's just no point in second 
guessing those decisions. now , i think that there 's a reason 

q why not they have to 


ms. myers no , not to second guess the decisions. i 
think it 's important to take a look at it , to have an investigation .  . 
i think the president will talk some about that later today. but at 
this from this vantage point , to second guess those decisions , 
it 's not useful. 

q you sound like he 's going to order an investigation 
of what happened and whether 

ms. myers i think he 'll have more to say about that 
later , yes. 

q he will order an investigation 

ms. myers he 'll have more yes he 'll have more to 
say about an investigation .  . 

q what kind of investigation 

ms. myers he 'll have more to say about it later. 

q but in the monday morning , surely 
there is some soul searching now as to whether it was the right 
decision. you ca n't say that we did the best we could when it turned 
out to be a rather a debacle .  . 

ms. myers i think we 'll obviously , we 'll review 
the situation and all the factors that lead to a very tragic outcome .  . 
i do n't think anybody disputes that the outcome was tragic .  . but , 
again , the president stands behind the decisions that were made and 
we 'll take a look at the factors that contributed to that. 

q what was the fbi director 's role in this 

ms. myers well , he was obviously involved in setting 
up the operation. he signed off on it , as did the agents that were 
on the ground that were working with him. i do n't believe he spoke 
to the president , but i 'll double check that. 

q but he was very closely involved in every aspect of 
planning and so forth 

ms. myers i would refer you to the fbi on exactly what 
aspects he was involved with. 

q will janet reno be coming over to the white house 
today 

ms. myers there 's no planned meeting. i do n't believe 
that she 'll be here. 

q she wo n't be at this event at 1 15 p.m. 

ms. myers no , no plans to be. 

q do you think that there 's going to be a jumping on 
on the part of political opposition to make something out of this in 
terms of to the president 's detriment politically 

ms. myers well , i would certainly hope that people 
would n't try to use this tragedy for political reasons. obviously , i 
think , again , that it 's useful to look at the facts , to reevaluate 
the facts , and i think the president will move forward with that. 
but i think people understand that this was a difficult series of 
decisions that it was a very difficult situation that it was caused 
by a man who was a cult leader who was involved in the death of four 
federal agents .  . and i think it 's most tragic that a lot of innocent 

children lost their lives in this. i do n't think anybody disputes 
the tragedy of the outcome .  . 

q dee dee , what was the white house role in handling 
the , i guess , public relations aspect in the aftermath who was 
talking who here at the white house was talking with people at 
justice to set up reno 's news conference , to do all that sort of 
thing 

ms. myers i think the attorney general handled her end 
of the situation herself and made the decision to go ahead with the 
news conference once there was a point at which there was enough 
information , i think , to talk with some accuracy about what had 
transpired during the day. obviously , people here at a number of 
levels were keeping in touch with people at the justice department 
and at the fbi to try to keep informed about what was happening 
there. 

q but reno said that she did n't talk to the 
president , and there seemed to be an indication she had n't talked to 
anybody at the white house. so who 

ms. myers there were people talking on a staff to 
staff level. 

q i understand. but who at the justice department 
was handling that for reno who was talking to the white house 

ms. myers there were a number of people. as you know , 
webb hubbell is the liaison to the white house , and i know he talked 
to a number of people here. there were a number of people at a 
number of different levels involved. i do n't want to get into 
exactly who had what conversations with whom , but there were a number 
of conversations. obviously , the justice department was working to 
keep the white house informed , the press informed to the best of its 
ability as events unfolded throughout the day. 

q did webb hubbell talk to the president 

ms. myers i do n't believe so. i do n't know if he 
talked he may have at one point. 

q and was the white house role just to seek 
information about what happened , or was it to direct the public 
information campaign that followed 

ms. myers it was both to keep abreast of the situation 
so the president could be on top of it , but i think the justice 
department managed its press relations on it. we were obviously very 
interested in what was happening there throughout the day , and the 
president was following it very closely throughout the day. 

q dee dee , on that , though , if the president was 
following it so closely and he had talked the night before with janet 
reno , why would n't he talk to her at all since then 

ms. myers again , i do n't know if he 's talked to her 
this morning. again , he 's kept fully aware of what has been going on 
throughout the day. he stands 100 percent behind her decisions. 
he 's been fully supportive of her , as he said yesterday morning 
before events transpired and yesterday afternoon in a written 
statement. 

q but would n't he want to convey those thoughts to 
her personally yesterday 

ms. myers one more time , i do n't know if they 've 
spoken this morning. 


q no , yesterday. 

q clearly there 's a perception that she was left hung 
out to dry all day yesterday. 

ms. myers that 's just not true. i think we said 
throughout the day that the president takes full responsibility , that 
he stands i do n't know how much clearer we can be. the president 
stands behind the attorney general on this. he accepts 
full responsibility for the events that transpired .  . he believes that 
janet reno , the justice department , and the fbi acted as best they 
could , given the circumstances and the facts that were evident at the 
time. i do n't know what else he can say to show that he supports her 
1 , 000 percent. 

q one of the best indications of that is to pick up 
the phone and tell her. 

ms. myers again , i do n't know whether they 've spoken 
this morning. 

q why ca n't we find out 

ms. myers well , we can. i ca n't do it standing here 
right now. 

q you 've got six people here. all they 've got to do 
is pick up the phone. 

ms. myers helen , we 'll get back to you. 

q dee dee , when the president spoke with the attorney 
general on sunday , is it safe to assume that either she volunteered 
or he inquired about whether there was a possible downside to 
increasing pressure on the davidians 

ms. myers i think that they discussed the situation. 
again , i'm not going to get into the specific details of what exactly 
she told him , but i think that he was aware of the risks involved. 

q dee dee , the president yesterday morning said it 
was entirely her decision. she then said that she told him what was 
happening and he said , okay. does the president regard it that he 
gave the go ahead or that she gave the go ahead 

ms. myers i think what they both said yesterday was 
that she made a decision based on all the available facts. she 
informed him about that and he raised no objections .  . again , i do n't 
know how much clearer we can be about that. 

q and he said , okay. the issue is over the 
responsibility .  . 

ms. myers he said , okay. 

q does okay mean 

ms. myers the president accepts ultimate 
responsibility .  . 

q dee dee , the president 's investigation that he 's 
going to announce would that be conducted by someone outside the 
administration 

ms. myers no. 


q it would be internal is it meant to preclude any 
congressional investigation 

ms. myers no , it 's meant simply to follow up on the 
incidents that occurred yesterday. 

q and you would , i assume , therefore , cooperate fully 
with any congressional hearings that would be held 

ms. myers to the best of our ability .  . 

q dee dee , there are two reports out this morning. 
one that the justice department , or fbi , or whomever , apparently had 
a bug planted inside the complex .  . and the other is that the children 
may have been injected with some kind of poison that may have either 
left them unconscious or maybe even killed them before the fire. 
what do you know about those two 

ms. myers nothing more than i 've seen in news accounts 
this morning. we may get more on it later , but at this point , i know 
i'm not sure anybody knows any more than what was reported by 
people who came out of the compound .  . 

q has the president received any report today in 
terms of fatalities and actually what was going on what they 've 
been able to find out on in the compound now 

ms. myers he 's been briefed .  . i do n't think that 
they 've gotten into the compound yet. they were still waiting for it 
to cool off. i do n't think there 's much beyond what 's been reported 
in the news accounts. but he has been kept up to date on it. 

q dee dee , the president stands behind attorney 
general reno , but does he feel that she perhaps got bad advice from 
the so called experts 

ms. myers he believes that she made he stands 
behind the decision that she made. it was the unanimous decision of 
her advisors , of the fbi , of the agents on the ground , and he 
supports that. 

q what about the validity of the decisions made on 
the ground does he back those 

ms. myers he 's not going to second guess decisions 
made. 

q dee dee , you just said , he stands behind the 
decision which she made. normally , in a situation like this , the 
president says , i made the decision. but you 're saying she made the 
decision 

ms. myers i'm saying that the president was briefed 
about the decision. he it and he accepts full responsibility 
for it. 

q but then why do you keep using the terminology , the 
decision that she made , rather than the decision that he made 

ms. myers because , as he said yesterday , she evaluated 
the facts based on evidence presented to her by justice department 
and fbi , which is part of the justice department , and made a decision 
and then briefed the president on that decision. that is how the 
chain of command works. she briefed him. he signed off on it. the 
operation went forward , and the president accepts full 
responsibility .  . 


q in that chain of command analogy there , i want to 
go back to sessions a moment. do you know if this was a plan that 
came through him to reno , or was it presented to her around him or 
with his involvement what was his involvement 

ms. myers again , you 'd have to go to the justice 
department for the specific interaction between the attorney general 
and the director .  . 

q does the president stand behind director sessions 

ms. myers he supports again , i do n't know how many 
different ways i can say this he supports the decisions made by 
the justice department and the fbi .  . he fully supports the attorney 
general in this. i'm not stepping away from the director of the fbi , 
i want to but janet reno is the one who briefed him , the one who 
made the decisions as the head of the justice department. as you 
know , the director of the fbi reports to the attorney general. the 
attorney general made the decision. she informed the president about 
those decisions. he it. he did n't raise any objections to 
it , and he accepts full responsibility .  . 

q do you have , based on what you know here at the 
white house , any concerns about william sessions  performance during 
this 

ms. myers nothing to suggest that , no. 

q along those same lines , just in your initial review 
of the situation , how much do you think the problems might have come 
from not having a justice department that 's fully staffed and having 
an fbi director who is still quite uncertain about his status 

ms. myers i just do n't think that had anything to do 
with it. i think the agents on the ground the operation went 
forward. i'm not going to speculate on that. 

q did the white house express any alarm that janet 
reno chose to speak to the live network media before she chose to 
speak to clinton 

ms. myers no. she was carrying forward her 
responsibility to inform the public about the events of yesterday. i 
think she did a very admirable job. the president agrees with that. 

q before sunday , how often was the president briefed 
on the situation in waco 

ms. myers he was kept updated on a regular basis , on a 
daily basis. 

q who briefed the president 

ms. myers well , i'm not going to get into exactly who , 
what conversations he had with whom , but he was kept up to date on 
the events in waco .  . he has daily briefings on a number of issues. 

q no , no , was this a regular briefing conducted by a 
white house staff person , or was it by a justice department person 

ms. myers he 's briefed regularly by a white house 
staff on a number of issues. again , i'm not going to get into 
exactly who briefs him on what subjects .  . 

q another subject 

q on another subject. 



q now we 're going to do gays in the military .  . 
(laughter . ) . 

ms. myers i welcome it. 

q how close are you to signing the biodiversity 
treaty 

ms. myers as you know , the president 's giving a speech 
on earth day tomorrow. we 'll have more to say about it then. 

q any details on where or when that speech is yet 

ms. myers it 's at 11 30 a.m. and i do n't know where 
yet. 

q dee dee , is this a major policy address how would 
you characterize the speech tomorrow 

ms. myers i would characterize it as a earth day 
speech. i would n't look for any major from his past 
positions on these things. but , again , i do n't want to get too much 
into what he 's going to talk about tomorrow. 

q on or off campus 

q is this at a location outside the white house 

ms. myers it will be somewhere in washington .  . we 
do n't know exactly where yet. 

q dee dee , what foreign leaders has the president 
talked to since friday on the situation in bosnia 

ms. myers only prime minister major .  . and again , he 'll 
try to reach president again this morning. 

q david owen said yesterday and joe biden said today 
both of them agree that the peace process is not going to work , 
that the serbs are not going to sign on. does the administration 
still believe that it can work and that they will sign on 

ms. myers obviously , the ultimate goal is some sort of 
peaceful resolution to the conflict in bosnia .  . as you know , the 
administration is considering a wide variety of options at this 
point. the situation there in and around srebrenica and the rest of 
eastern bosnia is quite serious. and the president will meet with 
his bosnian advisors today and continue to press forward on this. 

q is that a question they 're going to try to be 
deciding whether or not the peace plan remains viable 

ms. myers again , they 'll be reviewing a number of 
options , including the peace plan. 

q does the group that he 's meeting with today include 
reg bartholomew 

ms. myers i do n't believe he 's here. but it will be 
among the usual secretary christopher , secretary , general 
powell .  . 

q dee dee , do you have anything on the apparent 
encounter by u.s. f 15s over bosnia today some aircraft violating 
the no fly zone 

ms. myers no , i do n't .  . i 'll get back to you on that. 


q will the president be meeting with every one of the 
leaders coming to town for the holocaust museum 

ms. myers he will. he 'll be meeting , as you know , 
with today and with tomorrow , and then with 
the rest of the group tomorrow afternoon. 

q as a group , or one by one 

ms. myers i believe it 's as a group. now , and 
asked for meetings early and these have been on the agenda for 
quite some time. but he will meet with all of the foreign heads of 
state that are here. 

q dee dee , has the president decided whether he 
supports the gay and lesbian civil rights act and has anything been 
worked out for him to address the march on sunday 

ms. myers i think he 'll probably have a letter or some 
kind of a statement to the march .  . we have n't worked out the exact 
details of that. 

q not a live phone hook up 

ms. myers probably not , given the logistics of getting 
to boston .  . the speech , as you know , is at 4 00 p.m. the answer to 
the other part of your question is , no , he has n't taken a position on 
it. 

q you said that speech in boston was at 4 00 p.m. 

ms. myers i believe so , yes. 

q do you know what it 's on 

ms. myers we 'll still working out 

q general 's coming back tonight from vietnam .  . 
when will he be meeting with the president 

ms. myers no specific meeting is scheduled .  . we 'll 
talk to him at some point and see. we look forward to his report , 
but exactly how he 'll make that report is unclear .  . 

q so he 's not going to come immediately to the white 
house 

ms. myers no. 

q the aids czar how close are you 

ms. myers still working on it. 

q drug czar 

q do you expect it before the march 

ms. myers i do n't have a time line on it. 

q did the president ask senator mitchell to try the 
lloyd cutler ploy to break the filibuster 

ms. myers i do n't believe so. 

q why not 

ms. myers he 's just not going to. 


q are senate democrats here at this hour 

ms. myers no , that 's tomorrow tomorrow at 9 30 a.m. 

q update on the stimulus , possible scaling down 

ms. myers as you know , the senate will vote on 
amendments today. we 'll continue to talk. the president is 
committed to some kind of a jobs package we 'd like to see it passed. 
and we 'll continue in conversations throughout the day and see where 
we end up. 

q when this briefing is over can you give us word 
through the speaker or whatever whether the president 's talked to 
janet reno 

ms. myers we 'll be happy to. 

q it 's become a pressing question for the last 
several hours. 

ms. myers no , just this minute that i 've been here , 
and i have n't had a chance to follow up on it , helen .  . 

q does he have an opinion on hatfield 

ms. myers i mean , obviously , he prefers he offered 
a compromise package of 12.2 billion .  . he believes that that 's the 
best alternative , believes that he 's obviously willing to take a 
second look at the package. and i think the senate will vote on that 
today , and we 're hopeful that the president 's bill , which will be the 
mitchell amendment , will be the one that will be approved .  . 

q dee dee , is there any white house official that 
will be at the march on sunday 

ms. myers somebody will be there representing the 
president. i do n't know who yet. 

q well , has it been decided how he 's going to 
address is it going to be a videotape or a phone call 

ms. myers i think it will probably be a letter , but 
there has n't been a final decision on that yet. 

q the official will read the letter , is that what it 
sounds like 

ms. myers correct. 

q lloyd bentsen came in here this morning. do you 
know what was that about was that about this waco thing 

ms. myers no , actually it was n't .  . it may have come 
up , but it was about economic issues. 

q on health care is the 17th of may still the 
target 

ms. myers that 's still the target. 

q and there 's talk about a joint session of congress 
speech at the end of may 

ms. myers we have n't resolved exactly how the 
president will present the health care plan to the people. i 
would n't rule that out as an option , but no decisions have been made. 

08 a.m. edt 


from (michael d. adams ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host bolero 
reply to 
organization d service actuarial consulting 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 26 

on 21 apr 93 00 07 20 gmt , theodore a. kaldis observed 
(some caifone ) writes 

because if she heard 
thankfully , you got the gender right. for i am not a deviant .  . 

bigots are n't classified as deviants how sad. 

how disparaging you are towards political minorities , 
sexual deviants do not comprise a political y . 

so , what 's this i hear about a march on washington .  .  . assuming . 
you are still considering homosexuality and bisexuality 
as subsets of sexual deviants 

and if she had any shred of self respect , she 'd be out the door. 
i only associate with girls who do indeed have self respect. 

i trust that many self respecting women might take some sort 
of offense to your use of the term girls in the above sentence. 


michael d. adams enterprise , alabama 

always listen to experts .  . they 'll tell you what ca n't be done , and why. 
then do it. lazarus long (robert heinlein ) 

from  ( mitchell s todd ) 
subject re waco burning 
organization 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rigel . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

(david garrod ) writes .  .  .  . 

it is interesting , sometimes , to listen to u.s. news as seen through 
the eyes of another country .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

b . b . c .  . world news service , on short wave , originating out of london , 
reports that a survivor of the waco massacre states that a tank , when 
making a hole in the wall of the building , knocked over a kerosene 
lamp and that is how the fire started. attempts were made by the 
people inside to put out the fire , but it spread too quickly. 

has anyone in u.s. heard anything similar or are u.s. government 
spin doctors censoring such information 

it was on cbs yesterday. the explanation is reasonable enough. 
then again , if the fire was accidental , why did n't more 
people get out 

the b . b . c .  . news is also reporting that about 20 of those that died 
were british citizens .  . 

that 's true. i think there were several australians in the 
group as well. 



mitchell s todd 
 . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' ' 
tamu . edu .  . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . ' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 





from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re eight myths about national health insurance  ( pt ii ) 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization phds in the hall 
lines 201 

 ( daniel b case) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( daniel b case) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 

okay , but do doctors willingly testify against each other in 
malpractice cases when they do go to court  ( obviously , absolutely 
essential to prove malpractice ) it used to be impossible to get 
doctors here to do that (a possible advantage of the us system 
you wo n't hear about from the  . 

our doctors  monopoly is exactly the same as in the u.s. , if not 
more powerful now that they can dictate insurance payment rates , 
but i do n't know an answer to this one. , my friends 
who are md 's  ( including my main buds from high school) talk about 
how hard it is to turn state 's witness against someone else ... 
no direct experience there , though. 

also , in some circumstances you may have to sue the insurance plan 
people here , after all , sue health insurance companies all the time. 
i heard about a guy in alberta who came down with some rare eye 
disease that he had to take repeated trips to seattle to get treated .  . 
it cost him and his family something like 6000 and the province , 
years later , still has only them for 500 or so. 

well , what american private insurance plans cover travel expenses 

since our public insurance plans are publicly accountable , one can 
raise a stink in the media to try and extort benefits beyond which 
one is entitled (hey , not alberta 's fault that he lives there) ... 
if he lived in cheyenne , wy his private insurance would 've told him 
to go to hell for the travel expenses and that 's that. an hmo would 
have just kept quiet and let him go blind .  . 

well , yeah , tell us about the national defense medical centre 
outside ottawa .  . 

it serves the same purpose as the bethesda naval hospital ... since 
not all hospitals can provide everything , maybe they have some stuff 
that others do n't  ( ottawa 's population is only a quarter million , 
if you include the surrounding counties . ) . 

my point was that something that should necessarily remain 
has become very , to the detriment 
of its mission. 

i do n't think that this has been shown with the ... 

the problem is , in a system where hospitals  annual budgets are 
approved by the government , how do you keep political considerations 
out of medical decisions i bet that if you 're an mp or mpp , or good 
friends with one , you 're put on any hospital 's urgent care list no 
matter how minor your problem. which is ok unless you 're someone who 
gets bumped off the list for some bigshot .  . 

people of influence will get their way in any system , american or 
european .  . it 's the golden rule he who has the gold makes the 
rules. ( 

but to what extent does it affect the system and why is an urgent 
care list necessary in the first place it 's worth thinking about. 

it 's regular practice in a hospital to figure out who needs to get 
at what facilities. do n't americans have to arrange in advance for 
operations too i think that there are two standards being applied 
here , and that canada ca n't give beverly hills style treatment to 
everybody. it 's not a big brother list ... it 's more like calling 
around town for a table for dinner ... 

yeah , but private nonprofit foundations have to make money somehow , 
especially in the hospital business. 

yes , and the tories in ottawa are trying to make them do that rather 
than hope for a bigger grant from the feds and their province the 
next time around. whether it 's using mop a couple of weeks longer 
or even selling services to americans  ( remember , our system is cash 
based and since our health care infrastructure is except 
in specialties that require larger populations to generate business , 
why not the alternative is closing unused wards ... business . ) .  . 

whether canadians would be thrilled at the prospect of their own 
health services catering toward americans , who would be willing 
to pay more than they do , is another issue entirely ) , it must be 
noted that they said they were doing it partly because their grants 
from the province were getting smaller if those grants are so 
, why the need to attract foreigners to make up the 
difference 

you answered the question yourself ... private nonprofit foundations 
have to make money somehow , and i think that it 's about time that 
they acted like the private hospitals that they are. personally , 
i'm fed up with canadian socialists trying to tell everyone that 
their health care is free when we are actually buying insurance 
 ( that 's one at you , bob rae ! ! ) .  . 

the gdp figures are combined public and private expenditures for total 
outlay , and are compiled use the same methods by the oecd that yield 
the 13 14 figure for the u.s. 

but do n't the us figures include dentistry and optometry where the 
canadian one  ( until recently , anyway) did n't 

since we have always been evaluated in an oecd style , i do n't see 
how ... remember , oecd counts both private and public funds , and 
in canada like france and germany , 30 of health care spending is 
private funds (i . e .  . , not the basic health insurance money) .  . 

so what happens if the health care systems financially collapse .  . 

how they are collecting premiums ... and i'm an advocate of having 
copayments like the french do in their system ... 

well , if you spend more than you take in , you go bankrupt .  . it 's that 
simple. if the provincial insurance systems find themselves paying 
out more than they get in revenue , they wo n't be able to pay for 
everybody 's primary care. yes , the infrastructure will be there. 
but will everybody be able to continue using it at the same rate. 

minor copayments can flush out abusers .  . remember that our system 
is only an insurance policy. but our costs are n't rising fast 
enough to ensure adequate copayments deductibles ... last year , 
quebec 's user fee proposal came out with the number of 5 as 
the necessary hike that could be done through a copayment rather 
than give the a raise .  . and it 's not contract time yet , as 
far as i can tell from upi clarinet ... 

even the new reform party , a breakoff of traditionalists from the 
conservatives with a mildly libertarian faction , holds our public 
health insurance as an untouchable but that just a few people have to 
be reminded that it 's not free (the average canadian european is more 
fiscally naive than their american counterparts on issues like these) .  . 
but no mention of copayments anywhere to be seen ... but cutting public 
spending all over the place , and bringing back the death penalty , with 
little haste if elected .  . 

i know that , for pete 's sake , i live right on the border .  . i know the 
canadian system is n't socialized medicine  ( unlike britain 's  . 

sorry ! ( it 's just that i even run into people from buffalo 
and from michigan who do n't know ... 

the point is , that means that if the money runs low in the plan , 
you 're out of luck unless you can afford it yourself. 

yeah , but there 'd be a lot of lead time and a health care crisis that 
would preclude it. if provincial governments  ( as bad as some of them 
are heck , we have the ndp cleaning up a spending mess made by the 
conservatives in saskatchewan embarassing ! ) can be so irresponsible , 
there is still health insurance is so important that 
it 's about the only thing that can inspire open rebellion and violent 
insurrection outside of the hockey rink .  . right now , attempts to get 
the system and its users to learn good habits are being treated like 
cod liver oil ... 

would the private insurers take up the slack they 'd be under no 
obligation to. of course , they could eventually make money again , 
but if what you say is true , they 'd be loathe to do so  ( and out of 
practice in handling such basic services , too) .  . 

some of the companies providing extra insurance are subsidiaries of 
american companies , and their parents provide full insurance down 
here. regardless , all firms up north can easily turn on cable tv 
to see how well the american firms are doing by being involved in 
basic coverage. the private firms are making too much money after 
having gotten rid of basic coverage. they run around patting them 
selves on the back for their own cooperation in providing extras 
for those people who deserve it . 

yeah , but eventually it 's going to create a kind of two tiered 
effect that will be noticeable after a while , like in britain .  . 

most americans are fearful of a single tier system ... ( 

seriously , there are few areas that have sufficient population for a 
two more tiered system like what the french have ... a health policy 
prof , d . g .  . shea , has cited studies in the nejm that indicate having 
a population of 500 , 000 is necessary for adequate competition ... 
and in canada , there are only four cities west of the great lakes 
with that population or larger .  . 

anyways , the numbers show that costs have held than those 
in the u.s. and barring any future chernobyl like crisis , sudden 
transients in spending are unlikely .  . in fact , the health allocation 
is one of the most well behaved sectors of spending up north so any 
talk of bankruptcy is talk radio fodder far away from the border .  . 

if the provinces hit fiscal rough spots and have to cut back , the 
things private insurers have to offer will seem less and less like 
luxuries and the gap will be more and more noticeable .  . 

this wo n't be overnight , and something like this would force canada 
to have a system more like the french one ... but that 's not a bad 
thing , and the change will be minimal (i . e .  . , add copayments and 
frustrate the socialists chanting hey , it 's free ! ) .  . 

gld 

je me souviens 
gary l. dare 
go winnipeg jets go ! ! ! 
selanne domi stanley 

from  ( mark walsh ) 
subject re ca n't have it both ways news as enemy , news as supporter .  . 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 60 

from article , by 

mr cramer 

you are on one hand condemning the news media as 

the role of the national news media in inflaming passions that 
was your message subject i believe. 

then you turn around and actually take from the santa rosa (cal . ) . press democrat , 
april 15 , 1993 , p. b2 

male sex survey gay activity low title. 

you even use such a title for the san jose mercury news the murky news. 

now which is it are you going to national media , then turn around 
and use it to support some position you present seems somewhat contradictory 
does n't it. 

i believe that this is not contradictory on the basis that 
the quality of media reporting varies greatly based on the 
subject at hand. the media has proven itself very accurate 
is the areas of presenting raw , undisputed data. one good 
example would be the weather page in which high and low 
temperatures of the previous day for a large number of 
locations are posting. there is little evidence to show 
that they are in error. 

the american media has failed us in its analysis of complex 
events , however. i'm sure that we can come up with many 
news stories that have left us angry because so many facts 
have been  . cases that come to mind are the 
invasion of panama , the war with iraq , the disaster in waco , 
the issues surrounding the acceptance of gays into the 
military , the war on drugs , and many others. 

the story that you bring to light was regarding the new 
sex survey .  . while i'm sure that due to some of 
the data was from the article , i would venture to 
guess that the data that was presented did not deviate 
from the survey .  . i do , however , think that it would be 
folly to have blind faith in a single 's 
analysis of this data. in this particular case , there was 
little analysis , and the reader was left to draw his her 
own convictions .  . 

many netters , mr. cramer included , often forget that the 
american media are merely a number of businesses , who 's 
purpose in life is to make money for their owners and 
 . revenues come largely from advertisers 
who merely want maximum useful exposure per dollar .  . the 
media is like fast food the quality of the food  ( or of 
the reporting ) will improve only if the customers demand 
as such. otherwise , it is business as usual. 

mark walsh  ( walsh@optilink ) uucp uunet ! optilink ! walsh 
amateur radio aol 
what , me worry william m. gaines , 1922 1992 
i'm gonna crush you ! andre the giant , 1946 1993 

from (not a boomer ) 
subject re what is clinton 
distribution world 
organization acme products 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( francis akoto ) writes 
i would like to know clintons background. is he anglo saxon , irish , italian 
hispanic etc. 

he 's 1 2 liar , 1 2 cheat and 1 2 demagogue .  . 

brett 

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . sean o casey in the white plague by frank herbert .  . 

from () 
subject re ca n't have it both ways news as enemy , news as supporter .  . 
organization santa cruz 
lines 80 
nntp posting host orchid . ucsc . edu . 

in article  ( mark walsh ) writes 
from article , by 

now which is it are you going to national media , then turn around 
and use it to support some position you present seems somewhat contradictory 
does n't it. 

i believe that this is not contradictory on the basis that 
the quality of media reporting varies greatly based on the 
subject at hand. the media has proven itself very accurate 
is the areas of presenting raw , undisputed data. one good 
example would be the weather page in which high and low 
temperatures of the previous day for a large number of 
locations are posting. there is little evidence to show 
that they are in error. 

i believe this true when we speak of physical data , in the 
sense of pure science. but when we speak of data that revolve 
around social sciences then we have to be careful. 


the american media has failed us in its analysis of complex 
events , however. i'm sure that we can come up with many 
news stories that have left us angry because so many facts 
have been  . cases that come to mind are the 
invasion of panama , the war with iraq , the disaster in waco , 
the issues surrounding the acceptance of gays into the 
military , the war on drugs , and many others. 


i quite agree. but these are cases or  news events  that contain 
politics , social science information , sociology , etc. and at 
best are reflections of the group that reports them. 

as you have pointed out , it is difficult to report that the 
temperature was 98 degrees when it was 60 degrees and have 
people believe you. 

the story that you bring to light was regarding the new 
sex survey .  . while i'm sure that due to some of 
the data was from the article , i would venture to 
guess that the data that was presented did not deviate 
from the survey .  . i do , however , think that it would be 
folly to have blind faith in a single 's 
analysis of this data. in this particular case , there was 
little analysis , and the reader was left to draw his her 
own convictions .  . 

yes and no. the survey presented , according to mr. cramer , 
a value called the median which one used this makes us 
believe that 1 2 of the males had 7.3 plus sex partners and 
1 2 of the males had 7.3 or less sex partners .  . homosexuals 
are purported to make up only 1 . in this case , the majority 
of people with 7.3 plus sex partners are heterosexual .  . 

it is my feeling that median was not the intended word usage .  . 
but if it is then we have little evidence to support mr. cramer 
claims about gay promiscuity hetero promiscuity .  . 


many netters , mr. cramer included , often forget that the 
american media are merely a number of businesses , who 's 
purpose in life is to make money for their owners and 
 . revenues come largely from advertisers 
who merely want maximum useful exposure per dollar .  . the 
media is like fast food the quality of the food  ( or of 
the reporting ) will improve only if the customers demand 
as such. otherwise , it is business as usual. 

very good this is a point that i have tried to bring out , 
and as any network news program will show you , it is true. 

the news media is a business and as such becomes skewed because 
of where its loyalties lie. 

there is an old statement by a man ( and i cannot remember him 
or his statment exactly) but it warns against the merger of 
business and news reporting , because of the obvious consequences .  . 
what master is news going to serve in the end .  .  .  . the advertiser 
and the bias of the news group. 

from  ( lance visser ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
nntp posting host dhostwo . convex . com . 
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 41 

in  ( bill gunshannon ) writes 

1. there is no such thing as non toxic tear gas. tear gas is non breathable 
remaining in it 's presence will cause nausea and vomiting , followed eventually 
by siezures and death. did the fbi know the physical health of all the people 
they exposed any potential heart problems among the b d 's 

they certainly knew that there were pregnant women in there plus 
children. i could not believe when they said that the gassing was 
an attempt to save the children yesterday. i ca n't think of a much 
worse sort of child abuse that pouring tear gas into a building. 


2. have you ever seen a tear gas canister tear gas is produced by burning a 
chemical in the can. the fumes produced are tear gas. the canister has a 
warning printed on the side of it. contact with flamable material can result 
in fire. now , how many of these canisters did they throw inside a building 
they admited was a fire trap 

i have heard two things recently explaining this 

1. they pumped the gas into the building from outside via some 
sort of pipe rather than by canister .  . 

2. the sort of tear gas they are using was described as some 
sort of material that sticks to things. kind of 
like a powder cloud .  . 

and once again , these are government explainations and 
since government stories always change , none or all of the 
information might not be true. 


this whole thing was a case of over reaction by the officials at every step. 
i hope it is thoroughly investigated and the responsible parties are held 
accountable .  . but that is highly unlikely when you figure they are going to 
be investigating themselves. 

or better yet , the texas rangers will be investigating which is 
probably worse than the fbi or atf investigating itself. 


from  ( don pajerek ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
reply to  ( don pajerek ) 
organization digital equipment corp. 
distribution usa 
lines 34 

in article  ( isaac kuo ) writes 
in article  ( kennedy james scot ) writes 
... 


you are speculating that the fbi purposely started the fire ! ! please , 
if you 've got such a ridiculously extraordinary claim , and have no evidence 
whatsoever , at least give us a reason why the fbi would want to 
do such a thing. 

the possibility that the fire was started accidentally is much more reasonable , 
but we do n't have anything but contradictory anecdotal evidence right now. 

isaac kuo 


mr. kuo i do n't recall seeing your around much before (at least 
on t . p . m) .  . let me clue you in on this newsgroup .  . t . p . m . is populated 
largely by people whose hatred for the u.s. government , especially 
the government of mr. clinton , is literally  . to these 
people , the suggestion that agents of the u.s. government would carry 
out a spectacular massacre of its own citizens , in full view of tv 
cameras , is not an  extraordinary  . it 's just another day in 
the life of these united states. 

they do n't have to suggest any reason why the fbi would want to 
publicly massacre citizens .  . have you seen 'the crying game  

it 's in their nature . 


don pajerek 

standard disclaimers apply. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 27 

in article , (c . wainwright) . writes 
in article ,  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
in article  ( amy lynn young leith ) writes 
can someone tell me why when mr. cramer spouts on about homosexuals , 
he only addresses homosexual men , and never , in any post i 've read , 
addressed lesbians 

i ca n't really speak for mr. cramer here , but i can say that a 
homosexual male is an entirely different animal than a lesbian .  . 
there is virtually nothing that is analogous or related between the 
aberrant behaviors practiced by these two groups of deviants .  . 

obviously. a homosexual male is of the xy chromosome pair and the lesbian 
is of xx .  . besides , what does that have to do with the price of eggs since 
mr cramer is very straight , he most probably gets off to the thought of 
lesbians , like the majority of adolescent males .  . 

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 

i hate to disappoint you , but that 's not the case. i do n't get off 
on lesbian sex , nor am i an adolescent .  . now , when i was an adolescent , 
i believed that homosexuals were just like everyone else. but i 've 
learned since then. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from (xavier gallagher ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization systems ltd public access news , london , uk 
lines 33 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article , (xavier gallagher ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

well , the obvious point to make is would straight men fuck like rabbits 
if the oppertunity presented itself 

i reckon any man would go wildly promiscuous if presented with a 
huge variety of willing partners .  . the question here is not of being 

that , i suppose , says a lot about how screwed up you are. 


no cramer it does not. in this instance you are telling to 
yourself as well as everyone else. have n't you ever been to a 
cafe or restaurant and been stuffed full of goodies and yet 
when one more item , just a little different , with a new texture and 
a new taste , was presented you somehow found the space for it. 

maybe you have n't , so what it is a widely reported and 
i reckon the same applies to sex. 




clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
xavier 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 

xavier 

from 
subject gun control kills over 80 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park , md 
lines 10 
nntp posting host eng . umd . edu . 

rejoice ! the streets of amerika are much safer now that the branch 
davidians no longer have those nasty assault weapons .  . your children will 
no longer lie awake at night wondering when the next brand davidian will 
attempt to shoot them from their rural compound .  . 

men , women , and children have been murdered by our great batf , but the 
greater good has been secured for all. 

rejoice !  who the second amendment will be killed. 


from  ( grep a friend ) 
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's and 90 s 
summary bull 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division 
distribution usa 
lines 43 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
in article 
(michael friedman ) writes 
in article 
writes 
in article ,  ( phil ronzone ) 
writes .  .  .  . 
in article 
writes 
you dumb shit. 

it 's amazing that someone with your limited vocabulary learned 
how to use a computer. did n't they require you to take english at the 
school 
where you went or are you just crude by nature 


i'm forced to agree with garrett here. there 's no need for vulgarity , 
or even hostility .  . i mean , it 's not as though garrett asked to be born 
dumber than a bag of hammers .  . while it can occasionally be annoying , 
there is a noble tragedy to someone with no knowlege of geography or 
pre madonna history thinking that his political views are worth reading. 
something like a trying to master nuclear physics .  . 
i was the first to note that the population of the prc is n't gonna 
fit into cambodia unless you them , so there 's no need to keep 
pounding on that idiocy .  . there are plenty of other in his post. 
find your own and stop hogging mine. 

at first this kind of ranting annoyed me , but now it 's rather entertaining. 
these kinds of posts do n't require any facts , logic , or even sense. it 's 
kind of like what 10 year old kids do on the playground .  . so go on and play. 
not everyone on the net is as simple minded as you guys seem to be. 

dave griffith , information resources , university of chicago , 
biological sciences division 
brain damage was what we were after. the chromosome damage was just gravy .  . 


nothing is as inevitable as a mistake whose time has garrett johnson 
come. 
the probability of someone watching you is proportional 
to the stupidity of your action. unknown 


from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 31 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

some chump at brandeis 

i mean , how many people actually care how many people are gay  ( as long 
as you know how to find avoid them if you want to) i do n't .  . 

if you do n't care , why was so much effort put into promoting the 
10 lie because it was important to scare politicians into 
obedience .  . 

i would n't worry too much about it , though. we are starting to find 
out how politically homosexuals really are. the colorado 
boycott has , slick willie was effectively prevented from 
implementing his military policy wrt homosexuals by members of his 
own party , this new study casts a large shadow of doubt on their 
claims of large numbers , and coming this saturday they are going to 
wind up with tremendous egg on their face when , i submit , no more 
than perhaps 35 , 000 queers will show up in washington while they are 
promising crowds in the millions .  . and most of the ones who will be 
there will look like act up and queer nation , not the guy working in 
the next  . as if that 's really going to play in middle 
america .  . 

pretty soon they will find themselves retreating back into the closet 
where they belong .  . 

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
my own only. do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus . rutgers . edu . ! kaldis 
as this would hold such views 

from 
subject f o cus health millions of america 
nf id n 000 
nf from math . cornell . edu . ! apr 21 14 18 00 1993 
lines 80 


from (misc . activism . progressive . co moderator) 
subject f o cus health millions of americans un under covered 

f o cus health millions of americans un under covered 


percentage of population covered by 
public health insurance ,  ( 1990(25 ) 



country percent country percent 

australia 100 sweden 100 
canada 100 united kingdom 100 
denmark 100 austria 99 
finland 100 france 99 
ireland 100 switzerland 99 
italy 100 spain 99 
japan 100 belgium 98 
new zealand 100 germany 92 
netherlands 100 united states 21 
norway 100 

sources organization for economic cooperation and development  ( paris ) , 
health data file , 1991 u.s. national center for heath statistics , advance 
data , no. 201 , june 18 , 1991. 


we 're number one in percentage of population without health insurance. 


the main reason we 're number one in percentage of population without 
health insurance is that we 're last in percentage of population 
covered by public health insurance. only about one fifth of americans 
qualify for the main types of public health insurance available in the 
united states medicare , medicaid , and veterans  benefits . 

of those who do n't qualify , many have private insurance . (22) . but 
almost one in seven americans (34 million people most living in 
families with a working adult ) have no insurance at all , and one in 
four  ( 63 million ) have been without insurance for a substantial period 
of time during the last two years. many more have inadequate coverage , 
meaning that they could be by a major illness . (23) . in fact , 
one health care expert says that because only 1 percent of the 
population has private care insurance , virtually any 
american could be impoverished by a prolonged disabling illness .  . (24) 
additionally , as many as 40 percent of those eligible for some forms 
of public aid do not receive it. these gaps in health care result 
directly from the fact that the united states is the only major 
industrialized nation  ( other than south africa ) without a national 
health insurance plan providing universal coverage while controlling 
costs. 


from 



we 're number one , where america stands and falls in the new 
world order by andrew l shapiro .  . 

new york , may 1992 , vintage books , a division of random house. 
10 paperback .  . isbn 0 679 2 

transcribed by  ( joe woodard ) 

is becoming a land of private greed and public squalor .  . 
this book is an indispensable road map through the wreckage .  . the 
facts it reveals will you. they may depress you. but 
ideally they 'll fire you up to help rebuild this nation . '' . 

robert b. reich , author of the work of nations 







from  ( dave griffith ) 
subject re waco survivors 19 april 
organization university of chicago computing organizations 
lines 25 

in article  ( phill 
hallam baker ) writes 

the point is though that you learn through mistakes. the govt 
played the wrong card and lost. thats not a big deal. they 
had had four guys murdered at the begining and they 
just were not prepared for this situation. who could be 

if the same thing were to happen all over again we might perhaps 
be able to the govt if they used the same tactics and failed 
in the same way. as it is i ca n't say that i would not have made the 
same mistake. i would n't because i do n't as a rule go in 
for a confrontational situation if i can avoid it. i would 
because with all those press about its very difficult not to try 
the macho stuff. 

my god , how many chances do they get operation move  ( philedelphia , early 
80 's) , black panthers  ( chicago , 1969) , etc. , etc. hell , we get heavily armed 
cults out west every couple of years. do with have to start a 
cascade of times the feds have been in situations like this 


dave griffith , information resources , university of chicago , 
biological sciences division 
brain damage was what we were after. the chromosome damage was just gravy .  . 

from nigel allen 
subject hhs secretary shalala to address aft 's and school related personnel conference 
reply to nigel allen 
organization canada remote systems 
distribution talk 
lines 42 


here is a press release from the american federation of teachers .  . 

hhs secretary shalala to address aft 's and 
school related personnel conference 
to national and assignment desks , education writer 
contact jamie of american federation of teachers , 
202 879 

news advisory 

secretary of health and human services donna shalala will speak 
to the 16th annual aft and school related 
personnel conference at 8 p.m. , friday , april 23 , at the 
washington hilton .  . shalala will discuss hhs 's agenda for helping 
children over the next four years. 
aft 's and school related personnel division 
includes school workers such as and teacher 
aides , school bus drivers , school secretaries , school custodians 
and maintenance workers and school food service workers .  . more 
than a thousand school employees will attend the conference which 
is being held at the washington hilton , april 23 25. most of the 
school workers attending the conference come from urban school 
districts where child health and nutrition , welfare reform and the 
availability of head start and other programs are major 
issues. 
workshops scheduled for the conference include sessions 
addressing issues around of chapter 1 how 
and school related personnel , especially 
minority men , can serve as student role models the increasing 
problem of school violence dealing with abused children and 
assisting children with serious health problems. 
for a complete conference schedule , contact jamie 
at 202 879  . 
the american federation of teachers represents 805 , 000 
elementary and secondary teachers , and 
school related personnel , higher education faculty , nurses , state 
and municipal workers .  . 
30 

canada remote systems toronto , ontario 
416 629 7000 629 7044 

from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization itc uva community access unix internet project 
lines 34 

in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
in article (some caifone ) writes 
where they belong .  . 

do n't count on it , sweetheart. 

oh , i ca n't do anything but count on it. after all , it is 
inevitable , for it is part of the natural order of things. 

wrong. 

throughout 
history , nature has always asserted itself. 

quite true. and evolution made decided that homosexuality had a place , 
otherwise it would have disappeared quite quickly. there are very few 
animals which do not exhibit homosexual behavior. 
it has been here before humans existed , and will be here after the 
human race has gone. 

do n't be so arrogant as 
to assume that this foolish and misguided generation can change the 
nature of man where practically every other generation has failed. 

quite true. 2000 years of religious idiocy have not changed the nature 
of man. you tried to rid yourselves of us for 2000 years and failed. 



join the pythagorean reform church ! . 
repent of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . . 


from  ( rob dobson ) 
subject re the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of virginia 
lines 16 

in article  ( william a bacon ) writes 
fury of mother nature 
clearly , man has a long way to go to match nature as a of the 
environment. 

bullshit .  . how many lakes have ceased to be able to support life from 
purely natural pollution man has already done this to scores of lakes .  . 
also , much of the degredation you cite was done by cows and pigs .  . 

and why do think there are so many cows around 

could it be .  .  .  .  .  .  . cause . people raise them 



legalize freedom 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 76 

in article ,  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 
in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
i used to think that homosexuals were ok but now gotten a 
chance through usenet to know quite a few , i 've realized that i was 
misled in my youth .  . homosexuals are vicious , screwed up , often 
really evil people. 

that 's a load of shit. if you really have the naivete to believe that the 
bozos over on soc . motss . characterize our entire populace , you need to live a 
little. try soc . bi . , for example .  .  . you . 'll find almost exclusively a bunch of 

yet , the characteristics of soc . motss . fit quite well with the other 
evidence that is available. high promiscuity , child sexual abuse 
history , support for child molestation advocacy groups like nambla , 
s m , etc. 

well adjusted , friendly , humanistic people. and , in any case , i think 
you 'll find that most people are quite different from the persona they 
present on usenet .  . for all i know , you 're a wonderful , enlightened human 
being taking the role of hatemonger for satirical effect. 

somehow i doubt it , though .  .  .  .  . 

hatemonger someone who reminds people of why homosexuals are dying 
in such large quantities of aids because their sexual compulsions 
prevented them from keeping their number of sexual partners below 
four digits .  . 

i 've got a few clues for you. (a) i'm not working to pass any laws .  . (b) 

it 's being done in your name. 

and that makes it my responsibility , i see. suppose i kill someone in the 
name of clayton cramer .  . how does that make you a murderer 

if i know about it , and do n't express my disapproval , it certainly 
would make you suspicious about me , would n't it 

my morals are n't yours. i would n't march in a parade with a group 
that advocates child molestation .  . it does n't stop homosexuals .  . 

i would n't march in a parade with a group like that either. and if you 're 
talking about nambla , i think you 'll find that they do not advocate child 
molestation .  . i also think you 'll find that the vast majority of homosexuals 

they advocate sex between adults and children , with no lower limit on 
age. but that 's right , homosexuals do n't believe that an adult 
a five year old is child molestation .  . 

will have no truck with that group anyway. 

fooled me. they march in a number of gay parades around the country. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

but not between members of the same sex , right how can you live with such 
hypocrisy 

bi andrew d. schnopia ! 

sure. whatever consenting adults want to do in private is none of 
the government 's business. you are the ones that want more laws 
telling me what to do in private. 

quit lumping me in with groups. the fact is that homophobia is an evil , 
unjustified prejudice , just like racism or sexism .  . you ca n't reject all but 
one of those. 



it is nothing like racism or sexism .  . you choose to be a homosexual .  . 
my for homosexuality is because of what homosexuals do. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from (peter d. hampe ) 
subject re stop the former my beloved damn  
organization northwest nexus inc. 
lines 48 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

 ( marc steinkoenig ) writes 

quoting drieux , just drieux to all dated 04 11 93 

my point , if it alluded you , is that as long 
as the usa remains in the state of rebellion 
against god 's divinely appointed vicar over 
these colonies , what more can you expect from 
alienated from god 's wonderful plan 


i was pleased that the 
restoration of the bourbon de bourbon 's to 
what tree did you just climb down from , the church is an farce which 
destroys cultures .  . i'm not knocking religious morality , but i think that 
americans take their religion too seriously to the point of trying to convert 
anyone or anything to their particular sect .  . it 's a question of power and not 
salvation .  .  .  . all monotheistic religions breed into their flock 
 ( islam , judaism , and  . religion is not the opiate of the masses , 
fanaticism is and brother , it like you 're pretty up on your own 
self  . 


never heard of arguement by absurdity , eh no also called 
sarcasm .  . the usual procedure is to accept some part of the 
  arguement and run with it until one goes 
beyond  rational thought  and then ring the changes. 

z . b .  . the idea of a minimum wage is considered a good one. 
and in these times of economic difficulty , the washington 
legislature is to raise the state from 
4 . 25 . (the federal level) to 4.90  ( fifteen cents over 
oregon 's) .  . 
it would seem to me that this increase does not 
keep pace with inflation , that the minimum wage should be 
to 6 . 08 . by my figures , so it is proposed that we raise 
the minimum wage to 6.50 per hour by 1 july and then give 
a 10 cost of living increase every 4 july .  . 

and anyone who does n't like it is obviously a country club 
republican getting rich off the exploitation of poor people. 





sometimes , sometimes owl .  . 
optimist with a beeper .  . 

from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 119 

in article ,  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
in article (some caifone ) writes 

i certainly hope you do n't have an so , sir , 

what is so supposed to signify i prefer the of a 
person , not a euphemism .  . 

because if she heard 

thankfully , you got the gender right. for i am not a deviant .  . 

wow ! another clayton wannabe .  . typical response lack of logic .  . 

define  deviant  someone who deviates from the normal. ok , so far. 
define  normal  erm , umm .  . if you define yourself as normal then it is for 
you to prove that you are  ( within limits , which then brings in the question , 
what are the limits for you we may have to broaden them to other 's intolerance 
) )  . difficult to prove .  . from what you have posted it must follow 
that to you means someone without compassion and a sense of justice. 
but it does look as if you went to the clayton school of logic , does n't it 


how disparaging you are towards political minorities , 

sexual deviants do not comprise a political y . 

again an astounding lack of logic ! wow ! 

you must define what you say such that everyone agrees .  . here you have used 
the phrase sexual deviant . how in the hell do you define that as someone 
who does something sexually that you do n't by this definition you most 
probably mean the majority of the planet. how do you know that your next 
door neighbour does n't like to be spread over his then 
have it off by his wife is this sexual how do we know 
that you do n't like something sexually which others may find repulsive is 
having sex fashion a sexual please be more specific , and 
where you do , back up your claims .  . or i may have to go to hospital due to 
laughing too much at yours and clayton 's postings .  . 

secondly , if we assume for the moment that the phrase  sexual deviant  means 
such people as homosexuals , bisexuals c.  ( basically everyone you do n't like) , 
i think that your phrase do not comprise a y `  ( why the 
brackets ) is a non  . gay groups exist which lobby their governments .  . 
that is a fact. prove it false .  . hence they are a group. you 
state that they are not a political minority .  . are they therefore a 
political majority i think you really big on this one. try thinking 
about your arguments .  . 


and if she had any shred of self respect , she 'd be out the door. 

i only associate with girls who do indeed have self respect. but were 
i to find myself with the sort who would be inclined to head out the 
door on account of my views regarding the aberrant behavior known as 
homosexuality , i would encourage her to indeed do so , and i would 
further advise her not to let the door her on the backside on 
the way out. who needs such an airhead 


prove the first statement please. dates , phone numbers , c. 

again your logic fails .  . again you make statements which you cannot 
 ( and most probably will not) maintain .  . 

you state that a person  ( girl , in this context) who considers equal rights 
for all humans to be an airhead as clayton  ( your best mate ) would say 
it just shows how screwed up you are. 


pretty soon they will find themselves retreating back into the closet 
where they belong .  . 

do n't count on it , sweetheart. 

oh , i ca n't do anything but count on it. after all , it is 
inevitable , for it is part of the natural order of things. throughout 
history , nature has always asserted itself. do n't be so arrogant as 
to assume that this foolish and misguided generation can change the 
nature of man where practically every other generation has failed. 
greater men than you have n't been able to do this. the above most 
certainly will happen , no matter how much you may wish to pretend 
otherwise. 

proof please. proof that homosexuality is not part of the natural order. 
proof that nature has always asserted itself. are you saying that nature 
is a conciousness are you pretending that you have the ability to see the 
future are you  ( god(tm ) in fact , by your arguement , are you waiting for 
the black people to become slaves again because they were reviled as 
sub human  ( nb not my view) at one time again your arguement falls 
on its ass. 



moreover , i'm not your sweetheart . 

touchy touchy touchy ! 

right. i have shot holes in each and every one of your arguements .  . you are 
most probably going to put me in your kill file because you have no answers 
to my questions and challenges .  . since you cannot support your arguments it 
merely goes to show that what you write is based upon your personal prejudices , 
and cannot be taken to be fact of any kind. 

i await an intelligent response .  .  .  .  .  . 



the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
my own only. do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus . rutgers . edu . ! kaldis 
as this would hold such views 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from (richard hoenes ) 
subject why did n't they come out 
organization temple university 
lines 8 
nntp posting host vm . temple . edu . 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 

after the initial gun battle was over , they had 50 days to come out 
peacefully .  . they had their high priced lawyer , and judging by the 
posts here they had some public support. can anyone come up 
with a rational explanation why the did n't come out  ( even after 
they negotiated coming out after the radio sermon ) that does n't 
include the davidians wanting to commit suicide murder general mayhem 

richard 

from  ( doug fierro ) 
subject re clinton healthcare professionals to review healthcare reform options 
organization amdahl corporation , sunnyvale ca 
lines 28 

in article clinton (the white house) writes 


the white house 



office of communications 

for immediate release contact bob 
thursday , april 22 , 1993 phone 202 456 


health professionals to review clinton proposal 
as it develops 


too many mds on the list and not enough in my opinion. 

doug 


doug fierro 
uts system software 
o case tools development 
. 
 ( 408)746 ) 7102 


from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( greg hennessy ) writes 
in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
tells you something about the fascist politics being practiced .... 

ah , ending discrimination is now fascism .  . 

greg hennessy , university of virginia 

when you force people to associate with others against their will , 
yes. 




good grief ! i do believe that for once you may have an argument which may 
be discussed intelligently ! 

i guess that you are a person who dislikes contact with people of ethnic 
minority .  . however , your argument again falls flat on its face. you state 
that you , under an anti discrimination bill , would be forced to associate 
with others homosexuals , i assume against your will. how do you know that 
you do not associate with them now , except they may be would you 
like to change your argument to read forced to associate with truthfully 
homosexual people against my will you have no proof that anyone you 
now know may not be homosexual and this punches a large hole in your 
argument. is it your belief that a homosexual comes in only one  ( sic ) 
and that is the camp mincing type prove it. you cannot .  . 

i must admit though , that it looks as if you actually thought about your response 
this time instead of just raving .  . 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from (paul schmidt ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization advocates for self government davy crockett chapter 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 27 

 ( chris holt ) writes 

it 's quite possible that a buyer and seller will both 
trust some third party more than either trust the other , and 
will desire the moderation of that third party. but if a random 
third party assumes the right to interfere in a transaction 
to the wishes of the primary participants , odds are pretty good the 
results will be detrimental .  . 

so we try to ensure that the process of deciding whether to introduce 
third parties is n't random. as steve said above , there are examples 
where third parties are less ignorant or corrupt than the two 
primary parties should this knowledge not be able to help 

a third party should be able to use persuasion to sway the transaction .  . 
if , on the other hand , we condone the use of force or threat of violence 
by the third party , then we are in trouble. a fourth party could say 
that it knows better than parties 1 , 2 , and 3. and a fifth party .  .  .  . and 
so on. who wins the one that can use the force or threat of force the 
best. in other words might makes right. let 's abandon such 
aggressive tactics and work from voluntary cooperation and respect from 
others. that is what libertarians want. 

paul schmidt advocates for self government , davy crockett chapter president 
706 judith drive , johnson city , tn 37604 ,  ( 615)283 ) 0084 , uunet ! ! 
freedom seems to have unleashed the creative energies of the people and 
leads to ever higher levels of income and social progress. u.n. report 

from (andrew d. simchik ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 74 
nntp posting host troi . cc . rochester . edu . 

in  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 

in article (some caifone ) writes 

i certainly hope you do n't have an so , sir , 

what is so supposed to signify i prefer the of a 
person , not a euphemism .  . 

oh , do please try not to be ludicrous .  . so significant other , a term i employed to avoid the awkward construction girlfriend or wife . 

because if she heard 

thankfully , you got the gender right. for i am not a deviant .  . 

a deviant is someone who does not fit an accepted norm. by that definition , i would certainly be a deviant , as bisexuality is not an accepted norm in american society so far. this term , of course , really has no negative aspects inherent in its denotation .  . i presume you intended it as a term of abuse .  . it 's a great pity you feel such tactics to be necessary , but hardly surprising since you have no factual basis for your absurd beliefs .  . 

how disparaging you are towards political minorities , 

sexual deviants do not comprise a political y . 

may i attempt to emulate your style of discourse with a term of abuse ahem .  .  . you . ! the post to which i responded was a highly amusing one in which you homosexuals for having no political clout .  . i would be further amused if you would explain to me why having no political clout and a political minority are different. 

and if she had any shred of self respect , she 'd be out the door. 

i only associate with girls who do indeed have self respect. but were 

and yet you call them girls ! the feminists would be up in arms. 

i to find myself with the sort who would be inclined to head out the 
door on account of my views regarding the aberrant behavior known as 
homosexuality , i would encourage her to indeed do so , and i would 
further advise her not to let the door her on the backside on 
the way out. who needs such an airhead 

cough , cough .  . well , well , you certainly are a fine , upstanding fellow , you are , sir. and like many fine , upstanding fellows , you have the reading comprehension of a  . perhaps i should have been more explicit in pointing out that females constitute a political minority in this country when last i checked , and that your obvious lack of respect for these minorities equates to a lack of respect for women. that is , of course , a conceptual stretch of logic , but given your slow as de 




so far , i figure we should start simple and work up. do n't worry , you 'll get it 

! 
pretty soon they will find themselves retreating back into the closet 
where they belong .  . 

do n't count on it , sweetheart. 

oh , i ca n't do anything but count on it. after all , it is 
inevitable , for it is part of the natural order of things. throughout 
history , nature has always asserted itself. do n't be so arrogant as 

this is very true , this bit about nature asserting itself. homosexuality has always been a part of human society , and always will be , for that is the natural order. if you 're naive enough to believe otherwise , go right ahead we 'll try not to too loudly behind your back. 

inevitable .  .  . anyone would think you had some idea what you were talking about. i have n't seen fact one from you , and until i do you can just dispense with the bullshit , and tell us what we already know , that you 're a clueless little slime mold with no concept of reality beyond the donna reed show. live a little , and then come back and tell us all about the natural order of things. you 're in a bubble , and it 's really going to rock your world when you come out. 

to assume that this foolish and misguided generation can change the 
nature of man where practically every other generation has failed. 


foolish and misguided .  . oh , this is too much. so which religious figure do you believe you are and how do you know so much about the nature of man you 're almost too amusing to be worth the effort of crushing your brain. 
greater men than you have n't been able to do this. the above most 
certainly will happen , no matter how much you may wish to pretend 
otherwise. 

gee , you sound awfully sure of yourself. methinks the bigot doth protest too much. admit it you 're scared shitless that what you 've been all your sorry little life was wrong , and you 're trying to escape that fear by a blind faith that you know , deep down , is based in nothing , nothing at all. go ahead , clutch your unfounded to your empty breast ignore the myriad of societies that have accepted homosexuality as equally valid or even mystical .  . ignore the solid , inescapable fact t 




hat we 've existed as long as humans have. fear us. go ahead. laugh at us if it makes you feel better. we both know you 're just whistling in the dark. there 's one group that 's stamped out whenever it appears , in any form , and that 's the group of boneheads who fancy themselves morally superior .  . you 're in that group , and you 're slowly and steadily being stamped out. preach while you can , little man .  .  . it . wo n't be long. 

moreover , i'm not your sweetheart . 

that 's the first truth you 've told so far. i do n't hate hets , sir. i'm bisexual , and i embrace man and alike. i have nothing against those who do n't understand my love. but you deny its and validity .  . you would crush us all , human beings to a one , in your imagined divinity .  . it 's fools like you that stir my ire .  .  . idiots . with the small minds , who ca n't think for themselves , who know nothing about how the real world operates , and who hate because they are told what to do and do it like 




sheep , who hate everyone who refuses to be a sheep .  . you 're not part of the norm. you 're part of a minority yes , a minority ! with supreme , o arrogance .  . your hubris will topple , because it always has , because those with intelligence know it to be a clown 's costume .  . 

wow , that was pretentious ! i sometimes wonder why i waste my talents on like you. i really have no interest in continuing this effortless discussion after all , this is for me the proverbial battle of wits with an unarmed opponent .  . come back with some swords i.e. facts and we shall do battle. till then , begone from my sight. 



p.s. you were very entertaining , however. have you considered taking this on the road i hear escapism is back in. 

from  ( lance visser ) 
subject re waco investigation paranoia 
nntp posting host mikey . convex . com . 
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer 
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of convex .  . 
lines 31 

in (richard hoenes ) writes 

can people please stop the  i think know the batf fbi are completely 
responsible but they 'll cover it up so that the investigation will 
show that is responsible' bs .  . in an investigation of this 
size with the feds , state , and civilians involved in the 
investigation it would be impossible to cover up. 

the place has burned to the ground. the fbi and company 
have the whole area off and have already arrested 
reporters for being at the site and taking pictures. 

all your going to get in terms of a story is what the fbi , atf 
and the texas rangers decide to release. 



and with republicans like arlen spector calling for investigations , 
this is n't going to be handled with kid gloves .  . 

when the cops dropped their bomb on move and 
managed to burn down an entire neighborhood many people said 
the same thing. dead men and rubble tell no tales that the 
police dont want them to tell. 

you can judge the real political mood on this from the 
fact that congressperson pat is a 100 supporter of 
the fbi 's actions .  . she was on television this week saying that 
the cost of the operation in waco was a valid reason for the 
storming and gassing of the compound .  . 


from  ( adisak pochanayon ) 
subject re clayton is an asshole  ( but we all already know that) 
organization college of engineering , univ. of wisconsin madison 
lines 34 

in article  ( roger d . ) . writes 
adisak pochanayon wrote 
in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
homosexuals are vicious , screwed up , often 
really evil people. 
i 've learned quite a bit in the last two years. evil , vicious , 
dishonest , lying scum is the only way to describe homosexuals .  . 
clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
i believe that clayton is full of shit. who could believe anyone so biased 
and so obviously misaligned if he were the slightest bit open minded , he would n't 
write such slanted smears .  . especially to generalize an entire group of people. 

i would say this is a case of the pot calling the kettle black ! 


really now. why is this the pot calling the kettle black i am stating 
that a person who shows a continually biased opinion is close minded and that 
his opinion should be ignored .  . clayton is stating that a group of at least 
two million (1 ) american citizens are evil vicious malicious child molesters .  . 

here 's a hypothetical question .  .  .  . if clayton said something like all 
those are really stupid. (please do n't be offended , i'm not racist 
but merely using an example of clayton 's  . and then said he 
read a report that a lot of blacks in inner cities dropped out of school , i 
bet he would n't have your support. yet he can claim that all homosexuals are 
dishonest , evil , lying child molesters without personally having a single 
homosexual friend or acquaintance and you 'll sit there and support him. 

god created a place for bigots .  . it 's called hell and clayton is going 
to burn there for a long time. i pray for him to find in his heart the 
christian values he espouses so that he can learn to love his gay brothers 
and sisters , because anyone with so much hatred in his soul never 
be righteous .  . 


from (xavier gallagher ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization systems ltd public access news , london , uk 
lines 40 

in article  ( mark walsh ) writes 
in article , (xavier gallagher ) writes 

well , the obvious point to make is would straight men fuck like rabbits 
if the oppertunity presented itself 

i reckon any man would go wildly promiscuous if presented with a 
huge variety of willing partners .  . 

if true , and if gays were the same as straights except 
for sexual preference , i would imagine that gays would 
have much less sex than straights because the available 
pool for dates is less than one tenth what it is for 
straights .  . somebody correct  ( flame ) me please ! 


you miss the point. a lot more negotiation is needed to convince women 
to have sex because there is a big taboo about women being free with 
their sex. many of the women i know would do almost anything rather 
than be known as a , or whore .  . 

with men however there is status attached to being able to fuck 
constantly .  . and with gay men , where both partners can prove status 
through their constant then you are going to get a situation 
where there is a lot of sex. 

the difference is between het sex being as a valuable commodity 
and gay sex being virtually unlimited due to the appetites of men. 

straights suffer a bottle neck where women are concerned , gay men who 
do not experience this bottle neck go to excess .  . 



mark walsh  ( walsh@optilink ) uucp uunet ! optilink ! walsh 


xavier 



from br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re f o cus health the big secret 
summary administrative costs of health care 
nntp posting host thor . isc . br . com . 
organization just a boomer , inc. 
lines 72 

in article (not a boomer ) writes 
in article br . isc . br . com . , br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article (not a boomer ) writes 
... 
blue cross is the government health insurance provider .  . 

oops .  . 

oops blue cross may well be the for government workers in 
massachusetts as it is for a number of state and local governments , i 
do n't know. but blue cross is certainly not a government agency .  . 
it is a private  . 

yes it is a private that has to deal with government 
regulations concerning how it 's employees are to be covered processed , etc. 
there are a mountain of forms that gov. employees have to go through. 

sorry , but this is a red herring .  . 

are you contending that the mountain of forms are processed by blue 
cross having had blue cross insurance both as a government employee 
and as an employee of a private corporation , i saw no difference between 
the two sets of forms. 

moreover , the administrative costs associated with medicare medicaid , 
the two primary forms of government insurance are considerably lower than 
the average for private insurance companies. (5 versus 14 16 ) .  . 

if you have any evidence that blue cross bears a heavier burden in insuring 
government employees than private employees , post it. otherwise , try 
to stick to factual assertions .  . 


and as the original post implied , it is private insurers in the us 
whose administrative costs are significantly higher than the administrative 
costs of tax supported health care systems in canada and elsewhere. 

only those that remain paper bound and refuse to standardize .  . 

well now , that 's an interesting defense of the free enterprise system. 
are you contending that it is government intervention that prevents 
private insurance companies from 

in fact , it is true that some of the red tape burden stems from the 
lack of standardization among the 1500 or so private insurers in the us , 
but it 's a little difficult to understand how this is anything other than 
free enterprise at work. 

by the way , 's , the bible of wall street , this week admitted that 
administrative costs were significantly lower in canada because  .  .  .  . a . 
single payer system is always cheaper .  .  .  . . guess even the free enterprise 
advocates are beginning to see the light. 

try again. 

why my hmo provides good service at a low cost. and i do n't have the 
government telling my doctors what they can and can not say about medical 
procedures .  . 

sorry , but you seem to be confusing proposals with health care 
reform with the bush administration 's gag order on federally funded family 
planning clinics .  . there are no proposals that would control what your 
doctor .  .  . can . and cannot say about medical procedures .  . 

try again. 

jsh 

steve hendricks domain br . com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 509 838 8826 


from (mr .  . grinch ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization 
lines 45 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rigel . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( chris holt ) writes .  .  .  . 



so we try to ensure that the process of deciding whether to introduce 
third parties is n't random. as steve said above , there are examples 
where third parties are less ignorant or corrupt than the two 
primary parties should this knowledge not be able to help 

of course it helps , but only if the decision to involve third parties 
is the primary  to make. a corrupt and ignorant third party 
is n't going to say , we 're corrupt and ignorant , we 'll stay out of this . 
pointing out that they are corrupt and ignorant wo n't help , they either 
wo n't believe you or wo n't care. 



it 's impossible  ( or at least beyond my abilities ) to formulate a rule 
that will always tell whether the involvement of a third party would be 
good or bad , but there 's one that seems better than any other i 've ever 
heard suggested voluntary good , mandatory bad. that is , a third 
party should involve itself in a transaction only at the request of 
the primary participants .  . 

so we do n't formulate a rule that will always tell we try to use 
knowledge about other properties of situations. to some of us , it 
appears that trying always to apply voluntary good , mandatory bad 
is not only less than optimal , it is in some circumstances seriously 
damaging .  . the interesting question is to characterize those 
circumstances as best we can. 

look , somebody has to have the power to decide whether a third party 
will regulate your transactions or not. that somebody is going to 
be either you or the third party. you can argue until you are 
blue in the face that regulators should n't get involved  ( in fact , people 
have tried this) , they wo n't listen. the fundamental question you 
have to ask is , whose decision is it whether or not to involve regulators , 
ours or theirs after you 've answered first question , you can 
try to move on to such questions as should regulators be involved and , if 
so , what regulations are appropriate although with your answer to 
the first question , the second and third are taken out of your hands. 


mr. grinch 


from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 



you might except that gay men are much more promiscuous than 
straight men which shows how damaged and screwed up gay men are. 


excuse me a moment when i laugh my head off .  .  .  . i defy you to prove 
your statement damaged and screwed up . you ca n't oh dear. your 
argument , once again , mr  ( logic(not ! ) , falls flat on its face. 

take a course in civil behaviour and logic .  . then come back and defend 
your arguments .  . 


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from (richard lynn ) 
subject re quality time , a one act play. 
organization tektronix , inc. 
lines 9 


 ( fluffy bi fantasy squelched ) 


dear mr. elf , 

please post this shit where it belongs .  . i believe 
you know where that is , you weenie biter .  . 


from  ( mark evans ) 
subject re are americans sexually repressed 
nntp posting host uhura 
organization university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 22 

jamie r. mccarthy wrote 
 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

unless , of course , the problem is that homosexuality is a form 
of mental disorder , caused by childhood sexual abuse , as a number of 
recent works suggest .  . 

which number is that zero 

the only time i have heard mention of such a mechanism is 
with respect to female homosexuality resulting from heterosexual 
childhood abuse .  . 
 ( and this as only one of several factors affecting the same person) 

as mr cramer appears to concentrate on male homosexuality 
i doubt this is what he has in mind. 



mark evans 
(44) 21 429  ( home ) 
(44) 21 359  ( office ) 

from  ( alan e. asper ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization usr lib news organization 
lines 10 
distribution na 
nntp posting host calvin . sbc . com . 

in article winken . llnl . gov . (ed suranyi ) writes 
this , too , is ridiculous. in no way can the be considered 
to have played more than an exceedingly minor role. a person 
who kills is ultimately responsible for his own actions .  . 


finally , someone seems to be making sense in this thread. 

alan 


from  ( hot young star ) 
subject re vietnam deja vu 
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 8 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

the waco bar b q caused me to remember an official explanation 
from the vietnam war. the 90s , liberal version is 

it was necessary to the children in order to save them. 

and yet this incident of disregard for life you call a bar b q . 

from 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 115 


in article ,  ( phill hallam baker ) writes .  .  .  . 

in article , writes 
xref alt . activism . 6011 talk.politics.misc 
path ! ! mcsun ! uunet ! gatech ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! agate ! dog . ee . lbl . gov . ! utah . edu . ! cc . usu . edu . ! 
from 
newsgroups alt . activism . , talk.politics.misc 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
message id 
date 20 apr 93 03 02 34 mdt 
references 
organization utah state university 
lines 34 

in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

firstly , they could have backed off. when you put a power freak , like 
david koresh , in that kind of situation he is going to explode .  . (no pun 
intended) .  . koresh wanted to be a martyr and the government played right into 
his hands. 

if the government had n't given him the attention he wanted nothing 
would have ever happened. 

secondly , the davidians were expecting everything the government did. 
they thought that they were facing the apocalypse , and that they were to perish 
in fire. they were n't scared of the fbi .  . they are not the average , they 
are very devout followers of a religion. did n't work and the government 
got frustrated so they murdered them. 

the batf should have left at the beginning , they should have looked at 
koresh 's personality. instead they thought , they have guns. we have bigger 
guns. let 's go get 'em ! 

they botched it from day one. they should n't have been there in the 
first place. 


the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 


the above statement ignores reality. the bd were provoked .  . 



any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 


damn , phil .  . you must have seen a different tape of the initial raid than 
i did. your  happened to include percussion grenades and 
attempting to storm the compound through the windows. i can honestly say 
i have never seen a  that works like that. 




the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 


think , man. the batf are serving a warrant on someone who they feel might 
have illegal automatic weapons .  . if they expected , as you state , that b d 
to be anything other than peaceful citizens  they could have sent one , maybe 
two agents up to the front door , knock , and attempt to serve the warrant on 
the person answering the door. scenario one , that person lets them in to 
perform the search and no one gets hurt. scenario two , the person answering 
the door pulls a weapon kills both officers .  . now you have two dead batf 
agents instead of four , the batf knows exactly where they stand with regards 
to the bd and began to formulate a plan of action to arrest those responsible 
without harm to the innocent people children within the compound .  . 



the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 


no , the stupidity was the attempt to serve the warrant swat style. 




if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 


sure , do it within the law. the batf is there to uphold the law , not 
circumvent it to fit their needs .  .  .  .  .  . 




phill hallam baker 



paul r. 
salem , n.h. 
603 894 

one only sees what one observes , and one observes only 
those things which are already in the mind. 

from state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) 
subject re kyle k. on rodney king 
nntp posting host bottom . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in article 
chevron . com . (john viveiros ) writes 
in article  ( koppenhoefer 
kyle cramm ) writes 

the entire second trial was about race , ted .  . i do n't feel compelled to 
discuss mr. king 's racial background , but had mr. king been white there would 
not have been a second trial .  . you probably are saying that the beating would 
not have occurred if he were white , but that is an extremely difficult call 
to make. it is possible the case , but not definately .  . 

one could easily point out that the jury decided that this extremely 
difficult call could be made , which is why the two of the defendants 
were found guilty .  . one could also make some interesting observations on 
our system of justice , where the men were not guilty of excessive force , 
but guilty enough to have violated his civil rights by use of the 
 ( non existant ) excessive force. 


it is also interesting to note that powell  ( and maybe koons ) were found 
guilty of aiding and the of king 's civil rights .  .  . but . , 
two others who also beat king and all the others who watched were not. 
go figure can you say can you say appeal 

john viveiros 
chevron usa standard disclaimer applies 
midland tx 


 . 

from (david veal ) 
subject re motor voter 
lines 54 
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education 

in article  ( walter gib gibson ) writes 
motor voter stuff 

my friend , after the election , brought up the point that it 
would enable more people to vote , however , since it makes it easier to 
get to the place of registration .  . he brought up the analogy that if 
there were only one place to vote , say , in alaska would it be 
excessive and wasteful to petition to have more places to vote this 
is a similar idea a way to encourage more people to vote by making it 
more easily accessible .  . i , not knowing where i stood , played devil 's 
advocate and said well , would you have the taxpayer 's money go to 
for those people that have trouble making it to dmv , then 
where does the right to vote merge with the right to vote easily 
where should we draw the lines 

well , there does have to be a line. and to be honest , extending 
voter registration to is hardly analogous to having only one 
place for registration in alaska and opening a new one in atlanta .  . more is 
not always better once you 've passed a certain point. 

my friend said that that is obviously an extreme and that 
actually the motor voter bill would save money because no longer would 
the city have to pay someone to sit in the town hall and spend all 
his her time filing those things they 'd just be at the push of a 
button or the filling out of an x at dmv .  . so i  ( actually someone 
else , but there 's no need to confuse this anymore) countered again 
saying that would n't congress , as always , get budgets and 
fund committees to and oversee the implementation .  .  .  .  . the 
argument went back and forth forever ranging from whether or not it 's 
better to have more people voting , whether that is even relevant , 
etc .  .  .  .  . 

just looking for some more opinions. anybody got 'em 

i thought the motor voter bill passed. 

in any case , my with tennessee 's voter registration 
system (which you can register with by mail , by the way) is that nobody 
who is interested in voting is being denied access to registration .  . 
all it requires is just the bit of interest on the 's 
part and thinking about the election once in the eleven months prior to 
it.  ( once you register it 's good unless you miss for years worth of 
elections of move . ) . 

it 's easy to register now. i simply do n't see the value in going 
out and trying to get people registered who do n't have enough gumption to 
even write and have the proper forms sent to them. how can we expect 
responsible decisions out of these people 


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. weird al 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 
in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( gary piatt ) writes 
ahh , what 's good for the goose is not necessarily what 's good for 
the  . you do n't want homosexuals to impose their moral codes 
 ( such diabolical ideas as equal rights ) on you , yet you are willing 
to impose your moral codes on them. do i detect a double standard 



what do you mean if adults want to get together for sodomy in 
private , that 's their business. 

and that 's precisely what they do. so what 's your problem with the queer 
population , the only difference between us is what we do in 
private who we love. 

bi andrew d. schnopia ! 

do it in private , and it wo n't be a problem. but the reason that 
the homosexual activists are so hot on antidiscrimination laws is 
that they want 

1. to be able to wear that lovely evening to work , and 
not have people get disgusted 

2. to be able to wear their nambla t shirt and not worry about 
getting fired 

3. to be able to have access to young boys , so that they start 
making the next generation of homosexuals .  . 

if your right to privacy is what makes sodomy laws unconstitutional 
(a position that i agree with) , then keep it private , and there 
wo n't be a problem. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from gordon o. perkins 
subject does perot pay 7 in income taxes 
nf id n cdp 000 249 
nf from cdp . uucp . ! apr 20 19 05 00 1993 
lines 6 


i am seeking any press references to how much tax perot pays in income taxes .  . 
i 've heard the figure of 7 percent , since he gets most of his 
his income from federal and municipal bond interest. anybody read a reliable 
report somewhere thanks ! 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 27 

in article , ( joe cipale ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
however , monogamous homosexual male sex is so rare that for practical 
purposes , homosexuality spreads aids .  . 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

you fucking homophobic moron ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! what about iv drug use what about 
tainted blood what about multi sexual partners if you knew anything 

what about them those also spread aids .  . where did i say anything 
different go back and read what i wrote. the statement homosexuality 
spreads aids is not made false by the fact that there are other 
methods of spreading it as well. 

about what you are talking about , you would be dangerous. as it is right now , 
you are a persistent boil on the skin of humanity that needs to be  . 

joe cipale 

typical homosexual response. 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( russ curry ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 30 

 ( doug holtsinger ) writes 

janet reno killed the waco children. she is responsible for 
their deaths .  . she should resign immediately. 

( i agree ! ) 


she should have 
understood that david koresh was a madman who would do anything 
against the children if he became provoked .  . all the warning 
signs were there and she ignored them. she provoked koresh 
into killing the children. 

i think the problem here is that mrs. reno strikes me 
( after watching nightline last night ) as a person who is incapable 
of understanding or dealing with a great number of things. 


fact is that bill and hillary had to clear the decks for their 
dream package of free stuff for the american people ( .  . their . 
subjects .  .  . ) .  . they could n't have a wild card floating around while 
they and robert the fifth reich reich plan the glorious peoples 
democracy . that would n't fit in with their vision of themselves or 
should be progressively working for .  .  .  . after all , 
who do you think your e working for .  .  .  . and if a handful of peasant 
children have to die for the glorious vision of the year of the child 
in america , its a small price to pay. let them eat cake .  .  .  .  . 



from (david veal ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
lines 83 
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education 

in article  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 
in article , (david veal ) writes 

in article  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

the batf , in a letter they 've been sending out to people , 
says both that they were ambushed because they lost the element of 
surprise , and that they went up and knocked on the door and had it 
slammed in their faces. 

it strikes me as kind of strange to rely on surprise to 
serve a warrant by knocking on the door. 

presumably the b d did not mount a continuous state of alert with gunmen 
ready to fire on people who casually walked up to ring the  . 

let 's try that again why was the batf concerned about surprise 
when they intended to serve the warrant by knocking on the door the 
batf appears to be in their own description of events. 

and in any case , how does one mount an ambush if one is n't 
on alert 

had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

phill , the batf were in a firefight with the bd for forty five 
minutes. i find it hard to believe that if they were expecting peaceful 
citizens they would n't have shown up in live stock and would 
have retreated immediately. 

not a smart move. unless meant to be part of the cover. even so 
the narrow opening of the trucks simply was not a good idea. a side opening 
truck would have been much better , more like a covered  . 

so , were the batf fired on before or after they left the 
to knock on the door to serve the warrant every description i 've 
heard indicates the batf did not hang around in the once 
they decided to open them up. 

for that matter , if they expect peaceful citizens , why come in live 
stock to being with 

if they were expecting citizens , why show up with over 
a hundred officers , some of which clearly visible on video to be carrying 
sub machineguns , and 3 national guard helicopters 

sounds just about right to me. its the minimum amount of force that i 
would consider necessary to serve a warrant on the talk.politics.guns 
annual dinner. 

ok , just to make sure we 've got this straight you consider 
armed troops in disguised vehicles and multiple helicopters to be 
used to serve search warrants on peaceful citizens .  .  ( and just so 
we do n't have one of those entertaining shifts , you described them 
as the batf expecting them to be , peaceful . ) . 

michael ordered the use of over 5000 crack troops including 
members of the parachute regiment to remove approx 250 peace 
protestors on a site where they wanted to install cruise missiles .  . he 
even turned up in a flack jacket to monitor the proceedings .  . just about the 
most dangerous tool the women possesed was a tin opener .  . that single 
action probably cost him the position as prime minister .  . one of the elders 
of my church got arrested in that heroic action by the forces of  . 
ever after was something of a national joke. 

i do n't see how past abuses excuse present ones. hell , you 're 
not even discussing the same government. 


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. weird al 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re we 're from the government and we 're here to help you 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 57 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article br . isc . br . com . , br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  ( jim albea ) writes 

gee , jim , if you 'll check the constitution you 'll find in order to .  .  .  . 
promote the general welfare .  .  . do . ordain and establish this constitution .  .  .  . 
i'm surprised you missed it. it 's right there in the first paragraph .  . i 
would have thought you would have made it at least through the preamble .  . 

you almost got it right , and it was a good try , but you should follow your 
own advice. the preamble to the constitution does read as you have quoted 
but let us not forget that after all it is only the preamble .  . it is not 
a binding part of the constitution and carries no weight in the law. that 
poor tortured paragraph has got to be one of the most unfortunate passages 
in the english language witness the legions of blowhards like yourself who 
think those vague flowery phrases are part of the law of the land. do you 
really believe that a politician only has to give lip service to promoting 
the general welfare to be within the limits of the constitution 

sorry , buddy , but some other blowhards managed to include the general 
welfare in another portion of the constitution .  . 

article i section 8 the congress shall have the power to lay and collect 
taxes .  .  . to . pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general 
welfare of the united states .  .  .  . 

i guess they wanted to make sure everyone understood they meant what they 
said in the preamble .  . 

 .  .  . but . since it explicitly includes both the general welfare and defense 
in article i , section 8 , i guess you 'll grant that botha are constitutional 
functions. right 

james madison , federalist paper 41 

it has been urged and echoed , that the power lay and 
collect taxes , duties , , and excises , to pay the debts , 
and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the 
united states , '' amounts to an unlimited commission to exercise 
every power which may be alleged to be necessary for the common 
defense or general welfare .  .  .  . 

no stronger proof could be given of the distress under which 
these writers labor for objections , than their to such a 
 . had no other enumeration or definition of the 
powers of the congress been found in the constitution , than the 
general expressions just cited , the authors of the objection 
might have had some color for it ... but what color can the 
objection have , when a specification of the objects alluded to by 
these general terms immediately follows , and is not even 
separated by a longer pause than a ... nothing is 
more natural nor common than first to use a general phrase , and 
then to explain and qualify it by a recital of particulars .  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special investors  packet .  .  .  . 


subject re the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
from rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) 
nntp posting host 128 . 159 . 2 . 197 . 
lines 14 

in article br . isc . br . com . , br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) says 

i'm no defender of the , but it is worth noting that it is unfair to tar 
that organization with the decidedly minority scientific views of its 
former and one term washington governor , dr. dixie lee ray .  . 
dr. ray 's political agenda is well known and documented .  . likewise , her 
lack of objectivity in analysing scientific data is well known. 

you are correct , i apologize .  . my problems with the are their  ( however inherent ) 
continuous of misleading data in order to support the statement 
that nuclear is not only safe and clean but cheap to boot. 10 to 15 cents per 
kilowatt hour is not cheap and neither are nuclear power plants. as far as 
being safe and clean i 'll let nuclear power plants speak for themselves all 
the way from the uranium mines to their  . 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization university of virginia 
lines 16 

in article  ( mark walsh ) writes 
really i thought that insurance companies hired all of 
their actuarial staffs to determine the risks correlated 
with all groups of people , and that gays are more likely 
to have aids than are those of other sexual orientations .  . 

correlation ! causality .  . 

the risk factor is having non unprotected sex , not being 
homosexual .  . 


greg hennessy , university of virginia 
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from  ( william m. everett ) 
subject re top ten comments overheard in the secret service lounge 
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711 
lines 43 

in article  ( carl aron ) writes 

and the word liberal definitely has a different connotation 
than what you have written above. just ask michael dukakis .  . 

yeah , the republicans have defined it to mean spends money on things that 
do n't make our rich buddies richer 
if you have something reasoned and intelligent to say then you should 
post. if all you can do is rant and rave save it. 


or maybe they mean that liberals believe in tax and spend rather than 
borrow and spend 
true conservatism is cutting spending and taxes .  . it 's a matter of 
debate just how succesful the last few presidents have been at that. 


finally , it means open minded about things that i don t want to be open 
minded about 
i hear it again and again , and i 've noticed far more often from 
liberals than anyone else if you do n't agree with me you are close minded 
look who 's talking. i suggest you take a look at your post. i see 
nothing but unfair and unsubstantiated generalizations .  . it suggests that the 
author is anything but open minded .  . 
next time you feel like posting something like this save it for 
somebody who cares. 


carl 


william everett these opinions are mine 
mudd college you ca n't have them 

the insane fear of socialism throws the bourgeois headlong into the 
arms of despotism .  . , 
the insane fear of throws the liberals headlong into the 
arms of socialism .  . , 1993 






from steve (steven martin) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
wed , 21 apr 93 22 55 19 gmt 
v1 . 1 . 1d17 . 
martin . uswest . com . 
organization u s west , 
steve martin . uswest . com . 
lines 29 

in article richard hoenes , 
writes 
such a hostage situation has taken place on numerous occasions 
with the result of the police trying to take the place by 
force and the result being the death of the hostages and the 
gunmen .  . however , this is the first time i 've heard of 
the blame landing squarely on the police .  . 

in this country we have a policy of not negotiating a back down 
from terrorists and hostage takers since that only encourages 
other terrorists and hostage takers .  . 

not an accurate analogy .  . david koresh did not take a bunch of 
hostages and then call the batf with a ransom note. you make 
it sound as if the batf showed up to save those children in the 
first place. i have some interesting news for 
has absolutely no jurisdiction in child abuse cases. 

it seems to me that the batf showed up , took the davidians hostage .  . 
then the fbi showed up , negotiated to have a few of the hostages 
released , but were unable to keep the batf from killing the rest 
of the poor people trapped inside the compound .  . 

steve martin 
steve 

the strongest reason for the people to retain the right to keep and 
bear arms is , as a last resort , to protect themselves against 
tyranny in government. thomas jefferson 

from (john e. burton jr . ) . 
subject re dangerous ideological position there 
nntp posting host 
organization alabama cooperative extension service , auburn university 
lines 38 

in  ( drieux , just drieux ) writes 

in article ,  ( larry cipriani ) writes 
lessons from tiananmen square by neal knox reprinted from 
guns ammo , september 1989 

why the second amendment is so important , even in todays more 
progressive era. included is a description of the 1932 
bonus march in washington , dc in which gen. douglas macarthur 
opposed with military force unemployed wwi veterans lobbying for 
the government to immediately pay their promised veteran 's bonus. 


larry , 

now you ca n't seriously suggest that the us government 
would be affraid of a bunch of vets , and would up and 
call out the military to protect them just because the 
us government up and decided to forget a generation of 
veterans .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

now what was that some liberal was saying about the 
advantages of a armed forces which we need 
not actually pay for services render .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



you should be aware that the us army was called to fight 
 ( and did) ww i veterans  ( bonus marchers ) who marched on 
dc demanding bonuses they were promised for service. 
of the depression , they wanted them early. 

john burton 
my opinions , not my employer s 





from  ( mark evans ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host uhura 
organization university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 29 

alan morgan wrote 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

you might except that gay men are much more promiscuous than 
straight men which shows how damaged and screwed up gay men are. 

okay , let us say that hypothetically i agree with you that 
gay men are much more promiscuous than straight men. why does 
this indicate they are screwed up people 

btw it occurs to me that since , in my experience , men are much more 
interested in sex than women and want to have sex much earlier 
in a relationship than women do , that homosexuals would have 
sex more often simply becuase their partner is of a like mind. 
i.e. heterosexual men would be more promiscuous if they could. 

it 's my observation that women are more likely to me more strongly 
into now wanting sex that are men. 
also there are definite double standards for men and women who are 
promiscuous .  . 

could there also be a factor of communication being more direct in 
homosexual relationships and culture. 



mark evans 
(44) 21 429  ( home ) 
(44) 21 359  ( office ) 

from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 80 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

1) so what 

homosexuals lie about the 10 number to hide the disproportionate 
involvement of homosexuals in child molestation .  . they also lie 
about 10 to keep politicians scared. 


back your with proof , or shut up. 

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 5million . queers 
gather in washington dc .  . after all if there are only 6million of 
us then this is an event unprecidented in history .  .  .  . 

but many of the people who will be marching are n't homosexuals , but 
other members of the leftist agenda .  . 


again , back your statements or shut up. 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 

not surprising .  . remember , that study includes homosexuals as well. 


hmm .  .  .  . tell me , did you go to the mickey mouse school of logic you have 
just stated that there are not many homosexuals as kinsey reported in his 
survey  ( and the surveys of the kinsey institute  . then you say that 
the reason many young people are promiscuous is because homosexuals form 
a large part of that group , or there are some homosexuals whose lives 
consist of having sex , with no gaps for eating c. using your logic 
it would seem to suggest that on average gay men have about 2000 partners each 
a week ! try to think through your arguments carefully .  . or then again , not , 
because i like to laugh every now and then. 

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general 
male population .  . 

and what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those 
who said they where homosexual or is that number to inconvient for 
you .  .  .  .  . 

it was n't published .  . 


hence the argument cannot be resolved using this data. next point , please. 

it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for 
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically 
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are. 

fuck off 

typical response. 



this depends on the premise that there are only three types of behaviour gay , bi 
and hetero .  . this has yet to be proved .  . see an earlier post about the kinsey 
institute of grading .  . this , although rough , seems more logical .  . also you use 
this would show , defining a fact and not an assumption .  . again , back your 
statements or shut up. 



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 



adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from () 
subject study after study re are americans sexually repressed 
organization santa cruz 
lines 80 
nntp posting host orchid . ucsc . edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( kennedy james scot ) writes 

so , what can we deduce from these figures are there a lot 
less male homosexuals than there used to be or are men 
 ( perhaps women too) not as honest as they used to be about 
there sexuality presumably , the people that were polled in 

you mean , in the 1940s , men and women were much more open about 
their homosexuality than today want to try that one again 


that probably is not true. but today it may not be much better for 
the gay population in general. 


you mean , ignore study after study , so that we can continue to 
accept a study  ( kinsey 's) that is obviously wrong 


where are all of these studies you have cited a few , and my research 
shows that there are not that many. do not confuse a survey as a 
study , there is a big difference. asking people outside of a polling 
booth and adding up numbers is not a study. 

as easily of been gay i suppose. one of the big debates about 
homosexuality is whether or not it 's a type of behavior that is 
learned or if one is just born that way. imho , the more likely 
explanation is that it 's some combination of the two. 

based on what , besides your own warm fuzzy feelings 

but this is what you base most of your conclusion upon .  . warm 
fuzzy feelings. 

maybe he has stated an educated opinion based upon the studies 
that involve genetics and psychological influence .  . there are a 
lot of those types of studies , are n't there try reading some. 

here 's something to ponder upon have any of you gay bashers out 
there ever considered that homosexuals probably deem their sexual 
orientation as being a state of affairs that is just as much an 
intrinsic and natural part of their life as heterosexuals do 
about their own sexuality in other words , someone who is truly 

alcoholics share that feeling , until they hit bottom. 

this is a crap statement and comparison. many people use this sad 
and stupid argument. there is not relationship between alcoholics 
and people 's sexual orientation except that some may find what it 
really is when they are drunk  ( repressed  . 

unless , of course , the problem is that homosexuality is a form 
of mental disorder , caused by childhood sexual abuse , as a number of 
recent works suggest .  . 

nonsense this simply is not true. i suppose it is a waste of time 
to try and tell you to understand what a study presents. most of 
what you cite does not extrapolate anything , you do. 


if homosexuals would stop using the government to impose their 
morality on others  ( antidiscrimination laws) and leave our children 

if people in general would stop using irrational position to oppress 
other 's and leave our private lives to ourselves , i would have no 
support for laws and rules to protect people form this. but we need 
only look at post such as yours to see that they lack rational 
thought and intelligent outlooks .  . 

alone , i would n't care in the least what they did in private. but 
until they get over the liberal notion that the proper role of 
government is to tell peaceful people how to live , i have no choice 
but to continue to point out that homosexuality is not an alternative 
lifestyle , but a sickness .  . 


remember that peaceful people are not necessarily doing the right 
thing. peaceful , tolerant , enlightened , educated , rational thinking 
people that is what we need. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject the government is lying 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 23 


yesterday , the fbi was saying that at least three of the bodies had 
gunshot wounds , indicating that they were shot trying to escape the 
fire. today 's paper quotes the medical examiner as saying that there 
is no evidence of gunshot wounds in any of the recovered bodies .  . 

at the beginning of this siege , it was reported that while koresh 
had a class iii  ( machine gun) license , today 's paper quotes the 
government as saying , no , they did n't have a license. 

today 's paper reports that a number of the bodies were found with 
shoulder weapons next to them , as if they had been using them while 
dying which does n't sound like the sort of action i would expect 
from a suicide .  . 

our government lies , as it tries to cover over its incompetence 
and negligence .  . why should i believe the fbi 's claims about 
anything else , when we can see that they are lying 

this system of government is beyond reform .  . 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 26 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 

in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article ,  ( greg hennessy ) writes 
in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
tells you something about the fascist politics being practiced .... 

ah , ending discrimination is now fascism .  . 

greg hennessy , university of virginia 

when you force people to associate with others against their will , 
yes. 

we 're having to associate with you against our will. this is fascism ! 

you do n't have to associate with anyone against your will. go live in a 
cave .  . we wo n't miss you. 





bi andrew d. schnopia ! 


words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes 

from (matt x8043 ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
nntp posting host snow . nsc . com . 
organization thought police watchdog agency , u.s.a. 
lines 212 


in article 
(michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article , 
(matt x8043 ) writes 

in article 
(michael a. thomas ) writes 

as far as set the moral tone is concerned , if a community does not 
collectively want to put up with prostitution going on in front of their 
kids , why should they have to if a community does not want to see 
proliferation of drugs among their kids , why should they have to 

by what right and do tell , from the standpoint of the drug 
dealer or prostitute , what is the difference if the gun is pointed 
by the local city council or the feds 
if something is wrong , it is wrong. period. if it is not 
sustainable at a federal level why should it be ok just because 
the geographical unit is smaller 


peter nelson posted a very eloquent response to this point in 
talk.politics.misc , so i need not consume more bandwidth here. 



the problem with the egalitarian view is that it tries to deny the 
fundamental dilemma of democratic government the people have a right 
to exercise a voice in their community , yet individuals have the right 
to be left to themselves. this is a serious dilemma precisely because 
there is not much that takes place in a vacuum .  . 

you are seriously the word egalitarian .  . you should 
look the word up before you use it. there is a vast difference 
between equal justice under the law and  . 

what i meant , if it was not clear , was the intersection set of liberal 
and libertarian philosophies of natural rights and how the government 
 ( and constitutional interpretation in particular) fits into that 
philosophy .  . this philosophy engages in the very serious practical 
error of the nine lawyers on the supreme court with an almost 
totalitarian authority , completely outside of the consent or consensus 
of the people. this is why supreme court nominations are such amazing 
political fist fights these days , because he who controls the court 
rules the country. the people on the court may well be trying to do 
the best job they can , but they are at best a benevolent , even 
if you approve of every supreme court decision ever. eventually , an 
will arise that will decimate that which you hold dear. try 
supreme court cases by jury , and the problem would be mitigated a great 
deal. 

those who would create broad , non enumerated government powers at any 
level  ( as in european democracies and the current de facto 
standard in the u . s . ) . have essentially engaged in the same fundamental 
mistake , except that it is some different body that has the totalitarian , 
virtually unchecked (except by plurality election , death , or retirement ) , 
government power. 


and why should your community be allowed to stop my activities 
when i'm not picking your pocket or you just because 
you do n't like it because you find it morally repugnant 

this is like asking why the wind blows , unless you can prove that 
the fact of your engaging in certain activities has absolutely no 
effect whatsoever on any other human being who has not consented to 
your engagement in those activities. very few human activities indeed 
fit into this category. 

even for those few that do , who would you to make the judgement 
of what is and is not a fully autonomous activity who defines picking 
my pocket and are economic assets a person 's only assets , 
or are peace of mind , stability , confidence in a child 's emotional 
environment , security , and many other things not also a part of a person 's 
assets what gives you the right to create a moral environment that a 
parent strongly objects to what gives you the right to create an 
environment of social unrest and instability if you say that what you 
do does not have those effects , by what authority do you say that who 
is empowered to make these value judgements 


how 
would you feel if i got a gang together and found xtianity 
 ( or insert your favorite cause here) morally repugnant and 
passed laws to outlaw its free exercise  ( all at a local 
level , since that seems to be a ok with you) 


if the federal constitution explicitly prohibited you from doing so , the 
federal government would prevent you from doing so. if it did not , and 
you could muster enough local support to pass an amendment to the local 
constitution (by , say , a 3 4 majority ) the local government 
to do so , then i would have to vote with my feet and move to a neighborhood 
more friendly to my own system of values .  . this is not an ideal situation , 
but it is far better than the mess we are mired in right now. 


as to the gang of and torch wielding friends , there are very 
few restrictive local laws that i personally would advocate or vote for , 
since i am of the view that exercising government power over your neighbors 
should be done with extreme care and only when absolutely necessary. but 
i do believe in protecting children from victimization by people who have 
disregard for the effects they have on others. i would certainly 
leave a well behaved massage alone , so long as it had no 
detrimental effects on the neighborhood. 

you just do n't get it. the debate is not whether you or a 
would or would not vote away my rights it is 
the propriety of whether that should even be an option . 

when you define rights very broadly , there is no practical choice about 
whether people will or will not infringe upon your rights since these 
rights overlap .  . even when rights are defined very narrowly , the government 
has been empowered to prevent others from infringing on your rights. the 
fundamental question is , by whose authority is that power created. if you 
support the current situation with a natural rights supreme court  ( rather 
than an original understanding supreme court or , even better , supreme 
court by jury ) , you are consenting to having nine lawyers in washington , 
d.c. create those powers out of the air. in my fractal scenario , 
it is a broad consensus of the people (i . e .  . the amendment process) that 
creates those powers .  . 


certainly not the only cause , mike , but people in a local neighborhood 
should have a voice in what goes on in that neighborhood. to deny this 
is to create another concentrated centralized power to keep the locality 
from abusing its power 

! ! ! you mean that horrific centralized power , the individual 

no , i mean the federal government that comes trucking in with guns to 
tell the locals how to run their neighborhood. waco , tx is a nice example. 



in essence , using a pit bull to keep a toy 
from biting your leg. chances are , the pit bull is going to turn on you 
some day , and you have much less defense against it than you do against 
the toy  . ideally , everyone would leave everyone else alone and 
no government coercive power of any kind would be necessary. this will 
never work , because people are different and by their nature they will 
always want to force their views on others. if this were not the case , 
nobody would try to force their view that murder is wrong on anyone else. 

fine. when they force their views on others prosecute them. 
until then leave them alone. this is such a simple concept. 
how do you feel about speech codes hate speech certainly 
could be considered an indication that the pit bull is 
going to turn some day . should the community be allowed 
to limit it too if not , why not 

if you create a community where public masturbation is permitted in the 
cause of personal autonomy , have you done anything different what 
precisely are these autonomous activities you are referring to if you 
list them , perhaps we can get enough people to agree that they are truly 
autonomous and pass a constitutional amendment protecting them. 



and how do you feel about david koresh did he deserve 
it should the batf  ( or a local version of same) be allowed 
to toss him in jail just because they think he 's off 
his rocker 

the koresh incident appears to be a horrendous abuse of government power , 
power possibly illegitimately obtained through a means i would abolish .  . 
the constitutionality of no knock warrants seems very dubious to me , not 
to mention the mere existence of batf and the government 's propensity to 
ignore the word infringe in the second amendment .  . this power is upheld 
by the same body , with its incredible concentration of power in the hands 
of nine people , that has upheld much so called civil rights  ( read affirmative 
action ) legislation despite the fourteenth amendment .  . 



who said anything about the public till get rid of it , and 
get out of my face. 


i agree about getting rid of the public till .  . are you still sure you do n't 
want to come over for coffee you might not especially like my neighborhood , 
and i might not especially like yours , but at least we can agree to let each 
other live the kind of life we want to. 

at the point you get rid of the public till , you lose all 
credibility as to why you should have a say about my private 
affairs .  . are you sure you are ready for that 


money is certainly not the only asset i have in this world. if it were , 
this would be a bleak existence indeed. 



michael thomas 


matt 




thinking is irrelevant .  . integrity is irrelevant .  . 
free speech is irrelevant .  . private property is irrelevant .  . 
personal responsibility is irrelevant .  . 
conservativism is futile .  . 
you will be assimilated .  . 

these are my opinions only and not those of my employer ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 



from  ( cutter ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . 
distribution world 
organization gordian knot , gloster , ga 
lines 27 

(paul schmidt ) writes 

i want to know that i have a competent doctor when i am ill. government 
regulations have driven up costs and decreased quality by providing a 
monopoly for licensed m . d . s .  . many procedures could be performed by 
qualified nurses but doctors are forced to do them. the common cold 
must be diagnosed by a licensed doctor who is the only one who is 
allowed to write a perscription .  . doctor 's are spending much of their 
time on such mundane cases that they cannot have the time to spend on 
the really tough cases. this results in higher cost , lower quality 
medical care. 

here in georgia , the state legislature in 1992 accidentally passed a law 
lobbied for by prohibiting anyone but a licensed md from 
giving shots. they were trying to limit from competing with 
them. 
they inadvertantly forbade nurses , , dentists , and artists 
from piercing the skin.  ( probably diabetics too) .  . the secretary of state 's 
office announced on june 30th that they would n't enforce it pending 
in the 1003 legislature .  . in the hassle over the state flag 
i heard nothing about repealing it. 


 ( chris ) all jobs are easy 
to the person who 
does n't have to do them. 
holt 's law 

from (scott cattanach ) 
subject re waco 
organization andersen consulting cstar 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 144 . 36 . 14 . 91 . 

 ( lance visser ) writes 

in  ( jerry stratton ) writes 

happen. it seems that what they were trying to do was get the 
children out. the idea was that ramming the compound with the 
tank and pouring in tear gas was supposed to send all the mothers 
fleeing outside with their children. 

if any reliance was put on women 's instinct in an official 
explanation of a govt. action during a republican administration , would 
it generate so few complaints  ( as opposed to complaints about the action 
itself) 


spending programs are now  investments , ' taxes are  contributions , ' and 
these are the same people who say i need a dictionary dan quayle 2 19 93 

my employer is not responsible for anything that may appear above. 

from  ( evil engineer doin  it the cowboy way) 
subject re waco burning 
organization new mexico state university , metaphysical science laboratory 
lines 63 
nntp posting host peak . nmsu . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 22 apr 1993 16 59 28 0700 

on 22 apr 1993 16 59 28 0700 ,  ( tim crowley ) said 
tim nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 
tim  ( red herring ) writes 
in article (richard hoenes ) writes 

yes we 've heard that the survivors are now saying that. we 've also 
seen the videotape which shows that the fire started in two or 
three different places which were n't near the tank. 

i have not seen the tape on cnn .  . which network did you see it on 

tim i saw the film on cnn as it happend .  . it was clear from that 
tim tape that the fire started in one location. right where the 
tim tank was attacking , and then had pulled back. there were not 
tim several spots where the fire started , it started in one 
tim location and was spread in the direction of the heavy wind. 
tim the fbi claims to have seen or filmed several starting 
tim points. yet they keep this hidden .  . they have spread so much 
tim lies .  . well i guess if i was responsible for the mass murder 
tim of 80 people who were exercising constitutional rights , i 
tim would lie about it too .  .  .  . 

gosh , tim , you must have seen a different live broadcast than i did. while 
the smoke did emerge from one place initially , it was a considerable 
distance from the tank , and in a very short time , fire appeared at several 
places a good distance apart from there. 

then there 's that nagging question about why , out of all those people , 
only a few made any attempts to escape or save the children. if it were 
me , with my child , and i was n't committing suicide , i believe i would have 
made some attempt to at least save the child. as it was , at least one of 
the survivors was attempting to go back into the fire when they were 
physically removed. no one lifted a finger to bring out a child , apparently. 

how do you explain that and the two survivors who claimed to have doused 
the place with lantern oil and set the fire (no doubt on david 's  . 
at least until the lawyers talked to them. 

tim and also , why have they not yet released the search warrant 

that is a good question. maybe because it would be a further 
embarrassment , seeing as how the atf went in there in dirty harry mode 
initially .  . 

as stupidly as it all was handled , i find it difficult to believe that the 
entire fbi has completely gone corrupt under a new administration less 
than 100 days old. stupidity and bad decisions and plans have always been 
with us. they just had an alignment at waco .  . 

tim ya fuck the police ! ! ! ! 

see freedom of speech abounds .  . 

l. 
yeh , buddy .  .  .  ( larry cunningham ) 
i 've got your computer ! physical science laboratory  ( o ) ) 
right here ! ! new mexico state university  .  .  . 
 ( computer this ! ) las cruces , new mexico , usa 88003 

disclaimer opinions expressed here are correct , mine , and not or  .  . 
oh sure , we could do it the easy way. but it just would n't be the cowboy way. 



from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton am press briefing by dee dee myers 4 . 23 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 710 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 


the white house 

office of the press secretary 

for immediate release april 23 , 1993 



press briefing 
by dee dee myers 


the briefing room 


10 35 a.m. edt 


ms. myers at 1 00 p.m. , we 're having a press 
conference , bill , in the east room. and then saturday the president 
will leave here at roughly 8 00 a.m. and fly down to jamestown .  . he 
will spend the day there , overnight at camp david .  . 

on sunday , it 's unclear exactly what time he 'll leave 
camp david and fly to boston .  . he 'll leave from  . the press 
plane will leave from washington .  . 

he will meet with some 

q what kind of a plane is that he 's taking 

ms. myers that he 's taking he 'll probably take a c 
20. 

q from 

ms. myers from  . air force one does n't fly 
out of , apparently. 

q how will the pool travel 

ms. myers the pool will have to meet him ahead of 
time. so i guess the pool will travel with the press plane and wait 
for him at the airport. there is currently no provision and i 'll 
double check , because there 's currently no provision i think 
that 's standard operating practice. 

q the pool is not going to meet him and watch him get 
on the plane at 

ms. myers i do n't believe so. 

q what time does he have to be in boston 

ms. myers he 's going to meet there with a group of 
citizens , mostly people who supported us during the campaign , at 
around 1 30 p.m. we 're still working out the final times. 

q at the airport 

ms. myers no , it will be at the boston harbor hotel. 
and then he will also meet with some a youth group 
that authored something called project 21. the speech to the 
publishers is actually at 3 15 p.m. it will be followed by q a. and 
then after the speech and q a , he 'll attend a reception with the 
publishers , and then return to washington from boston .  . and that 's it 
for the weekend. 

q has the president seen the report from or the 
letter , communication from the foreign service officers also , 
obviously , the communication from albright and what is 
his reaction to their call on him 

ms. myers well , obviously , the letter was written to 
secretary christopher .  . i believe secretary christopher received the 
letter on saturday .  . he reviewed it and met with the authors on 
monday to discuss their views. he believes it 's an important part of 
the policy making process and is taking their views into account as 
we go forward in the development of the bosnia policy. 

q what is the president 's reaction 

ms. myers the president has n't seen the letter. it 
was something that was directed towards secretary christopher .  . in 
terms of he has n't seen specifically the letter , but in terms of 
their concerns generally , what the president has said is that there 
are a lot of options on the table now , including ones that were n't 
there before. and i think he 's , as is everybody , concerned 
about the situation in bosnia .  . 

q is he influenced by that i mean , how does he feel 
about the fact that all of the specialists in that area those desk 
officers 

ms. myers many of the specialists in that area i 
think that that is clearly part of the process. it 's something 
their views will clearly be considered .  . i think secretary 
christopher met with the group immediately to discuss their views. i 
think he believes that there ought to be room for opinions and that 
those opinions ought to be considered , particularly from people who 
work closely on the issues. 

q what do you mean , there are options on the table 
that were n't there before 

ms. myers i think the president said last week that 
there were options , such as lifting the arms embargo to the bosnian 
muslims , that had been previously off the table that are now being 
considered .  . 

q dee dee , in terms of those options , 
albright is saying that potentially there could be unilateral action 
by the u.s. if the europeans did not go along. is that on the table 

ms. myers well , i ca n't discuss anything that would 
any conversations that would have happened between ambassador 
albright and the president. but i think the president has said he 
would certainly is working with our european allies .  . he 's had a 
number of conversations with european leaders and is trying to build 
some consensus there. 

q will he reach a decision will he have anything 
specific to say today 

ms. myers no. i mean , in term of there will be no new 
announcement of policy today. 

q does your statement mean he has ruled out 
unilateral action 

ms. myers he 's continuing to consult with our allies 
at this point. he has said i think he 's been fairly clear about 
it , that the he believes that the u.s. needs to act in concert with 
its allies on this. 

q on that point , does he believe that the u.s. , 
though , does have built in authority from the united nations already 
to take unilateral action 

ms. myers well , i think the u.n. resolution 770 makes 
it clear that you can act unilaterally in support of any humanitarian 
relief effort. i think the broader point is that anything we do , any 
options that we decide to pursue we will make sure that it is 
consistent with u.n. authority , and if it 's not , we 'll work with our 
allies to make sure that we get it. 

q dee dee , then how does the white house someone as 
distinguished as elie wiesel , who says that not enough is being done 
to stop the atrocities going on in bosnia 

ms. myers i think that that 's why we 're considering 
additional options. i think that mr. wiesel 's comments yesterday 
were quite compelling .  . the situation in bosnia is tragic .  . the 
president is very concerned about it. he has i think president 
clinton has worked very hard to take further actions to continue to 
isolate serbia in the world community. clearly , we 're considering 
other options because the president is concerned that perhaps it 's 
not enough. 

q in terms of what you were just talking about , it 
sounds like resolution 770 justifies unilateral action by the u.s. to 
protect humanitarian 

ms. myers i do n't think it i would n't use the word 
justify .  . it permits unilateral action by any country in protecting 
the delivery of humanitarian relief. but i think that 's just an 
explanation of the resolution. i think any action that we take will 
be consistent with u.n. resolutions or we 'll work with our allies to 
make sure that it is permissible or we 'll get further action. 

q the president and other officials have ruled out 
unilateral u.s. action in bosnia in the past. you 're declining to do 
that this morning. 

ms. myers no , i said the president has said repeatedly 
that he wants to act in concert with our allies on this. 

q that does n't mean that he wo n't act alone , which 
has been said before explicitly .  . 

ms. myers i do n't mean to imply a change in policy. 
the president has said all along that he wants to act in concert with 
our allies on this. 

q one other little question. did he know about this 
letter from the foreign service officers before it hit the papers 

ms. myers i do n't believe so. secretary christopher 
they may have had a private conversation about it. the president 
has not seen it. 

q they met on monday , right christopher met 
surely , he must have brought that up 

ms. myers again , they may have talked privately about 
it , but 

q dee dee , what you 're saying is that the albright 
recommendation has been rejected , is that correct 

ms. myers no , i did n't say that at all. i said i 
wo n't i said i would n't comment on any conversations or 
communications .  . 

q she 's advocating unilateral action and you 're 
saying , in effect , that we will not take unilateral action. 

ms. myers i am not confirming anything that 
albright may or may not have recommended. 

q given the sometimes delicate , complicated and 
frustrating nature of negotiations with the allies on this issue , 
does the president find this kind of letter from 12 foreign service 
officers of the state department helpful to that process , hurtful to 
that 

ms. myers i think that their views are obviously being 
considered .  . the secretary received that memo on saturday and two 
days later he met with them in order to have a more thorough airing 
of their views , of the basis for their views , to discuss in greater 
detail the options that they had presented in the letter. 

q does n't it put some kind of pressure on 
additional pressure on him now from within his own administration to 
act regardless of what the allies may or may not do 

ms. myers i think clearly there 's a broad policy 
review underway now. and the president and his advisors are 
considering a number of options , including some of those outlined in 
the letter from the folks over at the state department. now , no 
decisions have been made on that yet , but i think that there is a 
through review underway , and that their opinions are being very 
seriously considered .  . 

q if i can just follow up , i guess what i'm looking 
for is what was his reaction to this letter did he say , good , this 
bolsters my position or did he say , damn , this is just what i do n't 
need right now 

ms. myers i think he said this helps contribute 
substantively to the debate. it 's important that all views be 
considered and aired thoroughly , that before he makes a decision he 
wants to have the best possible advice and information possible , and 
this , i think in many ways , furthers that goal. 

q so internal advice to a cabinet official or the 
president it 's all open now , and you would n't take any umbrage or 
say that they were out of line 

ms. myers i think that the fact that secretary 
christopher met with them to discuss their views and make sure they 
had an opportunity to have a more complete conversation about it is 
conclusive evidence that their views are welcome. 

q does the policy review include what 
albright has suggested , and what joe biden and others have suggested , 
which is that the previous u.n. resolutions authorize unilateral 
action military action for the delivery of humanitarian 

ms. myers i think all options are on the table. 

q the unilateral option is on the table 

ms. myers i think all options are on the table. 

q we 've had two different 

q is n't that a change , dee dee 

q that would be a change of policy. 

q particularly if it includes ground troops , which 
has been specifically ruled out. 

ms. myers i think the president has been well , no. 
i do n't that is not 

q are you talking about all options 

ms. myers all options i think the president has 
been fairly clear about that. so let me just review again what he 
has said. he has said that the president has said all options are 
on the table , with the exception of the introduction of ground 
troops , which he has never suggested .  . he has ruled that out from the 
beginning. 

q has n't he ruled out unilateral action of any sort 

ms. myers he has said that he does n't believe the u.s. 
can solve the problems in the former yugoslavia by itself. i think 
that there are a number of very complicated options on the table 
right now. i do n't think that again , i do n't want to comment on 
specific options that are being considered other than in the broad 
categories that we 've already said things like lifting the arms 
embargo against the bosnian muslims , things that i think we 've talked 
about in broad terms. this is a very complicated situation. the 
options being presented and considered are very complicated. 

q air strikes on the table 

ms. myers again , i think that 's been fairly clearly 
pointed out that that 's something that 's being discussed .  . 

q dee dee , are ground troops on the 

ms. myers no , ground troops are not being considered .  . 

q you said there was not going to be you said you 
were not announcing a change of policy. then you said everything is 
on the table. we 're confused. are unilateral actions on the table 

ms. myers all i can tell you is what the president has 
said that he does n't believe that he wants to act in concert 
with the allies on this. 

q wants to , but he 's willing to i mean , if they 
do n't go along 

ms. myers he 's continuing to consult with our allies 
on this. he 's continuing to have discussions .  . he 's continuing to 
press them for further action. and i think that 's clear. the 
conversation is ongoing .  . we 're going to continue to work with them 
to find the best possible solution and next step on this. 

q dee dee , the allies have taken the position that to 
conduct any kind of air strikes in bosnia would have the opposite 
effect of ensuring the delivery of humanitarian aid that they feel 
that their troops on the ground monitoring the delivery of that aid 
would become vulnerable and the bosnians 

ms. myers i'm not sure that 's the consistent i 
mean , i'm not sure who you 're referring to. 

q the british and the french .  . 

q yes , the british and french .  . they 've taken the 
position that the delivery of humanitarian aid would be 
by any kind of air strikes against the bosnian military .  . does the 
u.s. believe differently from that 

ms. myers the president has had conversations with 
both and major , as you know. i think that there is a 
thorough review of policy going on in those countries as well. and i 
do n't want to comment on the nature of the president 's discussions 
other than to say that he 's continuing to consult with our allies as 
we move forward and he 's continuing to press them for further action. 
and i think that process is ongoing .  . 

q the other day voted against any military 
intervention yesterday. does the president regard that as the end of 
the line or does he does still hold out some possibility of 
unilateral action the allies have been very , very plain that they 
do not want to do anything. 

ms. myers the consultations are ongoing .  . that 's all i 
can tell you at this point. 

q are you saying that there wo n't be any announcement 
on bosnia today in the press conference 

ms. myers no , that is not the intention of the press 
conference. 

q what is the intention 

ms. myers it 's an opportunity to take questions. he 
may have a brief i'm sure he 'll have a brief opening statement , 
but it is not an opportunity to outline a new policy on bosnia .  . that 
will not happen. 

q can you tell us what the subject of the opening 
statement is 

ms. myers it 's sort of a general statement of where we 
are. 

q after the first hundred days , you mean 

ms. myers it 's not a long statement. i mean , this is 
just generally .  . do n't look for any major policy pronouncements .  . 

q do you know what the opening statement is 

ms. myers but it 's perhaps later today i 'll be able 
to tell you with more certainty i think that 's still under review. 
but the overriding purpose of this it 's not a mystery it 's not 
meant to be. it 's just to take questions. 

q it would be helpful to know whether what the 
opening statement is on. 

ms. myers since the major purpose here is just to take 
questions , it 's not completely resolved yet. 

q dee dee , one policy that was expected last week and 
that the white house , you and george seemed to indicate we might get , 
would be an aids czar .  . will he announce that today and what 's the 
delay on that 

ms. myers i do n't think we meant to imply i think 
we said it would happen soon. i do n't think we meant to imply with 
any certainty that it would be this week. it is coming soon. i 
do n't anticipate that happening today. 

q what 's the delay is n't this the perfect time to 
announce an aids czar 

ms. myers i do n't know that it 's a delay .  . i think the 
process is ongoing to find the best possible person and to go through 
the necessary background checks , and to make sure that we 've crossed 
the t 's and dotted the i 's before we make an announcement .  . 

q dee dee , what are baird 's qualifications for 
the foreign intelligence advisory board and why was n't her 
appointment announced here 

ms. myers the qualifications i do n't know if 
there 's a specific list i 'll have to check and see. i think there 
are a number of people there on the board with different backgrounds .  . 
many of them have long histories in intelligence or other government 
service. i think there 's a broad variety of views across political 
spectrum and across backgrounds that are represented there. we never 
made a formal announcement other than the chairman of the board , 
which is admiral william crowe .  . 

q why would he appoint her , though , if the american 
people and many in the senate rejected her for another government 
job 

ms. myers i do n't believe that the american people 
ever had voted on her. and i certainly she was never rejected 
in the senate .  . she never went up there for a hearing .  . but the 
president believes she 's a very competent person. he 's said that 
baird do you understand what the question is baird is on 
the president 's foreign intelligence 

q you said she never went up there for a hearing 

q her nomination was withdrawn after public outrage 
over violating federal laws 

ms. myers right , she never she was never but you 
said she was rejected by the senate .  . i was just simply trying to 
point out that she was never voted on by the senate .  . 

q so you do n't think that is any problem 

ms. myers i do n't think there 's any problem. 

q she has been appointed to this board , is that a 
fact 

ms. myers yes. 

q does she need confirmation for this does she need 
confirmation to be a member of the 

ms. myers no. it 's a presidential appointment .  . 

q usually , announcements are made here at the white 
house. was there a decision not to announce her publicly 

ms. myers we did n't make an announcement .  . people who 
asked were told who the members of the board were. we did n't make 
an official announcement .  . if anybody 's interested in that we can 
certainly put out the list of names. 

q i 'd like to know. 

q do n't such board members do n't you normally as a 
matter of routinely put out releases on all these boards and 
presidential appointment regardless of their dimension 

ms. myers not always. but , again , i'm happy to put 
this out. 

q is n't that the standard practice 

q that was past practice. 

ms. myers again , i'm happy to put it out. we 'll put 
out a list of the members of the board today. 

q dee dee , i do n't want to try to fail to let you get 
out of this swamp but (laughter) all i really want to know is 
has n't it been the practice in this administration for such 
announcements to be made routinely 

ms. myers i think generally but not always. and we 're 
happy to put that out today. 

q what is the board , what is her title , what is the 
size of the board 

ms. myers there is roughly a dozen members on the 
board. it is a civilian board , although their are some , obviously , 
retired military personnel on the board that provide input into 
intelligence policy for the president. again , the chairman of that 
board is admiral william crowe .  . 

q and did he recommend baird 

q what 's the name of the board 

ms. myers it 's the president 's foreign intelligence 
advisory board ,  . 

q what 's her qualification that she had employed 
an illegal alien is that (laughter) 

ms. myers do you want an answer to the question or you 
just want to make a joke 

q let me phrase it another way. why should n't this 
appointment be viewed as a pay back for the difficulty she had a 
couple of months ago 

ms. myers because it 's not. 

q what 's her experience in foreign intelligence 

ms. myers she 's an experienced attorney , someone who 
the president believes is very competent and qualified .  . and i think 
part of the mission of this board is to provide civilian input. not 
everybody on the board is supposed to be an intelligence expert that 
is not the board 's mission. it is to provide civilian input for the 
president as he makes decisions regarding intelligence matters. he 
believes she 's very qualified , very competent person , enormously 
talented and has said that throughout. 

q is this just a figment of my 
imagination , or was there discussion early on about abolishing the 
president 's foreign intelligence advisory board 

ms. myers i do n't think so. on december 24th , when he 
announced all of his foreign policy advisors he announced that he 
would had appointed admiral crowe as the head of the board. so i 
do n't believe there 's ever been any 

q earlier than that , during the transition .  . 

ms. myers no , i do n't believe so. it was announced , 
again , on december 24th .  . admiral crowe could n't be there , but it was 
announced .  . 

q are members paid 

ms. myers i do n't believe so , but i 'll double check. 

q on another subject , on waco , how do you explain the 
discrepancy between the federal reports of the autopsies of the 
bodies that are coming out of waco and the state i guess it 's the 
texas ranger reports. 

ms. myers most of the information is coming the 
federal information is coming from the site. clearly , there 's been 
some discrepancies and the justice department is looking into it. 
officials in the justice department were told , i believe the day 
before yesterday , that there were several bodies found with bullet 
holes. i think there 's some discrepancy about that , and the justice 
department is looking into it. 

q is the president going to get involved in trying to 
sort out what seems to be becoming a morass down 
there , with some people withdrawing , others saying they 're in charge , 
but others justice , fbi , texas rangers all grabbing a piece of 
this 

ms. myers i do n't know that he 's going to try to 
mediate the dispute .  . i mean , i 'll let you know if there 's anything 
he intends to do about it. but as you know , there are several levels 
of investigation ongoing , and we 're hopeful that they can work 
together. 

q is there any one agency or official down there in 
charge of everything 

ms. myers i do n't know. i 'll have to get back to you 
on that. 

q what is the subject matter of sunday 's speech 

ms. myers it 's going to be fairly general. i do n't 
think it 's going to be any specific announcements .  . i think it 's 
going to be sort of a 

q does he have a topic that he 's going to talk about 

ms. myers we 're still working on it. but i would n't 
look for any announcements of , like , the drug czar or something like 
that. 

q is it sort of a 100 days speech , sort of my 
excellent adventure for 100 days (laughter . ) . 

ms. myers not exactly , but i think he 'll take a little 
bit broader look about what 's happened in the last 

q foreign , domestic 

ms. myers a little bit of both , but i think a lot of 
domestic .  . 

q and overview .  . 

ms. myers yes , more of an overview than a specific 
policy announcement .  . 

q has there been an agreement yet on a forum by which 
the president will address the gay rights march on sunday 

ms. myers it will be a letter read to the crowd by 
congresswoman nancy pelosi .  . 

q is that available 

ms. myers not yet , but it will be. sure. 

q are you going to put it out here or 

ms. myers we 'll probably put it out here on sunday .  . 

q travel next week 

ms. myers unclear .  . 

q what was the question 

q likely 

ms. myers i do n't 

q likely possible 

ms. myers possible. 

q what 's possible 

ms. myers travel. 

q george mentioned yesterday campaign finance reform 
and national service legislative proposals next week. do you have 
days yet for them 

ms. myers not yet. 

q can you tell us which order 

ms. myers campaign finance reform first national 
service later in the week. 

q is there any coverage tomorrow in 

ms. myers no. 

q and any report in the aftermath of the day 

ms. myers any readout from the day 

q readout .  . 

ms. myers it 's possible. jeff eller will be down 
there. i think he can go through what the president did during the 
day. we do n't expect any photo op or anything , other than departure 
here in the morning. 

q dee dee , the president has not made a regular 
practice , as some of his predecessors have , of going to camp david .  . 
in fact , he 's been there what once or twice 

ms. myers twice. 

q why this weekend 

ms. myers he went two weekends ago , as you know , on 
the way home from his father in law 's funeral .  . i think that they 
found it to be a good experience and a nice way for them to spend 
some time together as a family. and this is just an opportunity to 
do the same. 

q there 's no march there. 

q it has nothing to do with the march here 

ms. myers no. 

q since he 's going to be in town sunday morning now 
instead of in jamestown , have you thought about him making a quick 
pass by , fly over (laughter) 

ms. myers he 'll fly straight to boston .  . 

q flying straight did you say (laughter . ) . 

q george took a question yesterday on waco .  . the 
president had said on tuesday in the rose garden that there was a 
minor disagreement on tactics between the military advisors and the 
fbi .  . and the question was whether you knew exactly what that was and 
whether it related to the use of the particular kind of tear gas. do 
you have an answer on that 

ms. myers i do n't .  . i 'll check. 

the press thank you. 

59 a.m. edt 




from br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
summary dixie lee ray 
nntp posting host thor . isc . br . com . 
organization not aging , just improving , inc. 
lines 24 

in article rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) writes 
in article ,  ( william a bacon ) says 

fury of mother nature 

man 's contribution to environmental pollution are paltry compared to those 
of nature. in her exceptional book trashing the planet , former atomic energy 
commision chairman dr. dixie lee ray notes based on the available data , 

atomic energy commision hmm , they would say this. 


i'm no defender of the , but it is worth noting that it is unfair to tar 
that organization with the decidedly minority scientific views of its 
former and one term washington governor , dr. dixie lee ray .  . 
dr. ray 's political agenda is well known and documented .  . likewise , her 
lack of objectivity in analysing scientific data is well known. 

jsh 

steve hendricks domain br . com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 509 838 8826 


from (james p. reynolds ) 
subject he just doesn t get it  ( re will they ever learn ) 
organization lehigh university 
lines 135 

in article ,  ( william a bacon ) writes 

they refuse to learn from history or from the present 

pointing to canada 's vaunted socialized medical care program , he 
contends that it is failing even while the cost is catching up with 
angry taxpayers .  . he notes americans do n't go to canada and 
elsewhere for medical care it 's the canadians and others who come 
here. why should the united states duplicate what does n't work well 
in other countries we have the world 's best medical care let 's not 
mess it up with hillary clinton 's plans for socialized medicine. 


john f. , national president of the john birch society 



when says , we have the world 's best medical care , i can hardly 
believe he 's referring to a system 

1. that costs us 14 percent of our gdp , while there is n't a 
single other country in the industrialized world that spends more than 
10 percent. 

2. that leaves 37 million of us with no coverage , even though all 
the other systems in the industrialized world cover virtually everyone. 

3. yet , americans rank near the bottom of the list in terms of life 
expectancy , childhood immunization rate , infant mortality , and many 
diseases .  . 

4. we pay , on average , about 1000 each for mris .  .  ( to put that in 
perspective , they cost 177 in japan . ) . 

5. the average us company spends over 2500 dollars a year per employee on 
health benefits. seven hundred to 1500 is the range just about everywhere 
else. 


how can anyone say that such a system is the best in the world the only 
thing the usa health care system is good at is showering well insured patients 
with a treatment of care and outrageously for it. and 
the private system of insurers and paperwork is so bloated and inefficient 
that it itself sucks up over 100 billion dollars a year in money from every 
other sector of society individuals , government , and industry. 

of the 800 billion dollars americans threw into the pit of health 
care costs last year , the consumer 's union estimated that at least 200 billion 
was thrown away on overpriced , useless , and even downright harmful tests and 
procedures , and the most bureaucratic , regulated insurance system in the world. 

there are more than 1200 different private insurers in the usa .  . but did the 
private competition stimulate more efficient paperwork ask any doctor 
who 's had to hire a full time clerk to deal with it all ! 

the competition among hospitals is driving costs up , not down. the 
competition among hospitals for both doctors and patients has encouraged the 
hospitals to traffic in expensive superfluous equipment. spending millions on 
expensive machines of dubious value that spend 80 percent of the day idle 
is n't my idea of the world 's best health care system. 

competition among specialists is driving them to perform dangerous and 
expensive procedures where they are very marginally helpful. i'm especially 
thinking of heart surgery and some women 's like hysterectomy and 
section. sound like the world 's best health care system 



ever notice how , every time someone tries to bring about some real change in 
health care , the start bashing canada 's system first of all , hillary 
clinton is not advocating another canadian system. i think that 's been made 
abundantly clear in the news for the last couple of months. where did john f. 
get that idea , anyway 

let 's say you 're a canadian living in a small town near the usa border .  . your 
child needs a complicated procedure only available in city hospitals .  . the 
nearest canadian cities are 6 hours west and 20 hours east , and there 's an 
american city one hour south .  . which way are you going to go is it because 
the american system is the best in the world , or just for convenience 

it still amazes me that people ca n't seem to see more than just black and 
white on health care reform .  . there are a million different ways we 
restructure the system. it 's not just a choice between total government 
control and total private control. i wish the people screaming socialized 
medicine every time wants to change the current syste would inform 
themselves on health care issues. 



the current system sucks. i want to keep providers private but that does n't 
change the fact that we will never be able to deal with the deficit if we 
do n't reform the health care system. purely private health care without any 
government intervention does n't work. hillary clinton is not thinking of 
providers or insurers .  . how can you scream socialized 
medicine at her programs do n't you even know what you 're talking about 



ever see clinton 's graphs of projected deficit versus year for the rest of the 
decade notice how the line falls , then starts increasing why i 'll give 
you one wild guess as to which component of spending will overwhelm us if we 
do n't do something about it. 



just doesn t get it. the current health care system is a cancer which is 
killing our economic well being. costs are still rising 10 percent a year 
even as americans by the tens of millions go without , or are forced into 
managed care programs , which are certainly pretty socialized already if you 
ask me. 

a couple of months ago i posted a message asking any hillary bashers to please 
come forward and present (no , straight talk ) just how they would set 
about keeping costs down. i did n't get a single answer. 

the only thing i keep hearing from organizations are press releases 
filled with evasive platitudes like give health care back to the people. 
just do you expect to do that without serious reforms what is it about the 
current system that you would change and how would that help 


how can anyone read the news , live under our system , and not see these faults 
how can we deal with the deficit , our cities , our educational system , our 
, aids , modernizing our industry , etc. if we do n't quit throwing 
away money which could be used to solve those problems 


america needs health care reform now. do n't just sit there and hillary bash , 
inform yourself ! 

jim reynolds 



james p. reynolds  ( that 's jim to you and me . ) . 

from (peter d. hampe ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization northwest nexus inc. 
lines 46 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

 ( phill hallam baker ) writes 
any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

of course they did , otherwise they would n't have staged the 
raid in the first place. 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 


if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 

seems a bit redundant .  . 

the stupidity was in the batf mindset  we 're from washington 
we know better execute plan a storm the compound in a no knock 
the locals are gullible , who cares that they served 
warrents by knocking on the door. such an old fashioned , out dated 
method of law enforcement anyway. gotta have the latest armament 
technology , know 

sweet baby did n't these clown ever read dealing 
with paranoids 





phill hallam baker 


sometimes , sometimes owl .  . 
optimist with a beeper .  . 

from (peter d. hampe ) 
subject re the continuing decay .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization northwest nexus inc. 
lines 20 
nntp posting host nwfocus . wa . com . 

much blathering on the role of military forces in 
enforcing civil law deleted 

the main problem with trying to get the military involved in police work 
is the differences in the missions .  . 

the police take names , try and find out what happened , 
stop suspects  ( thats the meaning of 'arrest' ) and 
turn them over to the custody of the judicial branch 
for the of their case. 

the military 's mission is to kill the enemy before 
they can escape or surrender .  . 





sometimes , sometimes owl .  . 
optimist with a beeper .  . 

from  ( mark c. carroll ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host hercules . cis . udel . edu . 
organization university of delaware , newark 
lines 55 

in article  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

well , they never should have gotten into this situation. 

look at the history of this group. david koresh has been arrested 
twice by local police .  . both times , he accepted the arrest warrant 
and went peacefully .  . so , the feds decide to arrest him. how do they 
choose to arrest a person with a record of peaceful obedience under 
arrest they throw a concussion grenades at his building. 

in addition , we know that we 've been lied to. initially , we were told 
that they suspected him of molesting children and having several 
wives .  . but these are not atf offenses , were they so they changed 
their story , several times. and the original warrant is still sealed .  . 
and we were told about the rockets and ammunition they had .  .  .  . but did 
anyone notice any ammo exploding in the fire they claimed that koresh 
had n't left the compound in months .  .  .  . but people in town report seeing 
him just a week before the raid .  . 

how would i have handled it differently 

well , first , i have n't seen any evidence that the bds did anything 
wrong. there 's a sealed warrant , and a collection of stories which 
keep changing about what they did. so i might not have done anything. 

ok. now , supposing that i know what the bds are being arrested for. 
well , they 've got a history of accepting arrests .  .  .  . so , i send 
officers to the door with a warrant .  . wearing bulletproof vests .  . 
covered from a distance by sharpshooters .  . now , there 's no good reason 
to suspect that these people will do anything , right why did n't 
anyone try serving a warrant 

ok. going further. they refuse the warrant .  . it becomes necessary to 
raid .  . you plan a raid .  . you hear an hour before that there was a leak , 
and they know your coming. so what do you do well , change your 
plans , right nope .  .  .  . they go ahead with it anyone .  .  .  . including 
sending in unprotected men to break into the place. it was idiotic .  . i 
do n't know what i would have ended up doing. but that original raid 
should never have happened. 

the shit that came later should never have happened. 

the full record of the raid should be released to the public to let us 
know what the hell really happened there. 

the lies should never have been told. 

mc 

mark craig carroll mc we the people are getting tired of your lies 
univ of delaware , dept of cis we the people now believe that it 's time 
grad student hacker we 're demanding our rights to the answers 
we elect a precedent to state of mind fish 

from  ( gary piatt ) 
subject re median re new study out on gay percentage 
organization general datacomm ind. inc. , middlebury , ct 06762 
lines 22 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

wrote 
the median of a distribution is that value which divides the 
distribution halfway , i.e. 1 2 of the distribution  ( population ) have 
lower and half have higher values .  . 

so for males 20 39 the median 7.3 , this means that half of these men 
are higher than this and half are lower than this. now if the population 
sample size is 3300 , and 1 of them are gay , 33 males are gay. if we 
say they are distributed equally then only 16.5 are greater than 7.3 
sexual partners , of course , this means that 49.5 heterosexual men are 
greater than 7 . 3 .  . 

not quite .  . first , the median does not imply that half of the men are 
above and half below 7.3 it simply means that 7.3 is the mid point 
between the maximum number of partners and the minimum (which is most 
likely  . however , assuming your implication to be more or less 
correct , your final result is still invalid .  . if 50 of all males 
have had more than 7.3 partners , and you deduct the assumed 1 of 
homosexual males , what remains is not 49.5 , but still 50 of all 
heterosexual males .  . which is to say hey , we 're all human. 



from  ( christopher j burian ) 
subject re the earth also some scientists do not believe ... 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 35 

rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) writes 

furthermore , in response to an earlier message , the 1992 u.s. est. output of 
sulfur dioxide (20 mill .  . tons ) was equivalent to the entire output by the recent 
of mt. ) .  . currently world carbon dioxide levels set at approx. 
360 ppm , in the past 120 , 000 years it has never gone above 280  ( this info 
was found using ice core samples from the joint french russian u.s. vostok 
 . furthermore , the background emmisions of chlorine compounds into 
the is about 0.6 ppb annually , it now sits at 3 . 5 .  . this overwhelming 
data info is found in the world resources doc. published by oxford university .  . 

good evidence. 

the ozone hole in the northern and southern hemispheres keeps getting bigger 
and  around longer whilst skeptics ponder how wrong or corrupt all this 
data from government and international scientific institutions is. it is a pity , that , 
if the skeptics are wrong and we base our complacency on their limbaugh 
psycho babble , then we will find ourselves strapped by limited options with 
which to rectify the primal engineering of our industrial age. 

what ozone hole in the northern hemisphere 

what exactly will happen if we get an ozone hole in the upper atmosphere 
according to the senior chicken little at nasa , as much more uv radiation 
as if one moved 100 miles south .  . certainly not the calamity that is being 
imagined by eco lunatics .  . 

co2 is going up. so what. there 's no evidence that the increase is 
due to burning fossil fuels , no evidence that increasing co2 will increase 
temperatures , and no that raising temperatures will do anything 
but good ie make millions of acres of into productive life bearing 
land. 

chris 


from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of virginia 
lines 17 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 

not surprising .  . remember , that study includes homosexuals as well. 

err , earth to clayton , you posted this to show that 2 were 
homosexual .  . so if we assume every homosexual was promiscious , that 
leads us to conclude that 23 percent of heterosexuals are promiscious .  . 
and that first is a bad one. 

clayton , it is suprising from the claims you are making. 


greg hennessy , university of virginia 
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re eight myths about national health insurance  ( pt ii ) 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization phds in the hall 
lines 163 

 ( daniel b case) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 

you 're not buying insurance so much as being coerced into one 
insurance plan. 

no , it is optional ... as it is optional for doctors to accept it. 
there are isolated religeous communities in particular that ask for 
exemptions  ( and one e mail from a christian scientist in edmonton 
verified for me that it is indeed negative option) .  . i guess that you 
can argue that there is a right to having a particular insurance , but 
so far i 've not come across that up north ... and i take pains to keep 
tabs with news from home. 

it 's optional , but what if you do n't want basic coverage on the 
government 's terms you said before that if you opt out , you 're 
basically uninsured .  . 

there are two things at work here ... the public insurance is very 
wide in what it will cover , as the amortization is also universal .  . 
no private plan can boast of a plan that fits a gaussian curve ... 
and as our private sector has discovered , they 're better off not 
offering insurance coverage that their customers are going to use. 
( 

and that turns the private insurers offering the frills into an 
effective cartel they do n't really need to compete because , as you put 
it , they 're in a win win situation and they 're guaranteed to turn a 
profit 

believe me , they probably had when they figured that out. and 
according to my sister the yuppie , they pat themselves on the back to 
the point of at chamber of commerce  . 

so , in a sense , they 've stopped being truly capitalists if they do n't 
have to worry about competing anymore. you might say that the total 
effect is one of socialized medicine a government providing the basics 
and a cartel providing the extras .  . there is no alternative to the system , 
desirable or not. 

the alternative to the system is no system at all  ( patients opted out , 
doctors opted out , or both) .  . but that only for insurance ... and you 
ca n't force a private insurance company to sell you a plan that they 
will not offer. and remember that the actual health care is delivered 
by private entities who collect from the public insurance voluntarily .  . 
again , they ca n't force a private entity to spring to life to pay them. 

plus , there is the matter of culture and values ... i'm basically 
anti tax and anti government , by canadian standards ... yet i ca n't 
bring myself to make the same arguments as you do , despite that i 
understand where you 're coming from. up north , you 're so much more 
likely to find someone protesting taxes going to defence than health 
insurance premiums to only one fund for basic coverage ... 

 ( interesting side note have any new insurance companies started 
up from scratch since medicare became standard in canada 

i actually have doubts that any new ones have emerged since ww i ... 
no , scratch that ... there are a few in western canada , and quite 
a few in quebec as part of the post 1980 quebec miracle  ( out with the 
nationalism , in with the french  . la groupe des cooper 
built a new tower by the  ( eaton 's) store at les terraces , and if 
you were able to catch urban angel on cbs 's you 'd see it as 
the well lit one with double at the top. as for ontario , 
which still dominates and anchors business up north ... 

i meant new companies , not new buildings. 

yes , primarily in quebec and in alberta .  . sorry , i musta lost you in 
that verbose blurb ... 

it 's not really insurance if you do n't have alternatives 

well , you have to realize that in our society that 's like saying 
that it 's not really national defence because you ca n't hire 
your own rambo squad instead or even out as a pacifist .  . 

true , but i would be more comfortable with a system in which basic 
care provided by the government was optional , not mandatory .  . 

in canada and germany , it 's not mandatory .  . however , it is negative 
option in that you must request the exemption .  . that the private 
sector will not provide private basic coverage if offered the option 
 ( as in the quebec case) tells me something about what they know ... 

either way , the transient situations are hard to deal with since the 
changes in the private medical care resource take place at a slower 
rate than the ability of people to fall sick esp. in the light of 
disasters (e . g .  . , chernobyl ) or bad luck (a sudden wave of heart 
 . a doctor needs 4 6 years of training , plus internship 
and specialty training. 

another problem with the us system that should be resolved .  . does n't 
canada have something like ten times the proportion of gps to specialists 
that the us does 

yes , but part of the reason is that our most of our markets are 
too small to sustain many specialists , sometimes not even one , so 
you pretty well have to be a gp to get paid. and if you do get 
the training , the doctors monopoly might block your getting of a 
licence because there is already someone in the business and who 
cannot fill his her appointment book. that we have a cma doctors 
monopoly is something that the american ama oriented medical lobby 
never tells you down here ... 

the problem is , in a specialty your skill often directly correlates 
to your pay (a good makes more than a merely adequate 
cardiologist ) more than it does in general practice. in that 
circumstance , it 's hard to blame people for going into specialties .  . 

no , i respect people who do specialties  ( okay , all of my md friends 
are ( ) but there 's the question of our small market dynamics up 
north ... if anything , that our private doctors and hospitals sell 
their services to americans to generate more business will inflate 
their effective population served , and thus make some specialties 
finally viable (i . e .  . , there will be enough  . we just do 
not have enough sick canadians in absolute numbers otherwise. 

i personally think an approach like germany 's would be best where the 
companies compete for of people. rochester , a little east of 
us , was able to get almost all of its population covered that way. 

uh ... germany basically uses our method , with their many sickness 
funds .  . the competition is fake if it exists at all , because they 're 
all interlinked .  . look in der spiegel or stern  ( my girlfriend is in 
our german department and her uncle is a private in 
saarbrucken ) ... no ads for health insurance. while canada 
by province , germany the paperwork around big corporations 
and regional offices .  . but remember that we have provinces that have 
the same population as some major german corporations .  . germans have 
public health insurance , just that it is brokered by smaller entities 
 ( actually , brokerage of basic by private firms who 'll sell extra 
insurance to fill out their policies , sort of a voucher system , 
was one of the first ideas floated in canada , too) .  . 

remember , the germans do n't have hmo 's ... a telling sign ,  cos 
rochester does and they 're also a company town. 

but there was a washington post article recently about that that said 
canadian doctors often use instead of mris , which require 
spinal injections and can cause seizures and headaches .  . mickey , 
in the new republic , probably spoke for most americans when he said 
who needs that i think people here generally like to believe they 
can easily get the most high tech treatment even if they really ca n't 
afford it. 

i 'll have to let a canadian md jump in to verify that claim , but 
i 've come to learn to suspect anything in the american press about 
our system . if much or some of it were true , you 'd have to take 
us for idiots for tolerating it. and given that our insurance was 
installed during a period when there were only liberal and tory 
governments federally and , and the socialists are still 
, they would 've pressed for real socialized medicine to fix 
things ... think about it. after all , we are using the u.s. as a 
metric to make comparison ... both for keeping up with the 
as for confirming that we did something right. 

gld 

je me souviens 
gary l. dare 
go winnipeg jets go ! ! ! 
selanne domi stanley 

from (michael d. adams ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host bolero 
reply to 
organization d service actuarial consulting 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 19 

on 23 apr 93 00 18 59 gmt , clayton cramer observed 
 ( amy lynn young leith ) writes 
can someone tell me why when mr. cramer spouts on about homosexuals , 
he only addresses homosexual men , and never , in any post i 've read , 
addressed lesbians granted , i stopped reading all his posts long , long 
ago , so perhaps i missed something. 

because women very , very seldom molest children. 

un  . yeah. right. sure. 

you know that list of things that are american mom , 
apple pie , etc. you do n't hear too many stories about mom being 
a child molester , because such stories would simply be unamerican .  . 

but that does n't say that it does n't happen. 


michael 

subject re the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
from rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) 
nntp posting host 128 . 159 . 2 . 197 . 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( william a bacon ) says 

fury of mother nature 

man 's contribution to environmental pollution are paltry compared to those 
of nature. in her exceptional book trashing the planet , former atomic energy 
commision chairman dr. dixie lee ray notes based on the available data , 

atomic energy commision hmm , they would say this. 

the earth may spew alot of substances into the atmosphere , but the quality 
of your toxic output can easily make up for the lack of quantity .  . furthermore , 
the planet is a system of carbon , sulfur and other chemicals which have been 
acting for billions of years , we are but newcomers to the system we must adapt 
and control in order to bring about stability .  . also , two wrongs do not make a right , 
so continuing our practices despite overwhelming data is just ignorance in  . 

los 
many environmentalists attributed the 1988 drought in the u.s. to global 
warming , but researchers with the national center for atmospheric research in 

educated and open minded environmentalists do not. 

my opinions are not reflective of my employer disclaimer 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 
in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
in article  ( amy lynn young leith ) writes 
can someone tell me why when mr. cramer spouts on about homosexuals , 
he only addresses homosexual men , and never , in any post i 've read , 
addressed lesbians 

i ca n't really speak for mr. cramer here , but i can say that a 
homosexual male is an entirely different animal than a lesbian .  . 
there is virtually nothing that is analogous or related between the 
aberrant behaviors practiced by these two groups of deviants .  . 

so it has nothing to do with your morals , its just that you would n't 
have anything to wack off to if you did n't have tapes of lesbians 
going at it .  .  .  .  . 

i think we are getting closer to the truth now. 

no , we are getting at mr. foard 's sickness .  . this may surprise 
homosexuals , but lots of people in this country do not spend their 
time watching pornography and  . some of us have 
real lives , instead of sexual compulsions .  . but i do n't expect 
a homosexual to understand that. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re waco clinton press conference , part 1 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( quoc tuan pham ) writes 
did anyone notice that clinton was smiling and making jokes just before 
this press conference considering the number of people killed , this 
seems very inappropriate to me. 

why he , reno , and the fbi got what they wanted a reminder of 
who is the boss in america the thugs who work for the government. 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random. 
lines 30 

in article (a . wainwright) . writes 
i guess that you are a person who dislikes contact with 
people of ethnic minority .  . however , your argument again falls 
flat on its face. you state that you , under an 
anti discrimination bill , would be forced to associate with 
others homosexuals , i assume against your will. how do you 
know that you do not associate with them now , except they may 
be would you like to change your argument to read 
forced to associate with truthfully homosexual people 
against my will you have no proof that anyone you now know 
may not be homosexual and this punches a large hole in your 
argument. is it your belief that a homosexual comes in only 
one  ( sic ) and that is the camp mincing type prove 
it. you cannot .  . 

you are quite incoherent .  . perhaps you should be forced to associate with 
some people against your will. i think a nice large group of skinheads 
in a locked basement for 12 hours will wonderfully educate you. 

after all , as you do n't believe in freedom of , you ca n't 
complain can you. 

bloody ... 



there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . weird , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll rent 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 46 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 

in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article ,  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 


what was the purpose of this post if it was to show a mindless obsession 
with statistics , an incredibly flawed system of reasoning , and a repellent 
hatemonger agenda , then the purpose was accomplished with panache .  . 

(a) get a clue. (b) get a life. (c) get out of my face. i'm not in yours. 

bi andrew d. schnopia ! 

yes you are. when you and the rest of the homosexual community 
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to 
hire , rent to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against 
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying 
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this. 

gosh , i have to associate with heterosexuals against my will every day ! 
that means you 've imposed your moral codes on me , now does n't it 
fortunately , i have taken the time to get to know some members 
of the het community and discovered that , hey ! they really t all evil 
elitists with no concept of reality ! 

i 've got a few clues for you. (a) i'm not working to pass any laws .  . (b) 
our morals are your morals i imagine you value freedom .  . so do we .  . if you 
value your own freedom , you must necessarily accept that these laws are 
important to protect it. after all , discriminate in one area and you 're 
open to discriminate in the rest. (c) i suggest learning a bit more about 
gays , lesbians , and bis before you post the kind of drivel you have been. 
it 's obvious that you have n't a clue who you 're talking about. 


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

but not between members of the same sex , right how can you live with such 
hypocrisy 



bi andrew d. schnopia ! 


words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes 

from (kenneth c. mitchell ) 
subject re if drugs should be legalized , how  ( was good neighbor .  .  . ) . 
organization netcom on line communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 37 

dave o'shea wrote 
 ( william december starr ) writes 

however , legalizing it and just sticking some drugs in gas stations to 
be bought like cigarettes is just plain silly. plus , i have never 
heard of a recommended dosage for drugs like crack , ecstasy , chrystal 
meth and lsd .  . the 60 minute report said it worked with cocaine 
cigarettes , pot and heroin .  . 

or , the government could adopt the radical and probably unamerican idea 
that citizens are free to live their lives as they wish , and simply 
decriminalize cocaine , marijuana , heroin , lsd , etc. please explain why 
the idea of allowing recreational drugs to be bought like cigarettes 
is just plain silly. after all , it works just fine for nicotine .  .  .  . 

i'm all in favor of drug legalization , but i do see some problems with 
it. my hope is that people disposed to doing so would simply overdose 
quickly , and be done with it , before making a mess of thisgs .  . 

it 's actually quite simple. we sell drug use licenses to anybody over age 
18 who wants one. costs 100 and you 're required to attend a week of 
night classes on the effects of drugs on the human body. at the end of the 
class , you sign an informed consent waiver acknowledging that you 've been 
told that drugs are bad for you , but you want them anyway. in doing so , 
you giver up any right to state paid medical care for whatever might 
happen to you as a result of doing drugs , or any right to collect welfare 
or unemployment should you lose your job as a result of using drugs. you 'd 
also give up your right to drive a car. 

anybody caught using drugs without a license has a choice pay a 1000 
fine and accept a drug user 's license , or go to prison .  . 


ken mitchell the powers not delegated to the united states by the 
constitution , nor prohibited by it to the states , are 
citrus heights , ca reserved to the states respectively , or to the people. 


from (mike quigley ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
distribution na 
organization tektronix , inc. , redmond , or. 
lines 17 

in article  ( diane mathews ) writes 
in article  ( doug holtsinger ) writes 
janet reno killed the waco children. she is responsible for 
their deaths .  . she should resign immediately. she should have 

aside from the fact that i disagree w you , she did offer to resign and the 
president rejected the offer. she was willing to take responsibility , and 


which is a helluva lot more than any republican attorney general ever did ! 

btw , why all the crocodile tears over wasting a few religious nuts , who 
wanted to be wasted anyway we just got back from wasting a few hundred 
thousand religious nuts over in the middle east , and everybody cheered ! ! 

mike 


from  ( red herring ) 
subject re clinton 's wiretapping initiative 
nntp posting host dzoo . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma 
lines 29 

in article (robert s. helfman ) writes 
in article gw 2 . pa . dec . com .  ( broward l. horne ) writes 

if you look through this newsgroup , you should be 
able to find clinton 's proposed wiretapping initiative 

for our computer networks and telephone systems. 

this  initiative has been up before congress for at least 
the past 6 months , in the guise of the fbi wiretapping 

bill. 

what kind of brainless clod posted the above garbage would they be 
so kind as to explain how this is clinton 's initiative , when it 
has been before congress for at least the past 6 months 

it is clinton 's initiative now. he is pushing it hard 
are n't the liberals supposed to be concerned about privacy 
rights 

if you want to know more about the wiretapping initiative , 
read 1984 it 's in there , installed in every bedroom. 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 22 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( tim smith) says 

 ( broward horne ) writes 
aside from the fact that i disagree w you , she did offer to resign and the 
president rejected the offer. she was willing to take responsibility , and 
the president has the balls enough to stand by a decision. 


or the contempt to ignore it. 

yup , that was quite of the president to make a decision that 
12 disagree with .  .  .  . 

your ignorance is showing .  . the batf warrant was unsealed .  . 

the entire operation was illegal from day one. 

and clinton and reno supported it. 86 people are dead. 




from (john viveiros ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization chevron 
lines 38 

in article nelson (peter nelson ) writes 

all human communities impose their values on individuals .  . 
that 's virtually an operational definition of one. if you can 
find an example of a human community that does n't then you 
have discovered a new phenomenon in nature. 

it 's pointless asking whether communities should do this 
they do do this. it 's like asking whether a leopard should 
have spots it just evolved that way. human communities 
evolved  ( in both the biological and social senses of evolve ) 
to have this characteristic .  . you can debate whether some 
particular matter should be left up to the individual or 
not this is part of the above process of evolution 
but it is the nature of a human community to impose its values 
on individuals and you will not find a single counterexample 
in nature. 

peter 

at all times in human history , people have killed and stolen from one 
another. if you can find an example of where this has n't happened in 
history , then you have discovered a new phenomenon in nature. 

it is pointless asking whether people should do this 
they do do this. it has just evolved that way. humans have evolved to 
have this  . you can debate whether this should be 
particular matter should be left up to the individual or not , but it is 
the nature of humans to kill and steal from others and you will not find 
a single counterexample  ( of a society without these types ) in nature. 

please find a better argument than that 's the way it has always been. 
child mortality has always been , yet we find it in our hearts to have 
made an attempt to change that. 

john viveiros 
chevron usa standard disclaimer applies 
midland tx 

from (joseph . m . knapp) . 
subject re waco investigation paranoia 
organization at t 
lines 10 

(richard hoenes ) writes 
and with republicans like arlen spector calling for investigations , 
this is n't going to be handled with kid gloves .  . 

it will be ironic in the extreme if spector manages to uncover a 
government conspiracy and cover up in this case. maybe he 'll posit a 
magic grenade that lit fires in three wings of the building at once. 


joe knapp 

from (michael d. adams ) 
subject re median re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host bolero 
reply to 
organization d service actuarial consulting 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 
lines 28 

on 20 apr 93 13 34 03 gmt , gary piatt observed 

first , the median does not imply that half of the men are 
above and half below 7.3 it simply means that 7.3 is the mid point 
between the maximum number of partners and the minimum (which is most 
likely  . 

actually , the median is defined as the 50th  . if the 
median number of sexual partners for men is 7.3 , it means that 
at least 50 of men have had 7.3 or fewer sexual partners , and 
at least 50 of men have had 7.3 or more sexual partners .  . 

 ( question what is 0.3 of a sexual partner ) 

to confuse matters more , take the following data set 

5.0 , 6.0 , 6.0 , 7.0 , 7.0 , 7.3 , 8.0 , 9.0 , 9.0 , 9.0 , 250 . 0 . 

the mean  ( arithmetic average ) of the above set of numbers is 29 . 4 .  . 
the sample standard deviation is 73 . 2 .  . 
the mode is 9 . 0 .  . 
the median is 7 . 3 .  . 


michael d. adams enterprise , alabama 

it 's a strange quirk , but i hardly ever sing along 
with people who tie me up. 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re f o cus health the big secret 
nntp posting host cunixb . cc . columbia . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization phds in the hall 
lines 40 

(not a boomer ) writes 
writes 

it is a matter of logic that government run systems are 
inefficient , and the fact that the highly private 
sector system in the us is vastly more inefficient is therefore 
irrelevant .  . 

proof that the entire private sector is vastly more inefficient 

good point , brett .  . it might merely be proof that basic health care 
markets operate differently , with certain that 
the private sector ca n't handle well  ( like armies vs.  . in 
that respect , the effects on american society vs. canadian european 
society might also be different. 

it is , for example , of no relevance that blue cross 
of massachusetts employs people , more than are employed in 
all of canada 's health programs , which insure 10 times as many 
people 

blue cross is the government health insurance provider .  . 

good point again. blue cross in the u.s. is quite convoluted compared 
to the canadian and german insurance funds , which have a minimal 
organization to coordinate it. if anything , bureaucracy now needs to 
be built up in canada to combat fraud , such as americans crossing the 
border individually to use insurance cards borrowed from friends and 
relatives or using phony domestic addresses , or fraud rings stealing 
them in blocks .  . our private practices are now recording insurance 
account numbers , both public insurance and private insurance , which 
most have never bothered to do before on assumption of an honour 
system. 

gld 

je me souviens 
gary l. dare 
go winnipeg jets go ! ! ! 
selanne domi stanley 

from () 
subject no facts , just re new study out on gay percentage 
organization santa cruz 
lines 30 
nntp posting host orchid . ucsc . edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

homosexuals lie about the 10 number to hide the disproportionate 
involvement of homosexuals in child molestation .  . they also lie 
about 10 to keep politicians scared. 


out and out lie. not substantiated .  . i do not understand 
like these. please stop making such ridiculous claims .  . maybe you 
should consider working for or getting your information from the 
national inquirer for now on. 

but many of the people who will be marching are n't homosexuals , but 
other members of the leftist agenda .  . 


ahh ! rabbit from a hat. here is another desperate step to discount 
any activity of the washington gay march .  . 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 

not surprising .  . remember , that study includes homosexuals as well. 

yes , mr. cramer and they are only 1 of the entire 
population .  . plus you stated that the 7.3 figure is a  . 



from state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay bashing in wilmington nc ) verdict 
nntp posting host bottom . magnus . acs . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 20 

in article ucs writes 

how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives 
on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 
took a large amount of punishment and refused submit oh yeah , did you 
h 
the start of the video when king got up out of his prone postion and charge 
the cops sorry , the video cuts both was when you sit and watch it start to 
finish. 

sorry , i did n't see him charge the cops .  . i saw him trying to get away 
from people who were beating him. i guess we each see what we want to 
see. 
miller 

i guess your view of the video from your sofa gives you a better view than 
the cops involved i guess one can see what one wants to see after all. 

 . 

from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re median re new study out on gay percentage 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 17 

in article writes 

from the santa rosa (cal . ) . press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2 

male sex survey gay activity low 

note this contradictory title gay activity low. 

vocabulary test please define the following words 

a) contradictory 
b) ambiguous 

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
my own only. do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus . rutgers . edu . ! kaldis 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 48 

in article ,  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 
in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
sigh. you 're absolutely right. we have no political power whatsoever. 

if only that were true. in california , homosexuals have enough power 
to impose their morals on others. 

the only moral we 're imposing is one which you supposedly embrace already 
every human being 's right to be treated as such. 

i do n't expect to be hired based on my sexual orientation .  . if someone 
decides he wants a gay only staff of employees , that 's his business. 
i wo n't force him to hire heterosexuals please do n't force me to 
hire homosexuals .  . 

therefore , we should be oppressed and ignored and , right i 

you are n't oppressed in california .  . 

but it 's ok to oppress us , that 's what you 're saying ! 

no. i'm saying it 's none of the government 's business what two 
consenting adults do in private. you do n't believe that , unfortunately. 

certainly hope you do n't have an so , sir , because if she heard how 
disparaging you are towards political minorities , and if she had any shred 
of self respect , she 'd be out the door. 

why do you keep insulting women and blacks by comparing them to 
homosexuals 

this sort of crap makes me so fucking sick that i ca n't even bring myself to 
touch it. you 're a with no perspective , no valid life experience , 
and no true knowledge of the human condition. i see no point in trying to 
convince you politely that we 're not all like the ones you 've met , because 
you 're showing no willingness at all to be open minded enough to accept that 
your stupid generalizations have exceptions .  . you are an intellectual waste , 
and the reason you believe the worst of homosexuals is that you bring out 
the worst in them. 

bi andrew d. schnopia ! 

and you are yet another reminder of the emotional instability of 
homosexuals .  . 


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from (mr .  . grinch ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization 
lines 41 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rigel . tamu . edu . 
summary libertarian texas not 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article br . isc . br . com . , br . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article (mr .  . grinch ) writes 

steve , you 're the one who suggested that a failed government should be an 
ideal proving ground , i never felt that way in the first place. quite the 
contrary , i think a better proving ground would be someplace that already 
had a governemnt that would prevent outright acts of agression , yet had a 
strong spirit of individualism and initiative .  . someplace like .  .  .  . texas ) 

mr. grinch 



and while texas taxpayers might willingly eliminate tax support for ut 
and tamu , i'm not sure they 'd support gutting the football programs. 

football can pay for itself. 


then there 's the impact on ross perot 's fortune of eliminating the various 
state supported programs where he 's made his money .  .  .  . 

why he 's already made it. sure else will be able to 
the public in the same specific ways , but why should he  ( or i) care 



all in all , texas does n't seem to be a very likely place for 
libertarianism to take hold .  . ) 

more likely than most places. when i was there the most important 
state issue was whether to have a state income tax or instead legalize 
a popular vice for fund raising , and vice won a decisive victory ! 

jsh 

mr. grinch 

p.s. now that he 's safely dead , i expect david koresh to become the 
hero of popular folk ballads , and the atf to be generally equated with 
santa anna 

from (richard hoenes ) 
subject waco 
organization temple university 
lines 7 
nntp posting host vm . temple . edu . 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 

do all those who are saying the government is responsible for the death 
of those in the compound also say that the isrealis are responsible 
for the death of the isreali athletes at the olympics hey , the 
palestinians and the dividians could have given up peacefully  ( 'yeah , 
and monkey could fly out my butt   . 

richard 

from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re waco burning 
organization the 1991 world champion minnesota twins ! 
lines 43 
originator 
nntp posting host 


in article , (robert d. silverman ) writes 
in article  ( matthew t. russotto ) writes 
in article (david garrod ) writes 

b . b . c .  . world news service , on short wave , originating out of london , 
reports that a survivor of the waco massacre states that a tank , when 
making a hole in the wall of the building , knocked over a kerosene 
lamp and that is how the fire started. attempts were made by the 
people inside to put out the fire , but it spread too quickly. 

we 're hearing it. it sure rings true it 's consistent in a way that 
mass suicide by fire is not. this survivor is also saying that they 

it rings true 

there was a separate report that an overhead helicopter which was recording 
the entire incident on video tape has a visual record of several files 
(i think the number 3 was mentioned ) starting at different parts of the 
compound .  . 

has this video been made public the fbi spokesman also said they 
first knew of the fire when black smoke started pouring out , but 
later said that three different fbi agents saw b d members starting 
the fires .  . 

also the fbi claims to have listening devices  ( bugs ) in the compound .  . 
will they make public the tapes of what the b d said 

to me , this attempt to blame the fbi for starting the fire simply looks 
like an attempt by a survivor to shift blame away from the b d 's .  . 

i think it is a crock .  . 

well sealing the initial search warrent , keeping the media miles away , 
not letting the b d talk to the public , making contradictory statements , 
not releasing the vidio tapes are not steps to ensure public confidence 
in their actions .  . 


russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else. (c) 1993 
ex twins  jack morris , 10 innings pitched , 0 runs  ( world series mvp ! ) 

from (robert brewer ) 
subject rush joke 
nntp posting host lamar . acns . colostate . edu . 
organization colorado state university , fort collins , co 80523 
lines 11 

i heard the other day that rush has gotten together with tammy baker .  . 
they were crawling in bed the other night and rush 's feet brushed up against 
tammy 's legs. god ! your feet are cold she said. rush looked back at here 
and said , tammy honey , i told you when we 're alone you can just call me 
rush .  . 


ba dump bump ! 

bob 


from (john paul morrison ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization ubc electrical engineering radio lab 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ee . ubc . ca . 

in article (mr .  . grinch ) writes 

more likely than most places. when i was there the most important 
state issue was whether to have a state income tax or instead legalize 
a popular vice for fund raising , and vice won a decisive victory ! 

jsh 

mr. grinch 

p.s. now that he 's safely dead , i expect david koresh to become the 
hero of popular folk ballads , and the atf to be generally equated with 
santa anna 


dead i saw david koresh at a local 7 11 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



john paul morrison 
university of british columbia , canada hey hey ! ! ho ho ! ! 
electrical engineering tax spend liberals 
have got to go ! ! 


from (ed suranyi ) 
subject re waco 
organization uc davis dept of applied science at llnl 
lines 14 
nntp posting host llnl . gov . 

in article  ( russ anderson ) writes 
authorities are saying that branch davidian members were 
seen starting the fire. it looks like there will no 
witnesses to dispute that claim .  . 

the fbi says that some of the survivors claim to have seen the leaders 
of the cult talking about setting a fire , and to have kerosene .  . 
i assume this will come out at any trial that occurs as a result 
of these events. 

ed 




from borden@head cfa . harvard . edu .  ( dave borden ) 
subject drug use and policy in japan 
organization smithsonian astrophysical observatory , cambridge , ma , usa 
lines 13 

is anyone out there knowledgeable on drug issues in japan i'm interested 
in knowing if japan has or has ever had a problem with drugs , and how they 
dealt with it. i 've heard , undocumented , that japan years ago used heavy 
legal penalties to end a serious heroin problem. i 'd like to know both 
sides of the story. does anyone recall such a problem what were laws 
at the time relating to drug use , drug dealing , and drug trafficking what 
are the laws now what other anti drug measures , like education and treatment 
has japan used how are drugs regarded by the japanese people how effective 
have anti drug measures been in japan thanks for your help. 


david borden 


from (matt fante ) 
subject comment clinton reno batf and waco 
organization lehigh university 
lines 115 

input 

6 . 
magnification 1200 
7 . 

title letter to the editor 
author matthew l. 
date april 20 , 1993 


in a letter to the fbi , david koresh said you want me to 
pull back the heavens and show you my anger ! ... fear me . '' . the 51 day 
standoff between federal agents and the branch davidians ended on april 19 
in what appeared to be a mass suicide by fire. now that the multi million 
dollar standoff is over , a few things remain cleaning up the mess , and 
assigning blame .  . 



from the onset of the april 19 tear gas attacks by federal agents , president 
clinton already started passing the buck by saying to the attorney 
general or the fbi .  .  .  . i knew it was going to be done , but the decision was 
it entirely theirs . it they made the tactical decision . '' . enter 
attorney general janet reno .  . after most of the branch davidians died , 
reno said she took responsibility   for the decision. approved 
the plan   she said adding that she not advise him clinton as to the 
details . '' . in fact , she told clinton that it was best way to go . '' . 
as the fire was roaring through the branch davidian 's compound clinton said 
that he was by the loss of life   and in the same breath that 
law enforcement agencies involved in the waco siege recommended the 
course of action pursued today . '' . later he went on to say stand by that 
reno 's decision . '' . 



how did this all begin at 0930 on february 28 agents of the bureau of 
alcohol , tobacco and firearms  ( batf ) launched a full scale , high profile 
assault on the branch davidian 's compound .  . this raid was much 
more than an assault on a group suspected of possessing illegal weapons .  . the 
assault was a planned media circus used as a propaganda device of the batf 
to show their might and just purpose. 



at the onset of the knock   raid , of heavily armed batf agents 
made their way inside the compound without identifying themselves or state 
that they had a warrant until long after the shooting began .  . 
silently , the agents made their way to the compound 's buildings and started 
their   by charging at the buildings and throwing concussion grenades 
and ordering the cult members to come out of the buildings. 



if unknown persons dressed in black ninja and combat fatigues 
were to attack you , throwing grenades and brandishing firearms , would you not 
assume that these people are criminals and attempt to defend yourself the 
tactics employed by the batf provoked the battle. 



the initial assualt by the batf was not successful. unfortunately , lives 
were lost on both sides. but , had the assault been a success , the liberal 
media would have praised the batf by showing the footage of batf agents 
carting away a bunch of gun wielding religious nuts. of course , any 
violation of the cult 's rights would have been overlooked and the media 
would proclaim america 's fortune in having super cop organizations like the 
batf that can systematically out   groups such as the 
branch davidians .  . 



as far as i can see , the batf and the fbi dropped the ball just like 
philadelphia did in the 1985 move crisis which left 11 dead , 250 homeless , 
and a city block razed .  . 
it appears that the batf has adopted the shoot first tactic of no knock 
raids to execute search warrants .  . do n't let the batf convince you that 
the no knock raid was justified .  . no knock assaults make sense when looking 
for , say , drugs that can easily be hidden or disposed of in a few seconds. 
the batf was looking for illegal weapons , not drugs that could be hidden or 
flushed down the toilet in a matter of a few seconds. what ever happened to 
is the police ! you are surrounded .  .  . '' . it this policy of no knock 
raids , by federal and local agencies , should be restricted . further , the use 
of military firepower against presumed innocent citizens is a very scary idea , 
and is why the davidians were justified in using lethal force to ensure that 
their fourth ammendment rights right of the people to be secure in 
their persons , houses , papers , and effects , against unreasonable searches 
and seizures   are not denied .  . 







matthew l. newline 
end 













matthew 
for a good prime call 2 1 

410 webster street a public key is available 
bethlehem pa upon request 

from (david garrod ) 
subject waco burning 
organization purdue university engineering computer network 
lines 17 



it is interesting , sometimes , to listen to u.s. news as seen through 
the eyes of another country .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

b . b . c .  . world news service , on short wave , originating out of london , 
reports that a survivor of the waco massacre states that a tank , when 
making a hole in the wall of the building , knocked over a kerosene 
lamp and that is how the fire started. attempts were made by the 
people inside to put out the fire , but it spread too quickly. 

has anyone in u.s. heard anything similar or are u.s. government 
spin doctors censoring such information 

the b . b . c .  . news is also reporting that about 20 of those that died 
were british citizens .  . 


from psg (paul s galvanek ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
distribution na 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 62 

in article  ( jill rosencrans ) writes 

i'm not saying i'm satisfied with the outcome , it 's very upsetting .  . 
you are simply blaming the wrong person. 


oh are we jill let me tell you a story then .  .  .  . 

one evening not long in this country a man , a , a convicted known 
violent lead police on high speed chase after breaking another law. 
he decided that police had no right to do their jobs and enforce the law 
and two of while attempting to resist arrest .  . when police use 
metal sticks to force him into submission we heard all the reason why certain 
people in this country have and excuse when they refuse to obey the law , 
how this was a perfect example of police oppression , how all the police 
had to do was behave a certain way and all would have been , how nothing 
the victim did could have possibly warranted the response some blows with 
a few sticks he got from the authorities .  . 

funny , how when it 's bloodbath billy or his calling the shots , 
a group of people who were bothering no one , were not know to have broken 
any law , who asked only that they be left alone to practice their religion 
as they fit , how it is now that the government is justified in 
those people with 100 heavily armed commandos simply because the gun 
grabbers in dc thought these people had more guns thay they thought they 
should have. now when it 's the clinton administration that has the blood 
of dozens on its hand of a sudden it 's the people who refused to 
have their civil rights violated , it 's their fault , those evil fanatics 
provoked it .  .  .  . 

how is it in the mind of the liberal democrat clinton supporter that a 
puke , scum bag , piece of garbage like rodney king could not have 
possibly provoked the beating he got , but this bunch of wierdos could cause 
a fifty one day stand off that ended with the burning deaths of all of them 
and their children , all by themselves with no help from the the police .  . 
and to here people say they deserved what they got , to hear clinton say 
the blame rest solely with , what a cowardly piece of work that 
man has shown , again , himself to be. 

we re blaming the right people. it is you and others that defend any of the 
actions of the batf , fbi or justice department in this matter , that with 
each word prove again and again the depth of the hypocrisy , the double 
standard that people like the clintons would hold certain americans to. 
while at the same time allowing others to do as they please with only 
excuses to offer their victims .  . it 's all to clear these days , from the 
comments of the president and the rationalizations of his supporters 
in these groups , that in a liberal democratic vision of america only 
a certain select few people can expect to have civil rights enforced , 
and this administration intends to enforce laws , apply the constitution 
and obey the laws only when it suits them to do so. 

the rooster 

warning ! 

by order of heir clinton and for your own 
personal safety remember to maintain membership 
in only batf approved religious organizations .  . 
batf approved religious services. 


. 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re employment  ( was re why not concentrate on child molesters 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 17 


wow , i had n't realized how this was getting ! be careful here .  .  . the . 
problem is n't the rich but the values and the systems that make the rich 
rich. things are designed in such a way that in order to go with the system 
and make money , everything else we care about goes to shit. i have to 
constantly remind myself that the goal of human society is not to make 
money. money does n't make us happy it just prevents certain things making 
us more unhappy .  . 

therefore , do n't shoot the rich. shoot the conservatives ! 



bi andrew d. schnopia ! 


words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes 

from  ( jr vanmechelen ) 
subject re the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of pennsylvania 
lines 31 
nntp posting host gradient . cis . upenn . edu . 

in article  ( rob dobson ) writes 
in article  ( william a bacon ) writes 
fury of mother nature 
clearly , man has a long way to go to match nature as a of the 
environment. 

bullshit .  . how many lakes have ceased to be able to support life from 
purely natural pollution man has already done this to scores of lakes .  . 
also , much of the degredation you cite was done by cows and pigs .  . 

you have perhaps heard of the dead sea. i may be wrong , but i believe 
it is not  . and i do n't believe that humans had a hand in it , 
although it is possible since the great cedar forests of lebanon were 
but a memory by the time of christ if not earlier. 

but , more on the point , while nature is the may be the more 
, man is certainly the more creative. we have to our 
credit and heavy metals , not to mention radioactivity , 
which is so wonderfully persistent and fatal (not that we invented 
radioactivity or heavy metals , we only concentrated them so that they 
would be a more lethal  . 

in general i find mr. bacon 's arguments rhetorical , devoid of sense , 
and therefore trivial .  . 

btw , is there any reason this discussion is on phl . misc . 

so long , 
jr 



from () 
subject more verbal garbage this way re new study out on gay percentage 
organization santa cruz 
lines 24 
nntp posting host orchid . ucsc . edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( blort ! eeeep ! hwaaah . ) . writes 
would n't one expect more heterosexual men than gay men to be 
promiscuous simply due to a larger group of potential partners 

just a thought. 
matt 

you might except that gay men are much more promiscuous than 
straight men which shows how damaged and screwed up gay men are. 


this is getting sad. all you can do is make this ridiculous statements , 
based upon some old information and a press democrat article that was 
poorly written. 

please show the numbers for your use of much more . i have not seen 
them. and i want them to be true and accurate , or at least show a 
trend within the everyday gay population .  . 

there are all kinds of  damaged and screwed up' people , and most of 
them are not gay. 

keep it up , you just shoot your own position down over and over. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re age of consent child molestation 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( hot young star ) writes 
clayton cramer , did you read this carefully 

in article  ( roy radow ) writes 

it should not be assumed that we nambla agree with the specific 
agendas of each and every other participating group , nor 
should it be assumed that each and every other group 
supports our specific goals and ideals .  . 

yeah , just like you should n't assume that aryan nations supports 
genocide .  . who are they  ( and you) fooling 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re cults , waco insanity 
originator 
lines 35 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world champion minnesota twins ! 


in article , nelson (peter nelson ) writes 
in article (patrick kearney ) writes 

i ask this question because there is a tradition , and one that 
is highly regarded by many people , that several hundred jews 
elected to throw themselves off a cliff at masada rather than 
submit to roman rule. the circumstances at masada and those at 
waco would seem in general terms quite similar , and yet so far 
as i'm aware nobody has seriously suggested that the jews were 
insane. 

as has already been pointed out , the jews faced a totally 
different fate at the hand of the romans than did koresh 
at the hand of the feds .  . the jewish men would most likely 
have been crucified , the the women and children sold into 
slavery .  . one can well argue that koresh may have thought 
that a similar fate awaited him , but there was scant rational 
basis for that fear , so insane seems to describe any such 
belief .  . 

what is the penalty if convicted of murdering 4 federal agents 
in texas the death penalty .  . 

none of which excuses the reckless action of the feds , who 
allegedly believing they were dealing with a nut , should 
have exercise much more restraint .  . indeed , given their 
stated goals of saving the children , one might also apply 
the moniker insane to the feds  actions .  . 

yup .  . 

russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else. (c) 1993 
ex twins  jack morris , 10 innings pitched , 0 runs  ( world series mvp ! ) 

from (not a boomer ) 
subject the real source of trouble in the us health care system 
organization acme products 
lines 31 

cancel private health insurance 

when government care that only covers 20 of the population consumes 
42 of the spending for health care 

not ! 

national health expenditures 1960 to 1990 
 ( includes puerto rico and outlying areas . ) . 

year health services and supplies ( billions ) 
private public 

1960 19.8 5.7 (22 of total ) 
1970 44.1 24.9 (56 of total ) 
1980 140 . 7 . 98 . 1 .  ( 41 of total ) 
1990 374 . 8 . 268 . 6 .  ( 42 of total ) 

source american almanac , page 97 .  . 1992 3 edition 

now you understand where most of that 12.2 of gnp is going to waste. 

by these figures , private insurance is spending 58 of the money to 
cover 4 times as many people. 

go figure. 

brett 

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . sean o casey in the white plague by frank herbert .  . 

from (richard hoenes ) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization temple university 
lines 34 
nntp posting host vm . temple . edu . 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 

in article 
 ( doug holtsinger ) writes 

janet reno killed the waco children. she is responsible for 
their deaths .  . she should resign immediately. she should have 
understood that david koresh was a madman who would do anything 
against the children if he became provoked .  . all the warning 
signs were there and she ignored them. she provoked koresh 
into killing the children. 

janet reno , the fbi , et al were nothing but in koresh 's game. 
he was a madman who was going to hurt the children , and everyone 
else in the compound no matter what the fbi did. 

the situation in waco was similar to a hostage situation with 
a madman holding a gun against the head of an innocent person. 
in such a situation , a person who provokes the madman and causes 
him to pull the gun 's trigger is responsible for the death of the 
hostage .  . janet reno blindly stumbled in there and basically 
threw a tear gas container at the madman hoping that he would 
release the hostage .  . it 's no surprise that the madman would 
pull the trigger in response to that kind of provocation .  . 

such a hostage situation has taken place on numerous occasions 
with the result of the police trying to take the place by 
force and the result being the death of the hostages and the 
gunmen .  . however , this is the first time i 've heard of 
the blame landing squarely on the police .  . 

in this country we have a policy of not negotiating a back down 
from terrorists and hostage takers since that only encourages 
other terrorists and hostage takers .  . 

richard 

from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re using california 's antidiscrimination the sort of case i predicted 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random. 
lines 30 

in article (a . wainwright) . writes 
clayton , babe , please define the word  . are you using 
a legal term or a proper dictionary term molest , as far as i 
can remember , means do damage to  . my mate , 
mike , was into a woman 's when he was 14. is 
that molestation a number of my friends  ( straight ) lost 
their virginity before that. were they  molested  they told 
me that they thoroughly enjoyed the experience. i see no 
damage. 

please stop pushing your objective morality on others. if you 
push , people wo n't fall over and say  ye gads , you 're 
right ! ' , they 'll just push back. 

have you signed up for that logic course yet 

yep and the child that tree frog johnson for 6 months reportedly 
enjoyed her experiences as well. they trained her using food. as an fbi 
agent reported  ( on his disciplinary action for beating up tree frog ) when 
you see a 2 1 2 year old baby cheerfully tell you she wants a peanut butter 
sandwich and she 'll suck your pee pee , you lose control . 

you are quite sick. 



there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . weird , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll rent 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from (paul bartholomew ) 
subject re are americans sexually repressed 
organization jet propulsion laboratory 
lines 45 
distribution world 
nntp posting host kilimanjaro . jpl . nasa . gov . 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) 
wrote 
unless , of course , the problem is that homosexuality is a form 
of mental disorder , caused by childhood sexual abuse , as a number of 
recent works suggest .  . 

mr. cramer , when are you going to stop in such blatant lies 
this is not only not true , you know damned well that it 's not true. none 
of your research supports this no mental health expert has taken this 
position. this is your own opinion which is not backed up by any 
research or any knowledge. 

according to one survey , done in san francisco , the number of heterosexual 
men who were molested as children was on the order of 5 . the number of 
homosexual men who were molested as children was on the order of 8 . 
source a book on sexual abuse of children by david (sorry , 
the title escapes me) .  . 

conclusions that can be drawn from this none. 

if homosexuals would stop using the government to impose their 
morality on others  ( antidiscrimination laws) and leave our children 
alone , i would n't care in the least what they did in private. but 
until they get over the liberal notion that the proper role of 
government is to tell peaceful people how to live , i have no choice 
but to continue to point out that homosexuality is not an alternative 
lifestyle , but a sickness .  . 

oh , you definitely have a choice. you realize , of course , that you 
are approaching the two year anniversary of your crusade .  . how are 
you planning on celebrating two years of lies 

incidentally , we are still waiting your crusade against african americans , 
women , and other minorities who also want to impose their morality on 
others . after all , they also want the government to tell peaceful 
people how to live. therefore , you really have no choice , but to 
continue to point out that being a woman or an african american is not 
a lifestyle , but a sickness .  . 

it 's bullshit , mr. cramer .  . it was bullshit when you began this crusade 
and it 's still bullshit .  . i am continually amazed at the depths to which 
you 'll stoop to carry on this deliberate attack. 

paul bartholomew 


from  ( red herring ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host dzoo . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma 
lines 14 

in article  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

anything but .  .  .  . 

bill clinton and reno should not have started the whole 
in the first place. 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 23 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

elf sternberg 

but if less than 10 of the population is gay , what can we say about 
these people who do n't identify as gay but have demonstrated gay 
potential. obviously , a large chunk of these people chose  ( or , more 
accurately , were forced to choose by force of religion and social 
sanction ) to put those feelings aside , to be heterosexual .  . 

obviously , cramer and kaldis fall into this category. 

i ca n't speak for kaldis but force of religion and social sanction 
played no part in my sexual preferences .  . neither had much influence on 
me as a teenager .  . 

you might as well have. you certainly would not have been in error if 
you would have. 

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
my own only. do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus . rutgers . edu . ! kaldis 
as this would hold such views 

from (john viveiros ) 
subject waco and panama 
organization chevron 
lines 15 

i have n't recognized any names from previous discussions , but i do 
notice that there are a few who blame clinton for the actions of the 
batf in waco .  . unless you felt the same way about what we did under 
bush 's direct command in panama , it 's just partisan whining .  . which is 
what i expect most of it to be. i can see no way to condemn one and not 
the other. 

but i'm sure some will tell me how killing thousands of 
civilians to serve an arrest warrant is much better than 
allowing 80 religious fanatics to commit suicide following a botched 
attempt by the batf to serve a search warrant .  . 

john viveiros 
chevron usa standard disclaimer applies 
midland tx 

from (richard steven walz ) 
subject re employment  ( was re why not concentrate on child molesters 
organization the armory 
lines 138 

in article (paul schmidt ) writes 
(xavier gallagher ) writes 


so what does this prove i do not object to property ownership i 
just think property ownership should be limited to what an individual 
person family needs . i do not need 200 , 000 acres to survive , i 
need about 3 acres at most and could get by on less. i argue that 
by having all property tied up and thus cutting people off form 
the basic level of that the property owners must bribe 
the rest of us to respect their ownership rights by providing 
alternative means of  . when we are expected to give 
these owners  ( lets call them thieves ) bribes in order to 
be able to then we have a sick situation. the property owners 
are then parasites .  . 

i want people to be able to live happy and prosperous lives. property 
owners cannot maintain a monopoly in the free enterprise system unless 
they have help from a coercive government. when a few land owners get 
together and try to control all the land without selling , land prices 
will go up. at some point it will be to the advantage of the land owner 
to sell some of his property. trying to put a group of people to 
distribute land fairly would give them monopoly control over the 
land , and would have the consequences you speak of. let 's keep the land 
out of the grasp of a monopoly and let it exist in the free market. 

it 's already in the hands of a monopoly of the rich because of capitalism 
of land. other than government land , saved for posterity and the eco system 
as well as government function , the remaining land is owned by a smaller 
percentage of the people than ever before. the game of capitalism is almost 
won. the game has only to be declared over and we will have to take matters 
into our own hands and redistribute it again fairly , or else be enslaved in 
return for a place to live. here in central california , already , fewer than 
30 own all the property and 5 of them own 90 of it. that 's twice what it 
was twenty years ago. rents are so high that you pay 60 of your income for 
rent .  . if you just have a , all you can afford is one room , if that. 
some 30 of minimum wage workers are homeless .  . unless you both have degrees 
in technical fields and are working in them ,  ( in the midst of 30 
unemployment in high tech jobs ! ) , you will never own anything but a used 
car if you choose to have more than one child ! ! ! and everywhere else you 
could afford there are no jobs. the only way to get there is to save and 
not consume any more than you have to , clothing used , food poor. no movies , 
no entertainment , , ect. for about five to seven years , and then , if you 've 
saved 20 , 000 , if you can get together that much , and that 's ignoring your 
kids and working two jobs , then you can buy a home in arkansas or missouri 
outright and live somewhere where they flood every other year ! that 's an 
exaggeration if you pay close attention to the flood lines on other 
people 's houses and find a sturdy hill , then you can buy one up there ! also 
buy a  . missouri 's not so bad , if you like the sensation of sleeping 
in a in summer and your car freezing solid in winter. they really 
do put those heaters into the dipstick hole to keep them warm enough to 
start with ether ! ) shit , kill the rich and redistribute the livable 
property. kill all of them ! 
rsw 

i want people to be able to work and gain a basic and more. 
is there a workable system for what you suggest i am always looking 
for improvements on the way we can coexist in this world and will give 
people happy , meaningful lives , where each individual can reach their 
highest potential. are you asking for the forced redistribution of 
land any system i imagine will lead to , pollution , over 
, and land mismanagement .  . if you know of such a system , 
please describe it. please be specific , since my imagination cannot 
comprehend such a system. specifics that i am interested in 
1. does someone get land assigned them when they are born 
2. what happens to someone 's land when they die can they pass 
it on to their children 
3. can someone sell land 
4. can someone their land 
5. what governmental restrictions will be put on land use 
6. who will administer such a system 
7. how much will it cost to administer such a system 
i know that this is alot to ask and will understand if you do not have 
the time to answer these questions. i think i will be better able to 
understand what you are proposing , if you can answer these  . 
paul schmidt advocates for self government , davy crockett chapter president 

the land is simply granted to people who live on it now. extra is kept for 
the future. you get to stay where you are without paying rent .  . land that 
supports others becomes property of the state. farmers are welcome to plant 
crops that people need according to demand and ability and soil quality. if 
you want to grow because you always did , and you are n't doing a 
good job , then we let another farmer grow , and you grow something 
else. when people die the land they were entitled to use goes into the 
public holdings .  . no one can sell land , but they can trade places with 
anybody .  . no one can lease land. the government will locally distribute the 
use of the land not used for residences .  . residences that are insufficient 
to the families living there can be traded to the public for a larger house 
and yard according to need and availability .  . the local land council who vow 
to live on their land till death to avoid profit ties will decide fairness 
subject to review by the state and federal land councils .  . it will cost no 
more than any fucking thing costs now with fucking rent going down a 
deep dark hole to the owners ! anyone can submit a request for a larger 
house or land to start a business on , depending on a valid business plan 
and community needs. heavy equipment is subject to seizure for the public 
good or as needed. heavy equipment operators are encouraged to keep and 
maintain their own machine and to operate it at a reasonable salary in 
service to the community. companies who own many machines are to be divided 
among the appropriate equipment operators and the rest to be let to valid 
operators on a need basis. cost of is charged .  . a of heavy 
machine operators is recognized for safety and training 's sake. their 
council is a to the community council .  . etc. etc. etc. it is n't 
so hard to think of a better system than we have. all you have to do is 
realize that the system we have now is not sacrosanct , in fact it 's a 
rigged game that steals you blind and is the most unfair any system could 
be already ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! the trick is to realize that the old rich have been 
making the rules behind your back and that it 's time to kick them off the 
merry go round. tax the rich to death. they are the ones that converted 
your 60 's school lunch program into the joke it is today. they are the ones 
who always cut education. they are the ones who always raise the rent when 
you get a raise .  . they are the ones who should be not just dislodged but 
killed for their abuse .  . i have trouble justifying the death penalty for a 
poor kid who killed and did n't know why not. i have no trouble justifying 
the death penalty for the rich who steal countless human lives to feed 
their greed ! have you paid rent most of your life then you have been 
enslaved , percentage wise , most of your life. we used to be serfs .  . now we 
are called , and we are still enslaved to somebody who claims to own 
land they do n't use and make us pay them for it when they did nothing to 
own it. most rents in california are enough to buy the apartment house , 
taxes and the insurance and have a little left over to travel with ! 
i have seen the books ! i know what my landlord pays and to whom ! i know 
what i pay her. i am being forced to buy her a building and then i will be 
let out at the other end with nothing , when i had as much right as her to 
live on this planet ! and her child will have the money to likewise 
enslave my child. i hope i find out when i am going to die. i can make 
things just a little happier form me to be able to destroy her life as she 
destroyed mine. and maybe i can take a few other landlords with me , and 
their heirs .  . that would be worth it. then to be able to die before they can 
do anything to me. that 's a poor man 's dream. sleep tight , bastard 
landlords .  . you do n't know the trouble you are buying yourself as you sleep 
on my heirs money in your mattress ! 
rsw 


richard steven walz (408) 429 1200 
515 maple street 1 without safe and free abortion women are 
santa cruz , ca 95060 organ surrogates to unwanted parasites .  . 
real men would never accept organ slavery and will protect women. 

from (joseph . m . knapp) . 
subject re waco survivors 19 april 
organization at t 
lines 36 

in article writes 
the people who do not want gun control must obviously discount the entire 
government story. this is simply rationalisation .  . it is not enough for 
them to simply dismiss the government as incompetent .  . that would require 
them to come up with a solution themselves. instead they have to come 
up with a government conspiracy theory whereby the government decided to 
set out to murder 80 people just to set up some sort of scare to them 
to get gun control legislation through. 

what 's despicable is that this sordid incident is being onto by all 
sorts of people desperately trying to get a revolution .  . it makes 
ambulance chasing by lawyers seem like a harmless pastime .  . 

for the last few months , souls have been calling c span on issues 
as mundane as budget resolutions , saying that i do n't know , i just have 
the feeling there is going to be a revolution in this country , and so on. 

get real ! for a real case study in revolution , go to video 
and check out underground , a film made about the weather underground in 
the 70 's .  . even with all the strife back then , the revolution never did 
come. and waco is supposed to be the spark of the end times 

in the tape , it is interesting to see the way the dance 
around the issue of one of their defining moments , which was when a few 
of their comrades managed to blow themselves up manufacturing bombs in 
a greenwich village  . the problem , one of them said , was that 
they were so caught up in their armed struggle that they forgot about 
their own personal safety and were n't careful. but of course that was 
society 's fault , a society that did n't a sense of worth in 
the people , so they neglect their own safety. 

current apologists for koresh may pick up some important 
tips from this tape ! 


joe knapp 

from (richard hoenes ) 
subject re cults , waco insanity 
organization temple university 
lines 58 
nntp posting host vm . temple . edu . 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 

in article 
(patrick kearney ) writes 


assuming , for the sake of argument , that the branch davidian 
people themselves in the manner described by the 
federal authorities , why does the general consensus appear to 
be that they the bd were insane is it the manner of their 
behaviour before they died , or the fact they chose to kill 
themselves rather than submit to the government 

i ask this question because there is a tradition , and one that 
is highly regarded by many people , that several hundred jews 
elected to throw themselves off a cliff at masada rather than 
submit to roman rule. the circumstances at masada and those at 
waco would seem in general terms quite similar , and yet so far 
as i'm aware nobody has seriously suggested that the jews were 
insane. 

the point of this comparison is to question the use of the word 
 cult  in discussing the events at waco .  . why were the davidians 
a cult , and not the jews at masada what constitutes a cult is 
it the size of the membership , or a matter of respectability , or 
perhaps the length of time it 's been in existence are the 
catholics a cult how about the mormons or the calvinists is 
a sect a cult 

dictionary definitions aside , since popular usage seems to carry 
more weight , i suspect that the word  cult  is used in a 
sense when speaking of groups like the davidians .  . it is rather 
like the word  boss  when used to describe someone unpopular 
or someone the government wishes to make unpopular like , say , 
castro the communist boss of cuba .  . one does n't hear clinton 
described as america 's democratic or capitalist boss. 



well , for one thing most , if not all the dividians  ( depending on whether 
they could show they acted in self defense and there were no illegal 
weapons ) , could have gone on with their life as they were living it. 
no one was forcing them to give up their religion or even their 
legal weapons .  . the dividians had survived a change in leadership 
before so even if himself would have been convicted and 
sent to jail , they still could have carried on. 

i do n't think the dividians were insane , but i do n't see a reason 
for mass suicide  ( if the fire was intentional set by some of the 
dividians . ) . we also do n't know that , if the fire was intentionally 
set from inside , was it a generally know plan or was this something 
only an inner circle knew about , or was it something two or three 
felt they had to do with or without 's knowledge blessing , etc. 
i do n't know much about masada .  . were some people throwing others over 
did mothers jump over with their babies in their arms 

richard 




from  ( william m. everett ) 
subject re the earth also  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711 
lines 34 

in article rodger  ( rodger c. scoggin ) writes 
in article ,  ( william a bacon ) says 


the earth may spew alot of substances into the atmosphere , but the quality 
of your toxic output can easily make up for the lack of quantity .  . 
excuse me quality as in grade a co2 and grade b co2 i may not have 
this quite right but i was under the impression that co2 was co2 .  . 

furthermore , 
the planet is a system of carbon , sulfur and other chemicals which have been 
acting for billions of years , we are but newcomers to the system we must adapt 
and control in order to bring about stability .  . also , two wrongs do not make a right , 
so continuing our practices despite overwhelming data is just ignorance in  . 

a) there is no reason to believe this system is inherently stable 
the ice ages occured without any help from humans. 

b) the point was that the human contribution of co2 and other 
greenhouse gasses is insignificant and it wo n't really make a difference if 
we make more or less. 

c) what overwhelming data i see lots of  projections  of the future , 
which is fascinating , considering they ca n't predict the weather two weeks 
in advance. 


william everett tan , rested , and ready 
harvey mudd college nixon in '96 

these opinions are mine you ca n't have them 




from  ( red herring ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host dzoo . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma 
lines 26 

in article (robert lewis glendenning ) writes 
has anybody heard an explanation of why the fbi was using tear gas 
in a 35 mph wind 

first , a tank drove through the wall into the living room. 

i ca n't stop thinking about the children who were inside 
the house (the room ) at the time. 

how many people got killed during the square events 


does n't seem like good tactics to me ... 

any other explanations 

lew 

lew glendenning 
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr  ( or somebody like that) .  . 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from (p . vasilion) . 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 30 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ubvmsd . cc . buffalo . edu . 

in article ,  ( mitchell s todd ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( mark c. carroll ) writes .  .  .  . 

wait a second , you 're ignoring major facts here. 

there was no attempt to simply serve a warrant .  . the batf had a 
no knock warrant .  . the initial firefight began when the batf threw 
concussion grenades at the building.  ( batf admits this ! ) 

when did the batf say this everything i 've seen from the batf , 
from the official version to the dissident statements of batf 
officers who conducted the raid claims that the davidians were 
shooting at the agents long before they were within grenade 
range. 

what i saw on tv and what you claim are two different things. the 
davidians did not start shooting until after the batf a couple 
in the windows and started shooting themselves. 

also , if the warrant is sealed , how do we know it was a  no knock  

easy ! if you see federal agents in body armor with sub machine guns 
going in throught windows , that is a no knock warrant .  . also since the 
videotape shows the batf throwing grenades before the bd 's fire , 
you can safely assume that they did n't ring the  . 


p . vasilion . , 

p.s. get rid of that bandwidth  . sig . ! 

from  ( mark c. carroll ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host hercules . cis . udel . edu . 
organization university of delaware , newark 
lines 52 

in article writes 

the above conveniently ignores the murder of four batf agents by the 
branch davidians in an unprovoked ambush .  . 

any government that allows dictators to set up shop and declare 
a private state has drifted into anarchy .  . there are laws to control 
the ownership of guns and the batf had good reason to beleive that 
they were being violated .  . they set out to obtain a legal warrant and 
attempted to serve it only to be met with gunfire when they rang 
the  . 

the paranoid assertion that the batf fired first in an unprovoked 
assault assumes that the batf were on a death wish. had they 
expected the b d to be anything other than peacefull citizens who 
would accept a search authorized by a court they would have turned up 
in a tank and broken the door down on day one. 

the stupidity was the attempt to serve a on the place by 
and unprotected police .  . 

wait a second , you 're ignoring major facts here. 

there was no attempt to simply serve a warrant .  . the batf had a 
no knock warrant .  . the initial firefight began when the batf threw 
concussion grenades at the building.  ( batf admits this ! ) 

if anyone on the net cares to suggest a sure fire method of bringing 
the of four police officers to justice perhaps we could 
hear it. 

let 's be realistic here , shall we 

you 're a member of a rather paranoid religious organization. someone 
comes to your building , dressed in black suits , carrying firearms .  . 
they throw a concussion grenade at the place , and try to break in. 
what , exactly , are you going to do 

i would not allow anyone to enter my home without first identifying 
themselves. if someone attacks my home by firing weapons or throwing 
explosive , i think i 'd be entirely justified in defending myself. 

regardless of what i think of the bds , and regardless of whether or 
not they were guilty of firearms violations , this is not the way you 
treat people in a supposedly free society. 

mc 

mark craig carroll mc we the people are getting tired of your lies 
univ of delaware , dept of cis we the people now believe that it 's time 
grad student hacker we 're demanding our rights to the answers 
we elect a precedent to state of mind fish 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re waco is gov't fault  ( was re libertarian party on cia fbi atf ) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 52 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 

1) they raided an american 's property because of rumors about 
koresh 's intentions with some converted , yet still 2nd amendment 
protected , firearms (a judge approved warrant justifies nothing) 

in a democracy under the rule of law a search warrant justifies a 
search. 

and this search procedure must also follow the rule of law. 

the us constitution does not justify murder of those attempting to 
mount a search for illegally held weapons .  . 

it may , if necessary , when the search is executed in an illegal and 
violent fashion. 

the govt has a right to use lethal force in certain cases. attempts to 
capture dangerous criminals who are armed and threatening the lives of others 
is one. 

these criminals were threatening the lives of no one they were fired 
on first , according to a number of accounts. 

in this case they used sub lethal force. 

wrong. firing a gun at someone is lethal force , even if no one is hit. 
of course , they did hit and kill people. 

the children were held hostage .  . the adults were wanted variously for murder 
and conspiracy to murder .  . 

you are silly. there are no such warrants in existence , phill .  . 

4) it took hundreds of gov't agents with tax funded cellular phones 
ten minutes to dial 9 1 1 for the fire department 

they should not have called the fire dept at all. there was no role 
for them to play in a situation where those that might be rescued might 
well shoot at them. calling the fire dept meant that waco was deprived 
of a resource that might have been needed elsewhere should a situation 
where it could have been used arisen .  . 

thanks , phill , for another example of that great socialist sensitivity .  . 
obey the government or die. 

plonk 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special investors  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( hot young star ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 12 

in article 
(paul bartholomew ) writes to clayton cramer 

when are you going to stop lying and admit 
that the whole crusade is based on your own personal hatred , fear , and 
obsession you need help , mr. cramer .  . 

the saddest thing is that most people , like cramer 's wife , learn dislike 
for homosexuality early in childhood. 

clayton , however , is so , that he let his wife sucker him 
on this issue , as a full grown adult .  . 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re janet and the babies 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 22 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , (not a boomer ) says 

evidently it was janet 's concern for the babies being slapped by koresh 
that made her give the go ahead for the ram n gas tactics .  . ( 


larry king live was both telling and sickening .  . every other word 
out of janet reno 's mouth was the little children , etc. sounded 
like clinton talking. she made claims that the children were 
beaten , etc , despite the pronouncements of social workers that none 
of the children who left the compound were abused .  . but the real 
crime 


larry king , and his censored show. not one fucking question 
about reno 's possible error. just two calls about how she 
had made a good decision . now , it does n't take a rocket 
scientist to figure out that some people are going to be upset. 

nope .  . no real questions at all. 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject re f o cus health millions of america 

lines 33 

in article , 
(not a boomer ) says 

in article , 
(david 
veal ) writes 
... 
here 's a question for those of you far more informed about 
health care than i am. my almanac , quoting oecd health data 
lists u.s. public health expenditures for 1990 as being 5.2 of 
gdp , or 42.4 of total health expenditures .  . 

are we really paying 42.4 of our expenditures to insure 
21 of our population 

heh , no doubt more evidence that the government is more efficient 
than  evil  for profit health care. 

proving once again that brett has a major thinking problem .  .  .  . 

two groups that the government insure are the elderly and the medically an 
needy  ( those who have impoverished themselves through spending for medical 
 . the typical elderly person spends 3.5 times what a person under age 
65 .  . the typical medically needy person spends about 10 times what the 
average person does. 

you 've got to adjust those data , brett .  . 

these words and thoughts are my own. i am not bound to swear 
allegiance to the word of any 
master. where the storm carries 
me , i put into port and make 
d. shea , psu myself at home. 

from  ( lazlo nibble ) 
subject re waco burning 
organization vroom international fear club 
lines 11 
distribution world 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 

 ( matthew t. russotto ) writes 

the idea that kerosene lamps would be all over the place  ( with 
electricity cut off) makes sense. the idea that ramming tanks into the 
building would spill them and cause a fire makes sense. 

as does the idea that a cs gas canister can get hot enough to ignite dry 
hay .  . 


lazlo 

from (john chandler ) 
subject re top ten excuses for slick willie 's record setting disapproval rati 

rtp . dg . com . 
organization crimea river corporation 
lines 12 
nntp posting host 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 93 22 15 46 gmt 

in article rtp . dg . com .  ( william crosmun ) writes 

on the other hand , rush made an interesting point the democrats ran 
one of their best campaigns in years against a pathetic republican and 
a and still only pulled 43 of the vote , lost 10 seats in 
the house , and gained 0 seats in the senate .  . 1994 might be pretty 
interesting. 

clueless of the world , take heart ! 57 of the electorate is willing 
to vote for a pathetic republican and a ! ! 



from  ( lawrence c smith) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization cabletron systems , inc. 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host glinda . ctron . com . 

in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

for starters , they could have gone on waiting and negotiating .  . the davidians 
were n't going anywhere , and their supplies had to be limited .  . large , perhaps , 
but limited .  . if they had simply fired the compound by themselves without 
gov't tanks smashing down their walls , then at least the gov't would not be 
guilty of having again used an inappropriate level of force , and would have 
been able to use the meantime to continue to pressure and negotiate .  . no , they 
would not have looked good on the news in six months or a year. but they sure 
as hell do n't look very good now. 

larry smith no , i do n't speak for cabletron .  . need you ask 

liberty is not the freedom to do whatever we want , 
it is the freedom to do whatever we are able .  . 

from (richard hoenes ) 
subject waco investigation paranoia 
organization temple university 
lines 9 
nntp posting host vm . temple . edu . 
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2 

can people please stop the  i think know the batf fbi are completely 
responsible but they 'll cover it up so that the investigation will 
show that is responsible' bs .  . in an investigation of this 
size with the feds , state , and civilians involved in the 
investigation it would be impossible to cover up. 
and with republicans like arlen spector calling for investigations , 
this is n't going to be handled with kid gloves .  . 

richard 

from  ( chris struble ) 
subject re waco is gov't fault  ( was re libertarian party on cia fbi atf ) 
organization university of houston 
lines 188 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jane . uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 

in article , writes 

here are several shreds of evidence that prove the waco disaster 
is the government 's fault 

1) they raided an american 's property because of rumors about 
koresh 's intentions with some converted , yet still 2nd amendment 
protected , firearms (a judge approved warrant justifies nothing) 

in a democracy under the rule of law a search warrant justifies a 
search. 

the us constitution does not justify murder of those attempting to 
mount a search for illegally held weapons .  . 

a search for illegally held weapons  ( if there were any , no evidence yet 
produced to this effect) does not justify firing into a house with 
women and children , either. it also does not justify shooting first 
without identifying oneself (the atf and fbi have done this before , so 
do n't say they have n't , please) or producing a warrant .  . 

guess it depends on whose story one believes , huh 


2) it took them 51 days to think of a basic terrorist tactic , i.e. 
tear gas  ( and this could only be justified in support of rescuing 
any supposed  inside) 

the govt has a right to use lethal force in certain cases. attempts to 
capture dangerous criminals who are armed and threatening the lives of others 

which others are we talking about here 

is one. in this case they used sub lethal force. 

sub lethal excuse me , but those people are dead ! ! ! 

3) the gov't immediately imprisoned these so called  

the children were held hostage .  . 

evidence so far the fbi has produced none. do n't hold your breath. 

the adults were wanted variously for murder and conspiracy to murder .  . 

only a few of those being held in chains and  ( s(hackles are wanted . 
the rest are being held for the crime of being material witnesses . 

4) it took hundreds of gov't agents with tax funded cellular phones 
ten minutes to dial 9 1 1 for the fire department 

they should not have called the fire dept at all. there was no role 
for them to play in a situation where those that might be rescued might 
well shoot at them. 

it was not the feds decision to make , but the  . 

calling the fire dept meant that waco was deprived 
of a resource that might have been needed elsewhere should a situation 
where it could have been used arisen .  . 

this is true of any answer to a call for help from a fire department by 
any citizen .  . since fire departments do answer calls that deprive 
resources that might be needed elsewhere it is not a valid reason for 
not calling them. 

further , since the davidians had not been found guilty of any crime in 
a court of law , they are subject to the same protection as any other 
citizen .  . and las far as i know , even criminals in prison are not left to 
burn to death in a fire. 

5) by cutting off the water supply in the surrounding area , the gov't 
guaranteed that any fire at the compound would be fatal 

any fire started deliberately lamp oil is likely to be fatal .  . 

i guess this is a matter of religious faith with you the government 
says it , so it must be so or have n't you been reading this thread well 
enough to notice that some of us here do n't beleive their story 

6) no one had the foresight to station rescue vehicles nearby in the 
first place 

they are a scarce resource .  . a bunch of psychos cannot deprive the neighbourhood 
of a resource that might be required in a genuine case. 

patients in psychiatric hospitals are not left to die in fires , either. 
besides , as i explained , some of us here believe their distress might 
have been genuine .  . are you so certain it was n't 

7) the gov't conveniently forgot all that of religion' stuff 

freedom of religion does not include human sacrifice .  . nor does it 
include other forms of murder .  . 

there is no evidence that the davidians committed human sacrifice 
either before of after the initial raid .  . and self defense is not 
murder .  . 

8) the gov't arguably started  ( or at least fanned ) the fire themselves 

the govt arguably is run by communists or the trilateral commission .  . 

he did not say it was deliberate .  . accidents do not require conspiracy 
theories , only wanton disregard for human life. the initial raid alone 
 ( agents firing blind into walls against all standards of law enforce 
ment procedure ) proves they did not mind killing people. 

10) finally , and this may be a stretch for some of you statists out there , 
but koresh 's original reasons for up in such a compound may 
have something to do with the continual interference from the gov't 
new taxes , new regulations and increasing involvement in every 
aspect of our personal and economic lives life on a compound might 
become the way of the future ... it might have to be 

let us hope that those who support koresh are not allowed to enforce this upon 
the rest of us. 

no one here is supporting koresh . we are opposing the illegal use of 
excessive violence by our government against our citizens .  . that is all. 

their reasons for supporting the ownership of high power 
weaponry are clear enough they hope that this will be the for 
the destruction of the fabric of society and allow them to enforce their 
nightmare vision of the future. 

a society that believes it is ok to terrorize people for their religious 
views will destroy itself in due time. it is the feds who disrupted the 
fabric of society in waco , not koresh .  . it is the feds who forced a 
nightmare onto the people of mount carmel .  . 

it would be a good thing for people to study history. 

on what basis do you assume we have n't do n't you really mean 
it would be a good thing if people drew the same conclusions from 
history that i do ) 

in particular a group of militant .  .  .  . 

militant implies acts of aggression against one 's neighbors. the 
davidians left their neighbors alone. 

 . religious . heretics who left to set up such a community 
some time ago. a few years latter they had captured medina and destroyed 
the idols in the  . within ten years the whole of arabia was under 
islam .  . 

so what the mormons were considered a cult for years , and were chased 
out of one place after another on much the same thinking as you are 
advocating .  . when they finally got to set up a community they left 
people alone. so far americans have n't been put to the sword by mormon 
hordes crying to avenge joseph smith .  . ) 

just because a group of people start by saying that all they want is to be 
left alone does not mean that that is how they will stay. 

it does n't mean they wo n't either. anyway , the whole purpose of a 
system of laws is to punish people for what they do , not what they 
might do. 

the pat , 
oral roberts and jimmy of this world are quite telling other 
people how to run their lives. 

telling is not the same as forcing . when the police knock at my 
door , i cannot make them go away by changing the  . as for pat 
and friends , i do n't even watch their channel , since i am an atheist .  . 
so far , not watching them tell me what to do has n't gotten me killed ) 

if you allow such people to get guns and 
point them in your face you are likely to find that they are running your 
life. 

right now , the only people sticking guns in anyone 's faces is the 
government. and they are trying very hard to run my life. or 
have n't you noticed 

phill hallam baker 


christian struble college libertarians of texas uh chapter 
box 113 , 4800 , houston , tx 

the true civilization is where every man gives to every other 
every right that he claims for himself robert 


from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( wayne mcdougall ) writes 
(brian stone ) writes 

just because someone is gay does n't mean they have no morals .  . just because 
someone is heterosexual does n't mean they do. look at the world .  .  .  .  . 
statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default hetero .  .  .  . 

hmmm , what statistics are these can you offer any references. the only 
studies i 've seen indicate a higher proportion of homosexuals in prison 
than in the general population , but i do n't think that allows for the 
default you refer to. prison is not a normal situation .  .  .  . 

but i have n't seen anything that suggests that the default proportion is 
lower than in the general population  ( although it seems  . 

anyway , as i say , can you provide any references 



is this an arguement against or for or simply a statement of 
 . the fact that there are more homosexuals in prison does not 
mean that homosexuals are immoral and more liable to commit crime .  . and one 
must remember that prison is not necessarily a reflection of the type of 
people who are criminals .  . what are the statistics for unsolved crime 




this posting is definitive .  . vaj blhegh .  . 
wayne mcdougall keeper of the list of shows better than star  ( trek(tm ) 
ask me about the auckland festival of missions , 18 25 april , 1993 
i always change my mind when new evidence is available. what method do you use 




adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from  ( gary piatt ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization general datacomm ind. inc. , middlebury , ct 06762 
lines 19 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

clayton cramer wrote 
lawrence c. foard writes 
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 
do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 
not surprising .  . remember , that study includes homosexuals as well. 

implying , no so tacitly , that homosexual men are more promiscuous than 
heterosexual men. interesting , especially in the wake of a news report 
last week about a group of high school seniors  ( heterosexual , i might 
add ) who boasted monthly conquests of up to 67 girls each . it 
seems that promiscuity is not limited to homosexuals .  . 

this is a sad fact of life no matter what you look for whether it 
be homosexual promiscuity , racial discrimination , or sexual harassment 
you will find it. whether or not it actually exists where you 're 
looking. 




from 
subject re race and violence 
state . edu . 
distribution usa 
organization penn state university 
lines 38 

in article , (mike van pelt ) says 
there is something terribly wrong , however , with a culture which 
condemns , attacks , and all too often kills any of its members who 
attempt to get an education. my mother is an elementary school 
teacher , and she tells me that she and her african american 
are frustrated to tears by the fact that any african american child who 
attempts to do well in school and get an education is accused by 
his her peers of trying to be white , and is beaten , bullied , and 
tormented by them. it goes beyond each passing grade on a test earning 
a beating .  . in my mother 's school , one of the most promising young 
students , who happened to be african american , had her throat cut by 
one of these young thugs .  . 

you know , you have a point here , but do n't stop with african americans .  .  .  . 
when i was in high school in the early 1980s , on various occasions i had 
knives pulled on me , had friends who were stabbed , and i was beaten up 
repeatedly by those that could n't accept me as different. and do n't 
let the teachers off the hook either. on many many occasions , there 
were teachers that either resented me or were too scared out of their 
wits by the bullies to even stop the people who attacked me and they 
would just watch quietly .  .  .  . all of this was in a nice white middle 
class high school. in fact , we were so nice and white that we made 
sure that the one black kid in my class was unable to go to the prom 
with his white girlfriend .  .  .  . this is n't a race thing , it 's the 
way public schools seem to be run .  .  .  . 

i 'd hate to be in high school right now .  .  .  . at least i did n't have 
to deal with guns , just the roving psycho drug dorks and the jocks 
without a future but with plenty of testosterone .  .  .  . 

i 'd separate everyone who wants to learn from these assholes .  .  .  . but hey , 
the of learning and glorification of jocks is an american 
tradition , you think anything is going to change if you have kids , 
take 'em out of the public school system and educate them yourself .  .  .  . 
that 's what i 'll do if i ever have them .  .  .  . i would n't wish what i went 
through upon any kid .  .  .  . maybe on some of their parents though .  .  .  . 

scott 

from heidelberg . de .  ( gene w. smith) 
subject re are americans sexually repressed 
organization , university of heidelberg , germany 
lines 35 

in article jason c. austin 
writes 
in article heidelberg . de . 
heidelberg . de .  ( gene w. smith) writes 

recent studies have been all over the map. so have less recent 
studies. none can be said to have shown anything to within an 
accuracy of 1 10 of 1 , as you claim here. 

this study is from the battelle human affairs research centers 
in seattle and was a hot topic in the news last week. the study 
questioned at random 3 , 321 men in a face to face interview. 

this is not a studies , but a study. other studies , including the 
just published report , give very different figures. the 
report figures are not too different than kinsey 9 homosexual men , 
and 4 bisexual men. 

earlier studies have been all over the map also. 

i think he 's talking about kinsey who came up with the 10 
statistic used heavily by gay groups to push their political agenda .  . 
kinsey 's work has often been accused of lacking a strong scientific 
backbone .  . 

do n't be stupid. the kinsey report is one study , so it ca n't be all 
over the map all by itself. other studies , including the battelle 
one , have also been  . as far as agendas go , this is really 
 . your agenda is obvious. 




gene ward smith brahms gang karls university 
heidelberg . de . 

from (robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization netcom online communication services  ( 408 241 9760 guest ) 
lines 11 

has anybody heard an explanation of why the fbi was using tear gas 
in a 35 mph wind 

does n't seem like good tactics to me ... 

any other explanations 

lew 

lew glendenning 
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr  ( or somebody like that) .  . 

from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re waco survivors 19 april 
lines 106 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article , (andrew merritt ) writes 
path ! ! mcsun ! ! ! uunet ! think . com . ! sdd . hp . com . ! sc . hp . com . ! apm 
from (andrew merritt ) 

in article writes 
i note with insufficient emotion that amongst the five survivors of the 
waco debacle , there were two brits and an aussie .  . the anglo saxon persona 
really does n't lend itself to martyrdom for a spurious messiah .  . 

i do n't see how you draw that conclusion .  . around 20 of the 80 inside the 
buildings were british  ( one  . two out of the eight  ( latest count i 
heard) survivors were british  ( one  . anyhow , british does n't equate 
to anglo saxon .  . 

what exactly are you trying to say and why were there no fire engines within 
a mile of the compound 

because the gun loonies were firing on vehicles with 50mm that 
has a range of 3000 meters .  . 

next question. 


the problem is of course the laws that allow a bunch of raving 
to collect a huge stack of arms in the first place. 

the sequence of events meant that there really was no option but to 
attempt some sort of breakthrough via an intervention .  . if the fbi had 
had the stomach for it they could have mounted a commando type 
raid and attempted to save the children by shooting all the adults. 
it really was a no win situation. koresh had plenty of opportunity 
to give up and stand trial for the murder of the 4 atf officers .  . instead 
he ordered the murder of the children. 


in order to reject the word of the fbi and batf it is neccessary to beleive 
the words of a man who has just murdered 17 children and ordered the 
suicide murder of his other 80 followers. according to the account given 
the batf attempted to serve a warrant upon koresh at the ranch and were met 
by gunfire in a deliberate attempt to murder them. the koresh gun supporter 
claim that the batf started shooting simply does not stand up. if the 
aft had gone there to start shooting they would have gone with heavier 
grade weaponry than standard issue handguns .  . for all practical purposes 
they were unarmed , the b d followers had automatic weapons .  . 


the b d seige could not be allowed to go on indefinitely .  . the b d were 
quite capable of commiting mass suicide and murdering the children at any 
time. a commando assault was the only other likely action that could have 
achieved that objective , that would have been very risky , orders of 
harder than or the iranian embassy seige .  . airplanes 
and embassies are not designed for defense against attack ranch 
apocalypse was. 6 terrorists are far easier to without casualties 
than 80 .  . 

allowing the siege to go on was not an option either , besides the serious 
risk that koresh would proclaim armageddon at any moment there was the 
question of the difficulties of keeping the team on standby over 
a prolonged period. the longer the siege went on the more mentally prepared 
koresh and his followers would be for a prolonged siege .  . rather than go 
in prematurely the mistake was probably to go in too soon. 


can you think of a better way of getting the children out 

a 100 certain way 


the people who do not want gun control must obviously discount the entire 
government story. this is simply rationalisation .  . it is not enough for 
them to simply dismiss the government as incompetent .  . that would require 
them to come up with a solution themselves. instead they have to come 
up with a government conspiracy theory whereby the government decided to 
set out to murder 80 people just to set up some sort of scare to them 
to get gun control legislation through. 

this conspiracy theory assumes that the batf deliberately got 4 of its 
agents killed and that the fbi etc actually enjoy sitting out in the 
middle of texas being shot at by religious  . 

still the conspiracy theory is comforting , it allows them to pretend that 
waco proves nothing except about how incompetent the government is in 
resolving a hostage crisis .  . no govt in the world has ever faced a 
comparable situation , quite probably there was no manner in which it 
could be peacefully resolved .  . the blame does not rest on the fbi , it 
rests on the fact that koresh was allowed to get so far , in particular 
the person who tipped the b d off in advance has the murder of 4 atf 
agents and 17 children on his or her conscience .  . 


there are a large number of people in the us who predict the end of society 
preach salvation through armed security. the fact is that these are the 
very people who pose the threat to society in the first place. the next waco 
may not be religious but a political movement. a splinter group 
of the klu klux klan taking over a in a black area for example 
and holding several hundred children hostage .  . 

the only possible solution to such situations that can work is to prevent 
them arising .  . no other government in the world has faced such a situation. 
this is because no other government has so carelessly allowed high power 
weaponry to become avaliable to any little hitler or would be messiah 
to set themselves up as dictator in their own little empire .  . 


phill hallam baker 

from  ( hot young star ) 
subject re once more into the breach .  .  .  .  . 
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 36 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article , 
(paul bartholomew ) writes 

item number 1 in a previous posting , you stated that you had found 
overwhelming support for child molestation in soc . motss . 

you have  ( finally ) responded to this one. i have read your complete file 
of postings to soc . motss . and to put it bluntly , it does not support your 
assertion .  . in short , this claim is bogus .  . thank you for confirming this. 

all those postings in defense of adults having sex with children , and 
you just choose to claim that they do n't say anything of the sort .  . 
there 's no point in discussing this any further , then. you are clearly 
a liar , without morals of any sort , prepared to justify child molestation .  . 

clayton , are you really an idiot , or do you just play one on usenet 

you claimed you had postings from a dozen (i . e .  . 12) soc . motss . posters that 
supported child molestation .  ( point aside that they were really defending 
abolishing or modifying the age of consent laws , or the right to be attracted 
but do n't act upon desires for children) .  . 

so 12 out of thousands is an overwhelming majority . 

you never cease to amaze me. 

and you still have n't told me why my relationship with my partner is immoral .  . 

brian d. kane 

, astro  . bu . edu .  ( hot young star ) astronomy dept , boston university , 
boston , ma 02215 .  . true personal salvation is achieved by absolute faith in 
ones true self. 


from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j. 
lines 44 

in article (some caifone ) writes 

i certainly hope you do n't have an so , sir , 

what is so supposed to signify i prefer the of a 
person , not a euphemism .  . 

because if she heard 

thankfully , you got the gender right. for i am not a deviant .  . 

how disparaging you are towards political minorities , 

sexual deviants do not comprise a political y . 

and if she had any shred of self respect , she 'd be out the door. 

i only associate with girls who do indeed have self respect. but were 
i to find myself with the sort who would be inclined to head out the 
door on account of my views regarding the aberrant behavior known as 
homosexuality , i would encourage her to indeed do so , and i would 
further advise her not to let the door her on the backside on 
the way out. who needs such an airhead 

pretty soon they will find themselves retreating back into the closet 
where they belong .  . 

do n't count on it , sweetheart. 

oh , i ca n't do anything but count on it. after all , it is 
inevitable , for it is part of the natural order of things. throughout 
history , nature has always asserted itself. do n't be so arrogant as 
to assume that this foolish and misguided generation can change the 
nature of man where practically every other generation has failed. 
greater men than you have n't been able to do this. the above most 
certainly will happen , no matter how much you may wish to pretend 
otherwise. 

moreover , i'm not your sweetheart . 

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
my own only. do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus . rutgers . edu . ! kaldis 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( tim smith) 
subject re janet reno killed the waco children 
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95 
lines 12 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

 ( broward horne ) writes 
aside from the fact that i disagree w you , she did offer to resign and the 
president rejected the offer. she was willing to take responsibility , and 
the president has the balls enough to stand by a decision. 


or the contempt to ignore it. 

yup , that was quite of the president to make a decision that 
12 disagree with .  .  .  . 

tim smith 

from 
subject re watergate  ( was temper tantrums from the 1960 's 
summary still does n't get it 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division 
distribution usa 
lines 87 

in article ,  ( michae writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( michae writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( phil ronzone ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
why 
did ford go to the trouble of him if he did nothing wrong 

duh .  .  .  .  . garrett , you ignorant , read up on watergate .  . 

so , are all you guys so that you all must 
must call names are none of you above grade school levels in intelligence 

jesus , garret , have n't you ever watched saturday night live not only 
are you a historical , but you are also a cultural  . 

what does saturday night live have to do with anything when they make fun 
of someone they do it with a little bit of creativity and talent. you , on the 
other hand , have a complete lack of creativity , talent , and verbal mechanics .  . 
and if you think that is culture , then it just shows where your intellectual 
level is. 

what is generally 
accepted is that nixon attempted to cover up the break in after it 
occurred .  . it was actions in pursuit of that end that he was 
for. you , of course , are so ignorant of history that you think that 
he was involved in the break in. 

i guess that makes you even dumber than me then because he was officially 
accused of alot more than that. let me list it for you 

1) obstructing justice. 

as part of the coverup 

granted .  . 

2) abusing his presidential powers 

to do the coverup 

only in part. let 's not forget that nixon personally authorized the 
break in of 's psychiatrist .  . 

3) the constitutional rights of citizens 

i challenge you to provided any evidence that was officially 
accused of thi .  . if nothing else , it 's meaningless .  . how can you 
subvert someone 's constitutional rights the verb does n't go with the 
noun .  . 

tell that to the house. that was the charge. or are you going to challenge 
me on that as well the constitutional rights of citizens has 
nothing to do with covering up for watergate .  . you have been proved wrong , 
again. but i do n't expect you to believe this since your arrogance has 
replaced your reason. 

4) and willfully disobeying lawful for white house records and 
tapes .  . 

part of the coverup .  . 

granted .  . 

garrett , please note that every charge you mention , except for the one 
that has no english meaning , was part of the coverup .  . 

wrong again. you forgot about  . 

btw , why od you think he tried to cover it up 

loyalty to people who worked for him. 

this would be funny , if it were n't so sad that you actually believe this. 
in his loyalty he allowed the people who worked for him to take the 
rap , while he idly sat by and let it happen. if he really was loyal to 
the people who worked for them , he would have them before he 
resigned .  . 


death to all modifiers , he declared one day , and out of garrett johnson 
every letter that passed through his hands went every 
and adjective .  . the next day he made war on articles. 
the following day he blacked out everything in the letters 
but a , an , and the . joseph heller 's catch 22 


from  ( jason austin ) 
subject re are americans sexually repressed 
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va 
lines 17 
heidelberg . de . 


reply to jason c. austin 
nntp posting host ab20 . larc . nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 1993 13 31 28 0400 

in article  ( lulu of the lotus eaters ) writes 
i think he 's talking about kinsey who came up with the 10 
statistic used heavily by gay groups to push their political agenda .  . 
kinsey 's work has often been accused of lacking a strong scientific 
backbone .  . 

i really must defend my man alfred .  . not that this poster was really 
to be taken seriously , since the are a 's rants .  . but 
still , some who are n't such mistakenly criticize my man. 

you really need to be able to support yourself without 
insults .  . the article you 're calling rants actually had absolutely 
none of my opinions and was only a series of factual statements .  . 

jason c. austin 



from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay bashing in wilmington nc ) verdict 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
distribution usa 
lines 41 

in article ucs writes 

how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives 
on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 
took a large amount of punishment and refused submit oh yeah , did you 
h 
the start of the video when king got up out of his prone postion and charge 
the cops sorry , the video cuts both was when you sit and watch it start to 


even if rodney king had come out of that car waving a gun and they 
managed to disarm him , the police still had no right right to beat 
him senseless the way they did once he was on the ground. if they 
ca n't handle their jobs , they should be relieved of them. 

additionally , anna of the new york times said it best (paraphrase) 
many people bring up what happened before what is shown on the tape. here 's 
what came before the 80 's , ronald reagan , george bush , racism , ... 

jim halat 





















from  ( rob strom ) 
subject re waco survivors 19 april 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host stockholm . watson . ibm . com . 
organization ibm research 
lines 84 

in article ,  ( phill hallam baker ) writes 


in order to reject the word of the fbi and batf it is neccessary to beleive 
the words of a man who has just murdered 17 children and ordered the 
suicide murder of his other 80 followers. according to the account given 
the batf attempted to serve a warrant upon koresh at the ranch and were met 
by gunfire in a deliberate attempt to murder them. the koresh gun supporter 
claim that the batf started shooting simply does not stand up. if the 
aft had gone there to start shooting they would have gone with heavier 
grade weaponry than standard issue handguns .  . for all practical purposes 
they were unarmed , the b d followers had automatic weapons .  . 

... 
the people who do not want gun control must obviously discount the entire 
government story. this is simply rationalisation .  . it is not enough for 
them to simply dismiss the government as incompetent .  . that would require 
them to come up with a solution themselves. instead they have to come 
up with a government conspiracy theory whereby the government decided to 
set out to murder 80 people just to set up some sort of scare to them 
to get gun control legislation through. 


i must object to the characterization of those opposed to the 
government 's handling of the waco situation as gun supporters . 
your argument tries to paint the batf critics as right wing 
gun nuts , and just mixes up two issues. 

i am one of the batf fbi critics , and yet i am a liberal 
and just as anti gun as you are. i just happen to believe 
that everyone has civil rights , even religious crazies .  . 
they 're all human beings , not some nest of wasps that 
you 're trying to exterminate .  . 

the batf created the crisis situation by the way they handled 
the original raid .  . it was well known that koresh regularly 
went jogging outside his property. he could have been served 
with a search warrant then. he could have been arrested if 
he had refused to comply .  . instead officers armed with grenades 
invaded the property. this escalated into a shooting war 
with tragic deaths on both sides. 

those were the first two mistakes the bad judgment of 
asking for a no knock warrant , and the bad and probably 
illegal way the already unwise warrant was served .  . 

at this point , the situation escalated to where it was 
described as an armed standoff and a hostage crisis .  . 
that 's when the government started covering their traces , 
sealing the warrant , their reported history of 
the incident , etc. 

things were already building up to disaster .  . now the 
government could have simply closed the supply routes 
and waited .  . but according to janet reno , that option 
had never been seriously considered . so , supposedly 
because the agents were frustrated and fatigued , and 
because there supposedly were no backups , they felt 
they had to go in. 

now it 's entirely possible that koresh was responsible 
for the fire. if that 's so , he deserves the blame 
for the deaths of the people in his compound .  . 

but the government 's hands are far from clean. 
their first raid demonstrated bad judgment plus 
contempt for the 4th amendment .  . the motivations 
for the second raid are just too unbelievable .  . 
and their coverup of the events of the first 
raid undermines their credibility in anything 
they do thereafter .  . we have only some very 
biased fbi agents  word for what happened. 

and please let 's not turn this into a pro gun vs. anti gun 
discussion. anti gun people do not believe that gun owners 
deserve to get assaulted by armed government 
agents .  . and koresh 's civil rights exist whether his 
guns were legal , illegal , illegal but should have been legal , 
or whatever ! 



rob strom , , (914) 784 7641 
ibm research , 30 saw mill river road , p.o. box 704 , yorktown heights , ny 10598 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host uhura . cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 57 

in  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

some chump at brandeis 

i mean , how many people actually care how many people are gay  ( as long 
as you know how to find avoid them if you want to) i do n't .  . 

if you do n't care , why was so much effort put into promoting the 
10 lie because it was important to scare politicians into 
obedience .  . 

i would n't worry too much about it , though. we are starting to find 
out how politically homosexuals really are. the colorado 
boycott has , slick willie was effectively prevented from 
implementing his military policy wrt homosexuals by members of his 
own party , this new study casts a large shadow of doubt on their 
claims of large numbers , and coming this saturday they are going to 
wind up with tremendous egg on their face when , i submit , no more 
than perhaps 35 , 000 queers will show up in washington while they are 
promising crowds in the millions .  . and most of the ones who will be 
there will look like act up and queer nation , not the guy working in 
the next  . as if that 's really going to play in middle 
america .  . 

sigh. you 're absolutely right. we have no political power whatsoever. 
therefore , we should be oppressed and ignored and , right i 
certainly hope you do n't have an so , sir , because if she heard how 
disparaging you are towards political minorities , and if she had any shred 
of self respect , she 'd be out the door. 


pretty soon they will find themselves retreating back into the closet 
where they belong .  . 

do n't count on it , sweetheart. 


the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis 
my own only. do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus . rutgers . edu . ! kaldis 
as this would hold such views 


certainly not. most major universities would n't touch views that display 
the and the perspective of a with a ten foot pole .  . 



p.s. incidentally , i think even mayflies could come up with more 
enlightenment than the above bullshit .  . evolve a bit , will you 

bi andrew d. schnopia ! 


words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes 

from  ( matthew t. russotto ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 18 
nntp posting host tea . eng . umd . edu . 

in article  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

first of all , i would n't have gone after the davidians for a firearms 
violation which i object to in the first place. second , i would n't 
have executed a search warrant via an armed assault when all the 
davidians were sure to have been there. third of all , i would n't have 
cut off all outside communication to koresh .  . and i certainly would n't 
have gone in with a tank time was on the side. since they had 
outside resupply , they could wait indefinitely .  . 



matthew t. russotto 
some news readers expect disclaimer here. 
just say no to police searches and seizures .  . make them use force. 
(not responsible for bodily harm resulting from following above advice ) 

from (david veal ) 
subject re clinton press release on clipper chip encryption initiative 
lines 51 
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education 

in article clinton (the white house) writes 

statement by the press secretary 

... 

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to 
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links. 

... 

a state of the art microcircuit called the clipper chip has 
been developed by government engineers .  . the chip represents a 
new approach to encryption technology. it can be used in new , 
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone .  . it scrambles telephone communications 
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in 
commercial use today. 

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary 
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations 
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted 
electronically .  . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to 
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals .  . 

while also allowing law enforcement agencies to intercept phone 
conversations of criminals and non criminals  . ( no , rev. 
king , we are n't spying on you. ) 

i wonder how long it will take for the wrong people to put their 
hands on the equipment necessary to read this stuff. it 'll probably 
be as safe as weapons locked safely in evidence rooms. 

keys , numbers that will be needed by authorized government 
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the 
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately 
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the 
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to 
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a 
wiretap .  . 

and people to whom they sell them to. all it takes is corrupting 
the right guy. no , that never happens. 


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. weird al 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re bush 's wi 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa) 
lines 16 
nntp posting host hela . ins . cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( grep a friend ) says 

in article , (b writes .  .  .  . 
went to the post office on friday , got my passport apps in. 
my savings have already been converted .  . 

bye. 


gosh .  . does this mean i'm not invited to the next 
white house barbecue 


the real difference between you and i , garrett , is that 
i knew when it was time to leave l.a. ) 

from nelson (peter nelson ) 
subject re employment  ( was re why not concentrate on child molesters 
nntp posting host c . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard corporation , chelmsford , ma 
lines 67 

in article  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 

wow , i had n't realized how this was getting ! be careful here .  .  . the . 
problem is n't the rich but the values and the systems that make the rich 
rich. 

but the values and systems that make the rich rich all basically 
amount to freedom of choice. 

in new england in 1800 the entire economy was based on the small family 
farm .  . farm economy households were economically , producing 
not only agricultural goods but also manufactured goods , especially 
cloth .  . many farm women , spun , and or wove , producing not only 
cloth for their own family but also to sell , generating extra income .  . 

but about this time the industrial revolution was underway in england 
and by the 1820 's it had moved to the us , in both cases in the form 
of mills .  . these mills could produce cloth far more efficiently 
and cheaply than people at home. 

the result was that an important source of home income was wiped out 
and many of these women were compelled by economic circumstance to 
go to work in these same mills in lowell , mass , or nashua , nh , where 
they worked 73 hour weeks in deafening , dangerous conditions , living 
lives and being exposed to cotton dust and infectious dis 
eases due to the work. 

now people did n't have to buy the cheaper factory made cloth .  . 
they were free to keep buying the home made variety and support 
their local economy . . . 

things are designed in such a way that in order to go with the system 
and make money , everything else we care about goes to shit. 

. . . but (sorry for the cliche ) , it takes two to tango . the big 
rich corporations achieved that wealth because we buy their stuff. 
it used to be the case that the business center of a town was also 
its social center. you knew the merchants you did business with 
or even local kids working behind the counter .  . you would see 
people on the street whom you knew and you could stop for a chat .  . 

nowadays local merchants are going out of business and people shop 
at huge anonymous malls serving regional populations of hundreds of 
thousands or millions .  . you have no particular relationship with the 
companies you do business with , and feel no particular commitment 
to them , nor they to you. major components of what defines a com 
have been destroyed .  . on the other hand the products we buy 
at these malls are a lot cheaper due to economies of scale and foreign 
manufacture , and they are probably of better , or at least more consistent , 
quality. 


i have to 
constantly remind myself that the goal of human society is not to make 
money. money does n't make us happy it just prevents certain things making 
us more unhappy .  . 

therefore , do n't shoot the rich. shoot the conservatives ! 

do n't blame the conservatives for this. everyone makes their own 
individual choice and the liberals and the fence are just 
as guilty of pretending there are no social and cultural consequences 
to economic choices. 


peter 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re watergate  ( was temper tantrums from the 1960 's 
distribution usa 
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines 17 

in article , writes 
one of you said nixon did n't use the office of the presidency 
for personal gain .  . 

this is a lie. the senate committee issued an indictment that listed 
nixon 's crimes .  . the relevant ones were 
1) violating his oath of office. 
2) abusing his presidential powers 

personal gain for his own monetary advantage .  . i do n't think 
anyone would dispute that he both violated his oath of office , and 
abused his powers .  . but that 's not for personal gain .  . 

nothing is as inevitable as a mistake whose time has garrett johnson 

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all. 

from 
subject re watergate  ( was temper tantrums from the 1960 's 
summary wars vs. police actions 
news software vax vms 1.4 b1 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division 
distribution usa 
lines 58 

in article ,  ( michae writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( phil ronzone ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
well it really does n't matter anyway because i really do n't care what liars 
think of me anyway. what did i call you liars you want proof i 'd be 
glad to provide it. i'm really sure which ones of you said these things 
since you all sound the same anyway. 

one of you said nixon did n't start any secret wars .  . 

this is a lie. nixon had full knowledge of the invasions of laos and 
cambodia , and then lied to the american public about it. 

note , however , that these were military actions but not wars .  . 

what a joke ! you ca n't actually believe what you just said. can you we 
bombed and invaded these countries. 

notice the definition of war (from the american heritage dictionary ) 
1) a state or period of armed conflict between nations or states. 
this qualifies the invasions of cambodia and laos as wars .  . 

one of you said nixon did n't use the office of the presidency 
for personal gain .  . 

this is a lie. the senate committee issued an indictment that listed 
nixon 's crimes .  . the relevant ones were 
1) violating his oath of office. 
2) abusing his presidential powers 

excuse me , but neither of these refer to personal gain .  . 

then let me explain this to you really slowly .  . why did he abuse the 
powers of his position could it have been to gain personal political 
power naw , that would be too obvious. 

so now , you 're big thing that you have been me with 
is that i mistook prc for people 's republic of cambodia .  . since i knew 
that cambodia was socialist at the time , and since your comment was 
right in middle of a conversation about cambodia , i made the wrong 
assumption that we were talking about the same thing. 

ah , but garrett , anyone who has to make assumptions about the meaning 
of the initials prc in a discussion about asia is 
ignorant .  . 

and anyone who can only call names because his position is is 
ignorant and desperate .  . i noticed that you edited out the 
other points were i proved you and phil to be completely wrong. 


death to all modifiers , he declared one day , and out of garrett johnson 
every letter that passed through his hands went every 
and adjective .  . the next day he made war on articles. 
the following day he blacked out everything in the letters 
but a , an , and the . joseph heller 's catch 22 


from nelson (peter nelson ) 
subject re welcome to police state usa 
nntp posting host c . ch . apollo . hp . com . 
organization hewlett packard corporation , chelmsford , ma 
lines 35 

in article news . ctron . com . writes 
in article ,  ( very old freshman  ( vof ) writes 
is too easy. what solutions do people have that would have been 
better than what the fbi had been doing for the last few months 

for starters , they could have gone on waiting and negotiating .  . the davidians 
were n't going anywhere , and their supplies had to be limited .  . large , perhaps , 
but limited .  . if they had simply fired the compound by themselves without 
gov't tanks smashing down their walls , then at least the gov't would not be 
guilty of having again used an inappropriate level of force , and would have 
been able to use the meantime to continue to pressure and negotiate .  . no , they 
would not have looked good on the news in six months or a year. but they sure 
as hell do n't look very good now. 

true. today 's boston globe interviewed a former unification church 
leader who is now a consultant on cults .  . he said the fbi 's approach 
was totally wrong. he said they should have tried to break down the 
bd 's loyalty to koresh through psychological means. koresh 's whole 
theology was based on an approaching confrontation with the forces 
of evil in the world and a seige mentality based on this. the feds 
played into his hands perfectly . by surrounding the compound 
with tanks and playing loud rock music and glaring lights at them 
they strongly reinforced koresh 's message that the outside world was 
evil and threatening .  . he said instead they should have set up 
a picnic atmosphere , and acted inviting and friendly. if they 
broadcast anything over pa systems it should have been loving 
relatives reflecting on pleasant events from the cult members  
childhoods .  . the idea is to make the outside world and surrender 
seem like a pleasant , desirable alternative .  . interesting comments. 


peter 




from  ( hot young star ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 24 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

homosexuals lie about the 10 number to hide the disproportionate 
involvement of homosexuals in child molestation .  . they also lie 
about 10 to keep politicians scared. 

1. you have n't shown any disproportionate involvement .  . 

2. the report , which came out recently , gives 9 as the percentage 
of exclusively or predominantly gay men. 

3. no one is presumably going to say they 're gay if they 're not. but 
some no doubt are going to hide their homosexuality in surveys .  . thus 
the 1 2 is a lower limit. 

i still say that weighing all the evidence gives a most likely percentage 
between 5 and 7 . 

brian 

, astro  . bu . edu .  ( hot young star ) astronomy dept , boston university , 
boston , ma 02215 .  . true personal salvation is achieved by absolute faith in 
ones true self. 


subject re can i get your 
from  ( jeff medkeff ) 
organization hiram college 
nntp posting host hirama . hiram . edu . 
lines 54 

in article , 
 ( drieux , just drieux ) writes 
in article , i went and stepped in it 
in article bedfellow . mit . edu . , 
 ( william december starr ) writes 

i never knew that soldiers were supposed to salute any civilians except 
for the commander in chief .  .  .  . 

the is not a  . 


ding ding , planet earth calling .  .  .  .  . 

i will agree that and are not civilians , 
but the is still the president , and unless things have 
changed a whole lot with the arrival of the , 
i do n't recall as how the current president himself 
much more than civilian status .  .  .  .  .  . 1 

as far as a member of the armed forces is concerned , the 
president is whatever the h ll he wants to be. all of them 
recently have rather insisted on being treated as something 
other than a mere civilian .  . 

if it moves , salute it , 
if it do n't , pick it up. 
if you ca n't pick it up , paint it. 

so if hilary were asleep at the time .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



ciao 
drieux 

1 nothing personal jeff , but i like living in countries 
where the head of state is a civilian , it sorta limits 
the habit of using the military as the first choice for 
solving domestic problems .  .  .  .  . 

i like living in a country where the head of state is not 
a military officer too. but this point about not using the 
military as the first choice for solving domestic problems .  .  .  .  . 

did n't they go after these branch davidians with a tank , 
after all 



jeffrey s. medkeff bitnet 
po box 1098 internet 
hiram , oh pale ebenezer thought it wrong to fight. but 
u.s.a. roaring bill  ( who killed him) thought it right. 

from  ( brent irvine ) 
subject re atf burns ranch update 
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 22 

in article  ( kennedy james scot ) writes 
in article  ( nathan engle ) writes 
writes 
ah yes , i see a few liberal weenies have come out of the woodwork 
to defend the burning of the children. 


yeah , those nazis .  . you know how we liberals just love those nazis .  . 

cigarette cops nazis .  . who said nazism is dead we got a bunch of 
them right here in the good  ol us of a. 

no we do n't .  . they might be zealous , and maybe the bureau should n't 
exist by some people , but they are not nazis .  . 

why do people toss around the nazi label so easily 



personal opinions why , 
brent irvine yes. what did you think 
they were  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( phill hallam baker ) 
subject re waco 
lines 94 
reply to 
organization synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 


in article , (david garrod ) writes 

in article ,  ( russ anderson ) writes 

looks like the branch davidian is out of buisness .  . 

this morning the police (fbi batf ) started ramming 
holes in the walls of buildings and shooting in tear gas. 
shortly there after , a fire began that has now 
all the buildings in the compound .  . only one davidian 
member has come out. 

authorities are saying that branch davidian members were 
seen starting the fire. it looks like there will no 
witnesses to dispute that claim .  . 

there were 90 adults an 19 children in the compound .  . 



funny , how the fire seemed to start on the right hand side of the 
building just next to where a tank was backing away , though ! 

probably just a coincidence .  . 

watch the videotape carefully , the cnn coverage was fairly decisive .  . 

the first fire starts in the tower , this is three high and there 
is a flag to the right of it on the picture. the second fire starts 
in another tower which is similar to the first only two high. 
the flag is on the left in the camera picture that shows this fire 
starting .  . 

thus the camera pictures show the fire starting at two separate 
locations .  . the fbi report a third .  . i was not able to verify it from the 
videotape however someone else identified a fire shown to be starting behind 
the small tower in the second  ( flag on left ) camera angle. 


the flames coming out of the building are yellow orange .  . this is the 
normal colour for carbon compounds burning .  . the flames were those of a 
solid or confined liquid burning , not of a gas exploding .  . 


the explosion that occurs mid way along the building is certainly not an 
explosive though. the cloud itself is on fire. this would seem to 
be most likely to be some sort of fuel oil store exploding rather than 
the explosion of a magazine. 


funny , how considering there was to be a great cache of explosives 
ammunition , etc in the compound , i did not see any series of explosions .  . 

depends entirely on how they were distributed .  . you would not be able 
to identify ammunition rounds going off from video camera coverage 
from a mile away. if and when the fbi release pictures from 
on the armoured vehicles (which presumably exist) it might be possible to 
get a clearer picture. 

if anyone expects to see explosions hollywood style aka rambo movies then 
remember that in real life cars do not burst into flames when going over cliffs .  . 

just about the most you could expect would be to see the grenades 
going off. since the building was designed to be blast proof to some 
extent it would be difficult to distinguish the grenades going off from 
the collapse of the building due to the fire. 


and , oops , the automatic weapons were probably burnt up in the fire 
with the other witnesses .  . 

paranoia .  . 

unless , i see videotapes showing the davidians starting the fire , i 
guess i may have a problem believing the feds saying they saw them 
doing it , but or didn`t manage to tape it. they have 
been taping everything else. 

you would n't beleive the fbi if they showed you a picture of koresh himself 
setting light to the place. your mindset is such that you are simply 
unable to accept as true anything that might suggest that a group of 
heavily armed weapons fanatics might indeed be in the wrong. 

the gun lobby ca n't accept that the b d set light to the place because 
that would mean that had murdered 17 children , that would mean that 
their taking his account of the murder of 4 batf agents would be even 
less credible than it was to start with. 

koresh had 51 days to come out with his hands up and face a fair trial .  . 
instead he ordered the murder of everyone in the place. 


phill hallam baker 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 36 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

(misc . legal . trimmed ) 

in article ,  ( roger collins ) writes 

let me explain some possible means to libertarian style government 
one last time. 

if the dominate philosophy of a society held that it was ok to kill your 
neighbor for sport , no government system (except a strong tyranny by the 
minority ) could keep the people from killing each other. 

the dominate philosophy in our society holds that it is ok for people to 
steal and coerce each other as long as it 's done by vote or through the 
government machine. libertarians realize what this legal stealing and 
coercion does to a society. 

so just as a society of non murderers would not vote for the right to 
murder , a society of non would not vote for the ability to 
coerce .  . 

if libertarianism became the dominate philosophy , the people would do a 
good job of restraining government  ( to the extent that libertarianism 
was  . 

so means 1 is educating the people to become libertarian .  . 

well , that 's the obvious conclusion , given your train of logic .  . the 
corollary then is that it must be a waste of time for the party to run 
candidates until the educational program has shown some results. 

followups to a . p . l .  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special investors  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( gary piatt ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization general datacomm ind. inc. , middlebury , ct 06762 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9 

clayton cramer wrote 
... when you and the rest of the homosexual community 
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to 
hire , rent to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against 
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying 
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this. 

ahh , what 's good for the goose is not necessarily what 's good for 
the  . you do n't want homosexuals to impose their moral codes 
 ( such diabolical ideas as equal rights ) on you , yet you are willing 
to impose your moral codes on them. do i detect a double standard 




from clinton (the white house) 
subject clinton president 's press conference 4 . 23 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 838 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 






the white house 

office of the press secretary 

for immediate release april 23 , 1993 


press conference by the president 


the east room 


1 00 p.m. edt 


the president terry , do you have a question 

q mr. president , there 's a growing feeling that the 
western response to bloodshed in bosnia has been woefully inadequate .  . 
holocaust survivor elie wiesel asked you yesterday to do something , 
anything to stop the fighting .  . is the united states considering 
taking unilateral action such as air strikes against serb artillery 
sites 

the president well , first let me say , as you know , for 
more than a week now we have been seriously reviewing our options for 
further action. and i want to say , too , let 's look at the last three 
months. since i became president i have worked with our allies and 
we have tried to move forward , first on the no fly zone , on 
enforcement of it , on the humanitarian , on the war crimes 
investigation , on getting the bosnian muslims involved in the peace 
process. we have made some progress. and now we have a very much 
tougher sanctions resolution. and leon , who is the national 
security advisor to the vice president , is in europe now working on 
implementing that. that is going to make a big difference to serbia .  . 

and we are reviewing other options. i think we should 
act. we should lead the united states should lead. we have led 
for the last three months. we have moved the coalition .  . and to be 
fair , our allies in europe have been willing to do their part. and 
they have troops on the ground there. 

but i do not think we should act alone , unilaterally , 
nor do i think we will have to. and in the next several days i think 
we will finalize the extensive review which has been going on and 
which has taken a lot of my time , as well as the time of the 
administration , as it should have , over the last 10 days or so. i 
think we 'll finish that in the near future and then we 'll have a 
policy and we 'll announce it and everybody can evaluate it. 

q can i follow up 

the president sure. 

q do you see any parallel between the ethnic 
cleansing in bosnia and the holocaust 

the president i think the holocaust is on a whole 
different level. i think it is without precedent or peer in human 
history. on the other hand , ethnic cleansing is the kind of 
inhumanity that the holocaust took to the nth degree. the idea of 
moving people around and abusing them and often killing them solely 
because of their ethnicity is an abhorrent thing. and it is 
especially troublesome in that area where people of different ethnic 
groups live side by side for so long together. and i think you have 
to stand up against it. i think it 's wrong. 

we were talking today about all of the other troubles in 
that region. i was happy to see the violence between the croats and 
the muslims in bosnia this morning , and i think we 're making 
progress on that front. but what 's going on with the serbians and 
the ethnic cleansing is qualitatively different than the other 
conflicts , both within the former yugoslavia and in other parts of 
the region. 

q mr. president , by any count , you have not had a 
good week in your presidency .  . the tragedy in waco , the defeat of 
your stimulus bill , the standoff in bosnia .  . what did you do wrong 
and what are you going to do differently how do you look at things 
are you (laughter . ) . 

the president i do n't really believe that the 
situation in bosnia it 's not been a good week for the world , but i 
do n't know that the administration could have made it different. 

on the stimulus package , i 'd like to put it into the 
larger context and remind you that in this 100 days we have already 
fundamentally changed the direction of an american government. we 
have abandoned trickle down economics .  . we 've abandoned the policies 
that brought the debt of this country from 1 trillion to 4 trillion 
in only a decade .  . 

the budget plan , which passed the congress , which will 
reduce the deficit and increase investment , has led to a 20 year low 
in mortgage rates , dramatically lower interest rates. there are 
probably people in this room who have refinanced their home 
in the last three months , or who have had access to cheaper credit. 
that 's going to put tens of billion dollars throughout this 
economy in ways that are very , very good for the country. and so we 
are moving in the right direction economically .  . 

i regret that the stimulus did not pass , and i have 
begun to ask and will continue to ask not only people in the 
administration , but people in the congress whether there is something 
i could have done differently to pass that. part of the reason it 
did n't pass was politics part of it was a difference in ideas. 
there are really people still who believe that it 's not needed. i 
just disagree with that. 

i think the recovery the economists say it 's been 
underway for about two years , and we 've still had 16 months of seven 
percent unemployment , and all the wealthy countries are having 
trouble creating jobs. so i think there was an idea base an 
argument there , that while we 're waiting for the lower interest rates 
and the deficit reduction and the investments of the next four years 
to take effect , this sort of supplemental appropriation should go 
forward. 

now , i have to tell you , i did that because a 
majority of the republican senators now sitting in the senate voted 
for a similar stimulus when ronald reagan was president in 1983 , and 
voted 28 times for regular supplemental appropriations like this. i 
just it. and i hope that i can learn something. i 've just 
been here 90 days. and , you know , i was a governor working with a 
contentious legislature for 12 years , and it took me a decade to get 
political reform there. so it takes time to change things. but i 
basically feel very good about what 's happened in the first 100 days 
with regard to the congress .  . 

q waco 

the president well , with regard to waco i do n't have 
much to add to what i 've already said. i think it is a i want the 
situation looked into. i want us to bring in people who have any 
insights to bear on that. i think it 's very important that the whole 
thing be thoroughly gone over. but i still maintain what i said from 
the beginning , that the offender there was david koresh .  . and i do 
not think the united states government is responsible for the fact 
that a bunch of fanatics decided to kill themselves. and i'm sorry 
that they killed their children. 

q mr. president , to follow up partly on helen on your 
stimulus package and on your political approach to capitol hill , ross 
perot said today that you 're playing games with the american people 
in your tax policy. he was strongly critical of your stimulus 
package. he said he 's going to launch an advertising campaign 
against the north american free trade agreement .  . how are you going 
to handle his political criticism will it complicate your efforts 
on the hill with your economic plan and do you plan to repackage 
some of the things that have been in your stimulus program and try to 
them to the hill 

the president let me answer that question first. 
we 're going to revisit all of that over the next few days. i'm going 
to be talking to members of congress and to others to see what we can 
do about that. with regard to the economic plan , i must say i found 
that rather amazing. i do n't want to get into an argument with mr. 
perot .  . i 'll be interested to hear what his specifics are , but i 
would go back and read his book and his plan. there 's a 
remarkable convergence except that we have more specific budget cuts , 
we raise taxes less on the middle class and more on the wealthy .  . 
but , otherwise , the plans are remarkably similar. 

so i think it would be i 'll be interested to see if 
maybe perhaps he 's changed his position from his book last year and 
he has some new ideas to bring to bear. i 'll be glad to hear them. 

q to follow up , sir , how do you plan to handle his 
political criticism he 's launched a campaign against you. do you 
think you can sit back and just 

the president well , first of all , i will ask you to 
apply the same level of scrutiny to him as you do to me. and if he 's 
changed his position from the positions he took in the campaign last 
year , then we need to know why and what his ideas are. maybe he 's 
got some constructive ideas. 

i think the american people have shown that they 're very 
impatient with people who do n't want to produce results. and the one 
thing i think that everybody has figured out about me in the last 
even if they do n't agree with what i do is that i want to get 
something done. i just came here to try to change things. i want to 
do things. and i want to do things that help people 's lives. so my 
judgment is that if he makes a suggestion that is good , that is 
constructive , that takes us beyond some idea i 've proposed that will 
change people 's lives for the better , fine. but i think that that 
ought to be the test that we apply to everyone who weighs into this 
debate and not just to the president. 

q mr. president , to go back to bosnia for a minute. 
you continue to insist that this has to be action , a 
criteria that seems to have us when it comes to many 
options thus far and makes it look as if this is a state of 
paralysis .  . the united states is the last remaining  . why 
is it not appropriate in this situation for the united states to act 
unilaterally 

the president well , the united states surely you 
would agree , that the united states , even as the last remaining 
, has to act consistent with international law under some 
mandate of the united nations .  . 

q but you have a mandate and 

the president they do , and that is one of the things 
that we have under review. i have n't ruled out any option for 
action. i would remind all of you , i have not ruled out any option , 
except that we have not discussed and we are not considering the 
introduction of american forces into continuing hostilities there. 
we are not. 

so we are reviewing other options. but i also would 
remind you that , to be fair , our allies have had the french , the 
british and the canadians have had troops on the ground there. 
they have been justifiably worried about those. but they have 
supported the , the of the sanctions .  . they 
welcomed the american delegation now in europe , working on how to 
make these sanctions really work and really bite against serbia .  . and 
i can tell you that the other nations involved are also genuinely 
their position , and i would not rule out the fact that we 
can reach an agreement for a concerted action that goes beyond where 
we have been. i do n't have any criticism of the british , the french 
and others about that. 

q would that be military action 

q mr. president , several of the leading lights in 
your administration , ranging from your fbi director to your u.n. 
ambassador , to your deputy budget director to your health services 
secretary , have issued statements in the last couple of weeks which 
are absolutely contradictory to some of the positions you 've taken in 
your administration. why is that are you losing your political 
grip 

the president give me an example. 

q example judge sessions said that there was no 
child abuse in waco .  . albright has said in this morning 's 
newspapers , at least , that she favors air strikes in bosnia .  . all of 
these are things you said that you did n't support. 

the president first of all , i do n't know what we 
know that david koresh had sex with children. i think that is 
undisputed , is it not is it not does anybody dispute that where 
i come from that qualifies as child abuse .  . and we know that he had 
people teaching these kids how to kill themselves. i think that 
qualifies as abuse .  . and i'm not criticizing judge sessions because i 
do n't know exactly what he said. 

in terms of albright , albright has 
made no public statement at all about air strikes .  . there is a press 
report that she wrote me a confidential letter in which she expressed 
her or memo in which she expressed her views about the new 
direction we should take in response to my request to all the senior 
members of my administration to let me know what they thought we 
ought to do next. and i have heard from her and from others about 
what they think we ought to do next. and i'm not going to discuss 
the recommendations they made to me , but in the next few days when i 
make a decision about what to do , then i will announce what i'm going 
to do. so i would n't say that either one of those examples qualifies 
speaking out of school. 

q how about the value added tax , mr. president 

the president what was that 

q the value added tax mrs. and miss shalala 
both said that they thought that that was a good idea. 

the president i do n't mind them saying they think it 's 
a good idea. there are all kinds of arguments for it on policy 
grounds .  . that does not mean that we have decided to incorporate it 
in the health care debate. no decision has been made on that. and i 
have no objection to their expressing their views on that. we 've had 
a lot of people from business and labor come to us saying that they 
thought that tax would help make their particular industries more 
competitive in the global economy. i took no that was n't taking a 
line against an administration policy. 

q mr. president , a week ago a group of gay and 
lesbian representatives came out of a meeting with you and expressed 
in the most ringing terms , their confidence in your understanding of 
them and their political aspirations , and their belief that you would 
fulfill those aspirations .  . do you feel now that you will be able to 
meet their now enhanced expectations 

the president well , i do n't know about that. and i 
do n't know what their it depends on what the expectations are. 
but i 'll tell you this i believe that this country 's policies 
should be heavily biased in favor of  . i believe 
when you tell people they ca n't do certain things in this country 
that other people can do , there ought to be an overwhelming and 
compelling reason for it. i believe we need the services of all of 
our people , and i have said that consistently .  . and not as a 
political proposition .  . the first time this issue came up was in 1991 
when i was in boston .  . i was just asked the question about it. 

and i might add it 's interesting that i have been 
attacked obviously , those who disagree with me here are primarily 
coming from the political right in america .  . when i was governor , i 
was attacked from the other direction for sticking up for the rights 
of religious fundamentalists to run their child care centers and to 
practice home schooling under appropriate safeguards .  . i just have 
always had an almost libertarian view that we should try to protect 
the rights of american individual citizens to live up to the fullest 
of their capacities , and i'm going to stick right with that. 

q are you concerned , sir , that you may have generated 
expectations on their end and criticism among others that has 
your administration in the sense of far too great emphasis 
on this issue 

the president yes , but i have not placed a great deal 
of emphasis on it. it 's gotten a lot of emphasis in other quarters 
and in the press. i 've just simply taken my position and tried to 
see it through. and that 's what i do. it does n't take a lot of my 
time as president to say what i believe in and what i intend to do , 
and that 's what i 'll continue to do. 

q mr. president , getting back to the situation in 
bosnia and we understand you have n't made any final decisions on 
new options previously considered unacceptable .  . but the two most 
commonly heard options would be lifting the arms embargo to enable 
the bosnian muslims to defend themselves and to initiate some limited 
air strikes , perhaps , to cut off supply lines. without telling us 
your decision presumably , you have n't made any final decisions on 
those two options what are the pros and cons that are going 
through your mind right now and will weigh heavily on your final 
decision 

the president i'm reluctant to get into this. there 
are those are two of the options. there are some other options 
that have been considered .  . all have pluses and minuses all have 
supporters and opponents within the administration and in the 
congress , where , i would remind you , heavy consultations will be 
required to embark on any new policy. 

i do believe that on the air strike issue , the 
pronouncements that general powell has made generally about military 
action , apply there. if you take action , if the united states takes 
action , we must have a clearly defined objective that can be met. we 
must be able to understand it and its limitations must be clear. the 
united states is not , should not , become involved as a partisan in a 
war. 

with regard to the lifting of the arms embargo , the 
question obviously there is if you widen the capacity of people to 
fight will that help to get a settlement and bring about peace will 
it lead to more bloodshed what kind of reaction can others have 
that would undermine the effectiveness of the policy 

but i think both of them deserve some serious 
consideration , along with some other options we have. 

q do you think that these people who are trying to 
get us into war in bosnia are really remembering that we have n't 
taken care of hundreds of thousands of veterans from the last war and 
we could n't take care of our prisoners and get them all home from 
vietnam and now many of them are coming up with bills for 
treatment of agent orange .  . how can we afford to go to any more of 
these wars 

the president well , i think that 's a good argument 
against the united states itself becoming involved as a belligerent 
in a war there. but we are , after all , the world 's only super power. 
we do have to lead the world and there is a very serious problem of 
systematic ethnic cleansing in the former yugoslavia , which could 
have not only enormous further humanitarian consequences and 
goodness knows there have been many but also could have other 
practical consequences in other nearby regions where the same sorts 
of ethnic tensions exist. 

q did you make any kind of agreement with boris 
yeltsin to hold off either on air strikes or any kind of aggressive 
action against the serbs until after sunday and in general , how has 
his political situation affected your deliberation on bosnia 

the president no , i have not made any agreement , and 
he did not ask for that. we never even discussed that , interestingly 
enough. the russians , i would remind you , in the middle of president 
yeltsin 's campaign , from our attempt to get tougher 
sanctions through the united nations in what i thought was the proper 
decision for them and one that the united states and , i'm sure , the 
rest of the free world very much appreciated. 

q do you wish , mr. president , that you 'd become more 
involved in the planning of the waco operation and how would you 
handle that situation differently now 

the president i do n't think as a practical matter that 
the president should become involved in the planning of those kinds 
of things at that detail. one of the things that i'm sure will come 
out when we look into this is the questions will be asked and 
answered , did all of us who up the line of command ask the questions 
we should have asked and get the answers we should have gotten and 
i look forward to that. but at the time , i have to say , as i did 
before , the first thing i did after the atf agents were killed , once 
we knew that the fbi was going to go in , was to ask that the military 
be consulted because of the quasi , as least , military nature of the 
conflict given the resources that koresh had in his compound and 
their obvious willingness to use them. and then on the day before 
the action , i asked the questions of the attorney general which i 
have reported to you previously , and which at the time i thought were 
sufficient .  . i have as i said , i'm sure i leave it to others to 
make the suggestions about whether there are other questions i should 
have asked. 

q mr. president , what is your assessment of director 
sessions  role in the waco affair and have you made a decision on 
his future and if you have n't , will you give him a personal hearing 
before you do decide 

the president well , first of all , i have no assessment 
of his role since i had no direct contact with him. and i mean no 
negative or positive inference .  . i have no assessment there. i stand 
by what i said before about my general high regard for the fbi .  . and 
i'm waiting for a recommendation from the attorney general about what 
to do with the direction of the fbi .  . 

q mr. president , since you said that one side in 
bosnia conflict represents inhumanity that the holocaust carried to 
the nth degree , why do you then tell us that the united states cannot 
take a partisan view in this war 

the president well , i said that the principle of 
ethnic cleansing is something we ought to stand up against .  . that 
does not mean that the united states or the united nations can enter 
a war , in effect , to redraw the lines , geographical lines of 
republics within what was yugoslavia , or that that would ultimately 
be successful. 

i think what the united states has to do is to try to 
figure out whether there is some way consistent with forcing the 
people to resolve their own difficulties we can stand up to and stop 
ethnic cleansing .  . and that is obviously the difficulty we are 
wrestling with. this is clearly the most difficult foreign policy 
problem we face , and that all of our allies face. and if it were 
easy , i suppose it would have been solved before. we have tried to 
do more in the last 90 days than was previously done. it has clearly 
not been enough to stop the serbian aggression , and we are now 
looking at what else we can do. 

q yesterday you specifically criticized the roosevelt 
administration for not having bombed the to the 
concentration camps and things that were near military targets .  . 
are n't there steps like that that would not involve conflict direct 
conflict or partisan belligerence that you might consider 

the president there may be. i would remind you that 
the circumstances were somewhat different. we were then at war with 
germany at the time and that 's what made that whole incident so 
series of incidents so  . but we have as i say , we 've 
got all of our options under review. 

q the diplomatic initiative on haiti is on the verge 
of collapse .  . what can you do to salvage it short of a full scale 
military operation 

the president well , you may know something i do n't .  . 
that 's not what our people tell me. i think mr. caputo and 
ambassador pezzullo have done together a good job. the thing keeps 
going back and forth because of the people who are involved with the 
de facto government there. it 's obvious what their concerns are. 
they were the same concerns that led to the of aristide in the 
first place , and president aristide , we feel , should be restored to 
power. we 're working toward that. i get a report on that we 
discuss it at least three times a week , and i'm convinced that we 're 
going to prevail there and be successful. 

i do believe that there 's every reason to think that 
there will have to be some sort of presence to try to 
guarantee the security and the freedom from violence of people on 
both sides of the while we try to establish the conditions of 
ongoing civilized society. but i believe we 're going to prevail 
there. 

q mr. president , would you care to make your 
assessment of the first 100 days before we make one for you 
(laughter . ) . 

the president well , i 'll say if i believe , first of 
all , we passed the budget resolution in record time. that was the 
biggest issue. that confirmed the direction of the administration 
and confirmed the commitments of the campaign that we could both 
bring the deficit down and increase investment , and that we could do 
it by specific spending cuts and by raising taxes , almost all of 
which come from the highest income people in this society reversing 
a 12 year trend in which most of the tax burdens were borne by the 
middle class , whose incomes were going down when their taxes were 
going up , while the deficit went from 1 trillion to 4 trillion , the 
total national debt , and the deficit continued to go up. 

we have a 20 year low in interest rates from  . 
we have lower interest rates across the board. we have tens of 
billions of dollars flooding back into this economy as people 
refinance their debt .  . 

we have established a new environmental policy , which is 
dramatically different. the secretary of education has worked with 
me and with others and with the governors to establish a new approach 
in education that focuses on tough standards , as well as increasing 
opportunity. we have done an enormous amount of work on political 
reform , on campaign finance and lobbying reform .  . and i have imposed 
tough ethics requirements on my own administration 's officials .  . 
these things are consistent with not only what i said i 'd do in the 
campaign , but with turning the country around. the vice president is 
heading a task force which will literally change the way the federal 
government operates and make it much more responsive to the citizens 
of this country. 

we are working on a whole range of other things. the 
welfare reform initiative , to move people from welfare to work. and , 
of course , a massive amount of work has been done on the health care 
issue , which is a huge economic and personal security problem for 
millions of americans .  . 

so i think it is amazing how much has been done. more 
will be done. we also passed the family leave bill. a version of 
the motor voter bill that has not come out of conference back to 
me yet. and everything has been passed except the stimulus program. 
so i think we 're doing fine and we 're moving in the right direction. 
i feel good about it. 

q sir , a follow up. would n't you say , though , that 
one of your biggest initiatives , aid to soviet russia , is now 
practically finished if we ca n't pass a stimulus bill in our own 
country , how can we do it for them 

the president let me the question a little bit. 
it 's a good question (laughter) it 's a good question , but to be 
fair we 've got to it. we have already the first round of 
aid to the soviet to non soviet russia , to a democratic russia , is 
plainly going to go through , the first 1.6 billion .  . the aid that we 
agreed with our partners in the g 7 to provide through the 
international financial institutions , which is a big dollar item , is 
plainly going to go through. the question is , can we get any more 
aid for russia that requires a new appropriation by the united states 
congress and that is a question i think , mary , that will be 
resolved in the weeks ahead , in part by what happens to the american 
workers and their jobs and their future. i think the two things will 
be tied by many members of congress .  . 

q the report came out this morning , 
documenting horrendous and nearly criminal conduct on the part of the 
navy .  . how much did you discuss the incident and what might be done 
about it with your nominee to be the secretary of the navy 

the president first , let me comment a little on that. 
the inspector general 's report details conduct which is wrong and 
which has no place in the armed services. and i expect the report to 
be acted on in the appropriate way. i also want to say to the 
american people and to all of you that the report should be taken for 
what it is , a very disturbing list of allegations which will have to 
be thoroughly examined .  . it should not be taken as a general 
indictment of the united states navy or of all the fine people who 
serve there. it is very specific in its allegations , and it will be 
pursued .  . 

the only thing i said to the secretary designate of the 
navy and the only thing i should have said to him , i think , is that i 
expected him to take the report and to do his duty .  . and i believe he 
will do that. 

q mr. president , to back to russia for just a minute. 
the latest poll show that mr. yeltsin will probably win his vote of 
confidence. but there seems to be a real toss up on whether or not 
voters are going to endorse his economic reforms .  . 

the president i understand that. 

q can you live with a split (laughter) can you 
live with a split decision , though , or do you need both passed in 
order to then build support for russian aid 

the president i believe the answer to your question 
is , for the united states , the key question should be that which is 
posed to any democracy , which is who wins the election .  . if he wins 
the election , if he is ratified by the russian people to continue as 
their president , then i think we should do our best to work with him 
toward reform .  . 

you know , we had a lot of other countries here for the 
holocaust museum dedication their leaders were here. leaders from 
eastern europe , leaders from at least one republic of the former 
soviet union all of them having terrible economic challenges as they 
convert from a communist command and control economy to a market 
economy in a world where there 's economic slowdown everywhere. and 
in a world in which there 's economic slowdown and difficulty , all 
leaders will have trouble having their policies be popular in a poll 
because they have n't produced the results that the people so 
earnestly for. you can understand that. 

but if they have confidence in the leadership , i think 
that 's all we can ask. and the united states will if the russian 
people ratify him as their president and stick with him then the 
united states will continue to work with him. i think he is a 
genuine democrat small d and genuinely committed to reform .  . i 
think that we should support that. 

q mr. president , mr. perot has come out strongly in 
what is perceived behind the line against a free trade agreement 
 . how hard are you going to fight for this free trade agreement 
and when do you expect to see it accomplished 

the president i think we 'll have the agreement ready 
in the fairly near future. you know , our people are still working 
with the mexican government and with the canadians on the side 
agreements .  . we 're trying to work out what the environmental 
agreement will say , what the labor agreement will say , and then what 
the fairest way to deal with enforcement is. 

the mexicans say , and there is some merit to their 
position , that they 're worried about transferring their sovereignty 
in enforcement to a commission .  . even in the united 
states , to be fair , we have some folks who are worried about that 
about giving that up. on the other hand , if we 're going to have an 
environmental agreement and a labor standards agreement that means 
something , then there has to be ultimately some consequences for 
violating them. so what we 're trying to do is to agree on an 
approach which would say that if there is a pattern of violations 
if you keep on violating it past a certain point maybe not an 
isolated incident , but a pattern of violation there is going to be 
some enforcement .  . there must be consequences .  . and we 're working out 
the details of that. 

but i still feel quite good about it. and this is just 
an area where i disagree with mr. perot and with others. i think 
that we will win big if we have a fair agreement that integrates more 
closely the mexican economy and the american economy and leads us 
from there to chile to other market economies in latin america , and 
gives us a bigger world in which to trade. i think that 's the only 
way a rich country can grow richer .  . if you look at what japan and 
other countries in the pacific are doing to reach out in their own 
region , it 's a pretty good lesson to us that we had better worry 
about how to build those bridges in our own area. 

so this is an idea battle. you know , you 've got a lot 
of questions and i want to answer them all , but let me say not every 
one of these things can be distilled simply into politics you 
know , who 's for this and who 's for that , and if this person is for 
this , somebody else has got to be for that. a lot of these things 
honestly involved real debates over ideas , over who 's right and wrong 
about the world toward which we 're moving. and the answers are not 
self evident .  . and one of the reasons that i wanted to run for 
president is i wanted to sort of open the for debating 
these ideas so that we could try to change in the appropriate way. 
so i just have a difference of opinion. i believe that the concept 
of is sound , even though , as you know , i thought that the 
details needed to be improved .  . 

q mr. president , there was a tremendous flurry of 
interest earlier this month in the russian document that purported to 
show that the vietnamese had held back american prisoners .  . general 
has now said publicly that while the document itself was 
authentic , he believes that it was incorrect .  . do you have a personal 
view at this point about that issue and more broadly , do you 
believe that , in fact , the vietnamese did return all the american 
prisoners at the time of the paris peace accord 

the president first let me say , i saw general 
before he went to vietnam and after he returned .  . and i have a high 
regard for him and i appreciate his willingness to serve his country 
in this way. as to whether the document had any basis in fact , let 
me say that the government of vietnam was more forthcoming than it 
had been in the past and gave us some documents that would tend to 
undermine the validity of the russian documents claim .  . 

i do not know whether that is right or wrong. we are 
having it basically evaluated at this time , and when we complete the 
evaluation , we 'll tell you. and , of course , we want to tell the 
families of those who were missing in action or who were pows .  . i 
think that we 'll be able to make some progress in eliminating some of 
the questions about the outstanding cases as a result of this last 
interchange , but i cannot say that i'm fully satisfied that we know 
all that we need to know. there are still some cases that we do n't 
know the answer to. but i do believe we 're making some progress. i 
was encouraged by the last trip. 

q i 'd like to follow up on that. before the u.s. 
relations , allows trade to go forward , do you have to be 
personally sure that every case has been resolved or would you be 
willing to go forward on the basis that while it may take years to 
resolve these cases , the vietnamese have made sufficient offerings to 
us to confirm good faith 

the president a lot of experts say you can never 
resolve every case , every one , that we could n't resolve all the cases 
for them and that there are still some cases that have not been 
factually resolved , going back to the second world war. but what i 
would have to be convinced of is that we had gone a long way toward 
resolving every case that could be resolved at this moment in time , 
and that there was a complete , open and unrestricted commitment to 
continue to do everything that could be done always to keep resolving 
those cases. and we 're not there yet. 

again , i have to be guided a little bit by people who 
know a lot about this. and i confess to being much more heavily 
influenced by the families of the people whose lives were lost there , 
or whose lives remain in question than by the commercial interest and 
the other things which seem so compelling in this moment. i just am 
very influenced by how the families feel. 

q your economic stimulus package , are you doing 
some kind of reality check now and scaling back some of your plans , 
your legislative plans for the coming year , including the crime bill , 
the health care initiative and other things are there any plans to 
do that and also , did you underestimate the power of senator bob 
dole 

the president no , what i underestimated was the extent 
to which what i thought was a fairly self evident case , particularly 
after we stayed below the spending caps approved by this congress , 
including the republicans who were in this congress last year when 
we had already passed a budget resolution which called for over 500 
billion in deficit reduction .  . when they had voted repeatedly for 
supplemental appropriations to help foreign governments , i thought at 
least four of them would vote to break cloture , and i underestimated 
that. i did not have an adequate strategy of dealing with that. 

i also thought that if i made a good faith effort to 
negotiate and to compromise , that it would not be rebuffed .  . instead , 
every time i offered something they reduced the offer that they had 
previously been talking to the majority leader about. so it was a 
strange set of events. but i think what happened was what was a 
significant part of our plan , but not the major part of it , acquired 
a political connotation that got out of proportion to the merits , so 
that a lot of republicans were saying to me privately , mr. 
president , i 'd like to be for this , but i ca n't now. and we 're all 
strung out and we 're divided .  . 

and i think we need to do a reality check. as i said , 
what i want to know let me go back to what i said what i want 
to know from our folks and from our friends in the senate on and 
republicans or democrats is what could i have done differently to 
make it come out differently. because the real losers here were not 
the president and the administration. the real losers were the 
hundreds of thousands of people who wo n't have jobs now. we could 
have put another 700 , 000 kids to work this summer. i mean , we could 
have done a lot of good things with that money. and i think that is 
very , very sad. and it became more political than it should have. 
but the underlying rationale i do n't think holds a lot of water 
that it was deficit spending .  . that just wo n't wash. 

q and redo 

the president no. i mean , you know , for example you 
mentioned the crime bill. i think it would be a real mistake not to 
pass the crime bill. i mean , the crime bill was almost on the point 
of passage last year. and they were all fighting over the brady 
bill. surely , surely after what we have been through in this country 
just in the last three months , with the kind of mindless violence we 
have seen , we can pass a bill requiring people to go through a 
waiting period before they buy a handgun .  . and surely we can see that 
we need more police officers on the street. 

that 's another thing that i really believe that once 
we move some of that money not all , but some of it up into this 
jobs package to make some of the jobs rehiring police officers on the 
street who 'd been laid off , that would be a compelling case. i mean 
people are scared in this country and i think we need to go forward. 
i feel very strongly that we need to go forward on the crime bill. 

q mr. president , back to the report for a 
second. that report contained very strong criticism of the navy 's 
senior leadership in general , but did not name any of the senior 
officers .  . do you believe that the senior officers who are implicated 
in this , including admiral kelso who was there one night in las 
vegas , should they be disciplined and do you believe the public has a 
right to know the names of the senior officers 

the president you should know that under the rules of 
law which apply to this , i am in the chain of command. there is now 
an inspector general 's report and the law must take its course. if i 
were to answer that question i might prejudice any decisions which 
might be later made in this case. i do n't really think i think 
all i can tell you is what i have already said. i was very disturbed 
by the specific allegations in the inspector general 's report , and i 
want appropriate action to be taken. 

until the proper procedures have a chance to kick in and 
appropriate action is taken , i have been advised that because i am 
the commander in chief i have to be very careful about what i say so 
as not to prejudice the rights of anybody against whom any action 
might proceed or to prejudice the case in any other way either pro or 
con. so i ca n't say any more except to say that i want this thing 
handled in an appropriate and thorough way. 

q mr. president , could i ask you for a clarification 
on bosnia you said that you were not considering introduction of 
american forces .  . does that include any air forces as well as ground 
forces , sir 

the president i said ground forces .  . 

q you said ground forces .  . could i ask you , sir , if 
you fear that using u.s. air strikes might draw the united states 
into a ground war there 

the president i just do n't want to discuss our 
evaluation of the options anymore. i 've told you that there 's never 
been a serious discussion in this country about the introduction of 
ground forces into an ongoing conflict there. 

q with hundreds of thousands of gays in washington 
this weekend for the march , did you ever reconsider your decision to 
leave town for this weekend did you ever consider in any way 
participating in some of the activities 

the president no. 

q why not 

the president because i and , basically , i would n't 
participate in other marches .  . i think once you become president , on 
balance , except under unusual circumstances , that is not what should 
be done. but more importantly , i'm going to the american society of 
newspaper editors , a trip that presumably most of you would want me 
to make , to try to focus anew on what i think are the fundamental 
issues at stake for our country right now. and i expect that i will 
say something about the fact that a lot of americans have come here , 
asking for a climate that is free of discrimination asking , 
basically , to be able to work hard and live by the rules and be 
treated like other american citizens if they do that , and just that. 
and that 's always been my position not only for the gays who will 
be here , but for others as well. 

thank you very much. 

48 p.m. edt 
