from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re islam dress code for women 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 120 

in bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 

in article 
 ( fred rice ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 
of course people say what they think to be the religion , and that this 
is not exactly the same coming from different people within the 
religion. there is nothing with there existing different perspectives 
within the religion perhaps one can say that they tend to converge on 
the truth. 

my point is that they are doing a lot of harm on the way in the meantime .  . 

and that they converge is counterfactual , religions appear to split and 
diverge .  . even when there might be a  true religion' at the core , the layers 
above determine what happens in practise , and they are quite inhumane 
usually .  . 


what you post then is supposed to be an answer , but i do n't see what is has 
got to do with what i say. 

i will repeat it. religions as are harm people. and religions do n't 
converge , they split .  . giving more to disagree upon .  . and there is a lot 
of disagreement to whom one should be tolerant or if one should be 
tolerant at all. 

ideologies also split , giving more to disagree upon , and may also lead 
to intolerance .  . so do you also oppose all ideologies 

i do n't think your argument is an argument against religion at all , but 
just points out the weaknesses of human nature. 

 ( big deletion ) 
(2) do women have souls in islam 

people have said here that some muslims say that women do not have 
souls .  . i must admit i have never heard of such a view being held by 
muslims of any era. i have heard of some christians of some eras 
holding this viewpoint , but not muslims .  . are you sure you might not be 
confusing christian history with islamic history 

yes , it is supposed to have been a predominant view in the turkish 
caliphate .  . 

i would like a reference if you have got one , for this is news to me. 

anyhow , that women are the spiritual equals of men can be clearly shown 
from many verses of the qur'an .  . for example , the qur'an says 

for muslim men and women , 
for believing men and women , 
for devout men and women , 
for true men and women , 
for men and women who are patient and constant , 
for men and women who humble themselves , 
for men and women who give in charity , 
for men and women who fast  ( and deny themselves ) , 
for men and women who guard their chastity , 
and for men and women who engage much in god 's praise 
for them has god prepared forgiveness and a great reward .  . 

qur'an 33 35 , abdullah yusuf ali 's translation 

there are other quotes too , but i think the above quote shows that men 
and women are spiritual equals  ( and thus , that women have souls just as 
men do ) very clearly .  . 


no , it does not. it implies that they have souls , but it does not say they 
have souls .  . and it is not given that the quote above is given a high 
priority in all interpretations .  . 

one must approach the qur'an with intelligence .  . any thinking approach 
to the qur'an cannot but interpret the above verse and others like it 
that women and men are spiritual equals .  . 

i think that the above verse does clearly imply that women have 
souls .  . does it make any sense for something without a soul to be 
forgiven or to have a great reward  ( understood to be in the 
after life ) i think the usual answer would be no in which case , the 
part saying for them has god prepared forgiveness and a great reward 
says they have souls .  . 

 ( if it makes sense to say that things without souls can be forgiven , then 
i have no idea what a soul is . ) . 

as for your saying that the quote above may not be given a high priority 
in all interpretations , any thinking approach to the qur'an has to give 
all verses of the qur'an equal priority .  . that is because , according to 
muslim belief , the whole qur'an is the revelation of god in fact , 
denying the truth of any part of the qur'an is sufficient to be 
considered a disbeliever in islam .  . 

quite similar to you other post , even when the quran does not encourage 
slavery , it is not justified to say that iit forbids or puts an end to 
slavery .  . it is a non sequitur .  . 

look , any approach to the qur'an must be done with intelligence and 
thought. it is in this fashion that one can try to understand the 
quran 's message. in a book of finite length , it cannot explicitly 
answer every question you want to put to it , but through its teachings 
it can guide you. i think , however , that women are the spiritual equals 
of men is clearly and unambiguously implied in the above verse , and that 
since women can clearly be forgiven and rewarded they must have 
souls  ( from the above verse) .  . 

let 's try to understand what the qur'an is trying to teach , rather than 
try to see how many ways it can be misinterpreted by ignoring this 
passage or that passage .  . the misinterpretations of the qur'an based on 
ignoring this verse or that verse are infinite , but the interpretations 
fully consistent are more limited .  . let 's try to discuss these 
interpretations consistent with the text rather than how people can 
ignore this bit or that bit , for that is just showing how people can try 
to twist islam for their own ends something i do not deny but 
provides no reflection on the true teachings of islam whatsoever. 

fred rice 


from  ( chris bell ) 
subject re do n't more innocents die without the death penalty 
organization south australian regional academic and research network 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host baarnie . tafe . sa . edu . au . 

james f. tims writes 

by maintaining classes d and e , even in prison , it seems as if we 
place more innocent people at a higher risk of an unjust death than 
we would if the state executed classes d and e with an occasional error. 

i would rather be at a higher risk of being killed than actually killed by 

mistake. though i do agree with the concept that the type d and e murderers 
are a massive waste of space and resources i do n't agree with the concept 

killing is wrong 
if you kill we will punish you 
our punishment will be to kill you. 

seems to be lacking in consistency .  . 


i know is nothing more than i believe with pretentions .  . 

subject re the inimitable rushdie 
from 
organization wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
in article andrews . ac . uk . andrews . ac . uk .  ( norman r. paterson ) writes 

i do n't think you 're right about germany .  . my daughter was born there and 
i do n't think she has any german rights eg to vote or live there  ( beyond the 
rights of all ec citizens) .  . she is a british citizen by virtue of 
her parentage , but that 's not full citizenship .  . for example , i do n't think 
her children could be british by virtue of her in the same way. 

i am fairly sure that she could obtain citizenship by making an 
application for it. it might require immigration to germany , but 
i am almost certain that once applied for citizenship is inevitable 
in this case. 

nope , germany has extremely restrictive citizenship laws .  . the 
ethnic germans who have lived in russia for over 100 years 
automatically become citizens if they move to germany , but the 
turks who are now in their third generation in germany ca n't .  . 
it 's not a very good example to show citizenship without descent .  . 

karl 

lastly , i come to china in the hope all you touch and all you see 
of fulfilling a lifelong ambition is all your life will ever be. 
dropping acid on the great wall. duke pink floyd 

a lie is still a lie even if 3.8 billion people believe it. 


from  ( bake timmons ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
lines 19 

 ( nancy patricia o'connor ) writes 

 ( bake timmons ) writes 

rule 4 do n't mix apples with oranges .  . how can you say that the 
extermination by the mongols was worse than stalin khan conquered people 
unsympathetic to his cause. that was atrocious .  . but stalin killed millions of 
his own people who loved and worshipped him and his atheist state ! ! how can 
anyone be worse than that 

you 're right. and david koresh claimed to be a christian .  . 

yup .  . i can hear the millions cheering for dk right now ! josef stalin eat 
your heart out ! ) 

bake timmons , iii 

 .  .  . there . 's nothing higher , stronger , more wholesome and more useful in life 
than some good memory .  .  .  . in brothers  ( dostoevsky ) 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re americans and evolution 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 67 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu . 
 ( robert singleton ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 

i will argue that your latter statement , i believe that no gods exist 
does rest upon faith that is , if you are making a positive statement 
that no gods exist  ( strong atheism) rather than merely saying i do n't 
know and therefore do n't believe in them and do n't not believe in then 
 ( weak atheism) .  . once again , to not believe in god is different than saying 
i believe that god does not exist. i still maintain the position , even 
after reading the faqs , that strong atheism requires faith. 


no it in the way it is usually used. in my view , you are saying here that 
driving a car requires faith that the car drives .  . 

for me it is a conclusion , and i have no more faith in it than i have in the 
premises and the argument used. 


but first let me say the following. 
we might have a language problem here in regards to faith and 
existence . i , as a christian , maintain that god does not exist. 
to exist means to have being in space and time. god does not have 
being god is being. kierkegaard once said that god does not 
exist , he is eternal .  . with this said , i feel it 's rather pointless 
to debate the so called existence of god and that is not what 
i'm doing here. i believe that god is the source and ground of 
being. when you say that god does not exist , i also accept this 
statement but we obviously mean two different things by it. however , 
in what follows i will use the phrase the existence of god in it 's 
 usual sense  and this is the sense that i think you are using it. 
i would like a clarification upon what you mean by the existence of 
god . 


no , that 's a word game. the term god is used in a different way usually .  . 
when you use a different definition it is your thing , but until it is 
commonly accepted you would have to say the way i define god is ... and 
that does not exist , it is existence itself , so i say it does not exist. 

interestingly , there are those who say that existence exists is one of 
the indubitable statements possible. 

further , saying god is existence is either a waste of time , existence is 
already used and there is no need to replace it by god , or you are implying 
more with it , in which case your definition and your argument so far 
are incomplete , making it a fallacy .  . 


 ( deletion ) 
one can never prove that god does or does not exist. when you say 
that you believe god does not exist , and that this is an opinion 
based upon observation , i will have to ask what are 
you refering to there are no observations pro or con that 
are valid here in establishing a positive belief .  . 
 ( deletion ) 

where does that follow are n't observations based on the assumption 
that something exists 

and would n't you say there is a level of definition that the assumption 
god is is meaningful .  . if not , i would reject that concept anyway. 

so , where is your evidence for that god is is meaningful at some level 
benedikt 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re dear mr. theist 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 20 

pixie wrote 

for all the problems technology has caused , your types have made 
things even worse. must we be reminded of the inquisition , operation 
rescue , the ku klux klan , posse comitatus , the 700 club , david duke , salem 
witch trials , the crusades , gay bashings , etc. 
plus virtually each and every single war , regardless of the level of 
technology , has had theistic organizations cheering on the carnage 
 ( chaplains , etc . ) . , and claiming that god was in favor of the whole ordeal .  . 
do n't forget to pray for our troops ! 


this is really tedious .  . every bad thing that 's ever happened is 
because the malefactors were under the influence of religion does 
anyone really believe that. i 've seen it so often it must be a 
pretty general opinion in a.a , but i want to believe that atheists are 
really not that dishonest .  . please , stick to the facts and , having 
accomplished that , interpret them correctly. 

bill 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re keith is a relativist ! 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 10 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( the desert brat ) writes 

keith , if you start on about how it is different for a human 
to maul someone thrown into it 's cage  ( so to speak ) , you 'd better start 
posting tome decent evidence or retract your  i think there is an absolute 
morality' blurb a few weeks ago. 

did i claim that there was an absolute morality , or just an objective one 

keith 

from  ( charles brasted ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization the university of adelaide 
lines 123 
distribution world 
nntp posting host adelphi . itd . adelaide . edu . au . 
keywords dan bissell 

 ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 
makes sense to be one. have any of you read tony 's book liar , 
lunatic , or the real thing (i might be a little off on the title , but he 
writes the book. anyway he was part of an effort to destroy christianity , 
in the process he became a christian himself. 

i assume you are posting to encourage comments how much history has 
tony read not much it seems. 

the arguements he uses i am summing up. the book is about whether 
jesus was god or not. i know many of you do n't believe , but listen to a 
different perspective for we all have something to gain by listening to what 
others have to say. 

it is good to hear that there are a few reasonable christians about. 
if only those christian scientists would take note. 

 ( in australia there is a very strong movement , a bunch of christian 
scientists who believe that every single event in the bible is exactly 
true , and that there is a rational explanation for it all that can be justified 
by using the laws of physics .  . for example , there are a few chaps who are 
trying to prove that the age of the universe is 6000 years old , and that the 
error in conventional calculations is the result of the fact that the speed 
light has been rapidly decaying over the years , and this has not been 
accounted for. ) 

the book says that jesus was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 
modern day koresh ) or he was actually who he said he was. 

or  ( of course) , that he never existed , and the bible was a story , and was never 
intended to become a manifesto for a billion people. did tony follow that one 
up 

some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar people 
gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
someone who was or had been healed .  . 

millions of people have died for a lie . this point is difficult to 
substantiate since it is not well defined (a great many religious arguments 
work in that way ) , but consider the many aztec warriors who sacrificed 
themselves to their gods in the belief that this act would bring them victory 
of the spanish invaders .  . the list is endless .  . the aztecs lost , btw. 

call me a fool , but i believe he did heal people. 

that is perfectly reasonable , but it is not grounds for me  ( or anyone ) 
to become a christian .  . more to the point , it does not add weight to 
the claim that jesus was the real thing . 


niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 
anyone who is drawn to david koresh is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 

have you ever seen a documentary about the rise of nazi germany more to the 
point , did tony mention this one could hardly call werner heisenberg and his 
many colleagues fools , or illogical men , their support of hitler was based 
(i presume ) upon an emotional issue rather than a rational agreement with 
his principles .  . obviously my argument is invalid if tony thought that hitler 
was sane .  .  .  .  . 



therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 

hmmm .  .  .  .  . i do n't think his arguments warrant the use of a therefore .  .  .  . 

some other things to note. he fulfilled loads of prophecies in 
the psalms , isaiah and elsewhere in 24 hrs alone. this in his betrayal 
and crucifixion .  . i do n't have my bible with me at this moment , next time i 
write i will use it. 

this is  ( unfortunately ) what alot of religious discussions i have had with 
people result in quoting the bible .  . the only reasonable way i think 
people can look at the bible is to treat the stories as some sort of 
metaphorical representation of the messages that the authors were trying to 
present. if someone tries to interpret parts of the bible literally , he or 
she will end up in all sorts of shit. 

tony 's argument would be perfectly reasonable for people who believe 
the events described in the bible took place , but to convince someone , 
who thinks the bible is total fiction , that jesus is real by quoting the 
book is totally pointless .  . for example , in mathematics you cannot say a is 
equal to b because a is equal to b . 



i do n't think most people understand what a christian is. 

that would possibly explain why there have so many people being killed 
in religious wars , and why there are hundreds of different versions all 
claiming to be correct. 

it 
is certainly not what i see a lot in churches. rather i think it 
should be a way of life , and a total sacrafice of everything for god 's 
sake. he loved us enough to die and save us so we should do the 
same. hey we ca n't do it , god himself inspires us to turn our lives 
over to him. that 's tuff and most people do n't want to do it , to be a 
real christian would be something for the strong to persevere at. but 
just like weight lifting or guitar playing , drums , whatever it takes 
time. we do n't rush it in one day , christianity is your whole life. 
it is not going to church once a week , or helping poor people once in 
a while. we box everything into time units. such as work at this 
time , sports , tv , social life. god is above these boxes and should be 
carried with us into all these boxes that we have created for 
ourselves. 

i think if you posted this part to alt . religion . you would get more flames 
than here ) .  . i have never really understood why the emotional sentiments 
of a stranger should be of interest to other people. 

someone famous said that there two evils in life , polititians and churchs , one 
rules by fear of the living , the other by fear of the dead. if i am pressed i 
could probably find the exact quotation .  . 

cheers , 
charles .  . 

from  ( brendan dunn ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 8 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

thanks to whoever posted this wonderful parody of people who post without 
reading the faq ! i was laughing for a good 5 minutes. were there any 
parts of the faq that were n't mentioned i think there might have been one 
or two .  .  .  . 

please do n't tell me this was n't a joke. i'm not ready to hear that yet .  .  .  . 

brendan 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re free moral agency and jeff clark 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 21 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 

this is the reason i like the controversy of post modernism , the 
issues of polarities evil and good are just artificial 
constructs , and they fall apart during a closer inspection .  . 

the more i look into the notion of a constant struggle between 
the evil and good forces , the more it sounds like a metaphor 
that people just assume without closer inspection .  . 


more info please. i'm not well exposed to these ideas. 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



subject re bill conner 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 17 

in article  ( bill conner ) writes 

could you explain what any of this pertains to is this a position 
statement on something or typing practice and why are you using my 
name , do you think this relates to anything i 've said and if so , what. 

bill 

could you explain what any of the above pertains to is this a position 
statement on something or typing practice 



satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re  ( was re cruel  ( was re political atheists  ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 13 
distribution world , public 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 
keywords time for a consistency check , bub .  . 

 ( stephen doe ) writes 

of course , if at some later time we think that the death penalty 
is cruel or unusual , it will be outlawed .  . but at the present , 
most people do n't seem to think this way. 
this from the same fellow who speaks of an objective or natural 
morality .  . i suppose that if the majority decides slavery is ok , then 
it is no longer immoral 

i did not claim that our system was objective .  . 


keith 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re jews ca n't hide from 
organization sgi 
lines 36 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( douglas graham ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( douglas graham ) writes 
er , jon , what ken said was 

there have previously been people like you in your country. unfortunately , 

most jews did not survive. 

that sure sounds to me like ken is accusing the guy of being a nazi .  . 


my previous posting deleted 


yes , yes. this is a perfectly fine rant , and i agree with it completely. 
but what does it have to do with anything the issue at hand here 
is whether or not ken accused the fellow from germany of being a 
nazi .  . i grant that he did not explicity make this accusation , but 
he came pretty damn close. he is certainly accusing the guy of 
sympathizing with those who would like to exterminate the jews , and 
that 's good enough for me. 

the poster casually trashed two thousand years of jewish history , and 
ken replied that there had previously been people like him in germany .  . 

that 's right. there have been. there have also been people who 
were formally nazis .  . but the nazi party would have gone nowhere 
without the active and tacit support of the ordinary man in the 
street who behaved as though casual anti semitism was perfectly 
acceptable .  . 

now what exactly do n't you understand about what i wrote , and why 
do n't you see what it has to do with the matter at hand 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 57 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

andrew newell writes 

i think you should support your first claim , that people will simply 
harass me no matter what , as i doubt this is true. i think some of the 
theists will be at a loss , and that is enough reason for me. 
because in god we trust is a motto on the coins , and the coins 
are a representation of the government , christians are given 
ammunition here to slander atheists as unpatriotic .  . 

so , we should ban the ammunition why not get rid of the guns 

and yes , i have heard this used in conversation with christians .  . 
sure , they may fall back on other things , but this is one they 
should not have available to use. 

it is worse than others the national anthem should it be changed too 
god bless america the list goes on .  .  .  . 

imagine if the next year 's set of coins were labeled with 
the motto god is dead . 
certainly , such a statement on u.s. coins would offend almost 
every christian .  . and i 'd be tempted to rub that motto in the 
face of christians when debunking their standard motto slinging 
gets boring. 

then you 'd be no better than the people you despise .  . 

any statement printed on an item that represents 
the government is an endorsement by the government. 

oh 

the coin motto is an endorsement of trusting in god. 

an endorsement , or an acknowledgement i think gods are things that people 
are proud of , but i do n't think the motto encourages belief .  . 

i do n't particularly feel like trusting in god , 
so the government is putting me down with every 
coin it prints. 

is it 

... 
for the motto to be legitimate , it would have to read 
in god , gods , or godlessness we trust 

would you approve of such a motto 

whether the motto was intended to be anti atheist or not , 
it turns up as an open invitation to use as an anti atheist tool. 

and removing the tool will solve the problem 

or will it increase the problem 

keith 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization sgi 
lines 23 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

i 'll take a wild guess and say freedom is objectively valuable .  . i base 
this on the assumption that if everyone in the world were deprived utterly 
of their freedom  ( so that their every act was contrary to their volition ) , 
almost all would want to complain. therefore i take it that to assert or 
believe that freedom is not very valuable , when almost everyone can see 
that it is , is every bit as absurd as to assert it is not raining on 
a rainy day. i take this to be a candidate for an objective value , and it 
it is a necessary condition for objective morality that objective values 
such as this exist. 

my own personal and highly subjective opinion is that freedom 
is a good thing. 

however , when i here people assert that the only true freedom 
is in following the words of this and that messiah , i realise 
that people do n't even agree on the meaning of the word. 

what does it mean to say that word x represents an objective 
value when word x has no objective meaning 

jon .  . 

from  ( brian cash ) 
subject re ancient islamic rituals 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( fred rice ) writes 
there has been some discussion on the pros and cons about sex outside of 
marriage. 
... 

where is the evidence for my opinions at the moment , there are just 
generalities i can cite .  . for example , i read that in the 20th century , 
the percentage of youth  ( and people in general ) who suffer from 
depression has been steadily climbing in western societies  ( probably 
what i was reading referred particularly to the usa) .  . similarly , one 
can detect a trend towards greater occurrence of sex outside of marriage 
in this century in western societies particularly with the sexual 
revolution of the 60 's , but even before that i think  ( otherwise the 
sexual revolution of the 60 's would not have been possible ) , 
particularly with the gradual weakening of christianity and consequently 
christian moral teachings against sex outside of marriage. i propose 
that these two trends greater level of general depression in society 
 ( and other psychological problems ) and greater sexual promiscuity are 
linked , with the latter being a prime cause of the former .  . i cannot 
provide any evidence beyond this at this stage , but the whole thesis 
seems very reasonable to me and i request that people ponder upon it. 

fred rice a muslim , giving his point of view. 


i think this is a big leap sex depression .  . one example is myself , 
where no sex depression ) but , seriously 1 ) promiscuity is on a decline , 
depression is not and 2 ) it might be more reasonable to say 
depression promiscuity .  . i think depression is more likely to come 
from emotional problems  ( relationships , family , job , friends ) and 
promiscuity is used as an escape .  . 
since i see marriage as a civil and religious bond rather than an 
emotional bond , i do n't see a problem with sex before  ( not outside of ) 
marriage so long as you have the same commitment and devotion as 
what is expected from a married couple. of course , this is just 
my opinion. 

brian 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re who are we to judge , bobby 
lines 38 
organization walla walla college 
lines 38 

in article (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
from (s . n .  . mozumder ) 
subject re who are we to judge , bobby 
date wed , 14 apr 1993 21 33 56 gmt 
in article  ( tammy r healy ) writes 
bobby , 

i would like to take the liberty to quote from a christian writer named 
ellen g. white. i hope that what she said will help you to edit your 
remarks in this group in the future. 

do not set yourself as a standard. do not make your opinions , your views 
of duty , your interpretations of scripture , a criterion for others and in 
your heart condemn them if they do not come up to your ideal .  . 
thoughts fromthe mount of blessing p. 124 

i hope quoting this does n't make the atheists gag , but i think ellen white 
put it better than i could. 

tammy 

point 

peace , 

bobby mozumder 

my point is that you set up your views as the only way to believe. saying 
that all eveil in this world is caused by atheism is ridiculous and 
counterproductive to dialogue in this newsgroups .  . i see in your posts a 
spirit of condemnation of the atheists in this newsgroup bacause they  
t believe exactly as you do. if you 're here to try to convert the atheists 
here , you 're failing miserably .  . who wants to be in position of constantly 
defending themselves agaist insulting attacks , like you seem to like to do ! 
i'm sorry you 're so blind that you did n't get the messgae in the quote , 
everyone else has seemed to. 

tammy 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re gospel dating 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 26 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( stilgar ) writes 

fine .  .  .  . the illiad is the word of  ( god(tm )  ( disputed or not , it is) 

dispute that. it wo n't matter. prove me wrong. 

the illiad contains more than one word. ergo it can not be 
the word of god. 

but , if you will humbly agree that it is the words of god , i 
will conceed .  . 

d 




one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that 
say mom , because of the love of their mom. it makes for more 
virile men. 

bobby mozumder ( ) 
april 4 , 1993 

the one true muslim left in the world. 


from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

he 'd have to be precise about is rejection of god and his leaving islam .  . 
one is perfectly free to be muslim and to doubt and question the 
existence of god , so long as one does not reject god. i am sure that 
rushdie has be now made his atheism clear in front of a sufficient 
number of proper witnesses .  . the question in regard to the legal issue 
is his status at the time the crime was committed .  . 


i 'd have to say that i have a problem with any organization , 
religious or not , where the idea that simple speech such 
as this is the basis for a crime .  . 

jim halat 



















from nanci ann miller nm0w 
subject re it 's all mary 's fault ! 
organization sponsored account , school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 28 

nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

 ( dave fuller ) writes 
nice attempt chris . . . verrry close. 

you missed the conspiracy by 1 step. joseph knew who knocked her up. 
he could n't let it be known that somebody else got ol' mary prego .  . that 
would n't do well for his popularity in the local circles .  . so what 
happened is that she was feeling guilty , he was feeling embarrassed , and 
they decided to improve both of their images on what could have otherwise 
been the downfall for both. clever indeed. come to think of it . . . i 
have gained a new respect for the couple. maybe joseph and mary should 
receive all of the praise being paid to jesus .  . 

lucky for them that the baby did n't have any obvious deformities ! i could 
just see it now mary gets pregnant out of wedlock so to save face she and 
joseph say that it was god that got her pregnant and then the baby turns 
out to be deformed , or even worse , stillborn ! they 'd have a lot of 
explaining to do .  .  .  .  . ) 

dave buckminster fuller 
how is that one  o keeper of the nicknames 

nanci 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
if you know  ( and are sure of ) the author of this quote , please send me 
email  ( nm0w 
life does not cease to be funny when people die , any more than it ceases to 
be serious when people laugh. 


from  ( darin wilkins ) 
subject re koresh is god ! 
nntp posting host renoir 
organization s cubed , a division of maxwell labs san diego ca 
lines 22 

from mathew 
the latest news seems to be that koresh will give himself up once he 's 
finished writing a sequel to the bible .  . 

in article robert knowles writes 
writing the seven seals or something along those lines. he 's already 
written the first of the seven which was around 30 pages or so and has 
handed it over to an assistant for proofreading ! . i would expect any 
decent messiah to have a built in spellchecker .  . maybe koresh 2.0 will 
come with one. 

i heard he had asked the fbi to provide him with a word processor .  . does 
anyone know if koresh has requested that it be wordperfect5 . 0 . wp5 . 0 . was 
written  ( and is owned ) by mormons , so the theological implications of 
requesting  ( or refusing ) wp5 . 0 . are profound ! 

darin 



i will be president for food 


from  ( ray ingles ) 
subject re there must be a creator !  ( maybe ) 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 51 
distribution world 
nntp posting host syndicoot . engin . umich . edu . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( leonard newnham ) writes 
deletions 
 .  .  . argument . from incredulity has not been considered a valid form of 
reasoning since medieval times. 
deletions 
interesting that you should mention that argument from incredulity has 
not been considered a valid form of reasoning since medieval times. i 
quite agree. why then , do some atheists here engage in it more than 
a few times i have read posts where the atheists posting state that 
they  cannot see how a gracious and loving god can allow such evil and 
suffering to occur as we see on the earth . ' . simply because they cannot 
envision it , it must not be true. if this is not an argument from 
incredulity , i do n't know what is ! 

as you have presented it , it is indeed an argument from incredulity .  . 
however , from what i have seen , it is not often presented in this manner. 
it is usually presented more in the form , and besides , i cannot see .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . nor . have i ever been offered a convincing explanation. 
moreover , it is not unreasonable to ask for an explanation for such 
phenomena .  . that theism does not provide a convincing explanation is not 
an argument in theism 's favor. especially when different offer 
different explanations , and even different adherents of what is purportedly 
the same theism give different explanations .  .  .  . 

god has far more complex motivations 
and reasons for action or non action than to simply fix evil whenever 
and however it occurs , or even before it occurs .  . and yet , it is this 
very same argument from incredulity which ranks high among reasons 
why atheists  ( in general ) reject god and in particular the christian god. 

not im my experience. in my experience , the most common reason is the 
lack of evidence in theism 's favor. you mileage may vary .  . 

this seems to be the universal bane of human reasoning and rationality , 
to wit , that it is far easier to see the logical fallacy or inept reasoning 
on the part of one 's opponents than it is to see it in oneself .  . 

oh , heck , i 'll be snide this once. it 's also fairly easy to attack 
arguments that are not made. (i . e .  . 'strawmen' . ) . 

as one man of wisdom put it , take the log out of your own eye before you 
try to remove the splinter from your neighbor 's eye. 

sage advice indeed. 

sincerely , 

raymond ingles 

an apple every eight hours keeps three doctors away. b. 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 14 

in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

i hope an islamic bank is something other than bcci , which 
ripped off so many small depositors among the muslim 
community in the uk and elsewhere. 

jon .  . 

grow up , childish propagandist .  . 




gregg 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 12 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

mathew writes 

perhaps we should n't people if we could watch them closely 
instead. the cost would probably be similar , especially if we just 
implanted some sort of electronic device. 
why wait until they commit the crime why not implant such devices in 
potential criminals like communists and atheists 

sorry , i do n't follow your reasoning .  . you are proposing to punish people 
before they commit a crime what justification do you have for this 

keith 

subject re death penalty  ( was re political 
from  ( shamim mohamed ) 
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson 
lines 29 

in article  ( mats andtbacka ) writes 
in mathew writes 
i wonder if noam chomsky is reading this 

i could be wrong , but is he actually talking about outright 
government control of the media , aka censorship 

if he does n't , any quick one stop shopping reference to his works 
that 'll tell me , in short , what he does argue for 

manufacturing consent , a film about the media. you alternative movie source 
may have this or to book it in your local alternative theatre , contact 

films transit international sales 
jan 
402 notre dame e. 
montreal , quebec 
canada 
tel (514) 844 3358 fax (514) 844 7298 
telex 

 ( us readers call zeitgeist films at 212 274 1989 . ) . 

s 

shamim mohamed uunet , , cmcl2 .  .  . ! arizona ! shamim 
take this cross and garlic here 's a mezuzah if he 's jewish a page of the 
koran if he 's a muslim and if he 's a zen buddhist , you 're on your own. 
member of the league for programming freedom write to 

from  ( aario sami ) 
subject re why is sex only allowed in marriage rationality  ( was islamic marriage ) 
organization tampere university of technology , computing centre 
lines 26 
distribution sfnet 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

in (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

my case is that everything wrong in the world will end if people start 
believing in islam .  . and that horrors to mankind are all caused by the 
lack of belief atheism .  . 

for the last time , bobby .  . lack of belief in your god does not imply 
atheism .  . just because some moslems are n't moral does not mean they do n't 
believe in a god named allah , although their allah may not do the things 
your allah does. if a moslem says he she believes that a god exists , he she 
is a theist  ( though maybe not a true follower of islam) .  . 

30 , 000 murder victims a year caused by atheism .  . poverty .  . massive hate crimes .  . 
such low respect for the human body. distrust among people. everything 
wrong , all caused by atheism .  . 

peace , 

jerk .  . 

bobby mozumder 

sami aario can you see or measure an atom yet you can explode 
one. sunlight is comprised of many atoms .  . 
' your stupid minds ! stupid , stupid ! 
eros in plan 9 from outer space disclaimer i do n't agree with eros .  . 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization sgi 
lines 47 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

i do n't expect the lion to know , or not know anything of the kind. 
in fact , i do n't have any evidence that lions ever consider such 
issues. 
and that , of course , is why i do n't think you can assign moral 
significance to the instinctive behaviour of lions .  . 

what i 've been saying is that moral behavior is likely the null behavior. 
that is , it does n't take much work to be moral , but it certainly does to 
be immoral  ( in some cases) .  . 

that 's the craziest thing i ever heard. are you serious 

it does n't take much work to be moral 

also , i 've said that morality is a remnant of evolution .  . 

really and that 's why people discuss morality on a daily basis 
because it 's a kind of evolutionary hangover , like your little toe 

our moral system is based on concepts well practiced in the animal 
kingdom .  . 

this must be some novel use of the phrase based on with which i 
am not sufficiently familiar. what do you mean by based on and 
what is the significance of it for your argument 


so you are basically saying that you think a moral is an undefinable 
term , and that moral systems do n't exist if we ca n't agree on a 
definition of these terms , then how can we hope to discuss them 

no , it 's perfectly clear that i am saying that i know what a moral 
is in my system , but that i ca n't speak for other people. 

but , this does n't get us anywhere. your particular beliefs are irrelevant 
unless you can share them or discuss them .  .  .  . 

well , we can. what would you like to know about my particular moral 
beliefs 

if you raise a topic i 've never considered , i 'll be quite happy to 
invent a moral belief out of thin air. 

jon .  . 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 60 

in article  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

in article  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

i am refuting nothing but simply telling you what i see , which is 
childish propaganda and nothing to be refuted .  . bcci was not 
an islamic bank , so this post has nothing to do with islamic banks .  . 
i am tiring of this infantile garbage , so i simply evaluated it 
as such. 

could you maybe flesh it out just a bit or did i miss the full 
grandeur of it 's content by virtue of my blinding atheism 

you may be having difficulty seeing the light because you 
have your head up your ass. i suggest making sure this is 
not the case before posting again. 

it 's time for your lesson in debate , gregg .  . 

yeah , right. 

begin included text 
from vice ! news . tek . com . ! uunet ! ! ! usenet sun apr 18 10 01 11 pdt 1993 

i noticed a post on this topic in soc . religion . islam .  . and since the topic 
of the bcci being not being an islamic bank has come up , i have left in the 
one mention of the bcci bank called how bcci adapted the koran rules of 
banking from this bibliography .  . 


bennett , neil .  . how bcci adapted the koran rules of banking . the 
times. august 13 , 1991. 

so , let 's see. if some guy writes a piece with a title that implies 
something is the case then it must be so , is that it 

this is how you support a position if you intend to have anyone 
respect it , gregg .  . any questions and i even managed to include 
the above reference with my head firmly engaged in my ass. what 's 
your excuse 

this supports nothing. i have no reason to believe that this is 
piece is anything other than another anti islamic slander job. 
i have no respect for titles , only for real content. i can look 
up this article if i want , true. but i can tell you bcci was not 
an islamic bank. seeing as i'm spending my time responding to 
propaganda  ( in responding to this little sub thread ) i really 
do n't feel a deep need to do more than make statements to the 
effect that the propaganda is false .  . if someone wants to discuss 
the issue more seriously then i 'd be glad to have a real discussion , 
providing references , etc. 


gregg 





! uunet ! ! ! sgi ! fido ! solntze . wpd . sgi . com . ! livesey 
subject re pompous ass 
from  ( jon livesey ) 


organization sgi 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

then why do people keep asking the same questions over and over 
because you rarely ever answer them. 

nope , i 've answered each question posed , and most were answered multiple 
times. 

he fifty dollars if i ca n't answer your question. 

she what is the big bang theory. 

he the big bang theory is a recipe for cookies. 

she fifty dollars , please. 

he hey , i did n't say the answers would make sense. 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 14 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

to show that the examples i and others 
have provided are not counter examples of your supposed inherent 
moral hypothesis , you have to successfully argue that 
domestication removes or alters this morality .  . 

i think that domestication will change behavior to a large degree. 
domesticated animals exhibit behaviors not found in the wild .  . i 
do n't think that they can be viewed as good representatives of the 
wild animal kingdom , since they have been bred for thousands of years 
to produce certain behaviors , etc. 

keith 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 44 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

but , you do n't know that capital punishment is wrong , so it is n't the same 
as shooting .  . a better analogy would be that you continue to drive your car , 
realizing that sooner or later , someone is going to be killed in an automobile 
accident. you know people get killed as a result of driving , yet you 
continue to do it anyway. 
uh uh .  . you do not know that you will be the one to do the 
killing .  . i'm not sure i 'd drive a car if i had sufficient evidence to 
conclude that i would necessarily kill someone during my lifetime. 

yes , and everyone thinks as you do. no one thinks that he is going to cause 
or be involved in a fatal accident , but the likelihood is surprisingly high. 
just because you are the man on the firing squad whose gun is shooting 
blanks does not mean that you are less guilty .  . 

i do n't know about jon , but i say all taking of human life is 
murder .  . and i say murder is wrong in all but one situation when 
it is the only action that will prevent another murder , either of 
myself or another. 

you mean that killing is wrong in all but one situtation and , you should 
note that that situation will never occur .  . there are always other options 
thank killing .  . why do n't you just say that all killing is wrong. this 
is basically what you are saying. 

i'm getting a bit tired of your probabilistic arguments .  . 

are you attempting to be condescending 

that the system usually works pretty well is small consolation to 
the poor innocent bastard getting the lethal injection .  . is your 
personal value of human life based solely on a statistical approach 
you sound like an unswerving adherent to the needs of the many 
outweighing the needs of the few , so fuck the few. 

but , most people have found the risk to be acceptable .  . you are probably 
much more likely to die in a plane crash , or even using an electric 
blender , than you are to be executed as an innocent .  . i personally think 
that the risk is acceptable , but in an ideal moral system , no such risk 
is acceptable .  . acceptable is the fudge factor necessary in such an 
approximation to the ideal .  . 

keith 

from  ( gene c. miller ) 
subject re radical agnostic .  .  .  . not ! 
organization worldbank . org . 
lines 37 

in article , 
 ( david nye ) wrote 

reply to (e .  . h. welbon ) 

there is no means that i can possibly think of to prove beyond doubt 
that a god does not exist  ( but if anyone has one , by all means , tell me 
what it is) .  . therefore , lacking this ability of absolute proof , being an 
atheist becomes an act of faith in and of itself , and this i cannot accept .  . 
i accept nothing on blind faith. 

invisible pink flying unicorns ! need i say more 

 .  .  . i . harbor no beliefs at all , there is no good evidence for god 
existing or not. some folks call this agnosticism .  . it does not suffer 
from blind faith at all. i think of it as do n't worry , be happy . 

for many atheists , the lack of belief in gods is secondary to an 
epistemological consideration what do we accept as a reliable way of 
knowing there are no known valid logical arguments for the existence 
of gods , nor is there any empirical evidence that they exist. most 
philosophers and theologians agree that the idea of a god is one that 
must be accepted on faith. faith is belief without a sound logical 
basis or empirical evidence. it is a reliable way of knowing 


could you expand on your definition of knowing it seems a bit monolithic 
here , but i'm not sure that you intend that. do n't we need , for example , to 
distinguish between knowing 2 plus 2 equals 4  ( or 2 apples plus 2 apples 
equals 4 apples ) , the french knowing that jerry lewis is an auteur , and 
what it means to say we know what socrates said 

this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

i like this epigraph .  . perhaps the issue is learning which , if any , 
absurdities merit further exploration .  .  . gene . 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re islamic authority over women 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 30 

scott d. sauyet wrote 

regardless of people 's hidden motivations , the stated reasons for many 
wars include religion. of course you can always claim that the real 
reason was economics , politics , ethnic strife , or whatever. but the 
fact remains that the justification for many wars has been to conquer 
the heathens .  . 

if you want to say , for instance , that economics was the chief cause 
of the crusades , you could certainly make that point. but someone 
could come along and demonstrate that it was really something else , in 
the same manner you show that it was really not religion. you could 
in this manner eliminate all possible causes for the crusades .  . 


scott , 

i do n't have to make outrageous claims about religion 's affecting and 
effecting history , for the of a.a , all i have to do point out 
that many claims made here are wrong and do nothing to validate 
atheism .  . at no time have i made any statement that religion was the 
sole cause of anything , what i have done is point out that those who 
do make that kind of claim are mistaken , usually deliberately .  . 

to credit religion with the awesome power to dominate history is to 
misunderstand human nature , the function of religion and of course , 
history. i believe that those who distort history in this way know 
exaclty what they 're doing , and do it only for affect .  . 

bill 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re who says the apostles were tortured 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 17 

in article 
 ( ray ingles ) writes 


as evidence for the resurrection , it is often claimed that the disciples 
were tortured to death for their beliefs and still did not renounce 
their claim that jesus had come back from the dead. 
now , i skimmed acts and such , and i found a reference to this happening 
to stephen , but no others. where does this apparently very widely held 
belief come from is there any evidence outside the bible is there any 
evidence in the bible i sure have n't found any .  .  .  . 


early authors and legends .  . the most important sources can be found in the 
of the catholic church. makes the grimms look like exact 
science. 
benedikt 

subject re feminism and islam , again 
from 
organization wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
lines 30 

in article , (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
in article writes 

there 's a way around that via the hadith , which state that silence is 
taken to mean yes and that women may not speak before a judge , who 
must conduct the marriage. 

actaully , that 's a false hadith , because it contradicts verses in the 
quran , that says women may testify speak before a judge. 

hadiths are declared false when they contradict the quran .  . hadiths 
were n't written during the revelation or during the life of the prophet , 
and so may contain errors. 

so the only way you can tell a false hadith from a true one is 
if it contradicts the quran what if it relates to something 
that is n't explicitly spelled out in the quran 

also , the quran was n't written down during the life of muhammed 
either. it was n't long after , but 20 years or so is still long 
enough to shift a few verses around. 

karl 

lastly , i come to china in the hope all you touch and all you see 
of fulfilling a lifelong ambition is all your life will ever be. 
dropping acid on the great wall. duke pink floyd 

a lie is still a lie even if 3.8 billion people believe it. 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 21 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

andrew newell writes 

sure , they may fall back on other things , but this is one they 
should not have available to use. 
it is worse than others 
worse maybe not , but it is definately a violation of the 
rules the us govt. supposedly follows .  . 

oh 

for the motto to be legitimate , it would have to read 
in god , gods , or godlessness we trust 
would you approve of such a motto 
no.  .  .  . not . unless the only way to get rid of the current one 
was to change it to such as that. 

what is wrong with this motto , now if you would n't approve of 
even that one , i am beginning to think that you just have something 
against mottos in general. what do you think of e unum 

keith 

from  ( jeffrey clark ) 
subject re political atheists 
nntp posting host kraken . itc . gu . edu . au . 
organization itc , griffith university , brisbane , australia 
lines 31 

 ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

mathew writes 

perhaps we should n't people if we could watch them closely 
instead. the cost would probably be similar , especially if we just 
implanted some sort of electronic device. 
why wait until they commit the crime why not implant such devices in 
potential criminals like communists and atheists 

sorry , i do n't follow your reasoning .  . you are proposing to punish people 
before they commit a crime what justification do you have for this 

no , mathew is proposing a public defence mechanism , not treating the 
electronic device as an impropriety on the wearer .  . what he is saying is that 
the next step beyond what you propose is the permanent bugging of potential 
criminals .  . this may not , on the surface , sound like a bad thing , but who 
defines what a potential criminal is if the government of the day decides 
that being a member of an opposition party makes you a potential criminal 
then openly defying the government becomes a lethal practice , this is not 
conducive to a free society. 

mathew is saying that implanting electronic surveillance devices upon people 
is an impropriety upon that person , regardless of what type of crime or 
what chance of recidivism there is. basically you see the criminal justice 
system as a punishment for the offender and possibly , therefore , a deterrant 
to future offenders .  . mathew sees it , most probably , as a means of 
rehabilitation for the offender .  . so he was being cynical at you , okay 

jeff .  . 


from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 17 

in article bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 

i assume that you say here a religious law is for the followers of the 
religion. that begs the question why the religion has the right to define 
who is a follower even when the offenders disagree. 

no , i say religious law applies to those who are categorized as 
belonging to the religion when event being judged applies .  . this 
prevents situations in which someone is a member of a religion 
who , when charged , claims that he she was not a member of the 
religion so they are free to go on as if nothing had happened. 



gregg 



from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) wrote 
he 'd have to be precise about is rejection of god and his leaving islam .  . 
one is perfectly free to be muslim and to doubt and question the 
existence of god , so long as one does not reject god. i am sure that 
rushdie has be now made his atheism clear in front of a sufficient 
number of proper witnesses .  . the question in regard to the legal issue 
is his status at the time the crime was committed .  . 

gregg , so would you consider that rushdie would now be left alone , 
and he could have a normal life in other words , does islam support 
the notion of forgiving 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( aario sami ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization tampere university of technology , computing centre 
lines 48 
distribution sfnet 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

in (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

in article  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

if i state that i know that there is a green marble in a closed box , 
which i have never seen , nor have any evidence for its existance i would 
be guilty of deceit , even if there is , in fact , a green marble inside. 

the question of whether or not there is a green marble inside , is 
irrelevent .  . 

you go ahead and play with your marbles .  . 

i love it , i love it , i love it ! ! wish i could fit all that into a  . sig . 
file !  ( if someone is keeping a list of bobby quotes , be sure to include 
this one ! ) 


stating an unproven opinion as a fact , is deceit .  . and , knowingly 
being decietful is a falsehood and a lie. 

so why do you think its an unproven opinion if i said something as 
fact but you think its opinion because you do not accept it , then who 's 
right 

the flat earthers state that the earth is flat is a fact. i do n't accept 
this , i think it 's an unproven opinion , and i think the round earthers are 
right because they have better evidence than the flat earthers do. 

although i ca n't prove that a god does n't exist , the arguments used to 
support a god 's existence are weak and often self contradictory , and i'm not 
going to believe in a god unless someone comes over to me and gives me a 
reason to believe in a god that i absolutely ca n't ignore .  . 

a while ago , i read an interesting book by a fellow called von , 
in which he proved some of the wildest things , and on the last page , he 
wrote something like can you prove it is n't so i certainly ca n't , but 
i'm not going to believe him , because he based his proof on some really 
questionable stuff , such as old myths  ( he called it circumstancial 
evidence ) .  . 

so far , atheism has n't made me kill anyone , and i'm regarded as quite an 
agreeable fellow , really. ) 

sami aario can you see or measure an atom yet you can explode 
one. sunlight is comprised of many atoms .  . 
' your stupid minds ! stupid , stupid ! 
eros in plan 9 from outer space disclaimer i do n't agree with eros .  . 

from 
subject re where are they now 
organization college 
lines 38 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu . ,  ( tom bruno ) writes 

wow. leave your terminal for a few months and everyone you remember goes 
away how depressing. actually , there are a few familiar faces out there , 
counting bob and kent , but i do n't seem to recognize anyone else. has anyone 
heard from graham matthews recently , or has he gotten his degree and sailed 
for greener pastures  ( tm ) 

which brings me to the point of my posting. how many people out there have 
been around alt.atheism since 1990 i 've done my damnedest to stay on top of 
the newsgroup , but when you fall behind , you really fall behind  ( it 's still not 
as bad as rec . arts . startrek . used to be , but i digress) .  . has anyone tried to 
keep up with the deluge inquiring minds want to know ! also does anyone 
keep track of where the more infamous posters to alt.atheism end up , once they 
leave the newsgroup just curious , i guess. 

cheers , 
tom bruno 


i am one of those people who always willl have unlimited stores of unfounded 
respect for people who have been on newsgroups mailing lists longer than i 
have , so you certainly have my sympathy tom .  . i have only been semi regularly 
posting  ( it is keep up ) since this february , but i have been reading 
and following the threads since last august my school 's newsreader was down 
for months and our incompetent computing services never bothered to find a new 
feed site , so it was n't accepting outgoing postings .  . i do n't think anyone 
keeps track of where other posters go it 's that old love 'em and leave 'em 
internet for you again .  .  .  . 


best regards , 


adam john cooper verily , often have i laughed at the weaklings 
who thought themselves good simply because 
they had no claws .  . 


from  ( jeffrey clark ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
keywords dan bissell 
nntp posting host kraken . itc . gu . edu . au . 
organization itc , griffith university , brisbane , australia 
lines 70 

 ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

the book says that jesus was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 
modern day koresh ) or he was actually who he said he was. 

or he was just convinced by religious fantasies of the time that he was the 
messiah , or he was just some rebel leader that an organisation of jews built 
into godhood for the purpose off throwing of the yoke of roman oppression , 
or .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie 

are the moslem fanatics who strap bombs to their backs and driving into 
jewish embassies dying for the truth  ( hint they think they are ) were the 
nazi soldiers in wwii dying for the truth 

people die for lies all the time. 


would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar people 

was hitler a liar how about napoleon , mussolini , ronald reagan we spend 
millions of dollars a year trying to find techniques to detect lying so the 
answer is no , they would n't be able to tell if he was a liar if he only lied 
about some things. 

gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
someone who was or had been healed .  . call me a fool , but i believe he did 
heal people. 

why do you think he healed people , because the bible says so but if god 
does n't exist  ( the other possibility ) then the bible is not divinely 
inspired and one ca n't use it as a piece of evidence , as it was written by 
unbiased observers .  . 

niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 

were hitler or mussolini lunatics how about genghis khan , jim jones .  .  .  . 
there are thousands of examples through history of people being drawn to 
lunatics .  . 

anyone who is drawn to david koresh is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 
therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 

so we obviously cannot rule out liar or lunatic not to mention all the other 
possibilities not given in this triad .  . 

some other things to note. he fulfilled loads of prophecies in 
the psalms , isaiah and elsewhere in 24 hrs alone. this in his betrayal 

possibly self fulfilling prophecy  ( ie he was aware what he should do in 
order to fulfil these prophecies ) , possibly selective on behalf of 
those keepers of the holy bible for a thousand years or so before the 
general public had access. possibly also that the text is written in such 
riddles  ( like nostradamus ) that anything that happens can be twisted to fit 
the words of raving fictional 'prophecy' .  . 

and crucifixion .  . i do n't have my bible with me at this moment , next time i 
write i will use it. 
stuff about how hard it is to be a christian deleted 

i severely recommend you reconsider the reasons you are a christian , they 
are very unconvincing to an unbiased observer .  . 

jeff .  . 


from  ( mark mccullough ) 
subject re idle questions for fellow atheists 
organization university of wisconsin , madison computer sciences dept. 
lines 43 

in article writes 

i wonder how many atheists out there care to speculate on the face of the world 
if atheists were the majority rather than the minority group of the population .  . 

probably we would have much the same problems with only a slight shift in 
emphasis .  . weekends might not be so inviolate  ( more common to work 7 days 
a week in a business ) , and instead of american atheists , we would have 
similar , religious organizations .  . a persons religious belief seems more 
as a crutch and justification for actions than a guide to determine actions .  . 
of course , people would have to come up with more fascinating 
rationalizations for their actions , but that could be fun to watch .  .  .  . 

it seems to me , that for most people , religion in america does n't matter 
that much. you have on both ends , but a large majority do n't 
make too much of an issue about it as long as you do n't .  . now , admittedly , 
i have never had to suffer the bible belt , but i am just north of it 
and see the fringes , and the reasonable people in most things tend to be 
reasonable in religion as well. 


also , how many atheists out there would actually take the stance and accor a 
higher value to their way of thinking over the theistic way of thinking. the 
typical selfish argument would be that both lines of thinking evolved from the 
same inherent motivation , so one is not , intrinsically , different from the 
other , qualitatively .  . but then again a measuring stick must be drawn 
somewhere , and if we cannot assign value to a system of beliefs at its core , 
than the only other alternative is to apply it to its periphery ie , how it 
expresses its own selfishness .  . 


i do n't bother according a higher value to my thinking , or just about 
anybodys thinking. i do n't want to fall in that trap .  . because if you 
do start that , then you are then to decide which is better , says whom , 
why , is there a best , and also what to do about those who have inferior 
modes of thinking.  ( infinite diversity in infinite combinations . ) . 
i 'll argue it over a soda , but not over much more. 

just my .12  ( what inflation has done .  .  . ) . 

m 2 



from 
subject re death penalty gulf war  ( long ) 
lines 346 

in article , mathew writes 
writes 
in article , mathew 
writes 
which liberal news media are we talking about 

western news in general , but in particular the american mass media 
cbs , nbc , abc , etc. the general tone of the news during the whole 
war was one of those poor , poor iraqis along with look how precisely 
this cruise missile blew this building to bits . 

most odd. over here there was very little about the suffering of the iraqi 
civilians until towards the end of the war and then it was confined to the 
few remaining quality newspapers. 

true. at first , the news media seemed entranced by all the new gizmos 
the military was using , not to mention the taped video transmissions from 
the missiles as they zeroed in on their targets .  . but later , and especially 
after the bunker full of civilians was hit , they changed their tone. it 
seemed to me that they did n't have the stomach for the reality of war , 
that innocent people really do die and are maimed in warfare .  . it 's like 
they were only pro gulf war as long as it was nice and clean  ( smart 
missiles dropping in on military hqs ) , but not when pictures of dead , 
dying , and maimed civilians started cropping up. what naive hypocrites ! 


how about all the innocent people who died in blanket bombing in ww2 
i do n't hear you bemoaning them ! 

discussion about blanket bombing and a bombs deleted. 

all things considered , the fire bombings and the atomic bomb were 
essential  ( and therefore justified ) in bringing the war to a quick 

end to avoid even greater allied losses .  . 

i should have said here militarily justified . it seems from your 
comments below that you understood this as meaning morally justified . 
i apologize .  . 


what about the evidence that america knew japan was about to surrender after 
hiroshima but before nagasaki is that another lie peddled by the liberal 
media conspiracy 

i have often wondered about this. i 've always thought that the first bomb 
should have been dropped on japan 's island fortress of truk .  . a good , 
military target. the second bomb could 've been held back 
for use on an industrial center if need be. but i digress .  . 

yes , i have heard that we found evidence  ( after the war , btw) that japan 
was seriously considering surrender after the first bomb .  . unfortunately , 
the military junta won out over the moderates and rejected the us 's 
ulimatum .  . therefore the second bomb was dropped .  . most unfortunate , imo. 


i , for one , do n't regret it. 

nuke a jap for jesus ! 


i do n't regret the fact that sometimes military decisions have to be made 
which affect the lives of innocent people. but i do regret the 
circumstances which make those decisions necessary , and i regret the 
suffering caused by those decisions. 

... 

why all the fuss about kuwait and not east timor , bosnia , or even tibet 
if iraq is so bad , why were we still selling them stuff a couple of weeks 
before we started bombing 

i make no claim or effort to justify the misguided foreign policy of the 
west before the war. it is evident that the west , especially america , 
misjudged hussein drastically .  . but once hussein invaded kuwait and 
threatened to militarily corner a significant portion of the world 's 
oil supply , he had to be stopped .  . 

oh , i see. so we can overlook his using chemical weapons on thousands of 
people , but if he threatens your right to drive a huge gas guzzling car , 
well , the man 's gotta go. 

actually , it was the fact that both situations existed that prompted us 
and allied action. if some back water country took over some other 
back water country , we probably would n't intervene .  . not that we do n't 
care , but we ca n't be the world 's policman .  . or if a coup had occured 
in kuwait  ( instead of an invasion ) , then we still would n't have acted 
because there would not have been the imminent danger perceived to 
saudi arabia .  . but the combination of the two , an unprovoked invasion 
by a genocidal tyrant and the potential danger to the west 's oil 
interests , caused us to take action. 


i 've moved a paragraph from here to later on 


... 

if we had n't intervened , allowing hussein to keep kuwait , then it would 
have been appeasement .  . 

right. but did you ever hear anyone advocate such a course of action or 
are you just setting up a strawman 


i'm not setting up a strawman at all. if you want to argue against the 
war , then the only logical alternative was to allow hussein to keep 
kuwait .  . diplomatic alternatives , including sanctions , were ineffective .  . 

i guess we 
should n't have fought ww2 either just think of all those innocent 
german civilians killed in dresden and hamburg .  . 

yes , do. germans are human too , you know. 

sure. what was truly unfortunate was that they followed hitler in 
his grandiose quest for a thousand year reich . the consequences 
stemmed from that. 

translation they were asking for it . 

well , in a sense , yes. they probably had no idea of what end hitler 
would lead their nation to. 

but what about those who did n't support hitler 's dreams of conquest it 's 
not as if they democratically voted for all his policies .  . the got 43 
in the elections of 1933 , and that was the last chance the german people got 
to vote on the matter. 

they suffered along with the rest. why does this bother you so much 
the world is full of evil , and circumstances are not perfect. many 
innocents suffer due to the wrongful actions of others. it it regretable , 
but that 's the way it is. there are no perfect solutions. 

... 

i look forward to hearing your incisive comments about east timor and 
tibet .  . 

what should i say about them anything in particular 

the people of east timor are still being killed by a dictatorship that 
invaded their country. hell , even western journalists have been killed. all 
this was happening before the gulf war. why did n't we send in the bombers to 
east timor why are n't we sending in the bombers now 

probably because we 're not the saviors of the world. we ca n't police each 
and every country that decides to self destruct or invade another. nor 
are we in a strategic position to get relief to tibet , east timor , or 
some other places. 

here 's that paragraph i moved 

what 's your intent to sound like a loving christian well , you are n't 
doing a very good job of it. 

well , it 's not very loving to allow a hussein or a hitler to gobble up 
nearby countries and keep them. or to allow them to continue with mass 
slaughter of certain peoples under their dominion .  . so , i 'd have to 
say yes , stopping hussein was the most loving thing to do for the 
most people involved once he set his mind on military conquest .  . 

the chinese government has a policy of mandatory abortion and sterilization 
of tibetans .  . tibetan people are rounded up , tortured , and executed .  . amnesty 
international recently reported that torture is still widespread in china .  . 

why are n't we stopping them in fact , why are we actively sucking up to them 
by trading freely with them 

tell me how we could stop them and i 'll support it. i , for one , do not 
agree with the present us policy of sucking up to them as you put it. 
i agree that it is deplorable .  . 


and as for poor , poor rodney king ! did you ever stop and think why 
the jury in the first trial brought back a verdict of not guilty 

yes. amongst the things i thought were hmm , there 's an awful lot of white 
people in that jury .  . 

so it was the policemen on trial not rodney king ! ! 

erm , surely it 's irrelevant who 's on trial juries are supposed to represent 
a cross section of the population .  . 

are they or are they supposed to reflect the population of the locale 
where the trial is held  ( normally this is where the crime is committed 
unless one party or the other can convince the judge a change of venue 
is in order . ) . i'm not an expert on california law , or even us law , but 
it seems that this is the way the system is set up. you can criticize 
the system , but let 's not have unfounded allegations of racial 
prejudice thrown around. 


and under american law they deserved a jury of their peers ! 

you are saying that black people are not the peers of white people 

no , not at all. the point is that the fact that there were no blacks 
on the first jury and that rodney king is black is totally irrelevant .  . 


this point  ( of allegedly racial motivations ) is really shallow .  . 

this idea of people only being tried before a jury of people just like them 
is really stupid. should the trials have had a jury entirely made 
up of nazis 

germans , perhaps. peers does n't mean those who do the same thing , 
like having murderers judge murderers .  . it means having people from 
the same station in life , presumably because they are in a better 
position to understand the defendent 's motivation(s) .  . 


those who have been foaming at the mouth for the blood of those 
policemen certainly have looked no further than the video tape. 
but the jury looked at all the evidence , evidence which you and i 
have not seen. 

when i see a bunch of policemen beating someone who 's lying defenceless on 
the ground , it 's rather hard to imagine what this other evidence might have 
been. 

so it 's hard to imagine so when has argument from incredulity 
gained acceptance from the revered author of constructing a logical 
argument 

we 're not talking about a logical argument. we 're talking about a court of 
law. as the faq points out , some fallacious arguments are not viewed as 
fallacies in a court of law. 

ok , granted .  . however , you are using this reasoning as part of your 
logical argument in this discussion. this is not a court of law. 


if the facts as the news commentators presented them are true , then 
i feel the not guilty verdict was a reasonable one. 

were you not talking earlier about the bias of the liberal media conspiracy 

the media is not totally monolithic .  . even though there is a prevailing 
liberal bias , programs such as the macneil lehrer news hour try to give 
a balanced and fair reporting of the news. there are even conservative 
sources out there if you know where to look.  ( hurrah for rush ! ) 

btw , i never used the word conspiracy . i do n't accept  ( without far 
more evidence ) theories that there is some all pervading liberal 
conspiracy attempting to take over all news sources. 

thou shalt not kill .  .  .  . unless thou hast a pretty good reason for killing , 
in which case thou shalt kill , and also kill anyone who gets in the way , 
as unfortunately it cannot be helped. 
jim brown bible for loving christians 

thanks mathew , i like the quote. pretty funny actually.  ( i'm a 
monty python fan , you know. kind of seems in that vein . ) . 

of course , oversimplifying any moral argument can make it seem 
contradictory .  . but then , you know that already. 

ha ha , only serious. 

i , an atheist , am arguing against killing innocent people. 

you , a supposed christian , are arguing that it 's ok to kill innocent people 
so long as you get some guilty ones as well. 

hardly .  . i did n't say that it 's a good thing tm to kill innocent people 
if the end is just .  . unfortunately , we do n't live in a perfect world and 
there are no perfect solutions. if one is going to resist tyranny , then 
innocent people on both sides are going to suffer and die. i did n't say 
it is ok it is unfortunate , but sometimes necessary. 


i , a moral relativist , am arguing that saturation bombing of german cities at 
the end of world war ii was  ( as far as i can see ) an evil and unnecessary act. 

i would agree that it was evil in the sense that it caused much pain 
and suffering .  . i'm not so sure that it was unnecessary as you say. that 
conclusion can only be arrived at by evaluating all the factors involved. 
and perhaps it was unnecessary as  ( let 's say ) we now know. that does n't 
mean that those who had to make the decision to bomb did n't see it as 
being necessary. rarely can one have full known of the consequences of 
an action before making a decision. at the time it may have seemed 
necessary enough to go ahead with it. 

but do n't assume that i feel the bombing was morally justified i 
do n't ! i just do n't condemn those who had to make a difficult 
decision under difficult circumstances .  . 


you , having criticised moral relativism in the past , are now arguing that i am 
in no position to judge the morality of allied actions at the end of the 
war. 

you certainly are not in such a position if you are a moral relativist .  . 
i , as an absolutist , am in a position to judge , but i defer judgment .  . 

you are arguing that the actions need to be assessed in the particular 
context of the time , and that they might have been moral then but not moral 
now. 

wrong. they were neither moral then nor now. they seemed necessary to 
those making the decisions to bring a quick end to the war. i simply 
refuse to condemn them for their decision. 

where 's your christian love where 's your absolute morality oh , how quick 
you are to discard them when it suits you. as ivan stang would say , jesus 
would puke ! 

one day i will stand before jesus and give account of every word and action 
even this discourse in this forum. i understand the full ramifications of 
that , and i am prepared to do so. i do n't believe that you can make the 
same claim .  . 


mathew 

and btw , the reason i brought up the blanket bombing in germany was 
because you were bemoaning the iraqi civilian casualties as being 
so deplorable . yet blanket bombing was instituted because bombing 
was n't accurate enough to hit industrial military targets in a 
decisive way by any other method at that time. but in the gulf war , 
precision bombing was the norm. so the point was , why make a big 
stink about the relatively few civilian casualties that resulted 
in spite of precision bombing , when so many more civilians 
 ( proportionately and quantitatively ) died under the blanket bombing 
in ww2 even with precision bombing , mistakes happen and some 
civilians suffer .  . but less civilians suffered in this war than 
any other other in history ! many iraqi civilians went about their lives 
with minimal interference from the allied air raids .  . the stories 
of hundreds of thousands of iraqi civilian dead is just plain bunk .  . 
yes , bunk .  . the us lost 230 , 000 servicemen in ww2 over four years 
and the majority of them were directly involved in fighting ! but 
we are expected to swallow that hundreds of thousands of 
civilian iraqis died in a war lasting about 2 months ! and with 
the allies using the most precise bombs ever created at that ! 
what hogwash .  . if hundreds of thousands of iraqi civilians died , 
it was due to actions hussein took on his own people , not due to 
the allied bombing .  . 

regards , 

jim b. 



from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 49 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 

natural morality may specifically be thought of as a code of ethics that 
a certain species has developed in order to survive. 
wait. are we talking about ethics or morals here 

is the distinction important 

we see this countless 
times in the animal kingdom , and such a natural system is the basis for 
our own system as well. 
huh 

well , our moral system seems to mimic the natural one , in a number of ways. 

in order for humans to thrive , we seem to need 
to live in groups , 
here 's your problem. we seem to need . what 's wrong with the highlighted 
word 

i do n't know. what is wrong is it possible for humans to survive for 
a long time in the wild yes , it 's possible , but it is difficult. humans 
are a social animal , and that is a cause of our success. 

and in order for a group to function effectively , it 
needs some sort of ethical code. 
this statement is not correct. 

is n't it why do n't you think so 

and , by pointing out that a species  conduct serves to propogate itself , 
i am not trying to give you your tautology , but i am trying to show that 
such are examples of moral systems with a goal. propogation of the species 
is a goal of a natural system of morality .  . 
so anybody who lives in a relationship is not moral after all , 
in order to ensure propogation of the species , every man should impregnate 
as many women as possible. 

no. as noted earlier , lack of mating  ( such as abstinence or homosexuality ) 
is n't really destructive to the system. it is a worst neutral .  . 

for that matter , in herds of horses , only the dominate stallion mates .  . when 
he dies is killed whatever , the new dominate stallion is the only one who 
mates .  . these seems to be a case of your natural system of morality trying 
to shoot itself in the figurative foot. 

again , the mating practices are something to be reexamined .  .  .  . 

keith 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 29 

in article , 
 ( ken arromdee ) wrote 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
i think many reading this group would also benefit by knowing how 
deviant the view as i 've articulated it above  ( which may not be 
the true view of khomeini ) is from the basic principles of islam .  . 

from the point ov view of an atheist , i see you claim khomeini was n't 
practicing true islam .  . but i'm sure that he would have said the same about 
you. how am i , a member of neither group , supposed to be able to tell which 
one of you two is really a true muslim 

fred rice answered this already in an early posting 
the problem with your argument is that you do not know who is a real 
believer and who may be faking it . this is something known only by 
the person him herself  ( and god) .  . your assumption that anyone who 
claims to be a believer is a believer is not necessarily true. 

in other words it seems that nobody could define who is a true and 
false muslim .  . we are back to square one , khomeini and hussein are 
still innocent and ca n't be defined as evil or good islamic 
worshippers .  . 

cheers , 
kent 


alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( andres brandt ) 
subject studies on book of mormon 
distribution world 
organization orden del lobo 
reply to 
lines 20 

hi ! 

i do n't know much about mormons , and i want to know about serious independent 
studies about the book of mormon .  . 

i do n't buy the  official  story about the gold original taken to heaven , 
but have n't read the book of mormon by myself (i have to much work learning 
biblical hebrew ) , i will appreciate any comment about the results of study 
in style , vocabulary , place names , internal consistency , and so on. 

for example there is evidence for one writer or multiple writers 
there are some mention about events , places , or historical persons later 
discovered by archeologist 

yours in collen 

andres brandt casilla 14801 santiago 21 
chile 

no hay mas realidad que la realidad , y la razon es su profeta 

from  ( rashid ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
nntp posting host 47 . 252 . 4 . 179 . 
organization nh 
lines 31 

in article , 
 ( fred rice ) wrote 

in article  ( umar khan ) writes 
stuff deleted 
what we should be demanding , is for khomeini and his ilk to publicly 
come clean and to show their proof that islamic law punishes 
apostacy with death or that it tolerates any similar form of 
coversion of freedom of conscience .  . 

all five schools of law  ( to the best of my knowledge ) support the 
death sentence for apostasy when it is accompanied by open , persistent , 
and aggravated hostility to islam .  . otherwise 
i agree , there is no legal support for punishment of disbelief .  . 
the qur'an makes it clear that belief is a matter of conscience .  . public 
or private disavowal of islam or conversion to another faith is not 
punishable  ( there are some jurists who have gone against this 
trend and insisted that apostasy is punishable  ( even by death ) but 
historically they are the exception. 

cursing and insulting the prophets falls under the category of . 


i just borrowed a book from the library on khomeini 's fatwa etc. 
lots of stuff deleted 

and , according to the above analysis , it looks like khomeini 's offering 
of a reward for rushdie 's death in fact constitutes a criminal act 
according to islamic law. 

please see my post under re yet more rushdie  ( islamic law ) . 

subject re americans and evolution 
from  ( jim halat ) 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 10 

in article j0 ,  ( dan johnson ) writes 
in article , () writes 

dan johnson 

you do n't know me , but take this hand anyway. bravo for  ( go(ds ) 0. 
beautiful ! simply beautiful ! 

jim halat 


from  ( thomas b. clark ) 
subject re so help you god in court 
reply to 
organization unc school of medicine 
lines 11 

i do n't think there is really any question about which god the courts 
mean. the request for solemnly swearing , so help you god , 
is always made after a request to pick up the bible in your left hand 
and hold up your right hand. in the courts of nc , at least , it is always 
an old and new testament .  . 

though it is hard to imagine , picking up the bible and swearing to  ( whatever ) 
god is sometimes the least of the religious influence .  . there is a court in 
greensboro , nc , where the judge routinely has everyone in the courtroom 
stand to join him in prayer at the beginning of every session. i 've thought about 
sitting through it , but i'm not terribly anxious to spend 30 days in jail .  .  .  . 

from 
subject re death penalty gulf war 
lines 232 

in article , mathew writes 
writes 
in article , mathew 
writes 
yes. fortunately we have right thinking folks like your good self in power 
and it was therefore deemed acceptable to slaughter tens or even hundreds o 
thousands of iraqis in order to liberate oil h h hkuwait .  . we won the war , 
hurrah hurrah ! 

the number of civilian iraqi deaths were way over exaggerated and 
exploited for anti war emotionalism by the liberal news media. the 
facts are that less iraqis died in the gulf war than did civilians 
in any other war of comparable size this century ! 

let 's analyze this claim a little. how is the size of a war defined by 
number of participants geographical area number of countries involved 
number of casualties 

size of armies , duration , numbers of casualties both absolute and as a 
percentage of those involved , geographical area and numbers of countries 
too , are all measures of size. in this case i 'd say the relevant 
statistic would be the number of combatants  ( total troops ) compared to 
total casualties from among the total civilian population in the 
affected geographical area. 


which other comparable wars are we talking about 

vietnam and korea might make good comparisons .  . 


which liberal news media are we talking about 


western news in general , but in particular the american mass media 
cbs , nbc , abc , etc. the general tone of the news during the whole 
war was one of those poor , poor iraqis along with look how precisely 
this cruise missile blew this building to bits . 

this was due mostly 
to the short duration coupled with precise surgical bombing techniques 
which were technically possible only recently. 

i suspect that medical advances may have something to do with it too. 

i agree. 


how about all the innocent people who died in blanket bombing in ww2 
i do n't hear you bemoaning them ! 

perhaps because the topic has n't cropped up. if you want my opinion , i think 
that the blanket bombing of german cities at the end of world war two was the 
most appalling act of wholesale slaughter this country has committed in 
centuries .  . bomber harris was no hero of mine. 

perhaps so. and maybe the atomic bomb was a mistake too. but that 's easy 
to say from our enlightened viewpoint here in the 90 's , right back 
then , it was all out war , and germany and japan had to be squashed .  . 
after all , a million or more british had already died , hundreds of 
thousands of french , a couple hundread thousand or so americans , and 
millions of russians , not to mention a few million jews , poles , and 
other people of slavic descent in german concentration camps .  . all 
things considered , the fire bombings and the atomic bomb were 
essential  ( and therefore justified ) in bringing the war to a quick 
end to avoid even greater allied losses .  . 

i , for one , do n't regret it. 


war is never an exact science , but 
with smart bombs , it 's becoming more exact with a smaller percentage 
of civilian casualties .  . sometimes mistakes are made targets are 
misidentified innocents die. that 's war the way it really is. 

entrenched political rulers operating in their own selfish interests without 
regard for the lives of other people , that is the way war really is. 

sure. and it 's the people who suffer because of them. all the more 
reason to depose these entrenched political rulers operating in their 
own selfish interests ! or do you mean that this applies to the allies 
as well 


why all the fuss about kuwait and not east timor , bosnia , or even tibet if 
iraq is so bad , why were we still selling them stuff a couple of weeks before 
we started bombing 

i make no claim or effort to justify the misguided foreign policy of the 
west before the war. it is evident that the west , especially america , 
misjudged hussein drastically .  . but once hussein invaded kuwait and 
threatened to militarily corner a significant portion of the world 's 
oil supply , he had to be stopped .  . sure the war could have been 
prevented by judicious and concerted effort on the part of the west 
before hussein invaded kuwait , but it is still hussein who is 
responsible for his decision to invade .  . and once he did so , a 
strong response from the west was required. 


mathew , your sarcasm is noted but you are completely off base here. 
you come off sounding like a complete peace nik idiot , although i 
feel sure that was not your intent .  . 

what 's your intent to sound like a loving christian well , you are n't 
doing a very good job of it. 

well , it 's not very loving to allow a hussein or a hitler to gobble up 
nearby countries and keep them. or to allow them to continue with mass 
slaughter of certain peoples under their dominion .  . so , i 'd have to 
say yes , stopping hussein was the most loving thing to do for the 
most people involved once he set his mind on military conquest .  . 

so the iraqi war was wrong , eh i'm sure that appeasement would have 
worked better than war , just like it did in ww2 , eh 

who even mentioned appeasement and what makes you think the situation is 
even remotely analogous to world war two 

i mentioned it. 

if we had n't intervened , allowing hussein to keep kuwait , then it would 
have been appeasement .  . it is precisely the lessons the world learned 
in ww2 that motivated the western alliance to war. letting hitler take 
austria and did not stop ww2 from happening , and letting 
hussein keep kuwait would not have stopped an eventual gulf war to 
protect saudi arabia .  . 


i guess we 
should n't have fought ww2 either just think of all those innocent 
german civilians killed in dresden and hamburg .  . 

yes , do. germans are human too , you know. 


sure. what was truly unfortunate was that they followed hitler in 
his grandiose quest for a thousand year reich . the consequences 
stemmed from that. 

tyrants like hussein have to be stopped .  . his kind do n't understand 
diplomacy they only understand the point of a gun. my only regret is 
that bush wimped out and did n't have the military roll into baghdad , so 
now hussein is still in power and the iraqi people 's sacrifice  ( not to 
mention the 357 americans who died ) was for naught .  . 

i look forward to hearing your incisive comments about east timor and tibet .  . 

what should i say about them anything in particular 


and as for poor , poor rodney king ! did you ever stop and think why 
the jury in the first trial brought back a verdict of not guilty 

yes. amongst the things i thought were hmm , there 's an awful lot of white 
people in that jury .  . 

so it was the policemen on trial not rodney king ! ! and under american 
law they deserved a jury of their peers ! if there had been black 
officers involved , i'm sure their would have been black jurors too. 
this point  ( of allegedly racial motivations ) is really shallow .  . 


those who have been foaming at the mouth for the blood of those 
policemen certainly have looked no further than the video tape. 
but the jury looked at all the evidence , evidence which you and i 
have not seen. 

when i see a bunch of policemen beating someone who 's lying defenceless on 
the ground , it 's rather hard to imagine what this other evidence might have 
been. 

so it 's hard to imagine so when has argument from incredulity 
gained acceptance from the revered author of constructing a logical 
argument can we expect another revision soon )  ( just kidding . ) . 


if there is some wonderful evidence , why is it seemingly being kept secret 
why not tell everyone what it is then everyone could say oh , yes , you 're 
right , king deserved a good beating , and we could all live happily ever 
after. 

i have to admit that i wonder this too. but neither the prosecution 
nor the defense is talking. so one cannot conclude either way due to 
the silence of the principals .  . 


law in this country is intended to protect the rights of the accused , 
whether they be criminals or cops .  . one is not found guilty if there is 
a reasonable doubt of one 's guilt , and only the jury is in a position 
to assess the evidence and render a verdict .  . 

fine , but i'm still finding it hard to imagine what the reasonable doubt 
was in this case. i mean , the cops certainly seem to be beating someone 
who 's lying defenceless on the ground. what 's your explanation mass 
hallucination orbital mind control lasers faked video footage do tell. 


ok. it certainly seemed to me that there was excessive force involved. 
and frankly , the original not guilty verdict baffled me too. but then 
i learned that the prosecution in the first case did not try to convict 
on a charge of excessive force or simple assault which they probably 
would have won , they tried to get a conviction on a charge of aggravated 
assault with intent to inflict serious bodily harm .  . a charge , which 
news commentators said , was akin to attempted murder under california 
law. based on what the prosecution was asking for , it 's evident that 
the first jury decided that the officers were not guilty . note , 
not not guilty of doing wrong , but not guilty of aggravated assault 
with the intent of inflicting serious bodily harm .  . the seeds of the 
prosecutions defeat were in their own overconfidence in obtaining a 
verdict such that they went for the most extreme charge they could. 

if the facts as the news commentators presented them are true , then 
i feel the not guilty verdict was a reasonable one. 


mathew 
thou shalt not kill .  .  .  . unless thou hast a pretty good reason for killing , 
in which case thou shalt kill , and also kill anyone who gets in the way , 
as unfortunately it cannot be helped. 
jim brown bible for loving christians 

thanks mathew , i like the quote. pretty funny actually.  ( i'm a 
monty python fan , you know. kind of seems in that vein . ) . 

of course , oversimplifying any moral argument can make it seem 
contradictory .  . but then , you know that already. 

regards , 

jim b. 
loving christian ) 


from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re jews ca n't hide from 
organization sgi 
lines 16 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article , writes 
in article ,  ( jon livesey ) writes 

well , germany was hardly the only country to discriminate against the 
jews , although it has the worst reputation because it did the best job 
of expressing a general european dislike of them. this should not turn 
into a debate on antisemitism , but you should also point out that luther 's 
antisemitism was based on religious grounds , while hitler 's was on racial 
grounds , and 's on aesthetic grounds .  . just blanketing the whole 
group is poor analysis , even if they all are bigots .  . 

i find these to be intriguing remarks .  . could you give us a bit 
more explanation here for example , which religion is anti semitic , 
and which aesthetic 

jon .  . 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re free moral agency and jeff clark 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 30 

in article 
 ( tammy r healy ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 
you also said , why did millions suffer for what adam and ee did seems a 
pretty sick way of going about creating a universe .  .  .  . 

i'm gonna respond by giving a small theology lesson forgive me , i used 
to be a theology major .  . 
first of all , i believe that this planet is involved in a cosmic struggle 
the great controversy christ and satan (i borrowed a book title) .  . 
god has to consider the interests of the entire universe when making 
decisions. 
 ( deletion ) 

an universe it has created. by the way , can you tell me why it is less 
tyrannic to let one of one 's own creatures do what it likes to others 
by your definitions , your god has created satan with full knowledge what 
would happen including every choice of satan .  . 

can you explain us what free will is , and how it goes along with omniscience 
did n't your god know everything that would happen even before it created the 
world why is it concerned about being a tyrant when noone would care if 
everything was fine for them that the whole idea comes from the possibility 
to abuse power , something your god introduced according to your description 


by the way , are you sure that you have read the faq especially the part 
about preaching 
benedikt 

from nanci ann miller nm0w 
subject re dear mr. theist 
organization sponsored account , school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 31 

nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

 ( stilgar ) writes 
means to me. the full quote  ( michael crichton , jurrasic park ) was 
something like the earth has existed quite contently for billions of 
years. we have been here but for the blink of an eye , and if we were gone 
tomorrow , the earth would not miss us. . i remember this quote to keep 
myself humble when thinking that we have progressed so far or that we 
are masters of this planet. 

cool quote. 

the earth does n't need saving , it 's existed quite happily with 
out us , we are the ones who need saving .  . 

better watch it. the theists will jump on you for that .  .  .  . ) 

brian west .  . 

this is not a sig file to the earth , we have been 
this is not a sig file here but for the blink of an 
ok , so it's a sig file eye , if we were gone tomorrow , 
posted by we would not be missed. 
who does n't care who knows it.  ( jurassic park ) 
i said this , i meant this , nobody made me do it. 

nanci 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
if you know  ( and are sure of ) the author of this quote , please send me 
email  ( nm0w 
lying to ourselves is more deeply ingrained than lying to others. 


from  ( brian cash ) 
subject re i do n't beleive in you either. 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 9 

in article , writes 
i stopped believing in you as well , long before the invention of technology. 

god 


ahhh go back to alt . autotheism . where you belong ! 

brian 

from  ( brian cash ) 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 51 

in article , writes 
in article ,  ( mukesh prasad ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( steve davis ) writes 
 ( brian kendig ) writes 

the earth is evil because satan rules over it. 

this is a new one to me. i guess it 's been a while since a witness 
bothered with me. are they implying that satan is omniscient you 
might try tricking them into saying that satan is  all knowing  and 
then use that statement to show them how their beliefs are 
self contradictary .  . 

no , satan is not omniscient , but he does hold dominion over the earth 
according to christian theology  ( note , not to be confused with jw 's 
theology) .  . 


what are the standard theologies on who what created satan , 
and why 


orthodox christian theology states that god created lucifer  ( satan ) 
along with the other angels , presumably because he wanted beings to 
celebrate  ( glorify ) existence and life  ( and thereby , god) along with 
him. actually the whys and wherefores of god 's motivations for 
creating the angels are not a big issue within christian theology .  . 

but god created lucifer with a perfect nature and gave him along with 
the other angels free moral will. lucifer was a high angel  ( perhaps 
the highest ) with great authority .  . it seems that his greatness caused 
him to begin to take pride in himself and desire to be equal to or 
greater than god. he forgot his place as a created being. he exalted 
himself above god , and thereby evil and sin entered creation. 

actually , the story goes that lucifer refused to bow before man as 
god commanded him to. lucifer was devoted to god. 

oh yeah , there is nothing in genesis that says the snake was anything 
more than a snake  ( well , a talking one .  .  . had . legs at the time , too) .  . 

i do n't think pointing out contradictions in stories is the best way 
to show the error in theology if they think a supernatural entity 
kicked the first humans out of paradise because they bit into a 
fruit that gave them special powers .  .  . well . , they might not respond 
well to reason and logic .  . ) 

brian 



from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re objective morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization sgi 
lines 46 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

in another part of this thread , you 've been telling us that the 
goal of a natural morality is what animals do to survive. 

that 's right. humans have gone somewhat beyond this though. perhaps 
our goal is one of self actualization .  . 

humans have gone somewhat beyond what , exactly in one thread 
you 're telling us that natural morality is what animals do to 
survive , and in this thread you are claiming that an omniscient 
being can definitely say what is right and what is wrong. so 
what does this omniscient being use for a criterion the long 
term survival of the human species , or what 

how does omniscient map into definitely being able to assign 
right and wrong to actions 


but suppose that your omniscient being told you that the long 
term survival of humanity requires us to exterminate some 
other species , either terrestrial or alien .  . 

now you are letting an omniscient being give information to me. this 
was not part of the original premise .  . 

well , your original premises have a habit of changing over time , 
so perhaps you 'd like to review it for us , and tell us what the 
difference is between an omniscient being be able to assign right 
and wrong to actions , and telling us the result , is. 


does that make it moral to do so 

which type of morality are you talking about in a natural sense , it 
is not at all immoral to harm another species  ( as long as it does n't 
adversely affect your own , i guess) .  . 

i'm talking about the morality introduced by you , which was going to 
be implemented by this omniscient being that can definitely assign 
right and wrong to actions .  . 

you tell us what type of morality that is. 

jon .  . 

from 
subject idle questions for fellow atheists 
organization college 
lines 26 


i wonder how many atheists out there care to speculate on the face of the world 
if atheists were the majority rather than the minority group of the population .  . 
it is rather a ridiculous question in some ways , i know , but my newsreader is 
down so i am not getting any new postings for a bit , so i figure i might as 
well post something new myself. 

also , how many atheists out there would actually take the stance and accor a 
higher value to their way of thinking over the theistic way of thinking. the 
typical selfish argument would be that both lines of thinking evolved from the 
same inherent motivation , so one is not , intrinsically , different from the 
other , qualitatively .  . but then again a measuring stick must be drawn 
somewhere , and if we cannot assign value to a system of beliefs at its core , 
than the only other alternative is to apply it to its periphery ie , how it 
expresses its own selfishness .  . 

idle thoughts .  .  .  . 


adam 


adam john cooper verily , often have i laughed at the weaklings 
who thought themselves good simply because 
they had no claws .  . 


from  ( mats andtbacka ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization unorganized usenet postings uninc .  . 
lines 51 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 15 32 04 gmt 
x news reader vms news 1.24 

in writes 

if some society came up with a good reason for why rape and murder are ok i 
would be consistent with my position and hold that it was still wrong. my 
basis of morality is not on societal norms , or on current legalities .  . my 
basis is , surprise surprise , on both the bible and on inherent moral 
, 

ah ! but what , exactly , is inherently abhorrent and why is it so 
what you 're saying is , in effect , i think some things are repulsive , 
and i know a whole bunch of other people who agree with me , so they 
should be deemed absolutely immoral now and forever , period . 

which in and of itself is nice enough to some extent i agree with 
you. but i do not agree that things are  inherently  or  absolutely  
immoral they are labeled  immoral  each for its own good reason , and if 
the reason can even theoretically change , then so can the label. 

... 
yes , that 's vague , and the only way i know off the top of my head to 
defend it is to say that all humans are similarly made. yes , that falls 
into the trap of creation , 

no it does n't .  . humans are to some extent similar , because we all 
belong to the same species that that species has evolved is another 
story altogether. to a certain extent evolution can even lend credence 
to moral absolutism  ( of a flavour) .  . 

... 
my arguments are that it is better to exhibit trust , goodness , 
love , respect , courage , and honesty in any society rather than deceipt , 
hatred , disrespect , cowardness , and dishonesty .  . 

you 're saying morality is what 'll keep society alive and kicking .  . 
it is , i think , up to a point but societies are not all alike , and 
neither are their moralities .  . 

no , i have n't been everywhere and 
seen everyone , but , according to my thesis , i do n't have to , since i hold that 
we were all created similarly .  . 

similar ! identical .  . 

if that makes an unfalsifiable thesis , just say 
so , and i 'll both work out what i can and punt to fellow theists .  . 

no , it 's falsifiable through finding someoe who was created 
different , whatever that might be in the real world. 


disclaimer it 's great to be young and insane ! 

from  ( dave choweller ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization california state university , san bernardino 
lines 45 
nntp posting host silicon . csci . csusb . edu . 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
stuff deleted .  .  .  . 
to the newsgroup at large , how about this for a deal recognise that what 
happened in former communist russia has as much bearing on the validity 
of atheism as has the doings of sundry theists on the validity of their 
theism .  . that 's zip , nada , none. the fallacy is known as ad hominem , and 
it 's an old one. it should be in the holy faq , in the book of constructing 
a logical argument ) 

apart from not making a lot of sense , this is wrong. there 
is no atheist creed that taught any communist what to do in 
the name of atheism . there clearly are theistic creeds and 
instructions on how to act for theists .  . they all madly 
conflict with one another , but that 's another issue. 

lack of instructions on how to act might also be evil. 

that 's like saying that , since mathematics includes no instructions on 
how to act , it is evil. atheism is not a moral system , so why should 
it speak of instructions on how to act atheism is simply lack of 
belief in god . 

plenty of theists 
think so. so one could argue the case for atheism causes whatever 
i did n't like about the former ussr with as much validity as theism 
causes genocide that is to say , no validity at all. 

i think the argument that a particular theist system causes genocide 
can be made more convincingly than an argument that atheism causes genocide .  . 
this is because theist systems contain instructions on how to act , 
and one or more of these can be shown to cause genocide .  . however , since 
the atheist set of instructions is the null set , how can you show that 
atheism causes genocide 

david choweller 

there are scores of thousands of human insects who are 
ready at a moment 's notice to reveal the will of god on 
every possible subject. george bernard shaw .  . 

there are scores of thousands of human insects who are 
ready at a moment 's notice to reveal the will of god on 
every possible subject. george bernard shaw .  . 

from  ( james felder ) 
subject re so help you god in court 
organization nasa lewis resaerch center 
lines 35 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host hopper3 . lerc . nasa . gov . 

in article , andrew newell writes 
in article , 
 ( mark mccullough ) says 

in article  ( david 
n monack ) writes 
another issue is that by having to request to not be required to 
recite the so help me god part of the oath , a theistic jury may be 
prejudiced against your testimony even though atheism is probably not 
at all relevant to the case. 

what is the recommended procedure for requesting an alternate oath or 
affirmation 

dave 

sorry for using a follow up to respond , but my server dropped about a weeks worth of news 
when it could n't keep up. 

when the you are asked to swear so help you god and you have to say it , ask which one jesus , 
allah , vishnu , zues , odin .  . get them to be specific .  . do n't be obnoxious , just humbly ask , then 
quitely sit back and watch the fun. 




james l. felder 
technology , inc. phone 216 891 4019 
nasa lewis research center 
cleveland , ohio 44135 email 
some people drink from the fountain of knowledge , other people gargle 





from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re victims of various  good fight 's 
in reply to 's message of 12 apr 93 21 36 33 0930 
organization compaq computer corp 

lines 12 

on 12 apr 93 21 36 33 0930 ,  ( the desert brat ) said 

tdb 12. disease introduced to brazilian oher s . am .  . tribes x million 

to be fair , this was going to happen eventually. given time , the americans 
would have reached europe on their own and the same thing would have 
happened. it was just a matter of who got together first. 


ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re enviroleague 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 117 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 


a new alternative to scouting for those unacceptable to bsa for reasons 
of religious or sexual preference 


from boyd r. critz , iii 
subject enviroleague 

birth announcement on march 7 , 1993 , from earth forum , compuserve 
information service 


formal announcement 


 ( sm ) 
enviroleague 

a new youth movement , enviroleague , was recently born , according to its 
founder , boyd r. critz , iii  ( cis id , 365 ) , of peoria , illinois .  . 
enviroleague exists for the education of youth , both male and female , in 
matters concerning their values related to and responsibility for our 
environment. 

incorporated as an illinois not for profit corporation , its articles and 
initial applications for a service mark have now been filed .  . according to 
critz , its draft bylaws contain the following statement of mission and 
objectives 

mission 

it is the mission of enviroleague and its adult members 
to foster and implement the improved education of young 
people in the need to conduct their lives as stewards 
of the earth , to leave the earth in a better condition 
than they found it , and to otherwise act as responsible , 
moral and ethical users of their environment. to pursue 
the accomplishment of this mission , enviroleague shall 
seek to serve as a catalyst , focusing in common cause the 
separate efforts of all groups desiring the preservation , 
improvement , and responsible use of the environment in 
which we must all live. 

objectives 

in pursuit of the mission of enviroleague , its primary 
objectives shall be 
(1) to establish a movement involving as many 
environmentally concerned organizations as 
possible , said movement having as its primary 
focus the education and participatory 
involvement of young people in appropriate areas 
of environmental concern 
(2) to develop and provide to such organizations and 
their branches a full complement of program 
materials for their use , including suitable 
uniforms , insignia and other badges , written 
ideas , syllabi and information , literature and 
other items as shall seem appropriate and 
desirable 
 ( 3 ) to serve as a clearing house for the exchange 
of program ideas , materials and information 
among said organizations and 
 ( 4 ) to assist environmentally concerned 
organizations to recruit and train the necessary 
adult leadership for their youth programs. 

enviroleague will operate through three program divisions serving youth in 
the elementary , middle and high school grades , respectively .  . service shall be 
through formation of enviroleague teams , either by enviroleague itself or by 
environmentally conscious organizations  ( or their local branches ) wishing a 
charter to use programs developed by enviroleague .  . 

enviroleague , as it develops , will be controlled by the actual adult leaders 
of each local team , and will have no nationally imposed obstacles to 
membership or adult leadership status not based upon relevant improper 
conduct .  . organizations accepting a charter may , however , impose certain 
additional standards for their own use of the program material. should such 
organizations do so , enviroleague will commit itself to forming , as soon as 
possible , new nearby teams having no such restrictions , particularly as to 
youth membership .  . 

enviroleague will operate on the principle that youth will have much to 
contribute to developing its programs. thus , the top youth leaders of its 
teams for middle and high school youth may become involved in governing any 
local administrative groups , and those for its high school youth may be 
involved in similar functions at the national level. 

program materials are in development at this time. copies of the draft 
portions of the mentor 's manual  ( manual for adult leadership ) will be in the 
earth forum , library 17. these files will be updated as development takes 
place. 

compuserve is particularly proud that enviroleague 's founder chose this 
electronic medium to make the first public announcement of its formation .  . 
this announcement is being made simultaneously in both the outdoor and earth 
forums. 

the electronic home of enviroleague is in compuserve 's earth forum go 
earth message and library areas 17 , both named enviroleague .  . 


subsequently , enviroleague 's initial governance council has held its first 
meeting. boyd critz was elected as the first enviroleague chief guardian 
 ( equivalent to chairman of the board or ceo) .  . he can be reached at home 
(309) 675 4483 in case of real need. also , mail can be addressed to 
enviroleague 
p.o. box 418 
peoria , il 0418 

those interested in starting an enviroleague team might just establish 
contact , to receive a diskette  ( ibm dos , ascii ) with initial information. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( dave fuller ) 
subject re it 's all mary 's fault ! 
organization inc. 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 23 

 ( patrick c leger ) writes 
you know , it just occurred to me today that this whole christian thing 
can be blamed solely on mary .  . 

so , she 's married to joseph .  . she gets knocked up. what do you think 
ol' joe will do if he finds she 's been getting around so mary comes up 
with this ridiculous story about god making her pregnant. 


nice attempt chris . . . verrry close. 

you missed the conspiracy by 1 step. joseph knew who knocked her up. 
he could n't let it be known that somebody else got ol' mary prego .  . that 
would n't do well for his popularity in the local circles .  . so what 
happened is that she was feeling guilty , he was feeling embarrassed , and 
they decided to improve both of their images on what could have otherwise 
been the downfall for both. clever indeed. come to think of it . . . i 
have gained a new respect for the couple. maybe joseph and mary should 
receive all of the praise being paid to jesus .  . 

dave buckminster fuller 
how is that one  o keeper of the nicknames 


from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
distribution world , public 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 40 

in article (c . wainwright) . writes 
in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

the authorities i am referring to is the authority of the world 
islamic community over itself. my point was simply that islamic 
law does apply to muslims wherever they are despite the fact that 
islamic law may not be enforcable in non islamic countries. 

muslims residing in the uk may decide to be  tried   ( or whatever ) by the 
islamic community , but their rulings have no legal consequences in these 
isles .  . 

it 's not really their decision to be tried. the rulings do have 
legal consequences , but only in islamic law and not in uk law  ( this 
should be obvious) .  . enforcing a judgment is distinct from the making 
of a judgment .  . take for example the judgments of the world court. this 
is an internationally recognized tribunal whose judgments often have no 
physical or economic effect but which are important despite the fact 
that their judgments cannot be enforced 

the person may be excommunicated  ( or similar ) but if it decided to 
mete out violent laws such as the fatwa then it would be breaking uk laws 
itself , and the persons doing such would be liable to prosecution .  . 


of course , have you read any of this thread before this post 


to ignore 
the country 's laws in preference to religious laws which are not indigenous 
to the country in question is an absurd and arrogant notion .  . 

of course , it is a sort of anarchism .  . anarchism is explicitly against 
islam .  . thank you for your well reasoned response , but it is beside the 
points i 've been making in this thread. 


gregg 



from  ( david wood ) 
subject re gospel dating 
in reply to 's message of 4 apr 93 10 56 03 gmt 
organization software engineering institute 
lines 33 



 ( charley wingate ) writes 

david wood writes 

extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. 

more seriously , this is just a high  way of saying i do n't believe 
what you 're saying . 

are you making a meta argument here in any case , you are wrong. 
think of those invisible pink unicorns .  . 

also , the existence if jesus is not an claim .  . 

i was responding to the historical accuracy .  .  .  . of biblical claims , 
of which the existence of jesus is only one , and one that was not even 
mentioned in my post. 

you may want to 
complain that the miracles attributed to him do constitute such claims  ( and 
i wo n't argue otherwise ) , but that is a different issue. 

wrong. that was exactly the issue. go back and read the context 
included within my post , and you 'll see what i mean. 

now that i 've done you the kindness of responding to your questions , 
please do the same for me. answer the charley challenges .  . your claim 
that they are of the did not ! did so ! variety is a dishonest dodge 
that i feel certain fools only one person. 

dave wood 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 12 

in article 
 ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

the arguements he uses i am summing up. the book is about whether 
jesus was god or not. i know many of you do n't believe , but listen to a 
different perspective for we all have something to gain by listening to what 
others have to say. 

read the faq first , watch the list fr some weeks , and come back then. 

and read some other books on the matter in order to broaden your view first. 
benedikt 

from nanci ann miller nm0w 
subject re bible quiz 
organization sponsored account , school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 14 

nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

 ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
would you mind e mailing me the questions , with the pairs of answers 
i would love to have them for the next time a theist comes to my door ! 

i 'd like this too .  .  .  . maybe you should post an answer key after a while 

nanci 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
if you know  ( and are sure of ) the author of this quote , please send me 
email  ( nm0w 
it is better to be a coward for a minute than dead for the rest of your 
life. 


from  ( jim perry ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization decision support inc. 
lines 72 
nntp posting host bozo . dsinc . com . 

i apologize for the long delay in getting a response to this posted. 
i 've been working reduced hours the past couple of weeks because i had 
a son born  ( the day after umar 's article was posted , btw) .  . i did 
respond within a couple of days , but it turns out that a a 
coincidental news software rearrangement caused postings from this 
site to silently disappear rather than going out into the world. this 
is a revision of that original response. 

in article  ( umar khan ) writes 
in article  ( jim perry ) writes 
only a functional illiterate with absolutely no conception of the 
nature of the novel could think such a thing. 

this was in response to the claim that rushdie made false statements 
about the life of mohammed , with the disclaimer  ( fiction , i know , 
but where is the line between fact and fiction ) i stand by this 
distinction between fiction and false statements 

however , it 's not for his writing in the satanic verses , but for 
what people have accepted as a propagandistic version of what is 
contained in that book. i have yet to find one single muslim who 
has convinced me that they have read the book. some have initially 
claimed to have done so , but none has shown more knowledge of the book 
than a superficial newsweek story might impart , and all have made 
factual misstatements about events in the book. 

you keep saying things like this. then , you accuse people like me of 
making ad hominem arguments .  . i repeat , as i have said in previous 
postings on aa i have read tsv from cover to cover 

i had not seen that claim , or i might have been less sweeping .  . you 
have made what i consider factual misstatements about events in the 
book , which i have raised in the past , in the islam a clearer view 
thread as well as the root of the yet more rushdie re islamic law 
thread. my statement was not that you had not read the book , but that 
you had not convinced me that you inter alia had. as i said before , 
if you want to defend your position , then produce evidence , and 
respond to the evidence i have posted so far you have not. of 
course , my statement was not directly aimed at you , but broadly at a 
number of muslim posters who have repeated propaganda about the book , 
indicating that they have n't read it , and narrowly at gregg jaeger , 
who subsequently admitted that he had n't in fact read the book , 
vindicating my skepticism in at least that one case. 

so far , the only things i have to go on regarding your own case are a ) 
the statements you made concerning the book in the a clearer view 
posting , which i have challenged  ( not interpretation , but statements 
of fact , for instance rushdie depicts the women of the most 
respected family in all of islam as whores ) , and b ) your claim  ( which 
i had not seen before this) that you have indeed read it cover to 
cover. i am willing to try to resolve this down to a disagreement on 
critical interpretation , but you 'll have to support your end , by 
responding to my criticism. i have no doubt as to the ability of a 
particular muslim to go through this book with a highlighter finding 
passages to take personal offense at , but you have upheld the view 
that tsv is intended as an attack on islam and upon muslims . this 
view must be defended by more than mere assertion , if you want anyone 
to take it seriously. 

i am trying very hard to be amicable and rational .  . 

and i appreciate it , but welcome to the club. i am defending my 
honest opinion that this book should not be construed as a calculated 
 ( or otherwise ) insulting attack on islam , and the parallel opinion 
that most of the criticism of the book i have seen is baseless 
propaganda .  . i have supported my statements and critical 
with in context quotes from the book and rushdie 's 
essays , which is more than my correspondents have done. of course , 
you are more than welcome to do so. 

jim perry decision support , inc. , matthews nc 
these are my opinions. for a nominal fee , they can be yours. 

from  ( mark schlegel ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 86 

 ( bake timmons ) writes 

atheism denies the existence of god. this is logically bankrupt 
where is the proof of this nonexistence it 's a joke. 

this is one of my favorite fallacious points against atheism , i.e. the 
belief that you ca n't deny anything that you ca n't prove does n't exist. 
this is easily nailed by showing that an infinite number of beings are 
conceivable but not observed to exist , does this mean that we would have 
to believe in all of them according to the above poster , we must believe 
in objects or beings that have n't been proved not to exist so why stop at 
god  ( there could be a huge number of beings identical to ronald reagan 
except for trivial differences , say one is missing a finger , one has blond 
hair , ... and they all live on other planets so we ca n't see them) the 
reason no one but atheists bring this up is that none of these christians 
have a vested interest in these unknown beings with the exception of god. 

fine , but why do these people shoot themselves in the foot and mock the idea of 
a god here again is a classic atheist fallacy .  . 

how did they shoot themselves in the foot 

radical muslims , the crusades , the inquisition are common examples that 
atheists like to bring up as marks against religion. how weak ! only fools can 
take that drivel seriously. how about the grand daddy of all human atrocities , 
the stalinist movement 
twenty eight million people killed under this leadership , which 
proudly featured atheism .  . 

there is a big difference here , stalin did n't say that he stood for a 
particular moral position (i . e .  . against murder and terrorism , etc . ) . and 
then did the opposite  ( like the religious movements ) , he was at least 
an honest killer .  .  ( this is not a support of stalin but an attack on this 
viewpoint) .  . saying that atheism supports murder and violence just because 
one man was a tyrant and an atheist is just bad logic , look at all the 
russians that helped stalin that were n't atheists do n't they contradict 
your point besides your point assumes that his atheism was relevant 
to his murdering people , this is just the common assumption that atheists 
ca n't value life as much as theists  ( which you did n't support) .  . 

agnostics are not as funny because they are more reasonable .  . yet 
they do in some sense seem funny because they believe that the existence of god 
is unknowable .  . this in itself is every bit the assumption that atheism is , 
though it 's less arrogant and pompous .  . 

ah , and here 's another point you did n't get out of the faq .  . an atheist 
does n't have to hold the positive view that god does n't exist , he she may 
just have the non existence of the positive belief .  . here 's the example 

strong atheism i believe god does not exist a positive belief 

weak atheism i do n't believe in a god a negative belief 

these are not the same , some one that has never thought of the idea of 
god in their whole life is technically an atheist , but not the kind that 
you are calling unreasonable .  . or let 's look at it this way  ( in sets ) 

suppose that a given person has a huge set of ideas that i will represent 
as capital letters and these people then either believe that these ideas 
exist as real objects or not. so if s santa , then  ( e(s ) no is the person 
not believing in santa but still having the idea of santa .  . but notice that 
even  ( e(s ) no is itself another idea ! this means you have lots of cases 

christian (a , e(a) yes , b ,  ( e(b ) no , . . . g ,  ( e(g ) yes .  .  .  .  .  . ) . where g god 

atheist  ( strong ) (a , e(a) .  . . . .  . g . ,  ( e(g ) no ) 

atheist  ( weak ) (a ,  .  .  .  .  . e) . i.e. no g at all in the set 

agnostic (a ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  . g . ,  ( e(g ) indeterminate , e  ,  .  .  .  . ) . 


why are people so afraid to say undecided it must just be another 
feature of human nature undecided is not a sexy , trendy , or glamorous 
word. it does not inspire much hate or conflict .  . it 's not blasphemous .  . 
it 's not political .  . in fact it is too often taken to mean unsophisticated .  . 

nietzsche once said that a man would rather will nonexistence than not 
will at all but the darwinist way to put this is that humanity always 
prefers no or yes to a maybe because indecision is not a useful survival 
trait , evolution has drilled it in us to take positions , even false ones. 


bake timmons , iii 

m.s. 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re is keith as ignorant as he seems 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 16 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( mike mcangus ) writes 

no , everything would n't be ok , but it would be a start. 
now wait , if the religious organizations were no longer tax exempt , what 
other beef could you have they would then have as much right to lobby 
as would any other group. 
you asked would everything be okay . i answered no. everything 
encompasses more than just the tax exempt status of religious 
organizations .  . 

well , if everything would n't be okay , then tell us what it is that 
would n't be okay. that is , if religions were no longer tax exempt , then 
what would be wrong with their lobbying or otherwise attempting to 
influence politics 

keith 

from  ( ray fischer ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization netcom .  . san jose , california 
lines 91 

 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes ... 
 ( ray fischer ) writes 
 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes ... 
plus questions for you why do subjectivists relativists nihilists get so 
het up about the idea that relativism is better than objectivism 

to the degree that relativism is a more accurate decription of the 
truth than is objectivism , it provides more power and ability to 
control events. 

i think you lose the right to talk about the truth once you say values are 
relative .  . accuracy is a value judgement , too. it so happens i agree with 
the substance of what you say below , but it 's clear to me that at least 
some values are objective .  . truth is better than falsehood , peace is 
better than war , education is better than ignorance .  . we know these things , 
if we know anything. 

while i 'll agree that these are generally held to be good things , i 
question whether they come very close to being objective values .  . 
especially considering that at one time or another each has been 
viewed as being undesirable .  . i doubt you could even come up with 
anything that could be said to be universally good or bad . 

and when i referred to the truth i was using the term 
hypothetically , realizing full well that there may not even be such a 
thing. 

assuming , for the moment , that morals are relative , then two 
relativists can recognize that neither has a lock on the absolute 
truth and they can proceed to negotiate a workable compromise that 
produces the desired results. 

no they cannot , because they acknowledge up front that the desired 
results do not exist. that , after all , is the meaning of compromise .  . 

plus some problems if the relativists have no values in common , compromise 
is impossible what happens then who , if anyone , is right what happens 
if one relativist has a value never compromise . a value plant bombs in 
crowded shopping areas after all , if morals are relative , these values 
cannot meaningfully be said to be incorrect .  . 

true enough. but they cannot be said to be anything more than 
personal morals .  . one thing notably lacking in most extremists is any 
sense of personal accountability the justification for any 
socially unacceptable behaviour is invariably some higher authority 
 ( aka , absolute moral truth) .  . 

assuming that there is an absolute morality , two disagreeing 
objectivists can either be both wrong or just one of them right there 
is no room for compromise .  . once you beleive in absolute morals , 
you must accept that you are amoral or that everyone who disagrees 
with you is amoral .  . 

untrue .  . one can accept that one does not know the whole truth. part 
of the objective truth about morality may well be that flexibility is 
better than rigidity , compromise is better than believing you have a lock 
on morals , etc. in the same way , i can believe in an objective reality 
without claiming to know the mechanism for quantum collapse , or who shot 
jfk .  . 

an objective truth that says one cannot know the objective truth 
interesting notion .  . ) 

certainly one can have as one 's morals a belief that compromise is 
good. but to compromise on the absolute truth is not something most 
people do very successfully. i suppose one could hold compromise as 
being an absolute moral , but then what happens when someone else 
insists on no compromise how do you compromise on compromising 

given a choice between a peaceful compromise or endless contention , 
i 'd say that compromise seems to be better . 

and i would agree. but it 's bloody to pointless to speak of it if it 's 
merely a matter of taste. is your liking for peace any better founded 
than someone else 's liking for ice cream i'm looking for a way to say 
yes to that question , and relativism is n't it. 

almost invariably when considering the relative value of one thing 
over another , be it morals or consequences , people only consider those 
aspects which justify a desired action or belief .  . in justifying a 
commitement to peace i might argue that it lets people live long 
healthy and peaceful lives. while that much may well be true , it is 
incomplete in ignoring the benefits of war killing off the most 
agressive member of society , trimming down the population , stimulating 
production. the equation is always more complex than presented .  . 
to characterize relative morals as merely following one 's own 
conscience desires is to unduly simplify it. 


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth 
than lies .  . friedrich nietzsche 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was re genocide is caused by atheism) 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 60 

in  ( cynthia kandolf ) writes 

various quotes deleted in the interest of saving a little bit of 
bandwidth , but i will copy the koran quote 
and it is he  ( god almighty ) who created the night and the 
day , and the sun and the earth all  ( the bodies ) 
swim along , each in its rounded course.  ( holy quran 21 33 ) 

as it has been pointed out , this quote makes no claim about what 
orbits what. the idea that something orbited something had been held 
as true for many years before the koran was written , so the fact that 
it says something orbits something is hardly surprising insight .  . my 
concern is with the word rounded . 

there are two interpretations of this word 
1. it means in a circle .  . this is wrong , although many believed it to 
be true at the time the koran was written. in other words , it is not 
describing our neighborhood of the universe as it really exists , but 
as it was thought to be at the time. this has implications which i 
hope are obvious to everyone. 
2. it means in a rounded shape , which could include elipses  ( the 
geometrical form which most nearly describes the orbits of the 
planets) .  . this is also not a great insight .  . look at the shapes you 
see in nature. very few of them even approach a square or rectangle 
those are human created shapes .  . everything in nature is rounded to 
some degree. even the flat earthers do n't try to claim earth is a 
rectangle .  . children who draw imaginary animals seldom give them 
rectangular bodies .  . we seem to instinctively recognize that nature 
produces rounded shapes hence , the assumption that the orbits of the 
planets would be round hardly takes divine inspiration. 

it is good to remember that every translation is to some extent an 
interpretation , so  ( as you point out below) one must really go back to 
the original arabic .  . regarding the verses relevant to nature , i prefer 
to use dr. maurice 's translations  ( in his book , the bible , the 
qur'an and science ) for in general his translations are more literal .  . 

maurice translates the portion of the verse you are addressing 
as 

 .  .  . each . one is travelling with an orbit in its own motion. 

 ( also note that the celestial bodies in the first translation quoted 
by you above is the translator 's interpolation it is not existent in 
the original arabic , which is why it is included in brackets . ) . 

perhaps someone who can read the original arabic can eliminate one of 
these interpretations at any rate , neither one of them is exactly 
impressive. 

you 're right , what the verses do contain is n't all that remarkable .  . 

however , dr. (a surgeon , that 's how he 's a dr. ) thinks it is 
significant that the above verse contains no geocentric ideas , even 
though geocentrism was all the rage up until the 17th century ( ) or so. 
 ( and this goes for the rest of the qur'an as well , which has about 750 
verses or so regarding nature , i think i remember reading once . ) . 

fred rice 


subject vonnegut atheism 
from ( .  .  . until . kings become philosophers or philosophers become kings ) 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
lines 21 



yesterday , i got the chance to hear kurt vonnegut speak at the 
university of new hampshire .  . vonnegut succeeded isaac asimov as the 
 ( honorary ) head of the american humanist association .  .  ( vonnegut is 
an atheist , and so was asimov ) before asimov 's funeral , vonnegut stood up 
and said about asimov , he 's in heaven now , which ignited uproarious 
laughter in the room.  ( from the people he was speaking to around the time 
of the funeral ) 

it 's the funniest thing i could have possibly said 
to a room full of humanists , vonnegut said at yesterday 's lecture .  . 

if vonnegut comes to speak at your university , i highly recommend 
going to see him even if you 've never read any of his novels .  . in my opinion , 
he 's the greatest living humorist .  .  ( greatest living humanist humorist as well ) 


peace , 

dana 

from  ( mats andtbacka ) 
subject re you will all go to hell ! ! ! 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 15 50 02 edt 
organization unorganized usenet postings uninc .  . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 12 

in writes 

who cares what the fellow wrote anyway i mean , it came from 
, so how could it possibly have been of any importance 



 ( disperse smileys until no longer offended ) 



disclaimer it 's great to be young and insane ! 

organization penn state university 
from andrew newell 
subject re free moral agency 
distribution na 

lines 119 

in article ,  ( bill 
conner ) says 

dean . kaflowitz . wrote 

now , what i am interested in is the original notion you were discussing 
on moral free agency .  . that is , how can a god punish a person for 
not believing in him when that person is only following his or her 
nature and it is not possible for that person to deny what his or 
her reason tells him or her , which is that there is no god 

i think you 're letting atheist mythology confuse you on the issue of 

 ( webster myth a traditional or legendary story .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . a . belief .  .  . whose . truth is accepted uncritically .  . ) 

how does that qualify 
indeed , it 's almost oxymoronic .  .  . a . rather amusing instance .  . 
i 've found that most atheists hold almost no atheist views as 
accepted uncritically , especially the few that are legend .  . 
many are trying to explain basic truths , as myths do , but 
they do n't meet the other criterions .  . 
also .  .  .  . 

divine justice. according to the most fundamental doctrines of 
christianity , when the first man sinned , he was at that time the 

you accuse him of referencing mythology , then you procede to 
launch your own xtian mythology .  .  ( this time meeting all the 
requirements of myth . ) . 

salvation .  . the idea of punishment is based on the proposition that 
everyone knows  ( instinctively ) that god exists , is their creator and 

ah , but not everyone knows that god exists. so you have 
a fallacy .  . 

there 's nothing terribly difficult in all this and is well known to 
any reasonably biblically literate christian .  . the only controversy is 

and that makes it true holding with the bible rules out controversy 
read the faq .  . if you 've read it , you missed something , so re read. 
 ( not a bad suggestion for anyone .  .  . i . re read it just before this . ) . 

with those who pretend not to know what is being said and what it 
means. when atheists claim that they do not know if god exists and 
do n't know what he wants , they contradict the bible which clearly says 
that everyone knows. the authority of the bible is its claim to be 

 .  .  . should . i repeat what i wrote above for the sake of getting 
it across you may trust the bible , but your trusting it does n't 
make it any more credible to me. 

if the bible says that everyone knows , that 's clearly reason 
to doubt the bible , because not everyone knows your alleged 
god 's alleged existance .  . 

refuted while the species wide condemnation is justified .  . those that 
claim that there is no evidence for the existence of god or that his will is 
unknown , must deliberately ignore the bible the ignorance itself is 
no excuse. 

1 ) no , they do n't have to ignore the bible .  . the bible is far 
from universally accepted. the bible is not a proof of god 
it is only a proof that some people have thought that there 
was a god.  ( or does it prove even that they might have been 
writing it as series of fiction short stories. as in the 
case of dionetics . ) . assuming the writers believed it , the 
only thing it could possibly prove is that they believed it. 
and that 's ignoring the problem of whether or not all the 
interpretations and biblical philosophers were correct. 

2 ) there are people who have truly never heard of the bible .  . 

3) again , read the faq .  . 

freedom .  . you are free to ignore god in the same way you are free to 
ignore gravity and the consequences are inevitable and well known 
in both cases. that an atheist ca n't accept the evidence means only 

bzzt .  .  . wrong . answer ! 
gravity is directly there. it does n't stop exerting a direct and 
rationally undeniable influence if you ignore it. god , on the 
other hand , does n't generally show up in the supermarket , except 
on the tabloids .  . god does n't exert a rationally undeniable influence .  . 
gravity is obvious gods are n't .  . 

secondly , human reason is very comforatble with the concept of god , so 
much so that it is , in itself , intrinsic to our nature. human reason 
always comes back to the question of god , in every generation and in 

no , human reason has n't always come back to the existance of 
god it has usually come back to the existance of god . 
in other words , it does n't generally come back to the xtian 
god , it comes back to whether there is any god. and , in much 
of oriental philosophic history , it generally does n't pop up as 
the idea of a god so much as the question of what natural forces 
are and which ones are out there. from a world wide view , 
human nature just makes us wonder how the universe came to 
be and or what  ( force(s ) are currently in control. a natural 
tendancy to believe in god only exists in religious wishful 
thinking. 

i said all this to make the point that christianity is eminently 
reasonable , that divine justice is just and human nature is much 
different than what atheists think it is. whether you agree or not 

xtianity is no more reasonable than most other religions , and 
it 's reasonableness certainly does n't merit eminence .  . 
divine justice .  .  . well . , it only seems just to those who already 
believe in the divinity .  . 
first , not all atheists believe the same things about human 
nature. second , whether most atheists are correct or not , 
you certainly are not correct on human nature. you are , at 
the least , basing your views on a completely eurocentric 
approach. try looking at the outside world as well when 
you attempt to sum up all of humanity .  . 

andrew 

zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! ! uunet ! ! ! odin ! fido ! solntze . wpd . sgi . com . ! livesey 
subject re political atheists 
from  ( jon livesey ) 


organization sgi 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

now along comes mr keith schneider and says here is an objective 
moral system . and then i start to ask him about the definitions 
that this objective system depends on , and , predictably , the whole 
thing falls apart. 

it only falls apart if you attempt to apply it. this does n't mean that 
an objective system ca n't exist. it just means that one cannot be 
implemented .  . 

it 's not the fact that it ca n't exist that bothers me. it 's 
the fact that you do n't seem to be able to define it. 

if i wanted to hear about indefinable things that might in 
principle exist as long as you do n't think about them too 
carefully , i could ask a religious person , now could n't i 

jon .  . 

from  ( mike cobb ) 
subject christian morality is 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 51 

in  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

in article  ( mike 
cobb ) writes 
in  ( robert beauchaine ) 
writes 


actually , my atheism is based on ignorance .  . ignorance of the 
existence of any god. do n't fall into the atheists do n't believe 
because of their pride mistake. 

how do you know it 's based on ignorance , could n't that be wrong why would it 
be wrong 
to fall into the trap that you mentioned 


if i'm wrong , god is free at any time to correct my mistake. that 
he continues not to do so , while supposedly proclaiming his 
undying love for my eternal soul , speaks volumes .  . 

what are the volumes that it speaks besides the fact that he leaves your 
choices up to you 

as for the trap , you are not in a position to tell me that i do n't 
believe in god because i do not wish to. unless you can know my 
motivations better than i do myself , you should believe me when i 
say that i earnestly searched for god for years and never found 
him. 

i definitely agree that it 's rather presumptuous for either side to give some 
psychological reasoning for another 's belief .  . 

mac 


bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 





michael a. cobb 
 .  .  . and . i wo n't raise taxes on the middle university of illinois 
class to pay for my programs. champaign urbana 
bill clinton 3rd debate 

with new taxes and spending cuts we 'll still have 310 billion dollar deficits .  . 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re gospel dating 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 22 

jim perry wrote 

the bible says there is a god if that is true then our atheism is 
mistaken .  . what of it seems pretty obvious to me. socrates said 
there were many gods if that is true then your monotheism  ( and our 
atheism) is mistaken , even if socrates never existed .  . 


jim , 

i think you must have come in late. the discussion  ( on my part at 
least ) began with benedikt 's questioning of the historical of 
the nt .  . i was making the point that , if the same standards are used to 
validate secular history that are used here to discredit nt history , 
then virtually nothing is known of the first century. 

you seem to be saying that the bible cannot be true because it 
speaks of the existence of god as it it were a fact. your objection 
has nothing to do with history , it is merely another statement of 
atheism .  . 

bill 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re an anecdote about islam 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 76 

in article 
 ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 
sure. yes , i did. you see i do n't think that rape and murder should 
be dealt with lightly .  . you , being so interested in leniency for 
leniency 's sake , apparently think that people should simply be 
told the did a bad thing. 


straw man. and you brought up leniency .  . 


and what about the simple chance of misjudgements 

misjudgments should be avoided as much as possible. 
i suspect that it 's pretty unlikely that , given my requirement 
of repeated offenses , that misjudgments are very likely. 


assuming that misjudgements are not correlated .  . 


 ( deletion ) 
i just love to compare such lines to the common plea of your fellow believers 
not to call each others names. in this case , to substantiate it the quran 
allows that one beats one 's wife into submission .  . 


really care to give chapter and verse we could discuss it. 


has been discussed here. chapter and verse were cited , i assume that you 
were n't looking then. 

let 's be more exact , do you think it is not in the quran . and what would 
your consequences be when it it was shown to be in it 


primitive machism refers to 
that. (i have misspelt that before , my fault) .  . 

again , not all of the orient follows the qur'an .  . so you 'll have to do 
better than that. 


i have not claimed that. it is sufficient for the argument when there are 
a lot of male dominated societies that qualify as machistic .  . are you going 
to say that the situation of women is better in areas of the 
orient 


 ( deletion ) 
this is an argument for why you do n't like religions that suppress 
sex. a such it 's an irrelevant argument. 

if you 'd like to generalize it to an objective statement then 
fine. my response is then you have given no reason for your statement 
that sex is not the business of religion  ( one of your arguments ) .  . 

the urge for sex in adolescents is not so strong that any overly strong 
measures are required to suppress it. if the urge to have sex is so 
strong in an adult then that adult can make a commensurate effort to 
find a marriage partner. 


you apparently have trouble reading things you do n't like. the point was 
having sex the way one wishes being a strong desire .  . marriage is a red 
herring .  . tell me about homosexuals , for one. you simply ignore everything 
that does n't fit into the world as you would like to have it. 

and as for the situation of adolescents , one has probably keep your 
combination of leniency and maiming in mind , whe you say that it does 
not take overly strong measures to suppress the urge for sex in 
adolescents .  . 
benedikt 

from (f .  . karner ) 
subject re jews ca n't hide from 
originator 
organization ibm advanced workstation division 
lines 50 


in article ,  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( douglas graham ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

deletions .  .  .  . 
er , jon , what ken said was 

there have previously been people like you in your country. unfortunately , 

most jews did not survive. 

that sure sounds to me like ken is accusing the guy of being a nazi .  . 

hitler and the nazis did n't spring fully formed from the forehead 
of athena .  . they did n't invent anti semitism .  . they built on a 
foundation of anti semitism that was already present in germany .  . 
this foundation of anti semitism was laid down , not by the nazis , 
but by the people i listed , and also by hundreds of years of unthinking , 
knee jerk bigotry , on the part of perfectly ordinary people , and , of 
course , their pastors and priests .  . 

what we have to worry about today is not whether some hollywood 
hitler in a black uniform is going to come striding onto the german 
stage in one unprepared step , but whether those same bedrock foundations 
of anti semitism are being laid down , little by little , in germany , 
as we speak. 

and if so , they will be laid down , not by hitlers and , who 
will come later , but by people like the poster in question. the 
people who think that casual anti semitism is acceptable , or even fun. 


deletions .  .  .  . 
i did. now may i suggest , with the greatest possible respect , that 
you go read some history 

jon .  . 

so , you consider the german poster 's remark anti semitic perhaps you 
imply that anyone in germany who does n't agree with policy in a 
nazi pray tell , how does it even qualify as casual anti semitism 
if the term does n't apply , why then bring it up 

your own bigotry is shining through. 


disclaimer the opinions expressed in this posting are mine 
solely and do not represent my employer in any way. 
f. a. karner aix technical support 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 26 

in article , 
 ( fred rice ) wrote 
fred , the problem with such reasoning is that for us non believers 
we need a better measurement tool to state that person a is a 
real muslim christian , while person b is not. as i know there are 
no such tools , and anyone could believe in a religion , misuse its 
power and otherwise make bad pr. it clearly shows the sore points 
with religion in other words show me a movement that ca n't spin 
off , , , husseins .  .  .  . ) .  . 

i do n't think such a system exists. i think the reason for that is an 
condition known as free will . we humans have got it. anybody , using 
their free will , can tell lies and half truths about any system and 
thus abuse it for their own ends. 

i do n't think such tools exist either. in addition , there 's no such 
thing as objective information. all together , it looks like religion 
and any doctrines could be freely misused to whatever purpose. 

this all reminds me of descartes  whispering deamon .  . you ca n't trust 
anything. so why bother .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

subject fluids vs liquids 
from  ( micheal cranford ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 18 

 ( brian west ) writes 
deleted 
a similar analogy can be made with glass. for those of you who do n't 
know , glass is a liquid  ( go ask your science teacher ) and does flow. 
deleted 

if your science teacher tells you glass is a liquid , try to get a different 
science teacher b ) .  . glass is a supercooled fluid , it is not a liquid  ( except 
at very high temperatures) .  . the definition of liquid includes readily takes 
the form of its container . let 's try to be more accurate here. we do n't want 
people to think we 're creationists now do we 


uucp uunet ! tektronix ! sail ! mikec or m . cranford . 
uunet ! tektronix ! sail . labs . tek . com . ! mikec principal troll 
arpa mikec resident skeptic 
csnet , tektronix 


from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re studies on book of mormon 
lines 31 
organization walla walla college 
lines 31 

in article  ( andres brandt ) writes 
from  ( andres brandt ) 
subject studies on book of mormon 
date sun , 18 apr 1993 14 15 33 cst 
hi ! 

i do n't know much about mormons , and i want to know about serious independent 
studies about the book of mormon .  . 

i do n't buy the  official  story about the gold original taken to heaven , 
but have n't read the book of mormon by myself (i have to much work learning 
biblical hebrew ) , i will appreciate any comment about the results of study 
in style , vocabulary , place names , internal consistency , and so on. 

for example there is evidence for one writer or multiple writers 
there are some mention about events , places , or historical persons later 
discovered by archeologist 

yours in collen 

andres brandt casilla 14801 santiago 21 
chile 

no hay mas realidad que la realidad , y la razon es su profeta 
i do n't think the book of mormon was supposedly translated from biblical 
hebrew .  . i 've read that prophet joseph smith traslated the gold tablets 
from some sort of egyptian ish language. 
former mormons , please post. 

tammy no trim healy 


from  ( robert singleton ) 
subject re americans and evolution 
organization of technology 
lines 122 
distribution world 
nntp posting host thnext . mit . edu . 

in article 
 ( simon clippingdale ) writes 
deleted 

... over on alt.atheism we tend to recognise two 
categories of atheism .  . function format due to , i 
think 

 ( i ) weak  ( not(believe(gods ) 

 ( ii ) strong  ( believe(not(gods ) 

deleted 



i ... am a strong atheist , and i must quibble with your assertion 
that the  position requires faith. i believe that no god s , 
as commonly described by theists , exist. this belief is merely an 

opinion , formed on the basis of observation , including a certain 

amount of introspection .  . 


i fully accept that i could be wrong , and will be swayed by suitably 
convincing evidence. thus while i believe that no gods exist , this does 

not imply faith on my part that it is so. 


let me first say that to believe that no gods exist is in fact 
different than not believing in a god or gods . 

i will argue that your latter statement , i believe that no gods exist 
does rest upon faith that is , if you are making a positive statement 
that no gods exist  ( strong atheism) rather than merely saying i do n't 
know and therefore do n't believe in them and do n't not believe in then 
 ( weak atheism) .  . once again , to not believe in god is different than saying 
i believe that god does not exist. i still maintain the position , even 
after reading the faqs , that strong atheism requires faith. 

but first let me say the following. 
we might have a language problem here in regards to faith and 
existence . i , as a christian , maintain that god does not exist. 
to exist means to have being in space and time. god does not have 
being god is being. kierkegaard once said that god does not 
exist , he is eternal .  . with this said , i feel it 's rather pointless 
to debate the so called existence of god and that is not what 
i'm doing here. i believe that god is the source and ground of 
being. when you say that god does not exist , i also accept this 
statement but we obviously mean two different things by it. however , 
in what follows i will use the phrase the existence of god in it 's 
 usual sense  and this is the sense that i think you are using it. 
i would like a clarification upon what you mean by the existence of 
god . 

we also might differ upon what it means to have faith. here is what 
webster says 

faith 
1a allegiance to duty or a person loyalty 
b (1) fidelity to one 's promises 
(2) sincerity of intentions 
2a (1) belief and trust in and loyalty to god 
(2) belief in the traditional doctrines of a religion 
b (1) firm belief in something for which there is no proof 

(2) complete trust 
3 something that is believed esp. with strong conviction esp a system 

of religious beliefs 
syn see belief 



one can never prove that god does or does not exist. when you say 
that you believe god does not exist , and that this is an opinion 
based upon observation , i will have to ask what are 
you refering to there are no observations pro or con that 
are valid here in establishing a positive belief .  . all observations 
can only point you in a direction a direction that we might even 
be predisposed to  ( by predisposed i mean , for example , people whoes 
partents believe in god also tend to) .  . to actually draw a conclusion 
about the existence or non existence of god requires a leap and 
you have made this leap when you actively say i believe that god 
does does not exist . personally , i think that both statements are 
misguided .  . arguing over the existence of god is precisely the wrong way 
to find him  ( and yes , i use him because a personal god is the only 
viable concept (imo) if a person wants to use she go ahead. of course 
god is neither he nor she but we have no choice but to 
anthropomorphise .  . if you want me to explain myself further i 'll be 
glad to . ) . 



and please , if someone does not agree with me even if they violently 
disagree it 's in no ones advantage to start name calling .  . if a person 
thinks i 've misunderstood something in the faqs , or if they they think 
i have not read them well enough , just point out to me the error of my 
ways and i correct the situation. i'm interested in a polite and well 
thought out discussion. 








cheers 

simon 

simon clippingdale 
department of computer science tel ( 44 ) 203 
university of warwick fax ( 44 ) 203 
coventry , u.k. 


bob singleton 


subject re contradictions 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 49 

in article  ( stuart r. yoder ) writes 

then what would it have to do with in the universe you theists 
cannot understand that inside the universe and outside the universe 
are two different places. put god outside the universe and you 
subtract from it the ability to interact with the inside of the 
universe , put it inside the universe and you impose the rules of 
physics on it. 

1. god is outside the universe. 
2. things outside the universe do not have  the ability to interact 
with the inside of the universe' .  . 
3. therefore god cannot interact inside the universe. 

(2) has no basis whatsoever. you seem to have positive knowledge 
about this. 

(2) is a of (1) .  . 

the negation of (2) would contridict (1) .  . 


although we do not have a complete model of the physical rules 
governing the inside of the universe , we expect that there are no 
contradictory events likely to destroy the fabric of modern physics .  . 
on the other hand , your notion of an omnipotent , omniscient and 
infinitely benevolent god , is not subject to physical laws you 
attempt to explain this away by describing it as being outside of 
them , beyond measurement .  . to me , beyond measurement means it can 
have no measurable effect on reality , so it cannot interact ergo , 
your god is irrelevant .  . 

1. god is beyond measure. 
2. beyond measurement means it can have no measurable effect on 
reality. 
3. therefore god cannot have a measurable effect on reality. 

(2) has no basis whatsoever. 

(2) is a of (1) 

the negation of (2) would contradict (1) .  . 



satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re an anecdote about islam 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 28 

in article 
 ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

when they are victimized they are muslims .  . when they victimize others 
they are not true muslims  ( tm ) or no muslims at all. 

quite annoying. 

i do n't understand the point of this petty sarcasm .  . it is a basic 
principle of islam that if one is born muslim or one says i testify 
that there is no god but god and mohammad is a prophet of god that , 
so long as one does not explicitly reject islam by word then one must 
be considered muslim by all muslims .  . so the phenomenon you 're attempting 
to make into a general rule or psychology is a direct odds with basic 
islamic principles .  . if you want to attack islam you could do better than 
than to argue against something that islam explicitly contradicts .  . 


it was no criticism of islam for a change , it was a criticism of the 
arguments used. namely , whenever people you identify as muslims are 
the victims of the attacks of others , they are used an argument for 
the bad situation of muslims .  . but whenever deeds by muslim that victimize 
others are named , they do not count as an argument because what these 
people did was not done as a true muslims .  . no mention is made how muslims 
are the cause of a bad situation of another party. 

double standards. 
benedikt 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re death penalty  ( was re political atheists ) 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 14 

this is fascinating .  . atheists argue for abortion , defend homosexuality 
as a means of population control , insist that the only values are 
biological and condemn war and capital punishment .  . according to 
benedikt , if something is , it cannot exist , which in 
this case means atheists i suppose. 
i would like to understand how an atheist can object to war  ( an 
excellent means of controlling population growth ) , or to capital 
punishment , i'm sorry but the logic escapes me. 
and why just capital punishment , what is being questioned here , the 
propriety of killing or of punishment what is the basis of the 


bill 


from  ( william mayne ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
organization florida state university computer science department 
reply to 
lines 21 

in article  ( joe vigneau ) writes 

if anything , the bsa has taught me , i do n't know , tolerance or something. 
before i met this guy , i thought all gays were 'faries' .  . so , the bsa has 
taught me to be an antibigot .  . 

i could give much the same testimonial about my experience as a scout 
back in the 1960s .  . the issue was n't gays , but the principles were the 
same. thanks for a well put testimonial .  . stan krieger and his kind who 
think this discussion does n't belong here and his intolerance is the 
only acceptable position in scouting should take notice. the bsa has 
been hijacked by the religious right , but some of the core values have 
survived in spite of the leadership and some scouts and former scouts 
have n't given up. seeing a testimonial like this reminds me that 
scouting is still worth fighting for. 

on a cautionary note , you must realize that if your experience with this 
camp leader was in the bsa you may be putting him at risk by publicizing 
it. word could leak out to the bsa gestapo .  . 

bill mayne 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re gospel dating 
lines 73 

benedikt rosenau writes 

the argument goes as follows q oid quotes appear in john , but not in 
the almost codified way they were in matthew or luke .  . however , they are 
considered to be similar enough to point to knowledge of q as such , and 
not an entirely different source. 

assuming you are presenting it accurately , i do n't see how this argument 
really leads to any firm conclusion .  . the material in john  ( i'm not sure 
exactly what is referred to here , but i 'll take for granted the similarity 
to the matt .  . luke q material ) is different hence , one could have almost 
any relationship between the two , right up to john getting it straight from 
jesus  mouth. 

we are talking date of texts here , not the age of the authors .  . the usual 
explanation for the time order of mark , matthew and luke does not consider 
their respective ages. it says matthew has read the text of mark , and luke 
that of matthew  ( and probably that of mark) .  . 

the version of the usual theory i have heard has matthew and luke 
independently relying on mark and q . one would think that if luke relied 
on matthew , we would n't have the grating inconsistencies in the geneologies , 
for one thing. 

as it is assumed that john knew the content of luke 's text. the evidence 
for that is not overwhelming , admittedly .  . 

this is the part that is particularly new to me. if it were possible that 
you could point me to a reference , i 'd be grateful. 

unfortunately , i have n't got the info at hand. it was (i think) in the late 
'70s or early '80s , and it was possibly as old as ce 200. 

when they are from about 200 , why do they shed doubt on the order on 
putting john after the rest of the three 

because it closes up the gap between  ( supposed ) writing and the existing 
copy quit a bit. the further away from the original , the more copies can be 
written , and therefore survival becomes more probable .  . 

and i do n't think a one step removed source is that bad. if luke and mark 
and matthew learned their stories directly from diciples , then i really 
cannot believe in the sort of big transformation from jesus to gospel that 
some people posit .  . in news reports , one generally gets no better 
information than this. 

and if john is a , then there 's nothing more to be said. 

that john was a disciple is not generally accepted. the style and language 
together with the theology are usually used as counterargument .  . 

i'm not really impressed with the theology argument. but i'm really 
pointing this out as an if . and as i pointed out earlier , one cannot make 
these arguments about i peter i see no reason not to accept it as an 
authentic letter. 


one step and one generation removed is bad even in our times. compare that 
to reports of similar events in our century in almost illiterate societies .  . 

the best analogy would be reporters talking to the participants , which is 
not so bad. 

in other words , one does not know what the original of mark did look like 
and arguments based on mark are pretty weak. 

but the statement of divinity is not in that section , and in any case , it 's 
agreed that the most important epistles predate mark. 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re islamic genocide 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 23 

in article 
 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 
few people can imagine dying for capitalism , a few 
more can imagine dying for democracy , but a lot more will die for their 
lord and savior jesus christ who died on the cross for their sins .  . 
motivation , pure and simple. 

got any cites for this nonsense how many people will die for mom 
patriotism freedom money their kids fast cars and swimming pools 
a night with kim basinger or mel gibson and which of these things are evil 


read a history book , fred .  . and tell me why so many religions command to 
commit genocide when it has got nothing to do with religion. or why so many 
religions say that not living up to the standards of the religion is worse 
than dieing coincidence , i assume .  . or ist part of the absolute morality 
you describe so often 

theism is strongly correlated with irrational belief in absolutes .  . irrational 
belief in absolutes is strongly correlated with fanatism .  . 
benedikt 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re omnipotence  ( was re speculations ) 
organization sgi 
lines 35 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article , writes 
in article , robert knowles writes 
date fri , 2 apr 1993 23 02 22 0500 
from nanci ann miller nm0w 


3. can god uncreate itself 

no. for if he did , he would violate his own nature which he cannot do. 
it is god 's nature to exist. he is , after all , the i am which is 
a statement of his inherent existence .  . he is existence itself. 
existence cannot not exist . 

then , as mentioned above , he must not be very omnipotent .  . 


what do you mean by omnipotent here do you mean by omnipotent 
that god should be able to do anything everything this creates 
a self contradictory definition of omnipotence which is effectively 
useless. 

to be descriptive , omnipotence must mean being all powerful and 
not being able to do anything everything . 

let me illustrate by analogy .  . 
suppose the united states were the only nuclear power on earth. suppose 
further that the us military could not effectively be countered by any 
nation or group of nations .  . the us has the power to go into any country 
at any time for any reason to straighten things out as the leaders of the 
us see fit. the us would be militarily omnipotent . 

did you check with the afghans before posting this they 
might disagree. 

jon .  . 

from  ( mr r. mellish ) 
subject re university violating separation of church state 
organization imperial college 
lines 33 
nntp posting host 129 . 31 . 80 . 14 . 

in article ( .  .  . until . kings become philosophers or philosophers become kings ) writes 



recently , ras have been ordered  ( and none have resisted or cared about 
it apparently ) to post a religious flyer entitled the soul scroll thoughts 
on religion , spirituality , and matters of the soul on the inside of bathroom 
stall doors.  ( at my school , the university of new hampshire ) it is some sort 
of newsletter assembled by a hall director somewhere on campus .  . 
most of post deleted 

please respond as soon as possible. i 'd like these religious postings to 
stop , now ! 


thanks , 

dana 



there is an easy way out .  .  .  .  . 
post the flyers on the stall doors , but add at the bottom , in nice large 
capitals , 

emergency toilet paper 

) 


robert mellish , fog , ic , uk 
email net irc hobnob 
and also the mrs joyful prize for rafia work. 

from  ( richard brooksby ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization harlequin ltd , cambridge , uk 
lines 21 

nanci ann miller nm0w writes 

(s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
more horrible deaths resulted from atheism than anything else. 

there are definitely quite a few horrible deaths as the result of 
both atheists and theists .  . ... perhaps , since i'm a bit weak on 
history , somone here would like to give a list of wars caused led by 
theists ... 

this thread seems to be arguing the validity of a religious viewpoint 
according to some utilitarian principle , i.e. atheism religion is 
wrong because it causes death. the underlying  is that death 
is `wrong' .  . this is a rather arbitrary measure of validity .  . 

get some epistemology .  . 

 ( internet ) 
 ( internet ) 
 ( janet ) 
zen buddhist 

from  ( maddi hausmann ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
keywords dan bissell 
organization society for putting things on top of other things 
lines 28 

1. did you read the faqs 

2. if no , read the faqs .  . 

3. if yes , you would n't have posted such drivel .  . the lord , liar 
or lunatic argument is a false trilemma .  . even if you disprove 
liar and lunatic  ( which you have n't ) , you have not eliminated 
the other possibilities , such as mistaken , misdirected , or 
misunderstood .  . you have arbitrarily set up three and only 
three possibilities without considering others. 

4. read a good book on rhetoric and critical thinking. if 
you think the lord , liar , or lunatic discussion is an 
example of a good argument , you are in need of learning. 

5. read the faqs again , especially constructing a logical 
argument. 

ignore these instructions at your peril .  . disobeying them 
leaves you open for righteous flaming .  . 



maddi hausmann 
communications corp san jose california 408 428 3553 

kids , please do n't try this at home. remember , i post professionally .  . 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
distribution world , public 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) wrote 
as i have stated on a parallel thread , i am not an anarchist , nor is 
islam anarchist .  . therefore the uk should have control over itself. 
however , this does not change the fact that it is possible for citizens 
of the uk residing within the uk to be in violation of islamic law. 

this is an interesting notion and one i'm scared of. in my 
case i'm a finnish citizen , i live in usa , and i have to conform 
to the us laws .  . however , the finnish government is not actively 
checking out what i'm doing in this country , in other words checking 
out if i conform to the finnish laws .  . 

however , islamic law seems to be a  curse  that is following you 
everywhere in the world. shades of 1984 , eh 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 12 

james felder wrote 

logic alert argument from incredulity .  . just because it is hard for you 
to believe this does n't mean that it is n't true. liars can be very pursuasive 
just look at koresh that you yourself cite .  . 

this is whole basis of a great many here rejecting the christian 
account of things. in the words of st. murrey o hair , face it 
folks , it 's just silly ... . why is it okay to disbelieve because of 
your incredulity if you admit that it 's a fallacy 

bill 

from  ( the desert brat ) 
subject re keith schneider stealth poster 
organization cured , discharged 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

but really , are you threatened by the motto , or by the people that use it 

every time somone writes something and says it is merely describing the norm , 
it is infact re inforcing that norm upon those programmed not to think for 
themselves. the motto is dangerous in itself , it tells the world that every 
true american is god fearing , and puts down those who do not fear gods .  . it 
does n't need anyone to make it dangerous , it does a good job itself by just 
existing on your currency .  . 

keith 

the desert brat 

john j mcvey , elc eng , , uni s australia , 
t . s . a . k . c .  . darwin o 
for replies , mail to 
disclaimer unisa hates my opinions. bb bb 

it does n't make a rainbow any less beautiful that we god 's name is smack 
understand the refractive mechanisms that chance to for some. 
produce it. jim perry , alice in chains 


from  ( jim perry ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization decision support inc. 
lines 80 
nntp posting host dsi . dsinc . com . 

 ( references deleted to move this to a new thread ) 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
in article  ( jim perry ) writes 

rushdie is , however , as i understand , a muslim .  . 
the fact that he 's a british citizen does not preclude his being muslim .  . 

rushdie was an atheist  ( to use local terminology , not to put words in 
his mouth ) at the time of writing tsv and at the time of the fatwa in 
february 1989. ... 

well , if he was born muslim (i am fairly certain he was ) then he is 
muslim until he explicitly renounces islam .  . so far as i know he has never 
explicitly renounced islam , though he may have been in extreme doubt 
about the existence of god. being muslim is a legal as well as 
intellectual issue , according to islam .  . 

to put it as simply as possible i am not a muslim . ... i do not 
accept the charge of apostacy , because i have never in my adult life 
affirmed any belief , and what one has not affirmed one can not be 
said to have from. the islam i know states clearly that 
 there can be no coercion in matters of religion' .  . the many muslims 
i respect would be horrified by the idea that they belong to their 
faith purely by virtue of birth , and that a person who freely chose 
not to be a muslim could therefore be put to death. 
salman rushdie , in good faith , 1990 

god , satan , paradise , and hell all vanished one day in my fifteenth 
year , when i quite abruptly lost my faith. ... and afterwards , to 
prove my new found atheism , i bought myself a rather tasteless ham 
sandwich , and so partook for the first time of the forbidden flesh of 
the swine .  . no thunderbolt arrived to strike me down. ... from that 
day to this i have thought of myself as a wholly person. 
salman rushdie , in god we trust , 1985 

i think the rushdie affair has discredited islam more in my eyes than 
khomeini i know there are fanatics and fringe elements in all 
religions , but even apparently moderate muslims have participated or 
refused to distance themselves from the witch hunt against rushdie .  . 

yes , i think this is true , but there 's motivations are quite 
irrelevant to the issue. the fact of the matter is that rushdie made 
false statements  ( fiction , i know , but where is the line between fact 
and fiction ) about the life of mohammad .  . 

only a functional illiterate with absolutely no conception of the 
nature of the novel could think such a thing. i 'll accept it 
 ( reluctantly ) from mobs in pakistan , but not from you. what is 
presented in the fictional dream of a demented character cannot by the 
wildest stretch of the imagination be considered a reflection on the 
actual mohammad .  . what 's worse , the novel does n't present the 
mohammed character in any worse light than secular histories 
of islam in particular , there is no lewd misrepresentation of his 
life or that of his wives .  . 

that is why 
few people rush to his defense he 's considered an absolute fool for 
his writings in the satanic verses . 

do n't hold back he 's considered an apostate and a blasphemer .  . 
however , it 's not for his writing in the satanic verses , but for 
what people have accepted as a propagandistic version of what is 
contained in that book. i have yet to find one single muslim who 
has convinced me that they have read the book. some have initially 
claimed to have done so , but none has shown more knowledge of the book 
than a superficial newsweek story might impart , and all have made 
factual misstatements about events in the book. 

if you wish to understand the 
reasons behind this as well has the origin of the concept of the 
satanic verses ... see the 
penguin paperback by rafiq called mohammad and the quran . 

i 'll keep an eye out for it. i have a counter proposal i suggest 
that you see the viking hardcover by salman rushdie called the 
satanic verses . perhaps then you 'll understand. 

jim perry decision support , inc. , matthews nc 
these are my opinions. for a nominal fee , they can be yours. 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re is morality constant  ( was re biblical rape ) 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 65 

jim perry wrote 

xenophobia , both de facto and de jure as implemented 
in legal systems , is widespread , while the bible , 
although not 100 egalitarian , specifically preaches 
kindness to the stranger , and emphasizes in the book 
of ruth , that a foreigner can join the nation and 
give rise to one of the great heroes of the nation .  . 

clearly better than the alternative , but as an american what strikes 
me as strange about this story is that it should have even been 
considered an issue. 

jim , 

there are a couple of things about your post and others in this thread 
that are a little confusing. an atheist is one for whom all things can 
be understood as processes of nature exclusively .  . there is no need 
for any recourse to to describe or explain anything. there is 
no purpose or direction for any event beyond those required by 
physics , chemistry , biology , etc. everything is random , nothing is 
determnined .  . 
this would also have to include human intelligence of course and all 
its products. there is nothing requiring that life evolve or that it 
acquire intelligence , it 's just a happy accident. for an atheist , no 
event can be preferred to another or be said to have more or less 
value than another in any naturalistic sense , and no thought about 
an event can have value. 
the products of our intelligence are acquired from our environment , 
from teaching , training , observation and experience and are only 
significant to the individual mind wherein they reside .  . these mental 
processes and the images they produce for us are just electrical 
activity and nothing more content is of no consequence .  . the human 
mind is as much a response to natural forces as water running down a 
hill .  . 
how then can an atheist judge value what is the basis for criticizing 
the values in the bible or the purposes imputed to god on 
what grounds can the the behavior of the be condemned it 
seems that , in judging the values that motivate others to action , you 
have to have some standard against which conduct is measured , but what 
in nature can serve that purpose what law of nature can you invoke to 
establish your values .  . 
since every event is entirely and exclusively a physical event , what 
difference could it possibly make what anyone does , religious or 
otherwise , there can be no meaning or gradation of value. the only 
way an atheist can object to any behaviour is to admit that the 
objection is entirely subjective and that  ( he(she ) just does n't like it 
that 's it. any value judgement must be prefaced by the disclaimer 
that it is nothing more than a matter of personal opinion and carries 
no weight in any absolute sense. 
that you do n't like what god told people to do says nothing about god 
or god 's commands , it says only that there was an electrical event in your 
nervous system that created an emotional state that your mind coupled 
with a pre existing thought set to form that reaction. that your 
objections seem well founded is due to the way you 've been 
conditioned there is no truth content. the whole of your 
intellectual landscape is an illusion , a virtual reality. 
i did n't make these rules , it 's inherent in naturalistic atheism and 
to be consistent , you have to accept the non significance of any human 
thought , even your own. all of this being so , you have excluded 
yourself from any discussion of values , right , wrong , goood , evil , 
etc. and cannot participate .  . your opinion about the bible can have no 
weight whatsoever. 

bill 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re the of atheists ! 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 38 

in article  ( kutluk ozguven ) writes 
atheists are not 
mentioned in the quran because from a quranic point of view , and a 
minute 's reasoning , one can see that there is no such thing. 


i guess that 's why scientists probably are n't mentioned either. or 
stock brokers .  . or television repairmen .  . 

it 's precious to know just how deep the brainwashing from childhood 
( that it takes to progress a religion ) cleans away a very substantial 
part of the reasoning neurons .  . 

but do n't mind me i do n't exist. 

jim halat 























from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 24 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

i do n't expect the lion to know , or not know anything of the kind. 
in fact , i do n't have any evidence that lions ever consider such 
issues. 
and that , of course , is why i do n't think you can assign moral 
significance to the instinctive behaviour of lions .  . 

what i 've been saying is that moral behavior is likely the null behavior. 
that is , it does n't take much work to be moral , but it certainly does to 
be immoral  ( in some cases) .  . also , i 've said that morality is a remnant 
of evolution .  . our moral system is based on concepts well practiced in 
the animal kingdom .  . 

so you are basically saying that you think a moral is an undefinable 
term , and that moral systems do n't exist if we ca n't agree on a 
definition of these terms , then how can we hope to discuss them 
no , it 's perfectly clear that i am saying that i know what a moral 
is in my system , but that i ca n't speak for other people. 

but , this does n't get us anywhere. your particular beliefs are irrelevant 
unless you can share them or discuss them .  .  .  . 

keith 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re islamic genocide 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 49 

in robert knowles writes 

date 14 apr 1993 23 52 11 gmt 
from frank o'dwyer 

in article  ( fred rice ) writes 

just borrowing your post , mr. rice .  .  .  . 

in robert knowles writes 
are you sure that democracy is the driving force behind 
the massacres in east timor it is certainly odd that so many of the worlds 
massacres occur along religious lines , independently of any claims to a 
democratic form of government. are ireland and northern ireland considered 
democracies would you attribute their problems to democracy even though 
they are democracies which motivates them more , religion or democracy 

mr. rice was pointing out a fallacy in the assertion that islam is evil 
because some of those who claim to follow it are evil , not asserting that 
democracy causes massacres , as i read it. 

that is right , he was. and i was pointing out that his use of indonesians 
killing the east as a result of democracy was a bit weak because 
democracy is not much of a motivation for doing much of anything in indonesia 
from what i remember. east timor was a former territory which was 
forcibly annexed by indonesia .  . last i heard over 10 , 000 indonesians have 
died trying to keep east timor a part of indonesia .  . being a former 
portuguese colony , there is a strong catholic influence in east timor as i 
recall .  . so it seems a bit odd that yet again we have another war being 
fought between people who just happen to have different religions .  . purely 
coincidental , i guess. but then the real motivation is to get the vote out 
and make democracy work in indonesia .  . 

i pointed out the secession movement in aceh which has also been 
brutally dealt with in the past by the indonesian government. the 
harshly with all secessionist movements .  . 
the evidence , it appears to me that the indonesian government has dealt 
very harshly with all secession movements .  . 

i know that the head of the indonesian armed forces for a very long time 
was benny a christian . indonesia has been heavy handed in 
east timor for a long time , even when was head of the armed 
forces .  . the people who make up the 
indonesian government are in general motivated by national interests , 
not religious ones. 

fred rice 



from  ( dominick v. zurlo ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 30 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 

in article  ( stan krieger ) writes 
now can we please use rec . scouting . for the purpose for which it was 
established clearly we netnews voters decided that we did not want to 
provide a scouting newsgroup to give fringe groups a forum for their 
anti societal political views. 

ok , this is the only thing i will comment on from stan at this time .  .  .  . 
part of this forum we call rec . scouting . is for policy discussions and 
related topics. this is a policy discussion , and involves related 
topics. this is not a fringe group discussion. obviously , it 
engenders strong feelings from all sides of the issues at hand. 
wether a particular view is anti societal or not is your opinion , 
and yours alone , do n't try to make it seem otherwise. 
if you do not wish to engage in this discussion , use a kill file. 
if you wish to continue in this discussion , please do so , knowing 
full well the implications that apply. 
i know for myself that i plan on continuing with the discussion when 
i have the wish to have input. i for one am tired of people trying to 
say that this is not a matter significant for this group ! it is , and 
quite so. especially for those of us who feel the impact more closely .  . 



dominick v. zurlo if the world 's an 
www oyster , why am i 
eagle scout '87 allergic to mollusks 
blacklisted '88 




from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re omnipotence  ( was re speculations ) 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 19 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article writes 

god is effectively limited in the same sense. he is all powerful , but 
he cannot use his power in a way that would violate the essence of what 
he , himself is. 

cannot try , will not. 



one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that 
say mom , because of the love of their mom. it makes for more 
virile men. 

bobby mozumder ( ) 
april 4 , 1993 

the one true muslim left in the world. 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 11 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( ken arromdee ) writes 

the motto originated in the star spangled banner .  . tell me that this has 
something to do with atheists .  . 
the motto on coins originated as a smear which equated atheism 
with communism and called both unamerican .  . 

no it did n't .  . the motto has been on various coins since the civil war. 
it was just required to be on all currency in the 50 's .  . 

keith 

from mathew 
subject re political atheists 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 15 

 ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
mathew writes 
perhaps we should n't people if we could watch them closely 
instead. the cost would probably be similar , especially if we just 
implanted some sort of electronic device. 
why wait until they commit the crime why not implant such devices in 
potential criminals like communists and atheists 

sorry , i do n't follow your reasoning .  . you are proposing to punish people 
before they commit a crime what justification do you have for this 

look up irony , keith .  . 


mathew 

! adagio . panasonic . com . ! nntp server . caltech . edu . ! keith 
subject re political atheists 
from  ( keith allan schneider ) 


organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 
lines 22 

 ( jim halat ) writes 

i think an objective morality does exist , but that most flavors of morality 
are only approximations to it. once again , a natural or objective morality 
is fairly easily defined , as long as you have a goal in mind that is , what 
is the purpose of this morality .  . 
maybe i'm not quite getting what you mean by this , but i think objective 
morality is an oxymoron .  . by definition , it seems , any goal oriented 
issue like this is subjective by nature. i do n't get how you 're using 
the word objective .  . 

but , the goal need not be a subjective one. for instance , the goal of 
natural morality is the propogation of a species , perhaps. it was n't 
really until the more intelligent animals came along that some revisions 
to this were necessary. intelligent animals have different needs than 
the others , and hence a morality suited to them must be a bit more 
complicated than the law of the jungle .  . i do n't think that 
self actualization is so subjective as you might think. and , by 
objectivity , i am assuming that the ideals of any such system could be 
carried out completely. 

keith 

from (a . wainwright) . 
subject re some thoughts. 
keywords dan bissell 
reply to (a . wainwright) . 
organization nottingham university 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( tammy r healy ) writes 
i hope you 're not going to flame him. please give him the same coutesy you  
ve given me. 

tammy 


if a person gives a well balanced reasoned argument , tammy , then all are 
happy to discuss it with him. if he makes astounding claims , which are not 
backed up with any evidence then he must be expected to substantiate them. 
if the original author had said that everything was his own opinion and not 
supportable then people would have simply ignored him. he did not. he 
claimed many things and his logic was seriously flawed .  . his argument was for 
christianity in an effort to try to convince atheists like myself to believe 
him and his message. i for one will not take things as read. if you told me 
that pink fluffy elephants did the dance of the sugar plum fairy on the dark 
side of jupiter then i would demand evidence ! 


adda 




adda wainwright does dim atal y ! 8o ) 
8o ) mae  . sig .  ma ar werth ! 



from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re cruel  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 23 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

they spent quite a bit of time on the wording of the constitution .  . they 
picked words whose meanings implied the intent .  . we have already looked 
in the dictionary to define the word. is n't this sufficient 
we only need to ask the question what did the founding fathers 
consider cruel and unusual punishment 

hanging hanging there slowing being strangled would be very 
painful , both physically and , i imagine. 

well , most hangings are very quick and , i imagine , painless .  . 

firing squad note not a clean way to die back in those 
days , etc. 
all would be considered cruel under your definition .  . 
all were allowed under the constitution by the founding fathers .  . 

and , hangings and firing squads are allowed today , too. and , if these 
things were not considered cruel , then surely a medical execution 
 ( painless ) would not be , either. 

keith 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 31 

in article  ( brett j. vickers ) writes 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

well , seeing as you are not muslim the sort of fatwa issued by khomeini 
would not be relevant to you. i can understand your fear of persecution 
and i share it even more than you  ( being muslim ) , however rushdie 's 
behavior was not completely excusable .  . 

why should a fatwa issued by khomeini be relevant to anyone who 
does n't live in iran 

issued by khomeini it should n't be relevant to anyone. but issued 
by an honest and learned scholar of islam it would be relevant to 
any muslim as it would be contrary to islamic law which all muslims 
are required to respect. 

who is it that decides whether rushdie 's behavior is excusable 

anyone sufficiently well versed in islamic law and capable of reasoning , 
if you are talking about a weak sense of excuse. it depends on what 
sense of excuse you have in mind. 


and who cares if you think it is inexcusable 

only someone who thinks my opinion is important , obviously. 
obviously you do n't care , nor do i care that you do n't care. 


gregg 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re keith schneider stealth poster 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 26 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( tan meng dan ) writes 

i somewhat agree with u. however , what it comes to  ( theist ) religion , 
it 's a different matter. that 's because religion is like a drug , once u 
use it , it 's very difficult to get out of it. that 's because in 
order to experience a religion , u necessarily have to have blind faith , 
and once u have the blind faith , it 's very diffcult for you to reason 
yourself back to atheism again. 
therefore , it 's unreasonable to ask people to try religion in order to 
judge it. it 's like asking people to try dying to find out what 
death is like . 

well now , we ca n't judge death until we are dead right so , why should 
we judge religion without having experienced it people have said that 
religion is bad by any account , and that it is in no way useful , etc. , 
but i do n't totally agree with this. of course , we cannot really say 
how the religious folk would act had they not been exposed to religion , 
but some people at least seemed to be helped in some ways by it. 

so basically , we can not judge whether religion is the right route for 
a given individual , or even for a general population .  . we can say that 
it is not best for us personally  ( at least , you can choose not to use 
religion might be hard to try to find out its benefits , as you state 
above) .  . 

keith 

from  ( mathemagician ) 
subject re alt.atheism faq introduction to atheism 
organization society for the preservation of e. coli 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 
keywords faq , atheism 

i have an addition to the faq regarding why are there no atheist 
hospitals .  . 

if i recall correctly , johns hopkins was built to provide medical 
services without the backing of a religious group .  .  . thus . making it a 
hospital dedicated to the glory of weak atheism .  . 

might someone check up on this 


brian evans bad mood , bad mood .  .  . sure . i'm in a bad mood ! 
i have n't had sex .  .  .  . ever ! virgin mary 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re gospel dating 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 102 

in article 
 ( charley wingate ) writes 

assuming you are presenting it accurately , i do n't see how this argument 
really leads to any firm conclusion .  . the material in john  ( i'm not sure 
exactly what is referred to here , but i 'll take for granted the similarity 
to the matt .  . luke q material ) is different hence , one could have almost 
any relationship between the two , right up to john getting it straight from 
jesus  mouth. 


no , the argument says john has known q , ie a codified version of the logia , 
and not the original , assuming that there has been one. it has weaknesses , 
of course , like that john might have known the original , yet rather referred 
to q in his text , or that the logia were given in a codified version in 
the first place. 

the argument alone does not allow a firm conclusion , but it fits well into 
the dating usually given for the gospels .  . 


we are talking date of texts here , not the age of the authors .  . the usual 
explanation for the time order of mark , matthew and luke does not consider 
their respective ages. it says matthew has read the text of mark , and luke 
that of matthew  ( and probably that of mark) .  . 

the version of the usual theory i have heard has matthew and luke 
independently relying on mark and q . one would think that if luke relied 
on matthew , we would n't have the grating inconsistencies in the geneologies , 
for one thing. 


not necessarily , luke may have trusted the version he knew better than the 
version given by matthew .  . improving on matthew would give a motive , for 
instance .  . 

as far as i know , the theory that luke has known matthew is based on a 
statistical analysis of the texts .  . 


as it is assumed that john knew the content of luke 's text. the evidence 
for that is not overwhelming , admittedly .  . 

this is the part that is particularly new to me. if it were possible that 
you could point me to a reference , i 'd be grateful. 


yep , but it will take another day or so to get the source. i hope your german 
is good enough. ) 


unfortunately , i have n't got the info at hand. it was (i think) in the late 
'70s or early '80s , and it was possibly as old as ce 200. 

when they are from about 200 , why do they shed doubt on the order on 
putting john after the rest of the three 

because it closes up the gap between  ( supposed ) writing and the existing 
copy quit a bit. the further away from the original , the more copies can be 
written , and therefore survival becomes more probable .  . 


i still do not see how copies from 200 allow to change the dating of john .  . 


that john was a disciple is not generally accepted. the style and language 
together with the theology are usually used as counterargument .  . 

i'm not really impressed with the theology argument. but i'm really 
pointing this out as an if . and as i pointed out earlier , one cannot make 
these arguments about i peter i see no reason not to accept it as an 
authentic letter. 


yes , but an if gives only possibilities and no evidence. the authencity of 
many letters is still discussed .  . it looks as if conclusions about them are not 
drawn because some pet dogmas of the churches would probably fall with them as 
well. 


one step and one generation removed is bad even in our times. compare that 
to reports of similar events in our century in almost illiterate societies .  . 

the best analogy would be reporters talking to the participants , which is 
not so bad. 


well , rather like some newsletter of a political party reporting from the 
big meeting. not necessarily wrong , but certainly bad. 


in other words , one does not know what the original of mark did look like 
and arguments based on mark are pretty weak. 

but the statement of divinity is not in that section , and in any case , it 's 
agreed that the most important epistles predate mark. 

yes , but the accuracy of their tradition is another problem. 

question are there letters not from paul and predating mark claiming the 
divinity of jesus 
benedikt 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization sgi 
lines 31 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

well , chimps must have some system. they live in social groups 
as we do , so they must have some laws dictating undesired behavior. 

so , why must they have such laws 

the quotation marks should enclose laws , not must. 

oh , your highness and exactly why should the quotation 
marks enclose laws , not must. 

in case you did n't notice , it 's the function of the must 
that i wish to ironicise .  . 


if there were no such rules , even instinctive ones or unwritten ones , 
etc. , then surely some sort of random chance would lead a chimp society 
into chaos .  . 

perhaps the chimps that failed to evolve cooperative behaviour 
died out , and we are left with the ones that did evolve such 
behaviour , entirely by chance. 

are you going to proclaim a natural morality every time an 
organism evolves cooperative behaviour 

what about the natural morality of bee dance 

jon .  . 

howland . reston . ans . net . ! europa . eng . gtefsd . com . ! fs7 . ece . cmu . edu . ! news . sei . cmu . edu . ! dpw 
subject periodic post of charley challenges , 3 , with additions 
from  ( david wood ) 
organization software engineering institute 
lines 250 



new in this version challenge 5 , plus an addendum summarizing 
charley 's responses to date .  .  . 


this is a posting made periodically in an attempt to encourage 
charley wingate to address direct challenges to his evidently 
specious claims .  . i 'll continue to re post periodically until 
he answers them , publicly indicates that he wo n't answer them , 
stops posting to alt.atheism , the alt.atheism community tells 
me to stop , or i get totally bored. i apologize for the 
somewhat juvenile nature of this approach , but i'm at a loss 
to figure out another way to crack his intransigence and 
seeming intellectual dishonesty .  . 

this is re post 3. 


charley , 

i ca n't help but notice that you have still failed to provide answers 
to substantive questions that have been raised in response to your 
previous posts. i submit that you do n't answer them because you 
cannot answer them without running afoul of your own logic , and i once 
again challenge you to prove me wrong. to make the task as easy for 
you as possible , i 'll present concise re statements of some of the 
questions that you have failed to answer , in the hope that you may 
address them one at a time for all to see. 

should you fail to answer again within a reasonable time period , i 
will re post this article , with suitable additions and deletions , at 
such time that i notice a post by you on another topic. i will repeat 
this procedure until you either address the outstanding challenges or 
you cease to post to this newsgroup .  . 

i would like to apologize in advance if you have answered any of these 
questions previously and your answer missed my notice. if you can be 
kind enough to re post or e mail such articles , i will be only too 
pleased to publicly rescind the challenge in question , and remove it 
from this list. 

now , to the questions .  .  .  . 

1. after claiming that all atheists fit into neat psychological 
patterns that you proposed , then semi retracting that claim by stating 
that you were n't referring to all atheists , i asked you to name some 
atheists who you feel do n't fit your patterns , to show that you indeed 
were not referring to all atheists that you are aware of. you failed 
to do so. please do so now. 

question can you name any a.a posters who do not fit into your 
stereotype 

here is the context for the question 

this is not true for everyone on this board , and you are out of line 
in assuming that it is. 

you , however , deleted the text further along where i said that i did n't mean 
to imply that everybody 's experience was along the same lines. 

whether or not you mean to make such implications , you do so 
repeatedly .  . 

allow me to approach the issue from another viewpoint can you name 
those atheists that you 've come across who do not fit into the 
patterns that you theorize 


2. you have taken umbrage to statements to the effect that senses and 
reason are all we have to go by , and when pressed , you have implied 
that we have an alternative called revelation .  . i have repeatedly 
asked you to explain what revelation is and how one can both 
experience and interpret revelation without doing so via our senses 
and reason. you failed to do so. please do so now. 

question can you explain what is revelation and how one can 
experience and interpret it without using senses and inherent 
reasoning 

here is the context for the question 

revelation is not reason , and if we do have revelation , then 
reasoning is not all we have. 

first , show me that revelation exists. second , if revelation is not 
perceived through the senses , how exactly is it perceived according 
to my webster 's , revelation is an act of revealing or communicating 
divine truth. now , tell me how such a thing can be revealed 
communicated other than via the senses tell me how you can interpret 
this revelation other than with reason , that is , using your brain to 
interpret what you are sensing .  . when i say there is no way for a 
human being to interface with the universe other than via the senses as 
interpreted by reason  ( your brain ) , it is because this is the simple 
truth. if you have another mechanism of interface , by all means , 
share it with us. 

then later .  .  .  . 

you cannot escape the fact that our entire interface with the universe is 
our senses and our reason , period. 

again , this is indefensible .  . 

no , it is simple truth. i challenge you to show me otherwise. 

then later .  .  .  . 

few mystics will agree to this assertion , and the common defense of 
redefining senses to absorb  ( for instance ) mystical experiences is 
begs the question of whether some senses are better than others. 

i allow you the broadest definition of senses , to make things easier 
for you. now , show me that mystical experiences exist. remember , 
you are n't allowed to go by testimony of others (e . g .  . , mystics ) , since 
you have dismissed my testimony as unreliable you know , tainted by 
my own bias .  . further , once these mystical thingies are absorbed , show 
me evidence that a human can recognize and respond to them short of 
interpretation via that person 's reasoning capabilities .  . 

i challenge you to show me these things. if you cannot do so , you 
might as well give up the fight. 

then later .  .  .  . 

let me reiterate , you have not explained your interpretation of your 
experiences , so it is not possible for me to have attacked them. in 
point of fact , i specifically challenged you to explain this 
revelation stuff that you were talking about , and i note for the 
record that you appear to have declined my challenge. 

what is it how is it sensed how is it interpreted and 
how does this sensing and interpretation occur without the conduit 
of our senses and reasoning abilities you have answered none of 
these questions that go straight to the heart of your claims .  . if you 
ca n't answer them , your claims are entirely specious .  . 


3. you have stated that all claims to dispassionate analysis made by 
a.a posters are unverifiable and fantastical .  . i asked you to identify 
one such claim that i have made. you have failed to do so. please do 
so now. 

question have i made any claims at all that are unverifiable and 
fantastical if so , please repeat them. 

here is the context for the question 


i must thank david wood a most sensitive and intelligent  ( if wrong  ) 
posting. 

then later .  .  .  . 

likewise , the reference to unverifiable , fantastical 
claims represents fairly accurately my reaction to all of the claims to 
dispassionate analysis that are repeated in this group. 

give me your address and i 'll be pleased to send you a dictionary .  . 
failing that , can you name one claim that i have made that is in any 
sense unverifiable or fantastical i demand that you retract this 
statement if you cannot offer up evidence. if you follow your usual 
pattern of ignoring the challenge , then you are simply an asshole. 


4. first you dismissed claims by atheists that they became atheists as 
a result of reason , then later you stated that if one accepted the 
axioms of reason that one could n't help but become atheist .  . i asked 
you to explain the contradiction .  . your only response was a statement 
that the question was incoherent , an opinion not shared by others that 
i have asked , be they atheist or theist .  . you have failed to answer 
the question. please do so now. 

question do you retract your claim that a.a posters have not become 
atheists as a result of reason , despite their testimony to that 
effect if you do n't retract that claim , do you retract the 
subsequent claim that acceptance of the axioms of reason inevitably 
result in atheism 

here is the context for the question 

first quote 
 .  .  . we . have here a bunch of people who claim that their position is 
based on reason .  .  .  . it is up to atheists to prove it to me .  .  .  . 

then , 

second quote 
 .  .  . but . i do not see how one can accept these axioms and not end up with 
an atheistic point of view. 


5. first , you claimed that you would  ( probably ) not answer these 
challenges because they contained too much in the way of included 
text from previous posts. later , you implied that you would n't 
respond because i was putting words in your mouth. please clarify 
this seeming contradiction .  . 

question do you prefer to respond to challenges that include context 
from your own posts , or that i paraphrase your positions in order to 
avoid included text 

here is the context for the question 

first you said 

my ordinary rules are that i do n't read articles over over 150 lines 
or articles in which there is nothing but included text on the first 
screen. these are not rules of morality , but practicality .  . 

then later .  .  .  . 

if someone is not going to argue with my version of my position , then 
they cannot be argued with. 


as usual , your responses are awaited with anticipation .  . 

dave wood 


p.s. , for the record , below is a compilation of charley 's responses to 
these challenges to date. 

3 18 93 
this makes no sense to me at all it gives the appearance either of utter 
incoherence , or of answering some question of mr. wood 's imagination. 

3 31 93 ( 1 ) 
mr. wood , i do not subscribe to the opinion that a gauntlet thrown down on 
the net requires any response whatsoever. at some point i might read and 
respond to your article , and then again , i might not. my ordinary rules are 
that i do n't read articles over over 150 lines or articles in which there is 
nothing but included text on the first screen. these are not rules of 
morality , but practicality .  . 

3 31 93 ( 2 ) 
i left out something else i do n't respond to. 
... 
utmost on my list of things to avoid are arguments about the arguments 
 ( meta arguments , as some call them) .  . 

4 3 93 
when i have to start saying that 's not what i said , and the response is 
did so ! , there 's no reason to continue. if someone is not going to argue 
with my version of my position , then they cannot be argued with. 




from  ( ray ingles ) 
subject evo .  . homosexuality  ( was re princeton etc . ) . 
article i.d. srvr1 . 1psosqinn3gg . 
distribution world 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 51 
nntp posting host wormwood . engin . umich . edu . 


sorry , bill , i had to clear this up. there may be good evolutionary 
arguments against homosexuality , but these do n't qualify .  . 

in article  ( bill conner ) writes 
c . wainwright . wrote 
deletions 
it would seem odd if homosexuality had any evolutionary function 
deletions 
so every time a man has sex with a woman they intend to produce children 
hmm .  .  . no . wonder the world is overpopulated .  . obviously you keep to the 
monty python song every sperm is sacred . and if , as you say , it has 
a purpose as a means to limit population growth then it is , by your own 
arguement , natural. 

consider the context , i'm talking about an evolutionary function. one 
of the most basic requirements of evolution is that members of a 
species procreate , those who do n't have no purpose in that context. 

oh i guess all those social insects (e . g .  . ants , bees , etc . ) . which 
have one breeding queen and a whole passel of sterile workers are on 
the way out , huh 

these days is just ai n't true ! people can decide whether or not to have 
children and when. soon they will be able to choose it 's sex c  ( but that 's 
another arguement .  .  . ) . so it 's more of a lifestyle decision. again by 
your arguement , since homosexuals can not  ( or choose not ) to reproduce they 
must be akin to people who decide to have sex but not children. both are 
as unnatural as each other. 

yet another non sequitur .  . sex is an evolutionary function that exists 
for procreation , that it is also recreation is incidental .  . that 
homosexuals do n't procreate means that sex is only recreation and 
nothing more they serve no evolutionary purpose. 

i refer you to the bonobos , a species of primate as related to 
humans as chimpanzees  ( that is , very closely) .  . they have sex all the 
time , homosexual as well as heterosexual .  . when the group finds food , they 
have sex. before the go to sleep at night , they have sex. after they 
escape from or fight off , they have sex. sex serves a very important 
social function above and beyond reproduction in this species .  . a species 
closely related to humans. there is some indication that sex performs 
a social function in humans , as well , but even if not , this shows that 
such a function is not impossible . 

sincerely , 

ray ingles 

the meek can have the earth. the rest of us are going to the 
stars ! robert a. heinlein 

from () 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) wrote 

khomeini advocates the view that 
there was a series of twelve islamic leaders  ( the twelve imams ) who 
are free of error or sin .  . this makes him a heretic .  . 


wow , you 're quicker to point out heresy than the church in the 
middle ages. seriously though , even the sheiks at al azhar do n't 
claim that the shi'ites are heretics .  . most of the accusations 
and fabrications about shi'ites come out of saudi arabia from the 
wahabis .  . for that matter you should read the original works of 
the sunni imams  ( imams of the four madhabs) .  . the teacher of 
at least two of them was imam jafar sadiq  ( the sixth imam of the 
shi'ites) .  . 

although there is plenty of false propaganda floating around 
about the shi'ites (esp .  . since the revolution ) , there are also 
many good works by shi'ites which present the views and teachings 
of their school. why make assumptions and allegations  ( like 
people in this group have done about islam in general ) about shi'ites .  . 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject metaphysics 
lines 24 

benedikt rosenau writes , with great authority 

if it is contradictory it cannot exist. 

contradictory is a property of language. if i correct this to 


things defined by contradictory language do not exist 

i will object to definitions as reality. if you then amend it to 

things described by contradictory language do not exist 

then we 've come to something which is plainly false .  . failures in 
description are merely failures in description. 

 ( i'm not an objectivist , remember . ) . 



c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( jim perry ) 
subject re yeah , right 
organization decision support inc. 
lines 27 
nntp posting host dsi . dsinc . com . 

in article  ( charley wingate ) writes 
for several years i 've periodically asked charley wingate to explain this 
mythical alternative to rationality which he propounds so enthusiastically 
when he pops up every few months. his reluctance to explain indicates to me 
that it 's not so hot. 

i 've said enough times that there is no alternative that should think you 
might have caught on by now. and there is no alternative , but the point 
is , rationality is n't an alternative either. the problems of metaphysical 
and religious knowledge are unsolvable or i should say , humans cannot 
solve them. 

if there is truly no alternative , then you have no basis whatsoever 
for your claim .  . the usual line here , which you call a prejudgment of 
atheism , and dispute , is that reason is all we have. here you admit 
that you have no alternative , no possible basis for the claim that 
there is anything other than reason or that reason is inapplicable in 
religious knowledge , except possibly that reason conflicts with 
religious knowledge . 

this sounds very much like i ca n't provide a rational defense for my 
belief , but prefer to discard rationality rather than accept that it 
may be false . i hope it makes you happy , but your repeated and 
unfounded assertions to this effect do n't advance your cause. 

jim perry decision support , inc. , matthews nc 
these are my opinions. for a nominal fee , they can be yours. 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization sgi 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

i forget the origin of the quote , but i gotta use words when i talk to 
you . an atheist is one who lacks belief in gods , yes if so , then 
it 's entirely plausible that an atheist could dig lenin or lennon to 
such an extent that it might be considered worship , and still be 
an atheist .  . anything else seems to be newspeak .  . 

ask yourself the following question. would you regard an ardent 
nazi as a republican , simply because germany no longer had a kaiser 

no , because that 's based on false dichotomy .  . there are more options 
than you present me. 

and that , of course , is the point. you ca n't simply divide the 
world into atheists and non atheists on the basis of god belief .  . 

if all you care about is belief in a supernatural deity , and 
have nothing to say about behaviour , then belief in a supernatural 
being is your criterion .  . 

but once you start talking about behaviour , then someone 's 
ibility to be led by bad people into doing bad things is what you 
are i assume worried about. 

and in that area , what you care about is whether someone is sceptical , 
critical and autonomous on the one hand , or gullible , excitable and 
easily led on the other. 

i would say that a tendency to worship tyrants and ideologies indicates 
that a person is easily led .  . whether they have a worship or belief 
in a supernatural hero rather than an earthly one seems to me to be 
beside the point. 

jon .  . 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re thoughts on christians 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 24 

kent sandvik wrote 


this is a good point , but i think average people do not take up christianity 
so much out of fear or escapism , but , quite simply , as a way to improve their 
social life , or to get more involved with american culture , if they are kids of 
immigrants for example. since it is the overwhelming major religion in the 
western world  ( in some form or other ) , it is simply the choice people take if 
they are bored and want to do something new with their lives , but not 
too new , or too out of the ordinary .  . seems a little weak , but as long as it 
does n't hurt anybody .  .  .  . 

the social pressure is indeed a very important factor for the majority 
of passive christians in our world today. in the case of early christianity 
the promise of a heavenly afterlife , independent of your social status , 
was also a very promising gift  ( reason slaves and non romans accepted 
the religion very rapidly) .  . 

if this is a hypothetical proposition , you should say so , if it 's 
fact , you should cite your sources. if all this is the amateur 
sociologist sub branch of a.a however , it would suffice to alert the 
unwary that you are just screwing around ... 

bill 

zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! ! uunet ! ! ! odin ! fido ! solntze . wpd . sgi . com . ! livesey 
subject re political atheists 
from  ( jon livesey ) 

organization sgi 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

my personal objection is that i find capital punishment to be 
cruel and unusual punishment under all circumstances .  . 

it can be painless , so it is n't cruel .  . and , it has occurred frequently 
since the dawn of time , so it is hardly unusual .  . 

koff ! you mean that as long as i put you to sleep first , 
i can kill you without being cruel 

this changes everything. 

jon .  . 

from  ( mark mccullough ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization university of wisconsin , madison computer sciences dept. 
lines 109 


my turn to jump in ! ) 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( reference line trimmed ) 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

... 

there is a good deal more confusion here. you started off with the 
assertion that there was some objective morality , and as you admit 
here , you finished up with a recursive definition .  . murder is 
objectively immoral , but eactly what is murder and what is not itself 
requires an appeal to morality .  . 


i think you mean circular , not recursive , but that is semantics .  . 
recursiveness has no problems , it is just horribly inefficient  ( just ask 
any assembly programmer . ) . 

yes. 

now you have switch targets a little , but only a little. now you are 
asking what is the goal what do you mean by goal . are you 
suggesting that there is some objective goal out there somewhere , 
and we form our morals to achieve it 

well , for example , the goal of natural morality is the survival and 
propogation of the species .  . another example of a moral system is 
presented within the declaration of independence , which states that we 
should be guaranteed life liberty and the pursuit of happiness. you see , 
to have a moral system , we must define the purpose of the system. that is , 
we shall be moral unto what end 

the oft quoted line that says people should be guaranteed life , liberty 
and the pursuit of happiness as inalienable rights , is a complete lie 
and deception , as the very authors of that line were in the process of 
proving .  . liberty is never free , it is always purchased at some cost , 
almost always at the cost to another. whos liberty is more inalienable 
similarly for right of life. when one person must die if he is to save 
another , or even a group of others , whos life is more inalienable 
that leads into the classic question of the value of the death penalty , 
especially for serial killers .  . whos life and liberty is more valuable , 
the serial killer , or the victim according to that beautiful line , 
those two rights should be completely inviolate , that is , noone should be 
able to remove them. this includes government. admittedly the serial 
killer has restricted some people 's life and or liberty , but is not his 
own life liberty inviolate also according to the declaration of independence , 
it is. 

murder is certainly a violation of the golden rule. and , i thought i had 
defined murder as an intentional killing of a non murderer , against his will. 

oooh , i like that. it means that killing an infant is not murder because 
it cannot be against its will. reason , an infant has no will as such. 

similarly for people who are brain dead  ( easier to see ) , in a coma , etc. 

also , under current law , accidental killing is still murder .  . how will you 
include that 

and you responded to this by asking whether or not the execution of an 
innocent person under our system of capital punishment was a murder or not. 
i fail to see what this has to do with anything. i never claimed that our 
system of morality was an objective one. 
i thought that was your very first claim .  . that there was 
some kind of objective morality , and that an example of that was 
that murder is wrong. if you do n't want to claim that any more , 
that 's fine. 

the only real golden rule in life is , he who has the gold , makes the 
rules. i.e. might makes right. that is survival .  . now what is wrong 
with that 

well , murder violates the rule , which is certainly a pillar of most 
every moral system. however , i am not assuming that our current system 
and the manner of its implementation are objectively moral .  . i think that 
it is a very good approximation , but we ca n't be perfect. 

if you mean the golden rule as i stated , yes , almost every system as 
implemented has used that in reality. sorry , i do n't deal as much in 
fiction , as i do in reality. 

and by the way , you do n't seem to understand the difference between 
arbitrary and objective . if keith schneider defines murder 
to be this that and the other , that 's arbitrary .  . jon livesey may 
still say well , according to my personal system of morality , all 
killing of humans against their will is murder , and wrong , and what 
the legal definition of murder may be in the usa , , saudi 
arabia , or the prc may be matters not a whit to me . 

welcome to ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) 

what is not arbitrary if you can find some part of society , some societal 
rules , morals , etc. that are not arbitrary , please tell me. i do n't think 
there are any. 

well , objective would assume a system based on clear and fundamental 
concepts , while arbitary implies no clear line of reasoning .  . 

keith 
sounds like euphemisms to me. the difference seems to be , that objective 
is some reasoning that i like , while arbitrary is some reasoning that 
i do n't like or do n't understand. 

m 2 



from  ( joe vigneau ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
in reply to 's message of 4 apr 1993 12 19 20 gmt 
organization 

lines 21 

in article  ( mathemagician ) writes 

just what do gay people do that straight people do n't 

absolutely nothing. 

i'm a very  ( straight(as an arrow ) , 17 year old male that is involved in the bsa .  . 

i do n't care what gay people do among each other , as long as they do n't make 
passes at me or anything. at my summer camp where i work , my boss is gay. 
not in a   way of gay (i know a few ) , but just  one of the guys' .  . 
he does n't push anything on me , and we give him the same respect back , due 
to his position. 

if anything , the bsa has taught me , i do n't know , tolerance or something. 
before i met this guy , i thought all gays were 'faries' .  . so , the bsa has 
taught me to be an antibigot .  . 

basically , it comes down to this what you do among yourself is your own 
business. no one else has the right to tell you otherwise , unless it 
violates someone else 's civil rights. 

subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
from  ( james j. lippard ) 

distribution world , local 
organization university of arizona 
nntp posting host skyblu . ccit . arizona . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( keith m. ryan ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( heikki t. suopanki ) writes 
god is eternal .  . a b 
jesus is god. c a 
therefore , jesus is eternal .  . c b 

this works both logically and mathematically .  . god is of the set of 
things which are eternal .  . jesus is a subset of god. therefore 
jesus belongs to the set of things which are eternal .  . 

the first premise and the conclusion are not properly translated as identity 
statements , since the is in those statements is the is of predication 
rather than of identity .  . instead , they should be translated using a 
predicate letter. using g to designate god and j to designate jesus , 
and the predicate letter e for the property of being eternal , the 
first premise is eg and the conclusion is ej .  . 
the second premise appears to contain an is of identity , in which 
case it can be properly symbolized as j g. but your remark that jesus 
is a subset of god suggests that strict identity is not desired here. 
if , however , the first premise means that all members making up the set 
god have the property of being eternal , the same conclusion follows .  . 

jim lippard 
dept. of philosophy 
university of arizona 
tucson , az 85721 

from  ( masud khan ) 
subject re slavery  ( was re why is sex only allowed in marriage  .  .  . ) . 
organization cadence design systems , inc. 
lines 39 

in article  ( leonard newnham ) writes 

oh , this all sounds so nice ! everyone helping each other and always smiling 
and fluffy bunnies everywhere. wake up ! people are just not like that. it 
seems evident from history that no society has succeeded when it had to rely 
upon the goodwill and unselfishness of the people. is n't it obvious from 
places like iran that even if there are only a few greedy people in society 
then they are going to be attracted to positions of power sounds like a 
recipe for disaster .  . 



leonard e mail 

leonard , i 'll give you an example of this .  .  .  .  . 

my father recently bought a business , the business price was 150 , 000 pounds 
and my father approached the people in the community for help , he raised 
60 , 000 pounds in interest free loans from friends and relatives and 
muslims he knew , 50 , 000 had cash and the rest he got a business loan , after 
paying off the muslim lenders many of them helped him with further loans 
to help him clear the bank debt and save him from further intrest , this 
is an example of a muslim community helping one another , why did they help 
because of their common identity as muslims .  . in turn my father has helped 
with people buying houses to minimise the amount of intrest they pay 
and in some cases buy houses intrest free with the help of those more 
fortunate in the community. 

the fact is leonard it does work without a fluffy bunny in sight ! 
ithat is the beauty of islam .  . 

mas 



c i t i z e n 
c a d e n c e d e s i g n s y s t e m s inc. 
masud ahmed khan all my opinions 


from  ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) 
subject re political atheists 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 66 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 
schneider 
natural morality may specifically be thought of as a code of ethics that 
a certain species has developed in order to survive. 
wait. are we talking about ethics or morals here 

is the distinction important 

yes. 

we see this countless 
times in the animal kingdom , and such a natural system is the basis for 
our own system as well. 
huh 

well , our moral system seems to mimic the natural one , in a number of ways. 

please describe these number of ways in detail. then explain the any 
contradictions that may arise .  . 

in order for humans to thrive , we seem to need 
to live in groups , 
here 's your problem. we seem to need . what 's wrong with the highlighted 
word 

i do n't know. what is wrong is it possible for humans to survive for 
a long time in the wild yes , it 's possible , but it is difficult. humans 
are a social animal , and that is a cause of our success. 

define difficult . 

and in order for a group to function effectively , it 
needs some sort of ethical code. 
this statement is not correct. 

is n't it why do n't you think so 

explain the laws in america stating that you have to drive on the right 
hand side of the road. 

and , by pointing out that a species  conduct serves to propogate itself , 
i am not trying to give you your tautology , but i am trying to show that 
such are examples of moral systems with a goal. propogation of the species 
is a goal of a natural system of morality .  . 
so anybody who lives in a relationship is not moral after all , 
in order to ensure propogation of the species , every man should impregnate 
as many women as possible. 

no. as noted earlier , lack of mating  ( such as abstinence or homosexuality ) 
is n't really destructive to the system. it is a worst neutral .  . 

so if every member of the species was homosexual , this would n't be destructive 
to the survival of the species 

for that matter , in herds of horses , only the dominate stallion mates .  . when 
he dies is killed whatever , the new dominate stallion is the only one who 
mates .  . these seems to be a case of your natural system of morality trying 
to shoot itself in the figurative foot. 

again , the mating practices are something to be reexamined .  .  .  . 

the whole theory needs to be reexamined .  .  .  . 

 ( b(0 4 ) c d e f g  ( k ) m  ( r ) s ( ) t 
my thoughts , my posts , my ideas , my responsibility , my beer , my pizza. ok 

from mathew 
subject re political atheists 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 11 

 ( mark mccullough ) writes 
i think you mean circular , not recursive , but that is semantics .  . 
recursiveness has no problems , it is just horribly inefficient  ( just ask 
any assembly programmer . ) . 

tail recursive functions in scheme are at least as efficient as iterative 
loops .  . anyone who does n't program in assembler will have heard of optimizing 
compilers .  . 


mathew 

from mathew 
subject alt.atheism faq atheist resources 
summary books , addresses , music anything related to atheism 
keywords faq , atheism , books , music , fiction , addresses , contacts 
expires thu , 29 apr 1993 11 57 19 gmt 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
supersedes 
lines 290 

archive name atheism resources 
alt atheism archive name resources 
last modified 11 december 1992 
version 1.0 

atheist resources 

addresses of atheist organizations 

usa 

freedom from religion foundation 

darwin fish bumper stickers and assorted other atheist paraphernalia are 
available from the freedom from religion foundation in the us. 

write to , p.o. box 750 , madison , wi 53701 .  . 
telephone (608) 256 8900 

evolution designs 

evolution designs sell the darwin fish . it 's a fish symbol , like the ones 
christians stick on their cars , but with feet and the word darwin written 
inside. the deluxe moulded 3d plastic fish is 4.95 postpaid in the us. 

write to evolution designs , 7119 laurel canyon 4 , north hollywood , 
ca 91605 .  . 

people in the san francisco bay area can get darwin fish from lynn gold 
try mailing . for net people who go to lynn directly , the 
price is 4.95 per fish. 

american atheist press 

aap publish various atheist books critiques of the bible , lists of 
biblical contradictions , and so on. one such book is 

the bible handbook by w . p .  . ball and g.w. foote .  . american atheist press. 
372 pp. isbn 0 26 4 , 2nd edition , 1986 .  . bible contradictions , 
absurdities , atrocities , immoralities .  .  .  . contains ball , foote the bible 
contradicts itself , aap .  . based on the king james version of the bible .  . 

write to american atheist press , p.o. box , austin , tx 78714 0195 .  . 
or 7215 cameron road , austin , tx 78752 2973 .  . 
telephone (512) 458 1244 
fax (512) 467 9525 

prometheus books 

sell books including 's holy horrors  ( see below) .  . 

write to 700 east amherst street , buffalo , new york 14215 .  . 
telephone (716) 837 2475 .  . 

an alternate address  ( which may be newer or older ) is 
prometheus books , 59 glenn drive , buffalo , ny 14228 2197 .  . 

african americans for humanism 

an organization promoting black secular humanism and uncovering the history of 
black freethought .  . they publish a quarterly newsletter , aah examiner .  . 

write to norm r. allen , jr. , african americans for humanism , p.o. box 664 , 
buffalo , ny 14226 .  . 

united kingdom 

rationalist press association national secular society 
88 islington high street 702 holloway road 
london n1 london n19 
071 226 7251 071 272 1266 

british humanist association south place ethical society 
14 lamb 's conduit passage conway hall 
london red lion square 
071 430 0908 london 
fax 071 430 1271 071 831 7723 

the national secular society publish the freethinker , a monthly magazine 
founded in 1881 .  . 

germany 

e.v. 
internationaler bund der und atheisten 
880 , d 1000 berlin 41 .  . germany .  . 

publish a journal 
miz .  .  ( materialien und informationen zur zeit .  . 
journal der und atheisten .  . hrsg .  . e . v . ) . 
miz vertrieb , 880 , d 1000 berlin 41 .  . germany .  . 

for atheist books , write to 

, internationaler b der 
3005 , d 3000 hannover 1. germany .  . 
telephone 0511 


books fiction 

thomas m. disch 

the santa claus compromise 
short story. the ultimate proof that santa exists. all characters and 
events are fictitious .  . any similarity to living or dead gods uh , well .  .  .  . 

walter m. miller , jr 

a canticle for leibowitz 
one gem in this post atomic doomsday novel is the monks who spent their lives 
copying blueprints from saint leibowitz , filling the sheets of paper with 
ink and leaving white lines and letters. 

edgar 

davy 
post atomic doomsday novel set in clerical states. the church , for example , 
forbids that anyone produce , describe or use any substance containing .  .  .  . 
atoms . 

philip k. dick 

philip k. dick dick wrote many philosophical and thought provoking short 
stories and novels .  . his stories are bizarre at times , but very approachable .  . 
he wrote mainly sf , but he wrote about people , truth and religion rather than 
technology. although he often believed that he had met some sort of god , he 
remained sceptical .  . amongst his novels , the following are of some relevance 

galactic pot healer 
a fallible alien deity summons a group of earth craftsmen and women to a 
remote planet to raise a giant cathedral from beneath the oceans .  . when the 
deity begins to demand faith from the earthers , pot healer joe is 
unable to comply .  . a polished , ironic and amusing novel. 

a maze of death 
noteworthy for its description of a technology based religion. 

valis 
the schizophrenic hero searches for the hidden mysteries of gnostic 
christianity after reality is fired into his brain by a pink laser beam of 
unknown but possibly divine origin .  . he is accompanied by his dogmatic and 
dismissively atheist friend and assorted other odd characters. 

the divine invasion 
god invades earth by making a young woman pregnant as she returns from 
another star system. unfortunately she is terminally ill , and must be 
assisted by a dead man whose brain is wired to 24 hour easy listening music. 

margaret atwood 

the handmaid 's tale 
a story based on the premise that the us congress is mysteriously 
assassinated , and fundamentalists quickly take charge of the nation to set it 
right again. the book is the diary of a woman 's life as she tries to live 
under the new christian theocracy .  . women 's right to own property is revoked , 
and their bank accounts are closed sinful luxuries are outlawed , and the 
radio is only used for readings from the bible .  . crimes are punished 
retroactively doctors who performed legal abortions in the old world are 
hunted down and hanged .  . atwood 's writing style is difficult to get used to 
at first , but the tale grows more and more chilling as it goes on. 

various authors 

the bible 
this somewhat dull and rambling work has often been criticized .  . however , it 
is probably worth reading , if only so that you 'll know what all the fuss is 
about. it exists in many different versions , so make sure you get the one 
true version. 

books non fiction 

peter de rosa 

vicars of christ , bantam press , 1988 
although de rosa seems to be christian or even catholic this is a very 
enlighting history of papal immoralities , adulteries , fallacies etc. 
 ( german translation erste diener .  . die dunkle seite des , 
, 1989 ) 

michael martin 

atheism a philosophical justification , temple university press , 
philadelphia , usa .  . 
a detailed and scholarly justification of atheism .  . contains an outstanding 
appendix defining terminology and usage in this  ( necessarily ) tendentious 
area. argues both for negative atheism (i . e .  . the non belief in the 
existence of  ( god(s ) ) and also for positive atheism ( the belief in the 
non existence of  ( god(s ) ) .  . includes great refutations of the most 
challenging arguments for god particular attention is paid to refuting 
contempory theists such as and swinburne .  . 
541 pages. isbn 0 642 3  ( hardcover paperback also available ) 

the case against christianity , temple university press 
a comprehensive critique of christianity , in which he considers 
the best contemporary defences of christianity and  ( ultimately ) 
demonstrates that they are unsupportable and or incoherent .  . 
273 pages. isbn 0 767 5 

james turner 

without god , without creed , the johns hopkins university press , baltimore , 
md , usa 
subtitled the origins of unbelief in america . examines the way in which 
unbelief  ( whether agnostic or atheistic ) became a mainstream alternative 
world view. focusses on the period 1770 1900 , and while considering france 
and britain the emphasis is on american , and particularly new england 
developments .  . neither a religious history of secularization or atheism , 
without god , without creed is , rather , the intellectual history of the fate 
of a single idea , the belief that god exists. 
316 pages. isbn  ( hardcover ) 0 8018 2494 x  ( paper ) 0 8018 3407 4 

george  ( editor ) 

the great thoughts , ballantine books , new york , usa 
a dictionary of quotations of a different kind , concentrating on statements 
and writings which , explicitly or implicitly , present the person 's philosophy 
and world view. includes obscure  ( and often suppressed ) opinions from many 
people. for some popular observations , traces the way in which various 
people expressed and twisted the idea over the centuries .  . quite a number of 
the quotations are derived from cardiff 's what great men think of religion 
and  views of religion . 
490 pages. isbn  ( paper ) 0 345 x. 

richard swinburne 

the existence of god  ( revised edition ) , clarendon paperbacks , oxford 
this book is the second volume in a trilogy that began with the coherence of 
theism  ( 1977 ) and was concluded with faith and reason (1981) .  . in this 
work , swinburne attempts to construct a series of inductive arguments for the 
existence of god. his arguments , which are somewhat tendentious and rely 
upon the imputation of late 20th century western christian values and 
aesthetics to a god which is supposedly as simple as can be conceived , were 
decisively rejected in mackie 's the miracle of theism . in the revised 
edition of the existence of god , swinburne includes an appendix in which he 
makes a somewhat incoherent attempt to rebut mackie .  . 

j. l. mackie 

the miracle of theism , oxford 
this  ( posthumous ) volume contains a comprehensive review of the principal 
arguments for and against the existence of god. it ranges from the classical 
philosophical positions of descartes , anselm , berkeley , hume et al , through 
the moral arguments of newman , kant and , to the recent restatements 
of the classical theses by and swinburne .  . it also addresses those 
positions which push the concept of god beyond the realm of the rational , 
such as those of kierkegaard , kung and philips , as well as replacements for 
god such as 's axiarchism .  . the book is a delight to read less 
formalistic and better written than martin 's works , and refreshingly direct 
when compared with the hand waving of swinburne .  . 

james a. 

holy horrors an illustrated history of religious murder and madness , 
prometheus books 
looks at religious persecution from ancient times to the present day and 
not only by christians .  . 
library of congress catalog card number 89 64079 .  . 1990. 

norm r. allen , jr. 

african american humanism an anthology 
see the listing for african americans for humanism above. 

gordon stein 

an anthology of atheism and rationalism , prometheus books 
an anthology covering a wide range of subjects , including  the devil , evil 
and morality' and  the history of freethought' .  . comprehensive bibliography .  . 

edmund d. cohen 

the mind of the bible believer , prometheus books 
a study of why people become christian fundamentalists , and what effect it 
has on them. 

net resources 

there 's a small mail based archive server at mantis . co . uk . which carries 
archives of old alt . atheism . moderated . articles and assorted other files. for 
more information , send mail to archive saying 

help 
send atheism index 

and it will mail back a reply. 


mathew 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( frank 
o'dwyer ) wrote 
(1) does the term hero worship mean anything to you 

yes , worshipping jesus as the super saver is indeed hero worshipping 
of the grand scale. worshipping lenin that will make life pleasant 
for the working people is , eh , somehow similar , or what. 

(2) i understand that gods are defined to be supernatural , not merely 
superhuman .  . 
the notion of lenin was on the borderline of supernatural insights 
into how to change the world , he was n't a communist god , but he was 
the man who gave presents to kids during christmas .  . 

actually , i agree. things are always relative , and you ca n't have 
a direct mapping between a movement and a cause. however , the notion 
that communist russia was somewhat the typical atheist country is 
only something that robertson , tilton et rest would believe in. 

those atheists were not true unbelievers , huh ) 

do n't know what they were , but they were fanatics indeed. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

organization penn state university 
from andrew newell 
subject re christian morality is 

lines 32 

in article ,  ( mike cobb ) 
says 

in  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

in article  ( mike 
cobb ) writes 

if i'm wrong , god is free at any time to correct my mistake. that 
he continues not to do so , while supposedly proclaiming his 
undying love for my eternal soul , speaks volumes .  . 

what are the volumes that it speaks besides the fact that he leaves your 
choices up to you 

leaves the choices up to us but gives us no better reason 
to believe than an odd story of his alleged son getting 
killed for us and little new in the past few thousand 
years , leaving us with only the texts passed down through 
centuries of meddling with the meaning and even wording .  . 
 .  .  . most . of this passing down and interpretation of course 
coming from those who have a vested interest in not allowing 
the possibility that it might not be the ultimate truth. 
what about maybe talking to us directly , eh 
he 's a big god , right he ought to be able to make time 
for the creations he loves so much .  .  . at . least enough to 
give us each a few words of direct conversation. 
what , he 's too busy to get around to all of us 
or maybe a few unquestionably miraculous works here and 
there 
 .  .  . speaks . volumes upon volumes to me that i 've never 
gotten a chance to meet the guy and chat with him. 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization sgi 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( mathew ) writes 
in article 
 ( ken arromdee ) writes 
the automobile system kills non driving passengers , not to mention 
pedestrians .  . you need not drive or even use a car to be killed by one. 

indeed , and it kills far more than a system of public transport would. i am 
therefore entirely in favour of banning private cars and replacing them with 
trains , buses , taxis , bicycles , and so on. 

seconded .  . i cycle to work each day , and if we could just get 
those damned cars and their cretinous drivers off the road , it 
would be a lot more fun. 

jon .  . 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 16 

in article  ( leonard newnham ) writes 

gregg jaeger wrote 

could you please explain in what way the qur'an in your eyes carries 
the excess baggage of another era the qur'an in my opinion carries 
no such baggage .  . 

how about trying to run a modern economy without charging interest on 
loans .  . from what i hear , even fundamentalist iran is having to 
compromise this ideal .  . 

which sort of loans and what have you heard exactly 


gregg 

from (dean . kaflowitz) . 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( ed mccreary ) writes 
on thu , 15 apr 1993 04 54 38 gmt ,  ( dan lawrence bissell ) said 

dlb first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 
dlb makes sense to be one. have any of you read tony 's book liar , 
dlb lunatic , or the real thing (i might be a little off on the title , but he 
dlb writes the book. anyway he was part of an effort to destroy christianity , 
dlb in the process he became a christian himself. 

here we go again .  .  .  . 

just the friendly folks at christian central , come to save you. 


from robert knowles 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 19 

date 18 apr 93 23 17 25 gmt 
from bake timmons 

these bible lovers have got to chill out. if we all could just relax 
and see atheism for what it is , the funny pages could have more material. 

atheism denies the existence of god. this is logically bankrupt 
where is the proof of this nonexistence it 's a joke. 

so nobody can take the above sense of atheism seriously. perhaps 

perhaps because you just made it up 

now put your skateboard away and read the faq .  . learn something about atheism 
before you get off on these tangents .  . 





from  ( the desert brat ) 
subject victims of various  good fight 's 
organization cured , discharged 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( naren bala ) writes 

list of killings in the name of religion 
1. iran iraq war 1 , 000 , 000 
2. civil war in sudan 1 , 000 , 000 
3 , riots in india pakistan in 1947 1 , 000 , 000 
4. in bangladesh in 1971 1 , 000 , 000 
5. in america in 1500s x million  ( x ) 
6. crusades 

7. massacre of jews in wwii 6.3 million 
8. massacre of other  inferior races  in wwii 10 million 
9. communist purges 20 30 million socialism is more or less a religion 
10. catholics v protestants quite a few i 'd imagine 
11. recent goings on in bombay (sp ) area 
12. disease introduced to brazilian oher s . am .  . tribes x million 

naren 

the desert brat 

john j mcvey , elc eng , , uni s australia , 
t . s . a . k . c .  . darwin o 
for replies , mail to 
disclaimer unisa hates my opinions. bb bb 

it does n't make a rainbow any less beautiful that we god 's name is smack 
understand the refractive mechanisms that chance to for some. 
produce it. jim perry , alice in chains 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 62 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( reference line trimmed ) 

 ( scott d. sauyet ) writes 

first , i 'll make the assumption that you agree that a murderer is one 
who has commited murder .  . 

well , i 'd say that a murderer is one who intentionally committed a murder .  . 
for instance , if you put a bullet into a gun that was thought to contain 
blanks , and someone was killed with such a gun , the person who actually 
performed the action is n't the murderer  ( but i guess this is actually made 
clear in the below definition) .  . 

i 'd be interested to see a more reasonable definition .  . 

what do you mean by reasonable 

otherwise , your inductive definition does n't bottom out 
your definition , in essence , is that 
murder is the intentional killing of someone who has not commited 
murder , against his will. 
expanding the second occurence of  in the above , we see that 
... 

yes , it is bad to include the word being defined in the definition .  . but , 
even though the series is recursively infinite , i think the meaning can 
still be deduced .  . 

i assume you can see the problem here. to do a correct inductive 
definition , you must define something in terms of a simpler case , and 
you must have one or several bottoming out cases. for instance , we 
can define the factorial function  ( the function which assigns to a 
positive integer the product of the positive integers less than or 
equal to it) on the positive integers inductively as follows 

math lesson deleted 

okay , let 's look at this situation suppose there is a longstanding 
feud between two families which claim that the other committed some 
travesty in the distant past. each time a member of the one family 
kills a member of the other , the other family thinks that it is justified 
in killing a that member of the first family. now , let 's suppose that this 
sequence has occurred an infinite number of times. or , if you do n't 
like dealing with infinities , suppose that one member of the family 
goes back into time and essentially begins the whole thing. that is , there 
is a never ending loop of slayings based on some non existent travesty .  . 
how do you resolve this 

well , they are all murders .  . 

now , i suppose that this is n't totally applicable to your problem , but 
it still is possible to reduce an uninduced system. 

and , in any case , the nested murderer in the definition of murder 
cannot be infintely recursive , given the finite existence of humanity .  . 
and , a murder cannot be committed without a killing involved. so , the 
first person to intentionally cause someone to get killed is necessarily 
a murderer .  . is this enough of an induction to solve the apparently 
definition see , in a totally objective system where all the 
information is available , such a nested definition is n't really a problem. 

keith 

from  ( carolyn jean fairman ) 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 26 

 ( david joslin ) writes 

someone writes 
i found a list of biblical contradictions and cleaned it up a bit , 
but now i 'd like some help with it. 

i'm curious to know what purpose people think these lists serve .  . 

it 's about time. why do atheists spend so much time paying attention 
to the bible , anyway 

face it , there are better things to do with your life ! i used to 
chuckle and snort over the silliness in that book and the absurdity 
of people believing in it as truth , etc. why do we spend so little 
time on the mayan religion , or the native americans heck , the native 
americans have signifigantly more interesting myths .  . also , what 
about the egyptians .  . 

i think we pay so much attention to christianity because we accept 
it as a religion and not a mythology , which i find more accurate. 


i try to be tolerant .  . it gets very hard when someone places a book 
under my nose and tells me it 's special. it 's not. 

carolyn 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re a silly question on x 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( mark mccullough ) writes 

sorry to insult your homestate , but coming from where i do , wisconsin 
is very backwards. i was never able to understand that people actually 
held such bigoted and backwards views until i came here. 

i have never been to wisconsin , though i have been to 
neighbor minnesota .  . being a child of the middle atlantic  ( ny , nj , pa ) 
i found that there were few states in the that stood 
out in this youngster 's mind california , texas , and florida to 
name the most obvious three. however , both minnesota and wisconsin 
stuck out , solely on the basis of their politics. both have 
always translated to extremely liberal and progressive states. 
and my recent trip to last summer served to support that 
state 's reputation .  . my guess is that wisconsin is probably the 
same. at least that was the impression the people of minnesota left 
with me about their neighbors. 

the only question in my head about wisconsin , though , is 
whether or not there is a cause effect relationship between 
cheese and serial killers ) 

jim halat 

from  ( frank o'dwyer ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization siemens ag 
lines 28 
nntp posting host d012s658 . ap . mchp . sni . de . 

in article  ( mats andtbacka ) writes 
in writes 
in article  ( jim halat ) writes 

i'm one of those people who does not know what the word objective means 
when put next to the word morality .  . i assume its an idiom and cannot 
be defined by its separate terms. 

give it a try. 

objective morality is morality built from objective values .  . 

and these objective values are ... 
please be specific , and more importantly , motivate .  . 

i 'll take a wild guess and say freedom is objectively valuable .  . i base 
this on the assumption that if everyone in the world were deprived utterly 
of their freedom  ( so that their every act was contrary to their volition ) , 
almost all would want to complain. therefore i take it that to assert or 
believe that freedom is not very valuable , when almost everyone can see 
that it is , is every bit as absurd as to assert it is not raining on 
a rainy day. i take this to be a candidate for an objective value , and it 
it is a necessary condition for objective morality that objective values 
such as this exist. 


frank o'dwyer  i m not hatching that  
from hens , by evelyn conlon 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re slavery  ( was re why is sex only allowed in marriage  .  .  . ) . 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 16 

in article , 
 ( fred rice ) wrote 
anyhow , on the basis of the apparent success of islamic banks , it seems 
to me that the statement that a zero interest economy cannot survive in 
today 's world may be a bit premature .  . 

i'm sure zero intested economical systems survive on a small scale , 
co ops is not an islamic invention , and we have co operatives working 
all around the world. however such systems do n't stand the corruption 
of a large scale operation. actually , nothing could handle human 
greed , imho .  . not even allah ) .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization sgi 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( ken arromdee ) writes 

look , i'm not the one that made those nazi comparisons .  . other people 
compared what the religious people are doing now to nazi germany .  . they 
have said that it started out with little things  ( but no one really knew 
about any of these little things , strangely enough ) and grew to bigger 
things. they said that the motto is but one of the little things 
you just contradicted yourself. the motto is one of those little things that 
nobody has bothered to you , huh 

the  things above were in reference to germany , clearly .  . people 
said that there were similar things in germany , but no one could name any. 
they said that these were things that everyone should know , and that they 
were n't going to waste their time repeating them. sounds to me like no one 
knew , either. i looked in some books , but to no avail. 

that 's not true. i gave you two examples .  . one was the rather 
anti semitism in german christianity well before hitler 
arrived. the other was the system of social ranks that were used 
in germany and austria to distinguish jews from the rest 
of the population .  . 

neither of these were very terrible in themselves , but both helped 
to set a psychology in which the gradual disenfranchisement of jews 
was made easier. 

jon .  . 

from  ( james felder ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization nasa lewis resaerch center 
lines 100 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host hopper3 . lerc . nasa . gov . 

in article ,  ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 
first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 
makes sense to be one. have any of you read tony 's book liar , 
lunatic , or the real thing (i might be a little off on the title , but he 
writes the book. anyway he was part of an effort to destroy christianity , 
in the process he became a christian himself. 

sounds like you are saying he was a part of some conspiracy .  . just what organization did he 
belong to does it have a name 

the book says that jesus was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 
modern day koresh ) or he was actually who he said he was. 

logic alert artificial trifercation .  . the are many other possible explainations .  . could have been 
that he never existed .  . there have been some good points made in this group that is not 
impossible that jc is an amalgam of a number of different myths , mithra comes to mind. 

some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar people 
gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
someone who was or had been healed .  . call me a fool , but i believe he did 
heal people. 


logic alert argument from incredulity .  . just because it is hard for you to believe this does n't 
mean that it is n't true. liars can be very pursuasive , just look at koresh that you yourself site. 
he has followers that do n't think he is a fake and they have shown that they are willing to die. 
by not giving up after getting shot himself , koresh has shown that he too is will to die for what 
he believes .  . as far as healing goes. if i rememer right the healing that was attributed is not 
consistent between the different gospels .  . in one of them the healing that is done is not any more 
that faith healers can pull off today. seems to me that the early gospels were n't that compeling , 
so the stories got bigger to appeal better. 

niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 
anyone who is drawn to david koresh is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 
therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 


or might not have existed , or any number of things. that is the logical pitfall that those who 
use flawed logic like this fall into. there are bifurcations  ( or tri , quad , etc ) that are valid , because 
in the proceeding steps , the person shows conclusively that the alternatives are all that are 
possible. once everyone agrees that the given set is indeed all there are , then arguments among 
the alternatives can be , and one mostly likely to be true can be deduced by excluding 
all other possible alternatives .  . 

however , if it can be shown that the set is not all inclusive , then any conclusions bases on the 
incomplete set are invalid , even if the true choice is one of the original choices. i have given at 
least one valid alternative , so the conclusion that jc is the real mccoy just because he is n't one of 
the other two alternative is no longer valid .  . 

some other things to note. he fulfilled loads of prophecies in 
the psalms , isaiah and elsewhere in 24 hrs alone. this in his betrayal 
and crucifixion .  . i do n't have my bible with me at this moment , next time i 
write i will use it. 

jc was a rabbi .  . he knew what those prophecies were. it would n't be any great shakes to make 
sure one does a list of actions that would fullfill prophecy .  . what would be compeling is if there 
were a set of clear and explicit prophecies and jc had absolutely no knowledge of then , yet 
fullfilled them anyway. 

i do n't think most people understand what a christian is. it 
is certainly not what i see a lot in churches. rather i think it 
should be a way of life , and a total sacrafice of everything for god 's 
sake. he loved us enough to die and save us so we should do the 
same. hey we ca n't do it , god himself inspires us to turn our lives 
over to him. that 's tuff and most people do n't want to do it , to be a 
real christian would be something for the strong to persevere at. but 
just like weight lifting or guitar playing , drums , whatever it takes 
time. we do n't rush it in one day , christianity is your whole life. 
it is not going to church once a week , or helping poor people once in 
a while. we box everything into time units. such as work at this 
time , sports , tv , social life. god is above these boxes and should be 
carried with us into all these boxes that we have created for 
ourselves. 

here i agree with you. anyone who buys into this load of mythology should take what it says 
seriously , and what it says is that it must be a total way of life. i have very little respect for 
xians that do n't .  . if the myth is true , then it is true in its entirity .  . the picking and choosing 
that i see a lot of leaves a bad taste in my mouth. 

jim 







james l. felder 
technology , inc. phone 216 891 4019 
nasa lewis research center 
cleveland , ohio 44135 email 
some people drink from the fountain of knowledge , other people gargle 





from  ( rashid ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
nntp posting host 47 . 252 . 4 . 179 . 
organization nh 
lines 34 

what about the twelve imams , who he considered incapable of error 
or sin khomeini supports this view of the twelve imans .  . this is 
heresy for the very reasons i gave above. 

i would be happy to discuss the issue of the 12 imams with you , although 
my preference would be to move the discussion to another 
newsgroup .  . i feel a philosophy 
or religion group would be more appropriate. the topic is deeply 
embedded in the world view of islam and the 
esoteric teachings of the prophet (s . a . ) .  . heresy does not enter 
into it at all except for those who see islam only as an exoteric 
religion that is only nominally  ( if at all ) concerned with the metaphysical 
substance of man 's being and nature. 

a good introductory book  ( in fact one of the best introductory 
books to islam in general ) is murtaza 's fundamental 's 
of islamic thought god , man , and the universe mizan press , 
translated by r. campbell .  . truly a beautiful book. a follow up book 
 ( if you can find a decent translation ) is wilaya the station 
of the master by the same author. i think it also goes under the 
title of master and mastership it 's a very small book really 
just a transcription of a lecture by the author. 
the introduction to the beautiful psalms of islam translated 
by william c.  ( available through trust of 
great britain ) is also an excellent introduction to the subject. we 
have these books in our university library i imagine any well 
stocked university library will have them. 

from your posts , you seem fairly well versed in sunni thought. you 
should seek to know shi'ite thought through knowledgeable 
shi'ite authors as well at least that much respect is due before the 
charge of heresy is levelled .  . 

as salaam a 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re a little too satanic 
organization sgi 
lines 16 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( charley wingate ) writes 
jeff west writes 

you claimed that people that took the time to translate the bible would 
also take the time to get it right. but here in less than a couple 
generations you 've been given ample proof  ( agreed to by yourself above) 
that the new versions tends to be out of step with other modern 
translations .  . 

what i said was that people took time to copy the text correctly. 
translations present completely different issues. 

so why do i read in the papers that the texts had different 
versions of some ot texts .  . did i misunderstand 

jon .  . 

from  ( dave fuller ) 
subject re death penalty  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization inc. 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 23 

the death penalty was conceived as a deterrent to crime , but the legal 
shenanigans that have been added  ( automatic appeals , lengthy court 
battles , etc . ) . have relegated that purpose to a very small part of what 
it should be. hence the question is , do we instate the death penalty as 
it was meant to be , and see if that deters crime , or do we get rid of 
it entirely 

i doubt the death penalty was supposed to be a deterrent to crime .  . if so , 
why does n't every crime carry a death penalty that would be effictive 
would n't it 

the death penalty is a punishment , much like a 50 fine for speeding is 
a punishment .  . anyway , somebody with murder on the mind does n't much care 
about the consequences .  . i think another problem is that people dont think 
they will get caught. if i wanted to kill another person , i would n't 
care what the penalty was if i did n't think i would get caught. 

if it was to be strictly a deterrent , it should have been more along 
the lines of torture. 

dave fuller 



from  ( stephen mcintyre ) 
subject re the problem of satan  ( used to be islamic authority over women ) 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 103 

in article 
 ( stephen mcintyre ) writes 

of course , bobby then states that satan has no free will , that 
he does as god wants him to. this brings up a host of 
paradoxes is god therefore evil do i have free will 
or is god directing me also if god is evil , which part 
of his infinite self is good and which is evil etc. 

i would like for once a solid answer , not a run about. 

i hope i gave you a fairly solid answer to this one i simply do n't agree 
with the embodied version of a satan who is a separate creation or a force. 
i wrote 

the belief to which i ascribe is that evil is not a creation 
rather , it is the absence of good. this fits with all the 
logic about things having dual use e.g. , a knife can be used 
to sculpt and it can be used to kill .  . like entropy , evil is 
seen in this view as neither force nor entity .  . satan is , 
therefore , metaphorical .  . in fact , there are several verses 
of the holy qur'an which appear to support this view and several 
traditions as well. 

for example , there is a tradition that food should never be left open 
on a shelf or table overnight , lest satan enter it. it appears 
that this is a reference to as yet undiscovered germs thus , the 
evil effect of spoiled food is described as satan .  . 

but there are many examples of satan personified .  . which am i 
to believe 

and there are quite physical descriptions of heaven and hell in the 
holy qur'an , the bible , etc. there have been times in the spiritual 
and intellectual evolution of the modern human when these physical 
descriptions of heaven , hell , and satan were taken quite literally 
and that worked for the time. as i mentioned in the tradition 
cited above , for example , it was sufficient in the absence of a theory 
about germs and disease spread by worms to simply describe the evil 
which was passed to a consumer of spoiled food as satanic .  . 

which begs the question if satan in this case is 
metaphorical , how can you be certain allah is not 
the same way 

the bottom line here , however , is that describing a spiritual plane 
in human language is something like describing color to a person 
who has been blind from birth. you may want to read the book 
flatland  ( if you have n't already ) or the s egg .  . the first 
is intended as a light hearted description of a mathematical con 
cept .  .  .  . 

some deleted for space saving 

when language fails because it cannot be used to adequately describe 
another dimension which cannot be experienced by the speakers , then 
such conventions as metaphor , allegory , and the like come to be 
necessary. the unseen is described in terms which have 
and meaning for the reader listener .  . but , like all models , a compro 
mise must be made when speaking metaphorically clarity and directness 
of meaning , equivalence of perception , and the like are all 
crippled .  . but what else can you do 

this is why i asked the above. how would you then 
know god exists as a spirit or being rather than 
just being metaphorical i mean , it 's okay to say 
well , satan is just metaphorical , but then you 
have to justify this belief and justify that god is 
not some metaphor for something else. 

i say this because there are many , many instances of 
satan described as a being  ( such as the tormentor in 
the old testament book of job , or the in the 
new testament gospels) .  . in the same way , god too is 
described as a being  ( or spirit . ) . how am i to know 
one is metaphorical and not the other. 

further , belief in god is n't a bar to evil. let 's 
consider the case of satanists even if satan were 
metaphorical , the satanist would have to believe 
in god to justify this belief .  . again , we have a 
case where someone does believe in god , but by 
religious standards , they are evil. if bobby 
does see this , let him address this question also. 

deleted some more on metaphor 

obviously more philosophizing on this issue is possible , but i'm 
not sure that the readers of this newsgroup would want to delve 
into religious interpretation further. however , if anyone wishes 
to discuss this , i'm certainly willing  ( either off line e mail or 
on line posting) .  . 

stephen 

atheist 
libertarian 
pro individuality 
pro responsibility 
jr. and all that jazz .  .  .  . 




from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re societal basis for morality 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( mike 
cobb ) wrote 
we have to expect others to follow our notion of societally mandated morality 
pardon the extremism , but could n't i murder your brother and say that i was 
exercising my rights as i saw them , was doing what felt good , did n't want 
anyone forcing their morality on me , or i do n't follow your morality 

good statement ! should we apply empirical measurements to define exact 
social morals should morals be based on social rules on ancient 
religious doctrines it seems there will never be a common and single 
denominator for defining morals , and as such defining absolute 
and objective morals is doomed to fail as long as humans have 
this incredible talent of creative thinking. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( tim pierce ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
article i.d. unix . c52cw7 . i6t . 
organization , consolidated  ( amherst , ma offices ) 
lines 37 

in article  ( stan krieger ) writes 

roger and i have 
clearly stated our support of the bsa position on the issue 
specifically , that homosexual behavior constitutes a violation of 
the scout oath  ( specifically , the promise to live morally straight ) .  . 

there is really nothing else to discuss. 

apparently not. 

in response to his claim that it terrifies gay people not to be able 
to indoctrinate children to our lifestyle  ( or words to that effect ) , 
i sent roger a very calm , carefully written , detailed letter 
explaining simply why the bsa policy does , indeed terrify me. i did 
not use inflammatory language and left myself extremely open for an 
answer. thus far , i have not received an answer. i can conclude only 
that roger considers his position either indefensible or simply not 
worth defending .  . 

trying to cloud the issue 
with comparisons to blacks or other minorities is also meaningless 
because it 's like comparing apples to oranges (i . e .  . , people ca n't 
control their race but they can control their behavior) .  . 

in fact , that 's exactly the point people can control their behavior. 
because of that fact , there is no need for a blanket ban on 
homosexuals .  . 

what else is there to possibly discuss on rec . scouting . on this issue 

you tell me. 


tim pierce usted es la de la tele , eh ! la madre 
del asesino ! ! ay , que graciosa ! 
 ( bitnet twpierce@amherst ) pedro almodovar 

cs . utexas . edu . ! geraldo . cc . utexas . edu . ! portal . austin . ibm . com . ! awdprime . austin . ibm . com . ! zazen 
subject re radical agnostic .  .  .  . not ! 
from (e .  . h. welbon ) 
organization brownian motion inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 34 

the one and only wrote 
in article 66 . bgsu . edu .  ( pixie ) writes 
first post i 've seen from the ol' bug zoo  ( bgsu ) 
there is no means that i can possibly think of to prove beyond doubt 
that a god does not exist  ( but if anyone has one , by all means , tell me 
what it is) .  . therefore , lacking this ability of absolute proof , being an 
atheist becomes an act of faith in and of itself , and this i cannot accept .  . 
i accept nothing on blind faith. 

invisible pink flying unicorns ! need i say more 

there is also the question of what is meant by atheist . a familiar 
example of the importance of the meaning of the word is as follows .  . 

the two statements following are consistent 

(1) i do not believe that you are wearing lilac socks 
(2) i do not believe that you are are not wearing lilac socks 

the two statements following are not consistent 

 ( 3 ) i do believe that you are wearing lilac socks 
 ( 4 ) i do believe that you are are not wearing lilac socks 

statements (1) and (2) require no faith , they make no presumptions about 
the nature of reality. statements  ( 3 ) and  ( 4 ) require belief .  . many 
atheists  ( myself included ) take the following position 

 ( 5 ) i do not believe that there is a god. 
 ( 6 ) i do not believe that there is not a god. 

that is , i harbor no beliefs at all , there is no good evidence 
for god existing or not. some folks call this agnosticism .  . it does not 
suffer from blind faith at all. i think of it as do n't worry , be happy . 

from  ( mike cobb ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 47 

in sun . eng . sun . com .  ( eric 
marsh ) writes 

in article  ( lis450 
student ) writes 
hmmmm .  . define objective morality .  . well , depends upon who you talk to. 
some say it means you ca n't have your hair over your ears , and others say 
it means stryper is acceptable .  . i would say that general principles 
of objective morality would be listed in one or two places. 

ten commandments 

sayings of jesus 

the first depends on whether you trust the bible , 

the second depends on both whether you think jesus is god , and whether 
you think we have accurate copies of the nt .  . 

gong ! 

take a moment and look at what you just wrote. first you defined 
an objective morality and then you qualified this objective morality 
with subjective justifications .  . do you see the error in this 

sorry , you have just disqualified yourself , but please play again. 

mac 


eric 

huh please explain. is there a problem because i based my morality on 
something that could be wrong gosh , there 's a heck of a lot of stuff that i 
believe that could be wrong , and that comes from sources that could be wrong. 
what do you base your belief on atheism on your knowledge and reasoning 
could n't that be wrong 

mac 


michael a. cobb 
 .  .  . and . i wo n't raise taxes on the middle university of illinois 
class to pay for my programs. champaign urbana 
bill clinton 3rd debate 

with new taxes and spending cuts we 'll still have 310 billion dollar deficits .  . 

from robert knowles 
subject re the of atheists ! 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 26 

date 15 apr 93 19 20 37 edt 
from 

in article ,  ( brian kendig ) writes 

s . c . a . quotes deleted 

it really looks like these people have no idea at all of what it means 
to be atheist .  . there are more bobby mozumder clones in the world than 
i thought .  .  .  . 

well , that explains some things i posted on soc . religion . islam . 
with an attached quote by bobby to the effect that all atheists 
are lying evil scum , and asked if it was a commonly held idea 
among muslims .  . i got no response. asking about the unknown , 
i guess .  .  .  . 

you should have tried one of the soc . culture . groups in the middle east 
or south asia area  ( they are a little more open than the islam channel) .  . 
i think someone defined atheists as polytheists cuz they say we think the 
world created itself  ( or something like that ) so each particle is a god 
which created the other gods .  . the soc . culture . african . is also nice for 
some contrasting viewpoints on the benevolence of religion. especially 
when sudan is mentioned. 



subject re do n't more innocents die without the death penalty 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 26 

in article  ( james f. tims ) writes 

by maintaining classes d and e , even in prison , it seems as if we 
place more innocent people at a higher risk of an unjust death than 
we would if the state executed classes d and e with an occasional error. 


i answer from the position that we would indeed place these people 
in prison for life. 

that depends not only on their predisposition towards murder , but 
also in their success rate at escape and therefore their ability 
to commit the same crimes again. 

in other words , if lifetime imprisonment does n't work , perhaps 
it 's not because we 're not executing these people , but because 
we 're not being careful enough about how we lock them up. 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( aario sami ) 
subject re note to bobby m. 
organization tampere university of technology , computing centre 
lines 14 
distribution sfnet 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

in (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

insults about the atheistic genocide was totally unintentional .  . under 
atheism , anything can happen , good or bad , including genocide .  . 

and you know why this is because you 've conveniently defined a theist as 
someone who can do no wrong , and you 've defined people who do wrong as 
atheists .  . the above statement is circular  ( not to mention bigoting ) , and , 
as such , has no value. 

sami aario can you see or measure an atom yet you can explode 
one. sunlight is comprised of many atoms .  . 
' your stupid minds ! stupid , stupid ! 
eros in plan 9 from outer space disclaimer i do n't agree with eros .  . 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re origins of the bible .  . 
organization u of maryland , dept. of computer science , coll. pk. , md 20742 
lines 14 

adda wainwright writes 

he stated that thousands of bibles were discovered at a certain point in 
time which were syllable perfect. this therefore meant that there must have 
been one copy at a certain time the time quoted by my acquaintance was 
approximately 50 years after the death of jesus .  . 

this is , as far as i know , complete nonsense. the codification of the bible 
as we have it now came very much later. 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re bill conner 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 6 


could you explain what any of this pertains to is this a position 
statement on something or typing practice and why are you using my 
name , do you think this relates to anything i 've said and if so , what. 

bill 

from  ( masud khan ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization cadence design systems , inc. 
lines 48 

in article bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 


yes , but , fortunately , religions have been replaced by systems 
that value human rights higher. 

secular laws seem to value criminal life more than the victims life , 
islam places the rights of society and every member in it above 
the rights of the individual , this is what i call true human rights. 


by the way , do you actually support the claim of precedence of islamic 
law in case you do , what about the laws of other religions 

as a muslim living in a non muslim land i am bound by the laws of the land 
i live in , but i do not disregard islamic law it still remains a part of my 
life. if the laws of a land conflict with my religion to such an extent 
that i am prevented from being allowed to practise my religion then i must 
leave the land. so in a way islamic law does take precendence over secular law 
but we are instructed to follow the laws of the land that we live in too. 

in an islamic state  ( one ruled by a khaliphate ) religions other than islam 
are allowed to rule by their own religious laws provided they do n't affect 
the genral population and do n't come into direct conflict with state 
laws , dhimmis  ( non muslim population ) are exempt from most islamic laws 
on religion , such as fighting in a jihad , giving zakat  ( alms giving ) 
etc but are given the benefit of these two acts such as military 
protection and if they are poor they will receive zakat .  . 


if not , what has it got to do with rushdie and has anyone reliable 
information if he had n't left islam according to islamic law 
or is the burden of proof on him 
benedikt 

after the fatwa did n't rushdie re affirm his faith in islam , did n't 
he go thru  a very public conversion to islam if so he is binding 
himself to islamic laws .  . he has to publicly renounce in his belief in islam 
so the burden is on him. 

mas 



c i t i z e n 
c a d e n c e d e s i g n s y s t e m s inc. 
masud ahmed khan all my opinions 


from  ( lucio de re ) 
subject re atheist 
reply to 
organization megabyte digital telecommunications 
lines 33 

tony writes 

my opinion is that the strong atheist position requires too much 
belief for me to be comfortable with. any strong atheists out there 
care to comment as far as i can tell , strong atheists are far 
outnumbered on alt.atheism by weak atheists .  . 

at the cost of repudiating the faq , i think too much is made of the 
strong vs weak atheism issue , although in the context of alt.atheism , 
where we 're continually attacked on the basis that strong atheists 
believe in the non existence of god , i think the separation is a 
valid one. 

to cover my arse , what i'm trying to say is that there is an 
infinitely grey area between weak and strong , as well as between 
strong and the unattainable mathematical atheism (i wish ! ) .  . whereas i 
logically can only support the weak atheist position , in effect i am 
a strong atheist  ( and wish i could be a mathematical one) .  . to 
justify my strong atheist position i believe i need only show that 
the evidence presented in favour of any of the gods under scrutiny 
is faulty .  . 

if i read the faq correctly , no argument for the existence of god 
 ( generic , as represented by mainstream theologians ) has ever been 
found to be unassailable .  . to me this is adequate evidence that the 
real god is undefinable  ( or at least no definition has yet been 
found to be watertight ) , which in turn i accept as sufficient to 
base a disbelief in each and every conceivable god. 

i'm a little fuzzy on the edges , though , so opinions are welcome 
 ( but perhaps we should change the thread subject) .  . 

lucio de re tab stops at four. 

from  ( junyan wang ) 
subject bible contradictions 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host utarlg . uta . edu . 
organization the university of texas at arlington 
lines 2 

i would like a list of bible from those of you who dispite 
being free from christianity are well versed in the bible .  . 

from  ( robert singleton ) 
subject re americans and evolution 
organization of technology 
lines 138 
distribution world 
nntp posting host thnext . mit . edu . 

in article bs . de . 
bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 
in article bedfellow . mit . edu . 
 ( robert singleton ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 

i will argue that your latter statement , i believe that no gods exist 
does rest upon faith that is , if you are making a positive statement 
that no gods exist  ( strong atheism) rather than merely saying i do n't 
know and therefore do n't believe in them and do n't not believe in then 
 ( weak atheism) .  . once again , to not believe in god is different than 
saying i believe that god does not exist. i still maintain the 
position , even after reading the faqs , that strong atheism requires 
faith. 


no it in the way it is usually used. in my view , you are saying here 
that driving a car requires faith that the car drives .  . 


i'm not saying this at all it requires no faith on my part to 
say the car drives because i 've seen it drive i 've done more 
than at in fact i 've actually driven it.  ( now what does require 
some faith is the belief that my senses give an accurate representation 
of what 's out there .  .  .  . ) . but there is no evidence pro or con 
for the existence or non existence of god  ( see what i have to 
say below on this) .  . 

for me it is a conclusion , and i have no more faith in it than i 
have in the premises and the argument used. 


sorry if i remain skeptical i do n't believe it 's entirely a 
conclusion .  . that you have seen no evidence that there is a god 
is correct neither have i. but lack of evidence for the existence 
of something is in no way evidence for the non existence of something 
 ( the creationist have a similar mode of argumentation in which if they 
disprove evolution the establish creation) .  . you  ( personally ) have never 
seen a neutrino before , but they exist. the pink unicorn analogy breaks 
down and is rather naive .  . i have a scientific theory that explains the 
appearance of animal life evolution .  . when i draw the conclusion that 
pink unicorns do n't exist because i have n't seen them , this conclusion 
has it 's foundation in observation and theory. a pink unicorn , if 
it did exist , would be qualitatively similar to other known entities .  . 
that is to say , since there is good evidence that all life on earth has 
evolved from more primitive ancestors these pink unicorns would share 
a common with horses and zebras and such. god , however , 
has no such correspondence with anything (imo) .  . there is no physical 
frame work of observation to draw any conclusions from. 



but first let me say the following. 
we might have a language problem here in regards to faith and 
existence . i , as a christian , maintain that god does not exist. 
to exist means to have being in space and time. god does not have 
being god is being. kierkegaard once said that god does not 
exist , he is eternal .  . with this said , i feel it 's rather pointless 
to debate the so called existence of god and that is not what 
i'm doing here. i believe that god is the source and ground of 
being. when you say that god does not exist , i also accept this 
statement but we obviously mean two different things by it. however , 
in what follows i will use the phrase the existence of god in it 's 
 usual sense  and this is the sense that i think you are using it. 
i would like a clarification upon what you mean by the existence of 
god . 


no , that 's a word game. 

i disagree with you profoundly on this. i have n't defined god as 
existence in fact , i have n't defined god. but this might be 
getting off the subject although if you think it 's relevant 
we can come back to it. 


further , saying god is existence is either a waste of time , existence is 
already used and there is no need to replace it by god , or you are 
implying more with it , in which case your definition and your argument 
so far are incomplete , making it a fallacy .  . 


you are using wrong categories here or perhaps you misunderstand 
what i'm saying. i'm making no argument what so ever and offering no 
definition so there is no fallacy .  . i'm not trying to convince you of 
anything. i believe and that rests upon faith. and it is inappropriate 
to apply the category of logic in this realm  ( unless someone tells you 
that they can logically prove god or that they have evidence or ... , 
then the use of logic to disprove their claims if fine and necessary) .  . 

btw , an incomplete argument is not a fallacy some things are not 
even wrong. 


 ( deletion ) 
one can never prove that god does or does not exist. when you say 
that you believe god does not exist , and that this is an opinion 
based upon observation , i will have to ask what are 
you refering to there are no observations pro or con that 
are valid here in establishing a positive belief .  . 
 ( deletion ) 

where does that follow are n't observations based on the assumption 
that something exists 


i do n't follow you here. certainly one can make observations of 
things that they did n't know existed .  . i still maintain that one 
cannot use observation to infer that god does not exist . such 
a positive assertion requires a leap .  . 



and would n't you say there is a level of definition that the assumption 
god is is meaningful .  . if not , i would reject that concept anyway. 

so , where is your evidence for that god is is meaningful at some 
level 

once again you seem to completely misunderstand me. i have no 
evidence that  god is  is meaningful at any level. maybe such 
a response as you gave just comes naturally to you because so 
many people try to run their own private conception of god down 
your throat. i , however , am not doing this. i am arguing one , and 
only one , thing that to make a positive assertion about something 
for which there can in principle be no evidence for or against 
requires a leap it requires faith. i am , as you would say , a 
theist however , there is a form of atheism that i can respect 
but it must be founded upon honesty .  . 



benedikt 


bob singleton 


subject re ancient islamic rituals 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 33 

in article  ( fred rice ) writes 
i propose 
that these two trends greater level of general depression in society 
 ( and other psychological problems ) and greater sexual promiscuity are 
linked , with the latter being a prime cause of the former .  . i cannot 
provide any evidence beyond this at this stage , but the whole thesis 
seems very reasonable to me and i request that people ponder upon it. 


damn right you ca n't provide any evidence for it. 

rarely are any widespread social phenomenon reducible to such a 
simple premise .  . if they were , psychology would be a hard science 
with roughly the same mathematical soundness as physics .  . 

your premise may well be right. it is much more likely , however , 
that it reflects your socialization and religious background , as 
well as your need to validate your religious beliefs .  . were i to 
pretend to have all the answers  ( and i do n't ) , i would say that the 
xenophobia , guilt , and intolerance brought about by adherence to 
fundamentalist religions play just as large a role in depressing 
the members of our society. 

your mileage obviously varies. 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( bake timmons ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
lines 32 


maddi hausmann chirps 

 ( bake timmons ) writes 

first of all , you seem to be a reasonable guy. why not try to be more honest 
and include my sentence afterwards that 

honest , it just ended like that , i swear ! 

that 's nice. 

hmmmm .  .  . i . recognize the warning signs .  .  . alternating . polite and 
rude .  .  . coming . into newsgroup with huge chip on shoulder .  .  . calls . 
people names and then makes nice .  .  . whirrr .  .  . click .  .  . whirrr . 

you forgot the third equality .  .  . whirrr .  .  . click .  .  . whirrr .  .  . see . below .  .  .  . 

whirr click whirr .  .  . frank . o'dwyer might also be contained 
in that shell .  .  . pop . stack to determine .  .  . whirr .  .  . click .  . whirr . 

killfile keith allen schneider frank closet theist o'dwyer ... 

maddi the mad sound o geek hausmann 

 .  .  . whirrr .  .  . click .  .  . whirrr . 


bake timmons , iii 

 .  .  . there . 's nothing higher , stronger , more wholesome and more useful in life 
than some good memory .  .  .  . in brothers  ( dostoevsky ) 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 114 

in article 
writes 

did n't you say lucifer was created with a perfect nature 

yes. 


define perfect then. 


i think you 
are playing the usual game here , make sweeping statements like omni , 
holy , or perfect , and do n't note that they mean exactly what they say. 
and that says that you must not use this terms when it leads to 
contradictions .  . 

i'm not trying to play games here. but i understand how it might seem 
that way especially when one is coming from a completely different point 
of view such as atheism .  . 


take your foot out of your mouth , i wondered about that already when i 
was a catholic christian .  . the fact that the contradiction is unresolvable 
is one of the reasons why i am an atheist .  . 

believe me , i believed similar sentences for a long time. but that shows 
the power of religion and not anything about its claims .  . 


now god could have prevented lucifer 's fall by taking away his ability 
to choose between moral alternatives  ( worship god or worship himself) , 
but that would mean that god was in error to have make lucifer or any 
being with free will in the first place. 

exactly. god allows evil , an evil if there ever was one. 


now that 's an opinion , or at best a premise .  . but from my point of view , 
it is not a premise which is necessary true , specifically , that it is 
an evil to allow evil to occur .  . 


it follows from a definition of evil as ordinarily used. letting evil 
happen or allowing evil to take place , in this place even causing evil , 
is another evil. 


but could you give a definition of free will especially in the 
presence of an omniscient being 

will is self determination . in other words , god created conscious 
beings who have the ability to choose between moral choices independently 
of god. all will , therefore , is free will . 


the omniscient attribute of god will know what the creatures will do even 
before the omnipotent has created them. there is no choice left. all is known , 
the course of events is fixed. 

not even for the omniscient itself , to extend an argument by james tims .  . 


if god is omniscient , then 
clearly , creating beings with free moral choice is a greater good than 
the emergence of ungodliness  ( evil sin ) since he created them knowing 
the outcome in advance. 

why is it the greater good to allow evil with the knowledge that it 
will happen why not make a unipolar system with the possibility of 
doing good or not doing good , but that does not necessarily imply 
doing evil. it is logically possible , but your god has not done it. 

i do not know that such is logically possible. if god restrains a 
free being 's choice to choose to do evil and simply do not good , 
then can it be said that the being truly has a free moral choice 
and if good is defined as loving and obeying god , and avoiding 
those behaviors which god prohibits , then how can you say that one 
who is not good is not evil as well like i said , i am not sure 
that doing not good without doing evil is logically possible. 

and when i am not omnipotent , how can i have free will you have said 
something about choices and the scenario gives them. therefore we have 
what you define as free will. 

imagine the following. i can do good to other beings , but i cannot harm them. 
easily implemented by making everyone appreciate being the object of good 
deeds , but do n't make them long for them , so they can not feel the absence 
of good as evil. 

but whose case am i arguing it is conceivable , so the omnipotent can do it. 
or it would not be omnipotent .  . if you want logically consistent as well , you 
have to give up the pet idea of an omnipotent first. 

 ( deletion ) 

perhaps it is weak , in a way. if i were just speculating about the 
ubiquitous pink unicorns , then there would be no basis for such 
speculation .  . but this idea of god did n't just fall on me out of the 
blue ) , or while reading science fiction or fantasy .  . (i know that 
some will disagree ) ) the bible describes a god who is omniscient , 
and nevertheless created beings with free moral choice , from which 
the definitional logic follows .  . but that 's not all there is to it. 
there seems to be  ( at least in my mind ) a certain amount of evidence 
which indicates that god exists and that the biblical description 
of him may be a fair one. it is that evidence which bolsters the 
argument in my view. 

that the bible describes an omniscient and omnipotent god destroys 
the credibility of the bible , nothing less. 

and a lot of people would be interested in evidence for a god , 
unfortunately , there ca n't be any with these definitions .  . 
benedikt 

subject re do n't more innocents die without the death penalty 
from  ( james j. lippard ) 
distribution world , local 
organization university of arizona 
nntp posting host skyblu . ccit . arizona . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( chris bell ) writes .  .  .  . 
killing is wrong 
if you kill we will punish you 
our punishment will be to kill you. 

seems to be lacking in consistency .  . 

not any more so than 

holding people against their will is wrong 
if you hold people against their will we will punish you 
our punishment will be to hold you against your will 

is there any punishment which is n't something which , if done by a private 
person to another private person for no apparent reason , would lead to 
punishment  ( fines , i suppose . ) . 

jim lippard 
dept. of philosophy 
university of arizona 
tucson , az 85721 

from  ( the one and only ) 
subject re new member 
organization salvation army draft board 
lines 28 

in article  ( dave fuller ) writes 

hello. i just started reading this group today , and i think i am going 
to be a large participant in its daily postings .  . i liked the section of 
the faq about constructing logical arguments well done. i am an atheist , 
but i do not try to turn other people into atheists .  . i only try to figure 
why people believe the way they do i do n't much care if they have a 
different view than i do. when it comes down to it . . . i could be wrong. 
i am willing to admit the possibility something religious followers 
dont seem to have the capability to do. 

happy to be aboard ! 

dave fuller 


welcome. i am the official keeper of the list of nicknames that people 
are known by on alt.atheism  ( did n't know we had such a list , did you) .  . 
your have been awarded the nickname of buckminster .  . so the next time 
you post an article , sign with your nickname like so 
dave buckminster fuller .  . thanks again. 

jim humor means never having to say you 're sorry copeland 

if god is dead and the actor plays his part sting , 
his words of fear will find their way to a place in your heart history 
without the voice of reason every faith is its own curse will teach us 
without freedom from the past things can only get worse nothing 

from  ( kevin marshall ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va 
lines 42 
nntp posting host csugrad . cs . vt . edu . 

(s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

if saddam believed in god , he would pray five times a 
day. 

communism , on the other hand , actually committed genocide in the name of 
atheism , as lenin and stalin have said themselves. these two were die 
hard atheist  ( look ! a pun ! ) and believed in atheism as an integral part 
of communism .  . 

no , bobby .  . stalin killed millions in the name of socialism .  . atheism was a 
characteristic of the lenin stalin version of socialism , nothing more. 
another characteristic of lenin stalin socialism was the centralization of 
food distribution .  . would you therefore say that stalin and lenin killed 
millions in the name of rationing bread of course not. 


more horrible deaths resulted from atheism than anything else. 

in earlier posts you stated that true  ( muslim ) believers were incapable of 
evil. i suppose if you believe that , you could reason that no one has ever 
been killed in the name of religion. what a perfect world you live in , 
bobby .  . 


one of the reasons that you are atheist is that you limit god by giving 
god a form. god does not have a face . 

bobby is referring to a rather obscure law in the good atheist 's 
handbook 

law xxvi . a . 3 . give that which you do not believe in a face. 

you must excuse us , bobby .  . when we argue against theism , we usually argue 
against the christian idea of god. in the realm of christianity , man was 
created in god 's image. 



kevin marshall sophomore , computer science 
virginia tech , blacksburg , va usa 


from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re genocide is caused by theism evidence 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 21 

in article 
 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 


in the absence of some convincing evidence that theist fanatics are more 
dangerous than atheist fanatics , i 'll continue to be wary of fanatics of 
any stripe .  . 

i think that the agnostic fanatics are the most dangerous of the lot. 

fair point , actually. i mentioned theists and atheists , but left out 
agnostics .  . mea culpa .  . 


no wonder in the light of that you are a probably a theist who tries 
to pass as an agnostic .  . i still remember your post about your daughter 
singing chrismas carols and your feelings of it well. 

by the way , would you show marginal honesty and answer the many questions 
you left open when you ceased to respond last time 
benedikt 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re who are we to judge , bobby 
lines 31 
organization walla walla college 
lines 31 

in article  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re who are we to judge , bobby 
date thu , 15 apr 1993 04 12 38 gmt 

(s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
 ( tammy r healy ) writes 
i would like to take the liberty to quote from a christian writer named 
ellen g. white. i hope that what she said will help you to edit your 
remarks in this group in the future. 

do not set yourself as a standard. do not make your opinions , your views 
of duty , your interpretations of scripture , a criterion for others and in 
your heart condemn them if they do not come up to your ideal .  . 
thoughts fromthe mount of blessing p. 124 

point 

point you have taken it upon yourself to judge others when only 
god is the true judge. 



only when the sun starts to orbit the earth will i accept the bible .  . 


i agree totally with you ! amen ! you stated it better and in less world 
than i did. 

tammy 


from 
subject re free moral agency 
distribution world 
organization department of computer science , university of york , england 
lines 11 

are you saying that their was a physical adam and eve , and that all 
humans are direct decendents of only these two human beings .  . then who 
were cain and able 's wives could n't be their sisters , because a e 
did n't have daughters .  . were they non humans 

genesis 5 4 

and the days of adam after he begat seth were eight hundred years , and 
he begat sons and daughters 

felicitations chris ho stuart 

from  ( ray ingles ) 
subject re yeah , right 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 49 
distribution world 
nntp posting host agar . engin . umich . edu . 

in article  ( charley wingate ) writes 
benedikt rosenau writes 

and what about that revelation thing , charley 

if you 're talking about this intellectual engagement of revelation , well , 
it 's obviously a risk one takes .  . 

ah , now here is the core question. let me suggest a scenario .  . 

we will grant that a god exists , and uses revelation to communicate 
with humans.  ( said revelation taking the form  ( paraphrased from your 
own words )  this infinitely powerful deity grabs some poor schmuck , 
makes him take dictation , and then hides away for a few hundred years' . ) . 
now , there exists a human who has not personally experienced a 
revelation .  . this person observes that not only do these revelations seem 
to contain elements that contradict rather strongly aspects of the 
observed world  ( which is all this person has ever seen ) , but there are 
many mutually contradictory claims of revelation .  . 

now , based on this , can this person be blamed for concluding , absent 
a personal revelation of their own , that there is almost certainly 
nothing to this  revelation  thing 

i'm not an objectivist , so i'm not particularly impressed with problems of 
conceptualization .  . the problem in this case is at least as bad as that of 
trying to explain quantum mechanics and relativity in the terms of ordinary 
experience. one can get some rough understanding , but the language is , from 
the perspective of ordinary phenomena , inconsistent , and from the 
perspective of what 's being described , rather inexact  ( to be charitable) .  . 

an analogous situation  ( supposedly ) obtains in metaphysics the problem is 
that the better descriptive language is not available. 

absent this better language , and absent observations in support of the 
claims of revelation , can one be blamed for doubting the whole thing 

here is what i am driving at i have thought a long time about this. i 
have come to the honest conclusion that if there is a deity , it is 
nothing like the ones proposed by any religion that i am familiar with. 
now , if there does happen to be , say , a christian god , will i be held 
accountable for such an honest mistake 

sincerely , 

ray ingles 

the meek can have the earth. the rest of us are going to the 
stars ! robert a. heinlein 

from  ( david wood ) 
subject request for support 
organization software engineering institute 
lines 35 



i have a request for those who would like to see charley wingate 
respond to the charley challenges  ( and judging from my e mail , there 
appear to be quite a few of you . ) . 

it is clear that mr. wingate intends to continue to post tangential or 
unrelated articles while ingoring the challenges themselves. between 
the last two re postings of the challenges , i noted perhaps a dozen or 
more posts by mr. wingate , none of which answered a single challenge. 

it seems unmistakable to me that mr. wingate hopes that the questions 
will just go away , and he is doing his level best to change the 
subject. given that this seems a rather common net . theist . tactic , i 
would like to suggest that we impress upon him our desire for answers , 
in the following manner 

1. ignore any future articles by mr. wingate that do not address the 
challenges , until he answers them or explictly announces that he 
refuses to do so. 

or 

2. if you must respond to one of his articles , include within it 
something similar to the following 

please answer the questions posed to you in the charley challenges .  . 

really , i'm not looking to humiliate anyone here , i just want some 
honest answers. you would n't think that honesty would be too much to 
ask from a devout christian , would you 

nevermind , that was a rhetorical question. 

dave wood 

from  ( mats andtbacka ) 
subject re an anecdote about islam 
in reply to 's message of 5 apr 93 16 49 14 gmt 
organization unorganized usenet postings uninc .  . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 24 

in writes 



i do n't understand the point of this petty sarcasm .  . it is a basic 
principle of islam that if one is born muslim or one says i testify 
that there is no god but god and mohammad is a prophet of god that , 
so long as one does not explicitly reject islam by word then one must 
be considered muslim by all muslims .  . so the phenomenon you 're attempting 
to make into a general rule or psychology is a direct odds with basic 
islamic principles .  . if you want to attack islam you could do better than 
than to argue against something that islam explicitly contradicts .  . 

in the deletions somewhere , it mentioned something about chopping 
off of hands being a punishment for theft in saudi arabia .  . assuming this 
is so (i would n't know) , and assuming it is done by people fitting your 
requirement for muslim  ( which i find highly likely) , then would you 
please try to convince bobby mozumder that muslims chop people 's hands 
off 

come back when you 've succeeded .  . 


disclaimer it 's great to be young and insane ! 

from  ( jeffrey clark ) 
subject re a little too satanic 
nntp posting host kraken . itc . gu . edu . au . 
organization itc , griffith university , brisbane , australia 
lines 33 

 ( charley wingate ) writes 

nanci ann miller writes 

my favorite reply to the you are being too literal minded complaint is 
that if the bible is really inspired by god and if it is really that 
important to him , then he would make damn certain all the translators and 
scribes and people interpreting and copying it were getting it right , 
literally .  . if not , then why should i put any merit at all in something 
that has been corrupted over and over and over by man even if it was 
originally inspired by god 

the corrupted over and over theory is pretty weak. comparison of the 
current hebrew text with old versions and translations shows that the text 
has in fact changed very little over a space of some two millennia .  . this 
should n't be all that suprising people who believe in a text in this manner 
are likely to makes some pains to make good copies .  . 

do you honestly hold to that tripe charley for a start there are enough 
current versions of the bible to make comparisons to show that what you write 
above is utter garbage .  . witness jw , mormon , catholic , anglican , and greek 
orthodox bibles .  . but to really convince you i 'd have to take you to a good 
old library. in our local library we had a 1804 king james which i compared 
to a brand new , hot of god 's tongue good news bible .  . genesis was almost 
unrecognisable , many of the discrepencies between the four gospels had been 
edited from the good news bible .  . in fact the god of good news was a much 
more congenial fellow i must say. 

if you like i 'll get the 1804 king james out again and actually give you 
some quotes. at least the headings have n't changed much. 

jeff .  . 


from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 34 

in article  ( scott d. sauyet ) writes 
in writes 

chimpanzees fight wars over land. 

but chimps are almost human .  .  .  . 

keith 

could it be this is the last message from mr. schneider , and it 's 
more than three days old ! 

are these his final words  ( and how many here would find that 
appropriate ) or is it just that finals got in the way 


no. the christians were leary of having an atheist spokesman 
 ( seems so clandestine , and all that ) , so they had him removed. of 
course , keith is busy explaining to his fellow captives how he 
is n't really being persecuted , since  ( after all ) they are 
feeding him , and any resistance on his part would only be viewed 
as trouble making. 

i understand he did make a bit of a fuss when they tatooed in god 
we trust on his forehead , though. 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re objective morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 44 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

humans have gone somewhat beyond what , exactly in one thread 
you 're telling us that natural morality is what animals do to 
survive , and in this thread you are claiming that an omniscient 
being can definitely say what is right and what is wrong. so 
what does this omniscient being use for a criterion the long 
term survival of the human species , or what 

well , that 's the question , is n't it the goals are probably not all that 
obvious. we can set up a few goals , like happiness and liberty and 
the golden rule , etc. but these goals are n't inherent .  . they have to 
be defined before an objective system is possible. 

how does omniscient map into definitely being able to assign 
right and wrong to actions 

it is not too difficult , one you have goals in mind , and absolute 
knoweldge of everyone 's intent , etc. 

now you are letting an omniscient being give information to me. this 
was not part of the original premise .  . 
well , your original premises have a habit of changing over time , 
so perhaps you 'd like to review it for us , and tell us what the 
difference is between an omniscient being be able to assign right 
and wrong to actions , and telling us the result , is. 

omniscience is fine , as long as information is not given away. is n't 
this the resolution of the free will problem an interactive omniscient 
being changes the situation. 

which type of morality are you talking about in a natural sense , it 
is not at all immoral to harm another species  ( as long as it does n't 
adversely affect your own , i guess) .  . 
i'm talking about the morality introduced by you , which was going to 
be implemented by this omniscient being that can definitely assign 
right and wrong to actions .  . 
you tell us what type of morality that is. 

well , i was speaking about an objective system in general. i did n't 
mention a specific goal , which would be necessary to determine the 
morality of an action. 

keith 

from mathew 
subject alt.atheism faq overview for new readers 
summary hi. please read this before you post. 
keywords faq , atheism 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 10 52 53 gmt 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
supersedes 
lines 145 

archive name atheism overview 
alt atheism archive name overview 
last modified 5 april 1993 
version 1.2 

overview 

welcome to alt.atheism and alt . atheism . moderated .  . 

this is the first in a series of regular postings aimed at new readers of the 
newsgroups .  . 

many groups of a   nature have noticed that new readers often 
come up with the same questions , mis statements or misconceptions and post 
them to the net. in addition , people often request information which has 
been posted time and time again. in order to try and cut down on this , the 
alt.atheism groups have a series of five regular postings under the following 
titles 

1. alt.atheism faq overview for new readers 
2. alt.atheism faq introduction to atheism 
3. alt.atheism faq frequently asked questions  ( faq ) 
4. alt.atheism faq constructing a logical argument 
5. alt.atheism faq atheist resources 

this is article number 1. please read numbers 2 and 3 before posting. the 
others are entirely optional .  . 

if you are new to usenet , you may also find it helpful to read the newsgroup 
news . announce . newusers .  . the articles titled a primer on how to work with 
the usenet community , answers to frequently asked questions about usenet 
and hints on writing style for usenet are particularly relevant .  . questions 
concerning how news works are best asked in news . newusers . questions .  . 

if you are unable to find any of the articles listed above , see the finding 
stuff section below. 


credits 

these files could not have been written without the assistance of the many 
readers of alt.atheism and alt . atheism . moderated .  . in particular , i 'd like to 
thank the following people 

kck  ( karl kluge ) 
 ( jim perry ) 
 ( wayne aiken ) 
 ( toby kelsey ) 
 ( jyrki kuoppala ) 
 ( geoff arnold ) 
 ( torkel franzen ) 
 ( george kimeldorf ) 
 ( greg roelofs ) 
 ( ken arromdee ) 
 ( maddi hausmann ) 
 ( john a. johnson ) 
 ( douglas graham ) 
 ( william mayne ) 
 ( andy rosen ) 
 ( achim stoesser ) 
 ( bryan o'sullivan ) 
 ( james j. lippard ) 
(s .  . baum ) 
 ( york h. dobyns ) 
 ( wayne schroeder ) 
(j . d .  . baldwin ) 
d  ( dana nibby ) 
 ( richard c. dempsey ) 
, elee . calpoly . edu .  ( john david munch ) 
 ( paul crowley ) 
 ( richard zach ) 
 ( tim chow ) 
 ( simon clippingdale ) 

 .  .  . and . countless others i 've forgotten. 

these articles are free. truly free. you may copy them and distribute them 
to anyone you wish. however , please send any changes or corrections to the 
author , and please do not re post copies of the articles to alt.atheism it 
does nobody any good to have multiple versions of the same document floating 
around the network. 


finding stuff 

all of the faq files should be somewhere on your news system. here are 
some suggestions on what to do if you ca n't find them 

1. check the newsgroup alt . atheism .  . look for subject lines starting with 
alt.atheism faq . 

2. check the newsgroup news.answers for the same subject lines. 

if you do n't find anything in steps 1 or 2 , your news system is n't set up 
correctly , and you may wish to tell your system administrator about the 
problem. 

3. if you have anonymous ftp access , connect to rtfm.mit.edu 18 . 172 . 1 . 27 . . 
go to the directory pub usenet alt.atheism , and you 'll find the latest 
versions of the faq files there. 

ftp is a a way of copying files between networked computers. if you 
need help in using or getting started with ftp , send e mail to 
mail with 

send usenet news.answers ftp list faq 

in the body. 

4. there are other sites which also carry news.answers postings .  . the article 
introduction to the news.answers newsgroup carries a list of these 
sites the article is posted regularly to news . answers .  . 

5. if you do n't have ftp , send mail to mail 
consisting of the following lines 

send usenet news.answers finding sources 
send usenet alt.atheism faq 
send usenet alt.atheism introduction 
send usenet alt.atheism logic 
send usenet alt.atheism resources 

5.  ( penultimate resort ) send mail to mail consisting of 
the following lines 

send atheism faq faq . txt . 
send atheism faq logic . txt . 
send atheism faq intro . txt . 
send atheism faq resource . txt . 

and our poor overworked modems will try and send you a copy of the files. 
there 's other stuff , too interesting commands to try are help and 
send atheism index . 

6.  ( last resort ) mail , or post an article to the 
newsgroup asking how you can get the faq files. you should only do this 
if you 've tried the above methods and they 've failed it 's not nice to 
clutter the newsgroup or people 's mailboxes with requests for files. 
it 's better than posting without reading the faq , though ! for instance , 
people whose email addresses get mangled in transit and who do n't have 
ftp will probably need assistance obtaining the faq files. 


mathew 


from  ( rashid ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
nntp posting host 47 . 252 . 4 . 179 . 
organization nh 
lines 76 

in article , 
 ( fred rice ) wrote 

it is my understanding that it is generally agreed upon by the ulema 
islamic scholars that islamic law applies only in an islamic country , 
of which the uk is not. furthermore , to take the law into one 's own 
hands is a criminal act , as these are matters for the state , not for 
individuals .  . nevertheless , khomeini offered a cash prize for people to 
take the law into their own hands something which , to my 
understanding , is against islamic law. 

yes , this is also my understanding of the majority of islamic laws .  . 
however , i believe there are also certain legal rulings which , in all 
five schools of law  ( 4 sunni and 1 jaffari ) , can be levelled against 
muslim or non muslims , both within and outside dar al islam .  . i do 
not know if apostasy  ( when accompanied by active , persistent , and 
open hostility to islam) falls into this category of the law. i do know 
that 
historically , apostasy has very rarely been punished at all , let alone 
by the death penalty .  . 

my understanding is that khomeini 's ruling was not based on the 
law of apostasy (alone) .  . it was well known that rushdie was an apostate 
long before he wrote the offending novel and certainly there is no 
precedent in the qur'an , hadith , or in islamic history for indiscriminantly 
levelling death penalties for apostasy .  . 

i believe the charge levelled against rushdie was that of . this 
ruling applies both within and outside the domain of an 
islamic state and it can be carried out by individuals .  . the reward was 
not offered by khomeini but by individuals within iran .  . 


stuff deleted 
also , i think you are muddying the issue as you seem to assume that 
khomeini 's fatwa was issued due to the distribution of the book. my 
understanding is that khomeini 's fatwa was issued in response to the 
writing and publishing of the book. if my view is correct , then 
your viewpoint that rushdie was sentenced for a crime in progress is 
incorrect .  . 

i would concur that the thrust of the fatwa  ( from what i remember ) was 
levelled at the author and all those who assisted in the publication 
of the book. however , the charge of can encompass a 
number of lesser charges .  . i remember that when diplomatic relations 
broke off between britain and iran over the fatwa iran stressed that 
the condemnation of the author , and the removal of the book from 
circulation were two preliminary conditions for resolving the 
crisis . but you are correct to point out that banning the book was not 
the main thrust behind the fatwa .  . islamic charges such as are 
levelled at people , not books. 

the rushdie situation was followed in iran for several months before the 
issuance of the fatwa .  . rushdie went on a media blitz , 
presenting himself as a lone knight guarding the sacred values of 
secular democracy and mocking the foolish concerns of people 
crazy enough to actually hold their religious beliefs as sacred .  . 
fanning the flames and milking the controversy to boost 
his image and push the book , he was everywhere in the media. then 
muslim demonstrators in several countries were killed while 
protesting against the book. rushdie appeared momentarily 
concerned , then climbed back on his media horse to once again 
attack the muslims and defend his sacred rights. it was at this 
point that the fatwa on was issued .  . 

the fatwa was levelled at the person of rushdie any actions of 
rushdie that feed the situation contribute to the legitimization of 
the ruling .  . the book remains in circulation not by some independant 
will of its own but by the will of the author and the publishers .  . the fatwa 
against the person of rushdie encompasses his actions as well. the 
crime was certainly a crime in progress  ( at many levels ) and was being 
played out  ( and played up ) in the the full view of the media. 

p.s. i'm not sure about this but i think the charge of also 
applies to rushdie and may be encompassed under the umbrella 
of the ruling .  . 

from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re where are they now 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 93 11 17 13 0600 
organization compaq computer corp 

lines 18 

a in article bedfellow . mit . edu . ,  ( tom bruno ) writes 

 .  . stuff . deleted .  .  .  . 

which brings me to the point of my posting. how many people out there have 
been around alt.atheism since 1990 i 've done my damnedest to stay on top of 
 .  .  . more . stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

hmm , usenet got it 's collective hooks into me around 1987 or so right after i 
switched to engineering .  . i 'd say i started reading alt.atheism around 1988 89 .  . 
i 've probably not posted more than 50 messages in the time since then though. 
i 'll never understand how people can find the time to write so much. i 
can barely keep up as it is. 


ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re you will all go to hell ! ! ! 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 15 50 02 edt 
organization compaq computer corp 
lines 11 

on fri , 16 apr 1993 15 50 02 edt , said 

j you ! ! ! you will all go to hell for not believing in god ! ! ! ! be 
j prepared for your eternal damnation ! ! ! 

hmm , i 've got my mst3k lunch box , my travel scrabble , and a couple of 
kegs of bass ale .  . i'm all set ! let 's go everybody ! 

ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from  ( the one and only ) 
subject nicknames 
summary was re new member 
organization salvation army draft board 
lines 36 

in article nm0w  ( nanci ann miller ) writes 
 ( the one and only ) writes 
welcome. i am the official keeper of the list of nicknames that people 
are known by on alt.atheism  ( did n't know we had such a list , did you) .  . 
your have been awarded the nickname of buckminster .  . so the next time 
you post an article , sign with your nickname like so 
dave buckminster fuller .  . thanks again. 

jim humor means never having to say you 're sorry copeland 

of course , the list has to agree with the nickname laws laid down by the 
almost 2000 years ago  ( you know .  .  .  . the 9 of them that were written on 
the iron tablets that melted once and had to be ) .  . since i am 
a prophet of the i decree that you should post the whole list of 
nicknames for the frequent posters here ! 

if the first rule of humor is never having to say you 're sorry then the 
second rule must be never having to explain yourself. few things are 
worse that a joke explained .  . in spite of this , and because of requests 
for me to post my list o  nicknames , i must admit that no such list 
exists. it was simply a plot device , along with me being the keeper 
o  the list , to make the obvious play on the last name of fuller and to 
advance the idea that such a list should be made. 

i assumed that the ol' timers would recognize it for what it is. 
nevertheless , how about a list o  nicknames for alt.atheism posters 
if you think of a good one , just post it and see if others like it. 
we could start with those posters who annoy us the most , like bobby or 
bill. 

jim d'oh ! i broke the second rule of humor copeland 

if god is dead and the actor plays his part sting , 
his words of fear will find their way to a place in your heart history 
without the voice of reason every faith is its own curse will teach us 
without freedom from the past things can only get worse nothing 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject genocide in the bible 
lines 6 
organization walla walla college 
lines 6 

excuse me for my ignorance .  . but i remember reading once that the 
biblical tribe known as the philistines still exists .  .  . they . are the modern 
day palestinians .  . 
anyone out there with more info , please post it ! ! ! 

tammy 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 32 

in article  ( leonard newnham ) writes 

gregg jaeger wrote 

and no , in western countries , it is n't a legal concept 
at all , so it 's not the slightest bit pertinent to the 
topic , which is a british author living in the united 
kingdom under the protection of british law. 

ah , yes , i keep forgetting , governments are superior entities to 
religious organizations .  . forgive me the gun is the higher law. 

this is degenerating to  logic .  . of course governments are 
superior entities , they are elected by the people , whereas religious 
leaders certainly are not. 

perhaps not in christianity , but in islam the choice of religious 
leaders is to be made by the people. so much for your superiority 
argument. 


those who the people trust to make the law 
obviously represents the higher law. that is democracy .  . 

democracy is a basic element of islam .  . learn that one ! 

ever notice that the so called fundamentalists in algeria 
who are being repressed by the secular government won in 
free and democratic elections .  . 


gregg 

subject omnipotence  ( was re speculations ) 
from 
lines 55 

in article , robert knowles writes 
date fri , 2 apr 1993 23 02 22 0500 
from nanci ann miller nm0w 


3. can god uncreate itself 

no. for if he did , he would violate his own nature which he cannot do. 
it is god 's nature to exist. he is , after all , the i am which is 
a statement of his inherent existence .  . he is existence itself. 
existence cannot not exist . 

then , as mentioned above , he must not be very omnipotent .  . 


what do you mean by omnipotent here do you mean by omnipotent 
that god should be able to do anything everything this creates 
a self contradictory definition of omnipotence which is effectively 
useless. 

to be descriptive , omnipotence must mean being all powerful and 
not being able to do anything everything . 

let me illustrate by analogy .  . 
suppose the united states were the only nuclear power on earth. suppose 
further that the us military could not effectively be countered by any 
nation or group of nations .  . the us has the power to go into any country 
at any time for any reason to straighten things out as the leaders of the 
us see fit. the us would be militarily omnipotent . 

but suppose further that the us holds to a doctrine philosophy of not 
interfering in the internal affairs of any nation , such as the current 
civil war in the former yugoslavian states. 

technically  ( in this scenario ) the us would have the power to 
unilaterally go into yugoslavia and straighten out the mess. but 
effectively the us could not intervene without violating its own policy 
of non interference .  . if the policy of non interference were held to 
strongly enough , then there would never be a question that it would 
ever be violated .  . effectively , the us would be limited in what it 
could actually do , although it had the power to do whatever it wanted . 
the us would simply never want to interfere for such an idea would 
be beyond the consideration of its leaders given such an inviolate 
non interference policy. 

god is effectively limited in the same sense. he is all powerful , but 
he cannot use his power in a way that would violate the essence of what 
he , himself is. 

i hope this helps to clear up some of the misunderstanding concerning 
omnipotence .  . 

regards , 

jim b. 

zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! usc ! elroy . jpl . nasa . gov . ! nntp server . caltech . edu . ! juliet . caltech . edu . ! lmh 
subject re americans and evolution 
from  ( henling , lawrence m . ) . 
distribution world , local 
organization california institute of technology 
nntp posting host juliet . caltech . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( james j. lippard ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( henling , lawrence m . ) . writes .  .  .  . 
atheism  ( greek  a  not  theos  god) belief that there is no god. 
agnosticism  ( greek  a  not  ' know) belief that it is 
not possible to determine if there is a god. 

no. agnosticism as you have here defined it is a positive belief a 
belief that it is not possible to determine the existence of any gods .  . 
that 's a belief i'm inclined to reject .  . you have also defined atheism 
here as a positive belief that there is no god. a fairly large number 
of atheists on alt.atheism reject this definition , instead holding that 
atheism is simply the absence of belief in a god. michael martin , in 
atheism a philosophical justification , distinguishes strong atheism 

my mistake. i will have to get a newer dictionary and read the 
follow up line. 

larry henling 

subject re islamic authority over women 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 46 

in article (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
) 
that ) 's your mistake. it would be better for the children if the mother 
raised ) the child. 
) 
one ) thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that say mom , 
because ) of the love of their mom. it makes for more virile men. 
compare ) that with how homos are raised .  . do a study and you will get my 
)point .  . 
) 
but ) in no way do you have a claim that it would be better if the men 
stayed ) home and raised the child. that is something false made up by 
feminists ) that seek a status above men. you do not recognize the fact 
that ) men and women have natural differences .  . not just physically , but 
mentally ) also. 
) ... 
your ) logic .  . i did n't say americans were the cause of worlds problems , i 
said ) atheists .  . 
) ... 
becuase ) they have no code of ethics to follow , which means that atheists 
can ) do whatever they want which they feel is right. something totally 
based ) on their feelings and those feelings cloud their rational 
)thinking .  . 
) ... 
)yeah .  . i did n't say that all atheists are bad , but that they could be 
bad ) or good , with nothing to define bad or good. 
) 

awright ! bobby 's back , in all of his shit for brains glory. just 
when i thought he 'd turned the corner of progress , his thorazine 
prescription runs out. 

i 'd put him in my kill file , but man , this is good stuff. i wish 
i had his staying power. 

fortunately , i learned not to take him too seriously long , long , long 
ago. 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( naren bala ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 19 

(s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
more horrible deaths resulted from atheism than anything else. 


list of killings in the name of religion 
1. iran iraq war 1 , 000 , 000 
2. civil war in sudan 1 , 000 , 000 
3 , riots in india pakistan in 1947 1 , 000 , 000 
4. in bangladesh in 1971 1 , 000 , 000 
5. in america in 1500s x million  ( x ) 
6. crusades 

i am sure that people can add a lot more to the list. 
i wonder what bobby has to say about the above. 
standard excuses will not be accepted. 
naren 

all standard disclaimers apply 


from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re a little too satanic 
organization u of maryland , dept. of computer science , coll. pk. , md 20742 
lines 43 

jon livesey writes 

so why do i read in the papers that the texts had different 
versions of some ot texts .  . did i misunderstand 

reading newspapers to learn about this kind of stuff is not the best idea in 
the world. newspaper reporters are notoriously ignorant on the subject of 
religion , and are prone to exaggeration in the interests of having a real 
story  ( that is , a bigger headline) .  . 

let 's back up to 1935. at this point , we have the masoretic text , the 
various  ( translations commentaries in aramaic , etc . ) . , and the 
septuagint , the ancient greek translation. the masoretic text is the 
standard jewish text and essentially does not vary .  . in some places it has 
obvious corruptions , all of which are copied faithfully from copy to copy. 
these passages in the past were interpreted by reference to the and 
to the septuagint .  . 

now , the septuagint differs from the masoretic text in two particulars 
first , it includes additional texts , and second , in some passages there are 
variant readings from the masoretic text  ( in addition to fixing predating 
the various corrupted passages) .  . it must be emphasized that , to the best of 
my knowledge , these variations are only signifcant to bible scholars , and 
have little theological import .  . 

the dead sea scroll materials add to this an ancient copy of almost all of 
isaiah and fragments of various sizes of almost all other ot books. there 
is also an abundance of other material , but as far as i know , there is no 
sign there of any hebrew to the apocrypha  ( the extra texts in the 
septuagint) .  . as far as analysis has proceeded , there are also variations 
between the dss texts and the masoretic versions. these tend to reflect the 
septuagint , where the latter is n't obviously in error. again , though , the 
differences  ( thus far ) are not significant theologically .  . there is this big 
expectation that there are great theological surprises lurking in the 
material , but so far this has n't happened. 

the dss are important because there is almost no textual tradition in the 
ot , unlike for the nt .  . 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re americans and evolution 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 30 

robert singleton wrote 

sure it is n't mutually exclusive , but it lends weight to (i . e .  . increases 
notional running estimates of the posterior probability of ) the 
atheist 's pitch in the partition , and thus necessarily reduces the same 
quantity in the theist 's pitch .  . this is because the component  
falls prey to 's razor , the phenomenon being satisfactorily 

explained without it , and there being no independent evidence of any 

such component .  . more detail in the next post. 


occam 's razor is not a law of nature , it is way of analyzing an 
argument , even so , it interesting how often it 's cited here and to 
what end. 
it seems odd that religion is simultaneously condemned as being 
primitive , simple minded and unscientific , anti intellectual and 
childish , and yet again condemned as being too complex  ( occam 's 
razor ) , the scientific explanation of things being much more 
and , apparently , simpler .  . which is it to be which 
is the non essential , and how do you know 
considering that even scientists do n't fully comprehend science due to 
its complexity and diversity .  . maybe william of occam has performed a 
lobotomy , kept the frontal lobe and thrown everything else away ... 

this is all very confusing , i'm sure one of you will straighten me out 
tough. 

bill 

from  ( aario sami ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization tampere university of technology , computing centre 
lines 37 
distribution sfnet 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

deletions .  .  .  . 

in (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

i really do n't think you can imagine what it is like to be infinite .  . 

first of all , infinity is a mathematical concept created by humans 
to explain certain things in a certain way. we do n't know if it actually 
applies to reality , we do n't know if anything in the world is infinite .  . 

it would n't be able to 
comprehend what reality is like for the programmer , because that would 
require an infinite memory or whatever because reality is continuous and 
based on small units no units. 

you do n't know if the universe is actually continuous .  . continuum is another 
mathematical concept  ( based on infinity ) used to explain things in a certain 
way. 

because humans do not know what infinite is. we call it something 
beyond numbers. we call it endless , but we do not know what it is. 

i have a pretty good idea of what infinity is. it 's a man made concept , and 
like many man made concepts , it has evolved through time. ancient greeks had 
a different understanding of it. 

so , we can call allah infinitely powerful , knowledgeable , etc .  .  . , yet we 
cannot imagine what allah actually is , because we just cannot imagine 
what it is like to be infinite .  . 

precicely .  . we do n't even know if infinity applies to reality. 


sami aario can you see or measure an atom yet you can explode 
one. sunlight is comprised of many atoms .  . 
' your stupid minds ! stupid , stupid ! 
eros in plan 9 from outer space disclaimer i do n't agree with eros .  . 

from 
subject re bible quiz 
lines 12 
nntp posting host ccsua . ctstateu . edu . 
organization yale university , department of computer science , new haven , ct 

in article ,  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
in article  ( frank d. kirschner ) writes 



only when the sun starts to orbit the earth will i accept the bible .  . 


since when does atheism mean trashing other religions there must be a god 
of inbreeding to which you are his only son. 

pope john paul 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject re political atheists 
distribution world 



lines 11 

in article , 
 ( scott d. sauyet ) says 

are these his final words  ( and how many here would find that 
appropriate ) or is it just that finals got in the way 

keep your fingers crossed ! 

why should i keep my fingers crossed i doubt it would do anything. ) 

martin schulte 

from  ( james hogan ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 30 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
in article  ( brett j. vickers ) writes 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

well , seeing as you are not muslim the sort of fatwa issued by khomeini 
would not be relevant to you. i can understand your fear of persecution 
and i share it even more than you  ( being muslim ) , however rushdie 's 
behavior was not completely excusable .  . 

as much as i considered some of the  ( so called ) islam related dialogue 
here a total waste of time , i somehow ca n't restrain myself in this 
instance , so , gregg , try this 

20 52 p . s . t .  . i come to my senses and accept the all knowing 
wisdom and power of the quran and allah .  . not only that , but allah 
himself drops by to congratulate me on my wise choice. allah rolls a 
few bones and we get down. then allah gets out the crisco , bends 
over , and invites me to take a spin around the block. wow. 

20 56 p . s . t .  . i realize that maybe allah is looking for more of a 
commitment than i'm ready for , so i say man , i 've got some 
programming to do. gotta go. i 'll call you. 

20 59 p . s . t . thinking it over , i renounce islam .  . 

btw , gregg , allah said he still thinks of you. 

jim 


from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 41 

in article  ( ken arromdee ) writes 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

judaism , for one. maddi has confirmed this for one. and again i 
reiterate that one can easily leave the religion at any time , 
simply by making a public declaration .  . if one is too lazy to do 
that then the religion cannot be held responsible .  . 

there are many islamic countries where publically renouncing islam can be 
quite dangerous. these countries might not , according to you , necessarily be 
practicing true islam , but the danger still remains one cannot blame 
failure to publically renounce islam on laziness as opposed to a desire to 
stay alive and well. 

of course , if you 're planning to pull a rushdie then declaring one 's 
leaving the religion is little to be concerned about compared to one 's 
other plans. 


in rushdie 's case , the one under discussion , one can. it is tragic that 
in some islamic countries this is so. there are , however , islamic 
countries  ( whose constitutions contains statements that islamic law is 
to be incorporated ) , e.g. kuwait , where one can freely make such 
statements without fear. 


not to mention that it has already been pointed out that rushdie has said in 
his books that he 's not a muslim , and there have surely been enough readers of 
his books to provide the appropriate number of witnesses .  . 

this story has become tiresome .  . the conditions are clear. if you care to 
make your point clear then make a chronology and show that he had made 
public statements about leaving islam prior to his writing of tsv . if 
he did make such statements then he should have made that clear rather 
than trying to rejoin islam or go on talking about his personal 
feelings. 



gregg 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re yeah , right 
lines 30 

benedikt rosenau writes 

and what about that revelation thing , charley 

if you 're talking about this intellectual engagement of revelation , well , 
it 's obviously a risk one takes .  . 

many people say that the concept of metaphysical and religious knowledge 
is contradictive .  . 

i'm not an objectivist , so i'm not particularly impressed with problems of 
conceptualization .  . the problem in this case is at least as bad as that of 
trying to explain quantum mechanics and relativity in the terms of ordinary 
experience. one can get some rough understanding , but the language is , from 
the perspective of ordinary phenomena , inconsistent , and from the 
perspective of what 's being described , rather inexact  ( to be charitable) .  . 

an analogous situation  ( supposedly ) obtains in metaphysics the problem is 
that the better descriptive language is not available. 

and in case it holds reliable information , can you show how you establish 
that 

this word reliable is essentially meaningless in the context unless you 
can show how reliability can be determined .  . 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re cruel  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 35 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
hanging hanging there slowing being strangled would be very 
painful , both physically and , i imagine. 

well , most hangings are very quick and , i imagine , painless .  . 

i think this is a misnomer .  . 


firing squad note not a clean way to die back in those 
days , etc. 
all would be considered cruel under your definition .  . 
all were allowed under the constitution by the founding fathers .  . 

and , hangings and firing squads are allowed today , too. and , if these 
things were not considered cruel , then surely a medical execution 
 ( painless ) would not be , either. 

but , this just shows then that painful execution is not considered 
cruel and unusual punishment .  . this shows that cruel as used in the 
constitution does not refer to whether or not the punishment causes physical 
pain. 
rather , it must be a different meaning. 



i 'd cheat on hillary too. 

john laws 
local gop 
extolling traditional family values .  . 





subject re americans and evolution 
from  ( rich fox , univ of south dakota ) 
reply to 
organization the university of south dakota computer science dept. 
nntp posting host charlie 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( bill conner ) writes 


why do you spend so much time posting here if your atheism is so 
incidental , if the question of god is trivial fess up , it matters to 
you a great deal. 

ask yourself two questions. 

1. how important is mithras in your life today 

2. how important would mithras become if there was a 
well funded group of fanatics trying to get the 
schools system to teach your children that mithras 
was the one true god 

jon .  . 

right on , jon ! who cares who or whose , as long as it works for the individual .  . 
but do n't try to impose those beliefs on us or our children. i would add the 
well funded group tries also to purge science , to deny children access to great 
wonders and skills. and how about the kids born to creationists what a 
burden with which to begin adult life. it must be a cruel awakening for those 
who finally see the light , provided it is possible to escape from the depths of 
this type of ignorance .  . 

howland . reston . ans . net . ! europa . eng . gtefsd . com . ! uunet ! ! germany . eu . net . ! news . dfn . de . ! ! dbstu1 . rz . tu . bs . de . ! 
subject re gospel dating 
from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 35 

in article 
 ( charley wingate ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 
i cannot see any evidence for the v. b. which the cynics in this group would 
ever accept .  . as for the second , it is the foundation of the religion. 
anyone who claims to have seen the risen jesus  ( back in the 40 day period ) 
is a believer , and therefore is discounted by those in this group since 
these are all ancients anyway , one again to choose to dismiss the whole 
thing. the third is as much a metaphysical relationship as anything else 
even those who agree to it have argued at length over what it means , so 
again i do n't see how evidence is possible. 


no cookies , charlie .  . the claims that jesus have been seen are discredited 
as extraordinary claims that do n't match their evidence. in this case , it 
is for one that the gospels cannot even agree if it was jesus who has been 
seen. further , there are zillions of other spook stories , and one would 
hardly consider others even in a religious context to be some evidence of 
a resurrection .  . 

there have been more elaborate arguments made , but it looks as if they have 
not passed your post filtering .  . 


i thus interpret the extraordinary claims claim as a statement that the 
speaker will not accept any evidence on the matter. 

it is no evidence in the strict meaning. if there was actual evidence it would 
probably be part of it , but the says nothing about the claims .  . 


charlie , i have seen invisible pink unicorns ! 
by your standards we have evidence for now. 
benedikt 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 18 

in article  ( mike cobb ) writes 
what do you base your belief on atheism on your knowledge and reasoning 
could n't that be wrong 


actually , my atheism is based on ignorance .  . ignorance of the 
existence of any god. do n't fall into the atheists do n't believe 
because of their pride mistake. 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from mathew 
subject alt.atheism faq introduction to atheism 
summary please read this file before posting to alt.atheism 
keywords faq , atheism 
expires thu , 6 may 1993 12 22 45 gmt 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
supersedes 
lines 646 

archive name atheism introduction 
alt atheism archive name introduction 
last modified 5 april 1993 
version 1.2 

begin pgp signed message 

an introduction to atheism 
by mathew 

this article attempts to provide a general introduction to atheism .  . whilst i 
have tried to be as neutral as possible regarding contentious issues , you 
should always remember that this document represents only one viewpoint .  . i 
would encourage you to read widely and draw your own conclusions some 
relevant books are listed in a companion article. 

to provide a sense of cohesion and progression , i have presented this article 
as an imaginary conversation between an atheist and a theist .  . all the 
questions asked by the imaginary theist are questions which have been cropped 
up repeatedly on alt.atheism since the newsgroup was created. some other 
frequently asked questions are answered in a companion article. 

please note that this article is arguably slanted towards answering questions 
posed from a christian viewpoint .  . this is because the faq files reflect 
questions which have actually been asked , and it is predominantly christians 
who proselytize on alt . atheism .  . 

so when i talk of religion , i am talking primarily about religions such as 
christianity , judaism and islam , which involve some sort of superhuman divine 
being. much of the discussion will apply to other religions , but some of it 
may not. 

what is atheism 

atheism is characterized by an absence of belief in the existence of god. 
some atheists go further , and believe that god does not exist. the former is 
often referred to as the weak atheist position , and the latter as strong 
atheism . 

it is important to note the difference between these two positions .  . weak 
atheism is simple scepticism disbelief in the existence of god. strong 
atheism is a positive belief that god does not exist. please do not 
fall into the trap of assuming that all atheists are strong atheists . 

some atheists believe in the non existence of all gods others limit their 
atheism to specific gods , such as the christian god , rather than making 
flat out denials .  . 

but is n't disbelieving in god the same thing as believing he does n't exist 

definitely not. disbelief in a proposition means that one does not believe 
it to be true. not believing that something is true is not equivalent to 
believing that it is false one may simply have no idea whether it is true or 
not. which brings us to agnosticism .  . 

what is agnosticism then 

the term  agnosticism  was coined by professor huxley at a meeting of the 
metaphysical society in 1876 .  . he defined an agnostic as someone who 
disclaimed ( strong ) atheism and believed that the ultimate origin of things 
must be some cause unknown and unknowable .  . 

thus an agnostic is someone who believes that we do not and cannot know for 
sure whether god exists. 

words are slippery things , and language is inexact .  . beware of assuming that 
you can work out someone 's philosophical point of view simply from the fact 
that she calls herself an atheist or an agnostic .  . for example , many people 
use agnosticism to mean weak atheism , and use the word atheism only when 
referring to strong atheism . 

beware also that because the word atheist has so many shades of meaning , it 
is very difficult to generalize about atheists .  . about all you can say for 
sure is that atheists do n't believe in god. for example , it certainly is n't 
the case that all atheists believe that science is the best way to find out 
about the universe. 

so what is the philosophical justification or basis for atheism 

there are many philosophical justifications for atheism .  . to find out why a 
particular person chooses to be an atheist , it 's best to ask her. 

many atheists feel that the idea of god as presented by the major religions 
is essentially self contradictory , and that it is logically impossible that 
such a god could exist. others are atheists through scepticism , because they 
see no evidence that god exists. 

but is n't it impossible to prove the non existence of something 

there are many counter examples to such a statement. for example , it is 
quite simple to prove that there does not exist a prime number larger than 
all other prime numbers. of course , this deals with well defined objects 
obeying well defined rules. whether gods or universes are similarly 
well defined is a matter for debate. 

however , assuming for the moment that the existence of a god is not provably 
impossible , there are still subtle reasons for assuming the non existence of 
god. if we assume that something does not exist , it is always possible to 
show that this assumption is invalid by finding a single counter example. 

if on the other hand we assume that something does exist , and if the thing in 
question is not provably impossible , showing that the assumption is invalid 
may require an exhaustive search of all possible places where such a thing 
might be found , to show that it is n't there. such an exhaustive search is 
often impractical or impossible. there is no such problem with largest 
primes , because we can prove that they do n't exist. 

therefore it is generally accepted that we must assume things do not exist 
unless we have evidence that they do. even theists follow this rule most of 
the time they do n't believe in unicorns , even though they ca n't conclusively 
prove that no unicorns exist anywhere. 

to assume that god exists is to make an assumption which probably cannot be 
tested .  . we cannot make an exhaustive search of everywhere god might be to 
prove that he does n't exist anywhere. so the sceptical atheist assumes by 
default that god does not exist , since that is an assumption we can test. 

those who profess strong atheism usually do not claim that no sort of god 
exists instead , they generally restrict their claims so as to cover 
varieties of god described by followers of various religions .  . so whilst it 
may be impossible to prove conclusively that no god exists , it may be 
possible to prove that  ( say ) a god as described by a particular religious 
book does not exist. it may even be possible to prove that no god described 
by any present day religion exists. 

in practice , believing that no god described by any religion exists is very 
close to believing that no god exists. however , it is sufficiently different 
that counter arguments based on the impossibility of disproving every kind of 
god are not really applicable .  . 

but what if god is essentially non detectable 

if god interacts with our universe in any way , the effects of his interaction 
must be measurable .  . hence his interaction with our universe must be 
detectable .  . 

if god is essentially non detectable , it must therefore be the case that he 
does not interact with our universe in any way. many atheists would argue 
that if god does not interact with our universe at all , it is of no 
importance whether he exists or not. 

if the bible is to be believed , god was easily detectable by the israelites .  . 
surely he should still be detectable today 

note that i am not demanding that god interact in a scientifically 
verifiable , physical way. it must surely be possible to perceive some 
effect caused by his presence , though otherwise , how can i distinguish him 
from all the other things that do n't exist 

ok , you may think there 's a philosophical justification for atheism , but 
is n't it still a religious belief 

one of the most common pastimes in philosophical discussion is the 
redefinition game . the cynical view of this game is as follows 

person a begins by making a contentious statement. when person b points out 
that it ca n't be true , person a gradually re defines the words he used in the 
statement until he arrives at something person b is prepared to accept .  . he 
then records the statement , along with the fact that person b has agreed to 
it , and continues .  . eventually a uses the statement as an agreed fact , but 
uses his original definitions of all the words in it rather than the obscure 
redefinitions originally needed to get b to agree to it. rather than be seen 
to be apparently inconsistent , b will tend to play along. 

the point of this digression is that the answer to the question is n't 
atheism a religious belief depends crucially upon what is meant by 
religious . religion is generally characterized by belief in a superhuman 
controlling power especially in some sort of god and by faith and 
worship .  . 

it 's worth pointing out in passing that some varieties of buddhism are not 
religion according to such a definition .  . 

atheism is certainly not a belief in any sort of superhuman power , nor is it 
categorized by worship in any meaningful sense. widening the definition of 
religious to encompass atheism tends to result in many other aspects of 
human behaviour suddenly becoming classed as religious as well such as 
science , politics , and watching tv. 

ok , so it 's not a religion. but surely belief in atheism  ( or science ) is 
still just an act of faith , like religion is 

firstly , it 's not entirely clear that sceptical atheism is something one 
actually believes in. 

secondly , it is necessary to adopt a number of core beliefs or assumptions to 
make some sort of sense out of the sensory data we experience. most atheists 
try to adopt as few core beliefs as possible and even those are subject to 
questioning if experience throws them into doubt. 

science has a number of core assumptions .  . for example , it is generally 
assumed that the laws of physics are the same for all observers .  . these are 
the sort of core assumptions atheists make. if such basic ideas are called 
acts of faith , then almost everything we know must be said to be based on 
acts of faith , and the term loses its meaning. 

faith is more often used to refer to complete , certain belief in something. 
according to such a definition , atheism and science are certainly not acts of 
faith. of course , individual atheists or scientists can be as dogmatic as 
religious followers when claiming that something is certain . this is not a 
general tendency , however there are many atheists who would be reluctant to 
state with certainty that the universe exists. 

faith is also used to refer to belief without supporting evidence or proof. 
sceptical atheism certainly does n't fit that definition , as sceptical atheism 
has no beliefs .  . strong atheism is closer , but still does n't really match , as 
even the most dogmatic atheist will tend to refer to experimental data  ( or 
the lack of it) when asserting that god does not exist. 

if atheism is not religious , surely it 's anti religious 

it is an unfortunate human tendency to label everyone as either for or 
against , friend or enemy . the truth is not so clear cut. 

atheism is the position that runs logically counter to theism in that sense , 
it can be said to be anti religion . however , when religious believers 
speak of atheists being anti religious they usually mean that the atheists 
have some sort of antipathy or hatred towards theists .  . 

this categorization of atheists as hostile towards religion is quite unfair .  . 
atheist attitudes towards theists in fact cover a broad spectrum .  . 

most atheists take a live and let live attitude. unless questioned , they 
will not usually mention their atheism , except perhaps to close friends. of 
course , this may be in part because atheism is not socially acceptable in 
many countries. 

a few atheists are quite anti religious , and may even try to convert others 
when possible. historically , such anti religious atheists have made little 
impact on society outside the eastern bloc countries. 

 ( to digress slightly the soviet union was originally dedicated to separation 
of church and state , just like the usa .  . soviet citizens were legally free to 
worship as they wished .  . the institution of state atheism came about when 
stalin took control of the soviet union and tried to destroy the churches in 
order to gain complete power over the population . ) . 

some atheists are quite vocal about their beliefs , but only where they see 
religion encroaching on matters which are not its business for example , 
the government of the usa .  . such individuals are usually concerned that 
church and state should remain separate .  . 

but if you do n't allow religion to have a say in the running of the state , 
surely that 's the same as state atheism 

the principle of the separation of church and state is that the state shall 
not legislate concerning matters of religious belief .  . in particular , it 
means not only that the state cannot promote one religion at the expense of 
another , but also that it cannot promote any belief which is religious in 
nature. 

religions can still have a say in discussion of purely secular matters. for 
example , religious believers have historically been responsible for 
encouraging many political reforms .  . even today , many organizations 
campaigning for an increase in spending on foreign aid are founded as 
religious campaigns .  . so long as they campaign concerning secular matters , 
and so long as they do not discriminate on religious grounds , most atheists 
are quite happy to see them have their say. 

what about prayer in schools if there 's no god , why do you care if people 
pray 

because people who do pray are voters and lawmakers , and tend to do things 
that those who do n't pray ca n't just ignore .  . also , christian prayer in 
schools is intimidating to non christians , even if they are told that they 
need not join in. the diversity of religious and non religious belief means 
that it is impossible to formulate a meaningful prayer that will be 
acceptable to all those present at any public event. 

also , non prayers tend to have friends and family who pray .  . it is reasonable 
to care about friends and family wasting their time , even without other 
motives .  . 

you mentioned christians who campaign for increased foreign aid .  . what about 
atheists why are n't there any atheist charities or hospitals do n't 
atheists object to the religious charities 

there are many charities without religious purpose that atheists can 
contribute to. some atheists contribute to religious charities as well , for 
the sake of the practical good they do. some atheists even do voluntary work 
for charities founded on a theistic basis. 

most atheists seem to feel that atheism is n't worth shouting about in 
connection with charity .  . to them , atheism is just a simple , obvious everyday 
matter , and so is charity .  . many feel that it 's somewhat cheap , not to say 
self righteous , to use simple charity as an excuse to plug a particular set 
of religious beliefs .  . 

to weak atheists , building a hospital to say i do not believe in god is a 
rather strange idea it 's rather like holding a party to say today is not my 
birthday . why the fuss atheism is rarely evangelical .  . 

you said atheism is n't anti religious .  . but is it perhaps a backlash against 
one 's upbringing , a way of rebelling 

perhaps it is , for some. but many people have parents who do not attempt to 
force any religious  ( or atheist ) ideas upon them , and many of those people 
choose to call themselves atheists .  . 

it 's also doubtless the case that some religious people chose religion as a 
backlash against an atheist upbringing , as a way of being different. on the 
other hand , many people choose religion as a way of conforming to the 
expectations of others. 

on the whole , we ca n't conclude much about whether atheism or religion are 
backlash or conformism although in general , people have a tendency to go 
along with a group rather than act or think independently .  . 

how do atheists differ from religious people 

they do n't believe in god. that 's all there is to it. 

atheists may listen to heavy metal backwards , even or they may prefer a 
verdi requiem , even if they know the words. they may wear hawaiian shirts , 
they may dress all in black , they may even wear orange robes .  .  ( many 
buddhists lack a belief in any sort of god . ) . some atheists even carry a copy 
of the bible around for arguing against , of course ! 

whoever you are , the chances are you have met several atheists without 
realising it. atheists are usually unexceptional in behaviour and 
appearance. 

unexceptional but are n't atheists less moral than religious people 

that depends .  . if you define morality as obedience to god , then of course 
atheists are less moral as they do n't obey any god. but usually when one 
talks of morality , one talks of what is acceptable ( right ) and unacceptable 
( wrong ) behaviour within society. 

humans are social animals , and to be maximally successful they must 
co operate with each other. this is a good enough reason to discourage most 
atheists from anti social or immoral behaviour , purely for the purposes 
of self preservation .  . 

many atheists behave in a moral or compassionate way simply because they 
feel a natural tendency to empathize with other humans. so why do they care 
what happens to others they do n't know , they simply are that way. 

naturally , there are some people who behave immorally and try to use 
atheism to justify their actions .  . however , there are equally many people who 
behave immorally and then try to use religious beliefs to justify their 
actions .  . for example 

here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance jesus christ 
came into the world to save sinners .  .  .  . but for that very reason , i was 
shown mercy so that in me .  .  .  . jesus christ might display his unlimited 
patience as an example for those who would believe in him and receive 
eternal life. now to the king eternal , immortal , invisible , the only god , 
be honor and glory forever and ever. 

the above quote is from a statement made to the court on february 17th 1992 
by jeffrey dahmer , the notorious cannibal serial killer of milwaukee , 
wisconsin .  . it seems that for every atheist mass murderer , there is a 
religious mass murderer .  . but what of more trivial morality 

a survey conducted by the roper organization found that behavior 
deteriorated after born again experiences. while only 4 of respondents 
said they had driven intoxicated before being born again , 12 had done 
so after conversion .  . similarly , 5 had used illegal drugs before 
conversion , 9 after. two percent admitted to engaging in illicit sex 
before salvation 5 after. 
freethought today , september 1991 , p. 12. 

so it seems that at best , religion does not have a monopoly on moral 
behaviour .  . 

is there such a thing as atheist morality 

if you mean is there such a thing as morality for atheists , then the 
answer is yes , as explained above. many atheists have ideas about morality 
which are at least as strong as those held by religious people. 

if you mean does atheism have a characteristic moral code , then the answer 
is no. atheism by itself does not imply anything much about how a person 
will behave .  . most atheists follow many of the same moral rules as theists , 
but for different reasons. atheists view morality as something created by 
humans , according to the way humans feel the world  ought  to work , rather 
than seeing it as a set of rules decreed by a supernatural being. 

then are n't atheists just theists who are denying god 

a study by the freedom from religion foundation found that over 90 of the 
atheists who responded became atheists because religion did not work for 
them. they had found that religious beliefs were fundamentally incompatible 
with what they observed around them. 

atheists are not unbelievers through ignorance or denial they are 
unbelievers through choice. the vast majority of them have spent time 
studying one or more religions , sometimes in very great depth .  . they have 
made a careful and considered decision to reject religious beliefs .  . 

this decision may , of course , be an inevitable consequence of that 
individual 's personality. for a naturally sceptical person , the choice 
of atheism is often the only one that makes sense , and hence the only 
choice that person can honestly make. 

but do n't atheists want to believe in god 

atheists live their lives as though there is nobody watching over them. many 
of them have no desire to be watched over , no matter how good natured the 
big brother figure might be. 

some atheists would like to be able to believe in god but so what should 
one believe things merely because one wants them to be true the risks of 
such an approach should be obvious. atheists often decide that wanting to 
believe something is not enough there must be evidence for the belief .  . 

but of course atheists see no evidence for the existence of god they are 
unwilling in their souls to see ! 

many , if not most atheists were previously religious .  . as has been explained 
above , the vast majority have seriously considered the possibility that god 
exists. many atheists have spent time in prayer trying to reach god. 

of course , it is true that some atheists lack an open mind but assuming that 
all atheists are biased and insincere is offensive and closed minded .  . 
comments such as of course god is there , you just are n't looking properly 
are likely to be viewed as patronizing .  . 

certainly , if you wish to engage in philosophical debate with atheists it is 
vital that you give them the benefit of the doubt and assume that they are 
being sincere if they say that they have searched for god. if you are not 
willing to believe that they are basically telling the truth , debate is 
futile .  . 

is n't the whole of life completely pointless to an atheist 

many atheists live a purposeful life. they decide what they think gives 
meaning to life , and they pursue those goals. they try to make their lives 
count , not by wishing for eternal life , but by having an influence on other 
people who will live on. for example , an atheist may dedicate his life to 
political reform , in the hope of leaving his mark on history. 

it is a natural human tendency to look for meaning or purpose in random 
events. however , it is by no means obvious that life is the sort of thing 
that has a meaning . 

to put it another way , not everything which looks like a question is actually 
a sensible thing to ask. some atheists believe that asking what is the 
meaning of life is as silly as asking what is the meaning of a cup of 
coffee . they believe that life has no purpose or meaning , it just is. 

so how do atheists find comfort in time of danger 

there are many ways of obtaining comfort from family , friends , or even pets. 
or on a less spiritual level , from food or drink or tv. 

that may sound rather an empty and vulnerable way to face danger , but so 
what should individuals believe in things because they are comforting , or 
should they face reality no matter how harsh it might be 

in the end , it 's a decision for the individual concerned. most atheists are 
unable to believe something they would not otherwise believe merely because 
it makes them feel comfortable. they put truth before comfort , and consider 
that if searching for truth sometimes makes them feel unhappy , that 's just 
hard luck. 

do n't atheists worry that they might suddenly be shown to be wrong 

the short answer is no , do you 

many atheists have been atheists for years. they have encountered many 
arguments and much supposed evidence for the existence of god , but they have 
found all of it to be invalid or inconclusive .  . 

thousands of years of religious belief have n't resulted in any good proof of 
the existence of god. atheists therefore tend to feel that they are unlikely 
to be proved wrong in the immediate future , and they stop worrying about it. 

so why should theists question their beliefs do n't the same arguments 
apply 

no , because the beliefs being questioned are not similar. weak atheism is 
the sceptical default position to take it asserts nothing. strong atheism 
is a negative belief .  . theism is a very strong positive belief .  . 

atheists sometimes also argue that theists should question their beliefs 
because of the very real harm they can cause not just to the believers , 
but to everyone else. 

what sort of harm 

religion represents a huge financial and work burden on mankind .  . it 's not 
just a matter of religious believers wasting their money on church buildings 
think of all the time and effort spent building churches , praying , and so on. 
imagine how that effort could be better spent .  . 

many theists believe in miracle healing .  . there have been plenty of instances 
of ill people being healed by a priest , ceasing to take the medicines 
prescribed to them by doctors , and dying as a result. some theists have died 
because they have refused blood transfusions on religious grounds .  . 

it is arguable that the catholic church 's opposition to birth control and 
condoms in particular is increasing the problem of overpopulation in many 
third world countries and contributing to the spread of aids world wide. 

religious believers have been known to murder their children rather than 
allow their children to become atheists or marry someone of a different 
religion. 

those were n't real believers .  . they just claimed to be believers as some 
sort of excuse. 

what makes a real believer there are so many one true religions it 's hard 
to tell. look at christianity there are many competing groups , all 
convinced that they are the only true christians .  . sometimes they even fight 
and kill each other. how is an atheist supposed to decide who 's a real 
christian and who is n't , when even the major christian churches like the 
catholic church and the church of england ca n't decide amongst themselves 

in the end , most atheists take a pragmatic view , and decide that anyone who 
calls himself a christian , and uses christian belief or dogma to justify his 
actions , should be considered a christian .  . maybe some of those christians 
are just perverting christian teaching for their own ends but surely if 
the bible can be so readily used to support un christian acts it ca n't be 
much of a moral code if the bible is the word of god , why could n't he have 
made it less easy to misinterpret and how do you know that your beliefs 
are n't a perversion of what your god intended 

if there is no single unambiguous interpretation of the bible , then why 
should an atheist take one interpretation over another just on your say so 
sorry , but if someone claims that he believes in jesus and that he murdered 
others because jesus and the bible told him to do so , we must call him a 
christian .  . 

obviously those extreme sorts of beliefs should be questioned .  . but since 
nobody has ever proved that god does not exist , it must be very unlikely 
that more basic religious beliefs , shared by all faiths , are nonsense. 

that does not hold , because as was pointed out at the start of this dialogue , 
positive assertions concerning the existence of entities are inherently much 
harder to disprove than negative ones. nobody has ever proved that unicorns 
do n't exist , but that does n't make it unlikely that they are myths .  . 

it is therefore much more valid to hold a negative assertion by default than 
it is to hold a positive assertion by default. of course , weak atheists 
would argue that asserting nothing is better still. 

well , if atheism 's so great , why are there so many theists 

unfortunately , the popularity of a belief has little to do with how correct 
it is , or whether it works consider how many people believe in astrology , 
graphology , and other pseudo sciences .  . 

many atheists feel that it is simply a human weakness to want to believe in 
gods .  . certainly in many primitive human societies , religion allows the 
people to deal with phenomena that they do not adequately understand. 

of course , there 's more to religion than that. in the industrialized world , 
we find people believing in religious explanations of phenomena even when 
there are perfectly adequate natural explanations .  . religion may have started 
as a means of attempting to explain the world , but nowadays it serves other 
purposes as well. 

but so many cultures have developed religions .  . surely that must say 
something 

not really. most religions are only superficially similar for example , it 's 
worth remembering that religions such as buddhism and taoism lack any sort of 
concept of god in the christian sense. 

of course , most religions are quick to denounce competing religions , so it 's 
rather odd to use one religion to try and justify another. 

what about all the famous scientists and philosophers who have concluded 
that god exists 

for every scientist or philosopher who believes in a god , there is one who 
does not. besides , as has already been pointed out , the truth of a belief is 
not determined by how many people believe it. also , it is important to 
realize that atheists do not view famous scientists or philosophers in the 
same way that theists view their religious leaders .  . 

a famous scientist is only human she may be an expert in some fields , but 
when she talks about other matters her words carry no special weight. many 
respected scientists have made themselves look foolish by speaking on 
subjects which lie outside their fields of expertise .  . 

so are you really saying that widespread belief in religion indicates 
nothing 

not entirely .  . it certainly indicates that the religion in question has 
properties which have helped it so spread so far. 

the theory of memetics talks of memes sets of ideas which can propagate 
themselves between human minds , by analogy with genes .  . some atheists view 
religions as sets of particularly successful parasitic memes , which spread by 
encouraging their hosts to convert others. some memes avoid destruction by 
discouraging believers from questioning doctrine , or by using peer pressure 
to keep one time believers from admitting that they were mistaken .  . some 
religious memes even encourage their hosts to destroy hosts controlled by 
other memes .  . 

of course , in the memetic view there is no particular virtue associated with 
successful propagation of a meme .  . religion is not a good thing because of 
the number of people who believe it , any more than a disease is a good thing 
because of the number of people who have caught it. 

even if religion is not entirely true , at least it puts across important 
messages. what are the fundamental messages of atheism 

there are many important ideas atheists promote .  . the following are just a 
few of them do n't be surprised to see ideas which are also present in some 
religions .  . 

there is more to moral behaviour than mindlessly following rules. 

be especially sceptical of positive claims .  . 

if you want your life to have some sort of meaning , it 's up to you to 
find it. 

search for what is true , even if it makes you uncomfortable .  . 

make the most of your life , as it 's probably the only one you 'll have. 

it 's no good relying on some external power to change you you must change 
yourself. 

just because something 's popular does n't mean it 's good. 

if you must assume something , assume something it 's easy to test. 

do n't believe things just because you want them to be true. 

and finally  ( and most importantly ) 

all beliefs should be open to question. 

thanks for taking the time to read this article. 


mathew 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 


q 



end pgp signature 

for information about pgp 2.2 , send mail to 


from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject he has risen ! 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 16 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 



our lord and savior david has risen ! 


he has been seen alive ! 


spread the word ! 






my sole intention was learning to fly. 

from andrews . ac . uk .  ( norman r. paterson ) 
subject islam vs the jehovah 's witnesses 
organization society for trying really hard 
lines 25 

in article writes 
in article writes 
but god created lucifer with a perfect nature and gave him along with 
the other angels free moral will. 

now god could have prevented lucifer 's fall by taking away his ability 
to choose between moral alternatives  ( worship god or worship himself) , 

so lucifer 's moral choices are determined by his will. 
what determines what his will is 

standard opinion opinions are delta correlated .  . 

bobby 

a few posts ago you said that lucifer had no free will. from the above 
it seems the jw believes the contrary .  . 

are you talking about the same lucifer 

if so , can you suggest an experiment to determine which of you is wrong 

or do you claim that you are both right 

norman 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization sgi 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( mathew ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 
and we , meaning people who drive , 
accept the risks of doing so , and contribute tax money to design systems 
to minimize those risks .  . 

eh we already have systems to minimize those risks .  . it 's just that you car 
drivers do n't want to use them. 

they 're called bicycles , trains and buses .  . 

poor matthew .  . a million posters to call you car drivers and he 
chooses me , a non car owner. 

jon .  . 

from  ( david go go kitaguchi ) 
subject re a little too satanic 
nntp posting host uss1 . welch . jhu . edu . 
reply to 
organization welch medical library 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( charley wingate ) writes 
ann miller writes 
p 
p my favorite reply to the you are being too literal minded complaint is 
p that if the bible is really inspired by god and if it is really that 
p important to him , then he would make damn certain all the translators and 
p scribes and people interpreting and copying it were getting it right , 
p literally .  . if not , then why should i put any merit at all in something 
p that has been corrupted over and over and over by man even if it was 
p originally inspired by god 
p 
pthe corrupted over and over theory is pretty weak. comparison of the 
hebrew text with old versions and translations shows that the text 
phas in fact changed very little over a space of some two millennia .  . this 
n't be all that suprising people who believe in a text in this manner 
pare likely to makes some pains to make good copies .  . 

well corrupted the first time is good enough. seeing that the bible was constructed 
400 years after jesus 's death , in the text of merchants  ( ie owe this and owe that ) i wonder how anyone can take the literal word seriously. obviously it was not intended for such nonsense , otherwise the authors of the bible would not need to plagerize  ( sp ) 
off of the asians for most of the contents that can be to make sense. 


subject re the of atheists ! 
from 
organization wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( brian kendig ) writes 

s . c . a . quotes deleted 

it really looks like these people have no idea at all of what it means 
to be atheist .  . there are more bobby mozumder clones in the world than 
i thought .  .  .  . 

well , that explains some things i posted on soc . religion . islam . 
with an attached quote by bobby to the effect that all atheists 
are lying evil scum , and asked if it was a commonly held idea 
among muslims .  . i got no response. asking about the unknown , 
i guess .  .  .  . 

karl 

lastly , i come to china in the hope all you touch and all you see 
of fulfilling a lifelong ambition is all your life will ever be. 
dropping acid on the great wall. duke pink floyd 

a lie is still a lie even if 3.8 billion people believe it. 


from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 19 
distribution world , public 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

well , in 1984 one was not allowed to leave the domain of authority .  . one 
is free to leave islam .  . if one regards islamic law as a curse one 
should consider leaving islam .  . 

the only way out seems to be death. 



i 'd cheat on hillary too. 

john laws 
local gop 
extolling traditional family values .  . 





from  ( chris faehl ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host vesta . unm . edu . 
keywords dan bissell 

in article ,  ( tammy r healy ) writes 
wrt pathetic jee zus posting by bissel 
i hope you 're not going to flame him. please give him the same coutesy you  
ve given me. 

no. he has n't extended to us the courtesy you 've shown us , so he do n't get no 
pie. tammy , i respect your beliefs because you do n't try to stamp them into 
my being. i have scorn for posters whose sole purpose appears to be to 
evangelize .  . 


tammy 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re islamic authority over women 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 37 

benedikt rosenau bs . de) . wrote 

when the object of their belief is said to be perfect and make the believers 
act in a certain way and we observe that they do n't , we have a contradiction .  . 
something defined contradictorily cannot exist. that what the believe in does 
not exist. secondly , there are better explanations for why they believe than 
the existence of the object of their belief .  . 


have you read the faq already 
benedikt 

benedikt , 

i ca n't recall anyone claiming that god makes anyone act a particlar 
way , i think that you 're attempting to manufacture a contradiction .  . 
god is said to require certain behavior , but the only compulsion is 
the believer 's sense of duty .  . a standard of conduct does exist , but we 
are free to ignore it or misunderstand it or distort it in whatever 
ways we find convenient , but our response to god 's edicts can in no 
way be used to question god 's existence .  . the behavior of believers is 
a completely separate question from that of god 's existence there is 
nothing contradictory here. 

to say that something defined cannot exist , is really 
asking too much you would have existence depend on grammar .  . all you 
can really say is that something is poorly defined , but that in itself 
is insufficient to decide anything  ( other than confusion of course) .  . 

your point that there are better reasons for the phenomenon of belief 
than the object of belief may lead to a rat 's nest of unnecessary 
complexity .  . i think i know what you 're implying , but i 'd like to see 
your version of this better alternative just the same. 

bill 



from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 13 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

mathew writes 

as for rape , surely there the burden of guilt is solely on the rapist 
unless you force someone to live with the rapist against his will , in which 
case part of the responsibility is yours. 
i'm sorry , but i ca n't accept that. unless the rapist was hypnotized or 
something , i view him as solely responsible for his actions .  . 

not necessarily , especially if the rapist is known as such. for instance , 
if you intentionally stick your finger into a loaded mousetrap and get 
snapped , whose fault is it 

keith 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 26 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

well , chimps must have some system. they live in social groups 
as we do , so they must have some laws dictating undesired behavior. 
so , why must they have such laws 

the quotation marks should enclose laws , not must. 

if there were no such rules , even instinctive ones or unwritten ones , 
etc. , then surely some sort of random chance would lead a chimp society 
into chaos .  . 


the system refered to a moral system . you hav n't shown any 
reason that chimps must have a moral system. 
except if you would like to redefine everything. 




whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. 

john laws , a man without the honor to keep his given word. 



subject re concerning god 's morality  ( long ) 
from  ( john a. johnson ) 

organization penn state university 
lines 48 

in article , 
responds to a lot of grief given to him 
in article , 
 ( scott compton ) 
a.k.a. the 
. . . 
but then i ask , so where is this relevant to my discussion in 
answering john 's question of why why are there genetic diseases , 
and why are there so many bacterial and viral diseases which require 
babies to develop antibodies .  . is it god 's fault  ( the original 
question) i say no , it is not. 

most of scotty 's followup was irrelevant to the original question , 
but this is not unusual , as threads often quickly evolve away from 
the original topic. what i could not understand is why jim spent so 
much time responding to what he regarded as irrelevancies .  . 

. . . 
may i ask , where is this  collective  bullcrap coming from 
. . . 

by collective i was referring to the idea that god works with 
humanity on two levels , individually and collectively .  . if mankind 
as a whole decides to undertake a certain action  ( the majority of 
mankind ) , 

well , i guess hypothetical adam was the majority of mankind 
seeing how he was the only man at the time. 

then god will allow the consequences of that action to 
affect mankind as a whole .  . if you did n't understand that , then i 
apologize for not using one and two syllable words in my discussion. 

i understand what you mean by collective , but i think it is an 
insane perversion of justice. what sort of judge would punish the 
descendants for a crime committed by their ancestor 

if you want to be sure that i read your post and to provide a 
response , send a copy to jim i ca n't read 
a.a. every day , and some posts slip by. thanks. 

well , i must admit that you probably read a.a. more often than i read 
the bible these days. but you missed a couple of good followups to 
your post. i'm sending you a personal copy of my followup which i 
hope you will respond to publically in a.a. 

john 
the 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re who says the apostles were tortured 
lines 9 

the traditions of the church hold that all the apostles  ( meaning the 11 
surviving disciples , matthias , barnabas and paul ) were martyred , except for 
john .  . tradition should be understood to read early church writings other 
than the bible and scriptures . 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 20 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

no , i say religious law applies to those who are categorized as 
belonging to the religion when event being judged applies .  . this 


who does the categorizing 




i 'd cheat on hillary too. 

john laws 
local gop 
extolling traditional family values .  . 





from  ( mike cobb ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 36 

in  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

in article  ( frank 
o'dwyer ) writes 

is good logic better than bad is good science better than bad 

by definition .  . 


great good okay bad horrible 

better 
worse 


good is defined as being better than bad. 


how do we come up with this setup is this subjective , if enough people agreed 
we could switch the order is n't this defining one unknown thing by another 
that is , good is that which is better than bad , and bad is that which is worse 
than good circular 

mac 
only when the sun starts to orbit the earth will i accept the bible .  . 




michael a. cobb 
 .  .  . and . i wo n't raise taxes on the middle university of illinois 
class to pay for my programs. champaign urbana 
bill clinton 3rd debate 

with new taxes and spending cuts we 'll still have 310 billion dollar deficits .  . 

from andrews . ac . uk .  ( norman r. paterson ) 
subject re had to share this 
organization st. andrews university , scotland .  . 
lines 66 

in article  ( earthbound misfit , i ) writes 
 ( ben aveling ) writes 

warning if you are anything like a devout christian this post is 
really going to offend and or upset you. 

 .  .  . numerous . ctrl ls deleted .  .  . hehehe .  .  .  . 

i assume everyone here is familiar with the christian  symbol .  . 
the one on the back of all those volvos .  . 
the one that looks  ( something ) like 




or perhaps more like () 
 ` 

well , i found out this morning where it comes from ... 

it 's been stolen from the pagans , like so much else ... 

 ( last last chance to be ignorant 

hmm , how can i put it. 

well , it comes from , this ... 





() 
`  ` ' 



sigh , i hate drawing with ascii chars .  . 
still , i think you can work it out from there ... 

if you have n't , go read skinny legs and all by tom robbins .  . if he 's even 
50 accurate then most of the modern religions have been appropriated . 
it 's also a great book. 

followups to alt.atheism , whose readers are probably slightly more authorative 
on this. 

k 

craig harding acme bbs 64 6 
er lbh n 

craig 

i thought it was derived from a greek acronym .  . my greek is n't up to much , but 
it goes something like this 

jesus christ , god christos , theos 

which is the greek for fish  ( as in , eg ) .  . 

apologies for my dreadful greek ! perhaps someone will correct it. 

by the way , what does your sig mean 

norman 

from  ( david aaron tepper ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
originator 
nntp posting host phoenix . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 28 

in article  ( jim halat ) writes 
in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
firstly , science has its basis in values , not the other way round. 
so you better explain what objective atoms are , and how we get them 
from subjective values , before we go any further. 

atoms are not objective .  . they are n't even real. what scientists call 
an atom is nothing more than a mathematical model that describes 
certain physical , observable properties of our surroundings .  . all 
of which is subjective .  . 

rest deleted .  .  .  . 

you were a liberal arts major , were n'tcha 

guess you never saw that photo of the smallest logo in the world 
ibm made with noble gas atoms  ( krypton xenon i forget the 
specifics) .  . 

atoms , trees , electrons are all independently observable and 
verifiable .  . morals are n't .  . see the difference 

tep 

men who love brown tend to be warm and deep , sensitive to the needs and 
desires of their partners .  . sex is a 24 hour a day thing. snuggling by 
the fire , walking in the rain or catching snowflakes on their tongue is 
a real turn on to a lover of brown.  ( thanx becka ! ) 

from mathew 
subject re university violating separation of church state 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 29 

( .  .  . until . kings become philosophers or philosophers become kings ) writes 
recently , ras have been ordered  ( and none have resisted or cared about 
it apparently ) to post a religious flyer entitled the soul scroll thoughts 
on religion , spirituality , and matters of the soul on the inside of bathroom 
stall doors.  ( at my school , the university of new hampshire ) it is some sort 
of newsletter assembled by a hall director somewhere on campus .  . it poses a 
question about  spirituality  each issue , and solicits responses to be 
included in the next 'issue . ' . it 's all pretty vague .  . i assume it 's put out 
by a christian , but they 're very careful not to mention jesus or the bible .  . 
i 've heard someone defend it , saying well it does n't support any one religion. 
so what this is a state university , and as a strong supporter of the 
separation of church and state , i was enraged .  . 

what can i do about this 

it sounds to me like it 's just screaming out for parody .  . give a copy to your 
friendly neighbourhood subgenius preacher with luck , he 'll run it through the 
mental mincer and hand you back an outrageously offensive and gut 
funny parody you can paste over the originals .  . 

i can see it now 

the stool scroll 
thoughts on religion , spirituality , and matters of the colon 

 ( you can use this text to wipe ) 


mathew 

from  ( bill ray ) 
subject re the bible and abortion 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 38 
distribution world , local 
nntp posting host ee02 . engr . latech . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

james j. lippard wrote 
exodus 21 22 25 

22 and if men struggle with each other and strike a woman with 
child so that she has a miscarriage , yet there is no further 
injury , he shall surely be fined as the woman 's husband may 
demand of him and he shall pay as the judges decide. 
23 but if there is any further injury , then you shall appoint 
as a penalty life for life , 
24 eye for eye , tooth for tooth , hand for hand , foot for foot , 
25 burn for burn , wound for wound , bruise for bruise .  . 

the most straightforward interpretation of these verses is that if 
men in a fight strike a woman and cause her to miscarry , the penalty 
is only a fine. if , however , the woman is injured or dies , the 
lex talionis doctrine of an eye for an eye applies .  . this is the 
jewish interpretation , and is supported by jewish commentaries on 
these verses .  . 
this is quite an embarrassment for pro lifer christians , so there is 
of course an alternate explanation. the alternative interprets the 
word miscarriage to mean premature birth i.e. , the child is born 
alive and further injury to mean injury to either the woman or 
the fetus .  . this is not a straightforward interpretation , it is not 
 ( so far as i know) supported by any jewish commentaries , and it does 
not appeared to be supported by any other part of the bible .  . 

what if any , historical reference do we have to abortion at this time did 
the ancient jew have appropriate reference to understand abortion (i am 
truly asking , not making a point veiled as a question) .  . if there is 
little understanding of the medical procedure we know as abortion , it is 
not surprising the bible makes little reference to it , as it makes little 
reference to nuclear power and contamination .  . 

while your interpretation is a reasonable one , i see no reason to reject 
the other out of hand. the king jimmy translation says if there is no 
further mischief .  . this does not necessarily imply to the woman. i know 
if my wife we expecting and someone cause her to spontaneously abort , we 
would feel that a life was truly taken , not simply a process halted .  . 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re cruel  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 20 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

but we were discussing it in relation to the death penalty .  . and , the 
constitution need not define each of the words within .  . anyone who does n't 
know what cruel is can look in the dictionary  ( and we did) .  . 


or , with no dictionary available , they could gain first hand 
knowledge by suffering through one of your posts. 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 




from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re slavery  ( was re why is sex only allowed in marriage  .  .  . ) . 
organization sgi 
lines 37 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( masud khan ) writes 

leonard , i 'll give you an example of this .  .  .  .  . 

my father recently bought a business , the business price was 150 , 000 pounds 
and my father approached the people in the community for help , he raised 
60 , 000 pounds in interest free loans from friends and relatives and 
muslims he knew , 50 , 000 had cash and the rest he got a business loan , after 
paying off the muslim lenders many of them helped him with further loans 
to help him clear the bank debt and save him from further intrest , this 
is an example of a muslim community helping one another , why did they help 
because of their common identity as muslims .  . in turn my father has helped 
with people buying houses to minimise the amount of intrest they pay 
and in some cases buy houses intrest free with the help of those more 
fortunate in the community. 

sorry. wrong. this is how banks got started in the first place. 
sooner or later your father and his pals will lend money to someone 
who eventually goes broke , and then they will realise that they 
hav n't been managing risk very well. then they will ask themselves 
what it is that they need to quantify risk , and to persuade borrowers 
not to take on greater loans than they can carry .  . and since they 
do n't all want the worry of doing the calculations and handling the 
money , some of them will specialise in that. 

then they 'll reinvent interest , but like good muslims , they 'll call 
it something else. 


the fact is leonard it does work without a fluffy bunny in sight ! 
ithat is the beauty of islam .  . 

riiiight .  . that 's why john major opened a new government department 
a couple of months ago to help to promote minority business. because 
they can do it all themselves by lending one another cups of sugar. 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 8 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

mathew writes 

as for rape , surely there the burden of guilt is solely on the rapist 

not so. if you are thrown into a cage with a tiger and get mauled , do you 
blame the tiger 

keith 

from  ( brian cash ) 
subject re new member 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 47 

in article ,  ( dave fuller ) writes 
hello. i just started reading this group today , and i think i am going 
to be a large participant in its daily postings .  . i liked the section of 
the faq about constructing logical arguments well done. i am an atheist , 
but i do not try to turn other people into atheists .  . i only try to figure 
why people believe the way they do i do n't much care if they have a 
different view than i do. when it comes down to it . . . i could be wrong. 
i am willing to admit the possibility something religious followers 
dont seem to have the capability to do. 

welcome aboard ! 


i notice alot of posts from bobby .  . why does anybody ever respond to 
his posts he always falls back on the same argument 

(i think you just answered your own question , there ) 


if the religion is followed it will cause no bad 

he is right. just because an event was explained by a human to have been 
done in the name of religion , does not mean that it actually followed 
the religion. he will always point to the ideal and say that it was n't 
followed so it ca n't be the reason for the event. there really is no way 
to argue with him , so why bother .  . sure , you may get upset because his 
answer is blind and not supported factually but he will win every time 
with his little argument. i do n't think there will be any postings from 
me in direct response to one of his. 

most responses were against his postings that spouted the fact that 
all atheists are fools evil for not seeing how peachy islam is. 
i would leave the pro con arguments of islam to fred rice , who is more 
level headed and seems to know more on the subject , anyway. 


happy to be aboard ! 

how did you know i was going to welcome you abord ! 


dave fuller 




brian 

from 
subject re gulf war and peace niks 
lines 67 

in article , 
 ( douglas graham ) writes 

... 

wait a minute. you said never play a chamberlain .  . since the us 
is playing chamberlain as far as east timor is concerned , would n't 
that lead you to think that your argument is irrelevant and had nothing 
to do with the gulf war actually , i rather like your idea. perhaps 
the rest of the world should have bombed  ( or maybe missiled ) washington 
when the us invaded nicaragua , grenada , panama , vietnam , mexico , hawaii , 
or any number of other places. 

wait a minute , doug .  . i know you are better informed than that. the us 
has never invaded nicaragua  ( as far as i know) .  . we liberated grenada 
from the cubans to protect us citizens there and to prevent the completion 
of a strategic air strip .  . panama we invaded , true  ( twice this century) .  . 
vietnam we were invited in by the government of s. vietnam .  . (i guess 
we invaded saudi arabia during the gulf war , eh ) mexico we have 
invaded mexico 2 or 3 times , once this century , but there were no missiles 
for anyone to shoot over here at that time. hawaii we liberated it from 
spain .  . 

so if you mean by the word invaded some sort of military action where 
we cross someone 's border , you are right 5 out of 6. but normally 
invaded carries a connotation of attacking an autonomous nation .  . 
 ( if some nation invades the u.s. virgin islands , would they be 
invading the virgin islands or the u.s. ) so from this point of 
view , your score falls to 2 out of 6  ( mexico , panama) .  . 

... 

what 's a peace nik is that somebody who does n't masturbate 
over guns n or what is it supposed to be bad to be a peace nik 

no , it 's someone who believes in peace at all costs . in other words , 
a person who would have supported giving hitler not only austria and 
, but poland too if it could have averted the war. and one 
who would allow hitler to wipe all all jews , slavs , and political 
dissidents in areas he controlled as long as he left the rest of us alone. 

is it supposed to be bad to be a peace nik , you ask well , it depends 
on what your values are. if you value life over liberty , peace over 
freedom , then i guess not. but if liberty and freedom mean more to you 
than life itself if you 'd rather die fighting for liberty than live 
under a tyrant 's heel , then yes , it 's bad to be a peace nik .  . 

the problem with most peace niks it they consider those of us who are 
not like them to be bad and unconscionable . i would not have any 
argument or problem with a peace nik if they held to their ideals and 
stayed out of all conflicts or issues , especially those dealing with 
the national defense .  . but no , they are not willing to allow us to 
legitimately hold a different point of view. they militate and 
many times resort to violence all in the name of peace.  ( what rank 
hypocrisy ! ) all to stop we warmongers who are willing to stand up 
and defend our freedoms against tyrants , and who realize that to do 
so requires a strong national defense .  . 

time to get off the soapbox now. ) 

... 

doug graham my opinions are my own. 

regards , 

jim b. 

from  ( kutluk ozguven ) 
subject re jewish settlers demolish a mosque in gaza 
organization manchester computing centre 
lines 41 

in  ( bertil jonell ) writes 

in article  ( kutluk ozguven ) writes 
atheists are not 
mentioned in the quran because from a quranic point of view , and a 
minute 's reasoning , one can see that there is no such thing. 

but there are people who say that they are atheists .  . if they are n't atheists , 
what are they 

when the quran uses the word din it means way of individual thinking , behaving , 
communal order and protocols based on a set of beliefs .  . this is often 
interpreted as the much weaker term religion. 

the atheists are not mentioned in the quran along with jews , 
, christians , etc. because the latter are all din .  . to have a 
din you need a set of beliefs , assumptions , etc , to forma a social 
code. for example the marxist have those , such as history , conflict , 
etc. that they do not put idols  ( sometimes they did) to represent 
those does not mean they are any different from the other 
, or roughly polytheists .  . 

there cannot be social atheism , because when there is a community , 
that community needs common ideas or standard beliefs to coordinate 
the society. when they inscribe assumptions , say nation , or progress is 
the natural consequence of human activity or 
democracy is doubtlessly the best way of government , however 
they individually insist they do not have gods , from the quranic point 
of view they do. therefore by definition , atheism does not exist. 
we are a atheist society in fact means we reject the din other than 
ours . 

atheism can only exist when people reject all the idols gods dogmas 
suppositions  .  .  . of the society that they part , and in that case that 
is a personal deviation of belief , and quran tells about such 
deviations and disbelief .  . but as i mentioned , from a quranic point of 
looking at things , there is no atheism in the macro level. 

i think it took more than one minute. 

kutluk 

subject re biblical rape 
from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 

bs . de . 

bs . de . 
bs . de . 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 154 

in article 
 ( rob strom ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 

the thread biblical rape was initiated by david o hunt .  . 
here is his posting 
in article , david o hunt writes 
i'm pretty sure i 've seen biblical rules for when it 's allowable to rape 
prisoners , what the codes are about that , etc. could some more 
knowledgable soul than i please let me know some references 

he asked a very narrow question , and i gave a very narrow answer. 


yes , sorry. i have got that wrong. my apology .  . 


 ( deletion ) 

no. david hunt 's post did n't mention a god , nor did my response. 
you were the first to bring up the idea of the bible being given 
by god . most jews do n't believe this in any literal sense. 


so no fun , but i must have met the minority then. 
and given by god refers to any action whereby a god 
god causes or better effects something. 


rob , i am not intimate with jewish theology , but i understand 
that you are a messianic jew .  . correct me if i am wrong , but 
it appears that the views of messianic jews on metaphysics 
is different to that of the majority of jews .  . while jewish 
theology overall is quite distinct from the god 
views , i have heard that it is possible for jews to attribute 
evil to their god , an no no for christians , the bible is 
still seen as effect of the interaction of some god with man. 


 ( deletion ) 
no. i thought we agreed that though jews disagree , 
there are a set of core beliefs that they do agree upon , 
one of which is that the commandments are accessible 
and written in the language of the time , and another 
of which is that there must be a legal system to update them. 


the context was metaphysics , even when the process of adapting 
the commandments is not transcendent , the justification of the 
process lie in metaphysic specualtion .  . i wonder how you break 
out of the shackles of having metaphysics in your system. 


 ( deletion ) 
could you explain this with respect to the original commandments 
being discussed that is , the commandment that says if 
you feel like raping a woman prisoner , you should instead 
wait and marry her what about the way this commandment 
is given invalidates it 


is is in a book that commands to commit genocide among other 
reprehensible deeds .  . the context is repulsive , and it is 
foul play , imo , to invoke some relatively enlightened passages 
as an example for the content of the whole book. 


 ( big deletion ) 

the point is that i see that there is a necessary connection 
between the theology you use and the interpretation of the bible .  . 


only very loosely .  . my interpretation of the bible is 
based on a long tradition of jewish scholars interpreting 
the bible .  . theology does n't really enter into it 
there are jewish atheists who interpret the laws of 
charity essentially the same way i do. 


no , not the interpretation of some laws , but the interpretation of 
the bible .  . as in the example that sodom and mean argue 
with god. the whole idea that it is metaphorically and yet allows 
you to argue with a god  ( whatever that means , that alone is a theo 
logic question) is proof of a theology used. 


you pose another metaphysical riddle ! 

no , you do. 


well , you wrote this 
fine. so we have some major spirit with neither absolute power 
nor absolute knowledge. and , as it appears , limited means or will 
to communicate with us. some form of spiritual big friend. 
do you admit that using god in this context is somewhat unusual 

am i right in the assumption that it cannot have created the 
universe as well and that the passages in the bible referring 
to that or its omnipotence are crap 

that 's what i meant by the riddle . 


it is an important question in the light of what for instance the 
passage witrh sodom and means. either there is some connection 
between the text , the fact that it exists , and your interpretation of 
it , or it is purely arbitrary .  .  . further , the question is why is has 
one to carry the burden of biblical texts when one could simply write 
other books that convey the message better. you might answer that one 
ca n't becuase some peculiar biblical information might be lost , but 
that holds true of every other book , and the question remains why has 
the bible still a special place ca n't it be replaced somehow is it 
ok to bargain the dangerous content of the bible against some other 
message that is included as well 


 ( deletion ) 
do you see the danger in doing so especially with the used 
in the bible 

i think the danger of doing so is less than either the 
danger of having a frozen system of laws , or having no laws .  . 


sorry , but there are worse systems does not say anything about if 
one could not have a better system. 

 ( deletion ) 
if we 
read two stories about the importance of helping the poor , 
and in one god is a spirit , and in the other god has a body , 
which is more important , helping the poor , or resolving 
the contradiction about the corporeal nature of god 


if we read two stories in the bible , one that god commands people 
to kill children for being idolaters and another where god kills 
children directly , what is more important to resolve , the message that 
children are to be killed or if it has to be done by god 


and the argument you have given is a fallacy , while it may not be important 
in the context you have given to find out if god is corporeal or not , it 
can be crucial in other questions. religious believers resolve contradictions 
with that they choose one of the possibilities given in an arbitrary way , 
and have the advantage of being able to attribute their decision to some 
god. 

one cannot resolve questions by the statement do what is good when what 
is good depends on the question. 
benedikt 

from  ( dave fuller ) 
subject re thoughts on christians 
organization inc. 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 40 

 ( tan meng dan ) writes 

. . . . . 

personally , i feel that since religion have such a poweful 
psychological effect , we should let theists be. but the problem is that 
religions cause enormous harm to non believers and to humanity as a whole 
 ( holy wars , inquisitions , inter religious hatred , impedence of science 
intellectual progress , us them attitudes etc etc. need i say more ) .  . 
i really do n't know what we can do about them. any comments 


i have always held that there should be no attempt to change a persons 
attitude or lifestyle as long as it makes them happy and does not tax 
anybody else. this seems to be ok for atheists .  . you do n't get an atheist 
knocking on your door , stopping you in the airport , or handing out 
literature at a social event. theists seem to think that thier form of 
happy should work for others and try to make it so. 

my sister is a 
born again , and she was a real thorn in the side for my entire family 
for several years. she finally got the clue that she could n't help. 
during that period she bought me i was atheist , now i'm xtian books 
for my birthday and xmas several times. our birthday cards would contain 
verses .  . it was a problem. i told my mom that i was going to send my 
sister an atheist piece of reading material. i got a do n't you dare . 
my mom was n't religious .  . why did she insist that i not send it 

because our society has driven into us that religion is ok to 
preach , non religion should be self contained .  . what a crock of shit. 
i finally told my sister that i did n't find her way of life attractive. 
i have seen exactly 0 effort from her on trying to convert me since then. 

i'm sick of religious types being pampered , looked out for , and worst 
of all . . . . respected more than atheists .  . there must be an end 
in sight. 

dave fuller 



from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re an anecdote about islam 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 117 

in article bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 
in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 


a brutal system filtered through leniency is not lenient .  . 


huh 


how do you rate public floggings or floggings at all chopping off the 
hands , heads , or other body parts what about stoning 


i do n't have a problem with floggings , particularly , when the offenders 
have been given a chance to change their behavior before floggings are 
given. i do have a problem with maiming in general , by whatever means. 
in my opinion no one who has not maimed another should be maimed .  . in 
the case of rape the victim is maimed , physically and emotionally , 
so i would n't have a problem with maiming rapists .  . obviously i would n't 
have a problem with maiming murderers either. 


may i ask if you had the same opinion before you became a muslim 



sure. yes , i did. you see i do n't think that rape and murder should 
be dealt with lightly .  . you , being so interested in leniency for 
leniency 's sake , apparently think that people should simply be 
told the did a bad thing. 


and what about the simple chance of misjudgements 

misjudgments should be avoided as much as possible. 
i suspect that it 's pretty unlikely that , given my requirement 
of repeated offenses , that misjudgments are very likely. 


orient is not a place having a single character. your ignorance 
exposes itself nicely here. 


read carefully , i have not said all the orient shows primitive machism .  . 


well then , why not use more specific words than orient probably 
because in your mind there is no need to  ( it 's all the same) .  . 


because it contains sufficient information. while more detail is possible , 
it is not necessary. 


and europe shows civilized bullshit .  . this is bullshit .  . time to put out 
or shut up. you 've substantiated nothing and are blabbering on like 
islamists who talk about the west as the great satan .  . you 're both 
guilty of stupidities .  . 


i just love to compare such lines to the common plea of your fellow believers 
not to call each others names. in this case , to substantiate it the quran 
allows that one beats one 's wife into submission .  . 


really care to give chapter and verse we could discuss it. 


primitive machism refers to 
that. (i have misspelt that before , my fault) .  . 


again , not all of the orient follows the qur'an .  . so you 'll have to do 
better than that. 


sorry , you have n't put out enough. 


islam expresses extramarital sex. extramarital sex is a subset of sex. it is 
islam .  . that sexis allowed or encouraged in islam , as 
it is in many branches of christianity , too , misses the point. 

read the part about the urge for sex again. religions that run around telling 
people how to have sex are not my piece of cake for two reasons suppressing 
a strong urge needs strong measures , and it is not their business anyway. 

believe what you wish. i thought you were trying to make an argument. 
all i am reading are opinions. 

it is an argument. that you doubt the validity of the premises does not change 
it. if you want to criticize it , do so. time for you to put up or shut up. 



this is an argument for why you do n't like religions that suppress 
sex. a such it 's an irrelevant argument. 

if you 'd like to generalize it to an objective statement then 
fine. my response is then you have given no reason for your statement 
that sex is not the business of religion  ( one of your arguments ) .  . 

the urge for sex in adolescents is not so strong that any overly strong 
measures are required to suppress it. if the urge to have sex is so 
strong in an adult then that adult can make a commensurate effort to 
find a marriage partner. 



gregg 







from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses  ( good grief ! ) 
lines 7 

the amount of energy being spent on one lousy syllogism says volumes for the 
true position of reason in this group. 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re jews ca n't hide from 
organization sgi 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article , (f .  . karner ) writes 

so , you consider the german poster 's remark anti semitic 

when someone says 

so after 1000 years of sightseeing and roaming around its 
ok to come back , kill palastinians , and get their land back , 
right 

yes , that 's casual antisemitism .  . i can think of plenty of ways 
to criticize israeli policy without insulting jews or jewish history. 

ca n't you 

jon 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re requests 
lines 53 
organization walla walla college 
lines 53 

in article  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re requests 
date 19 apr 93 18 25 08 gmt 
in article writes 

 ( excess stuff deleted .  .  . ) . 


however , it seems that a local church elder has been getting 
revelations from god about a devastating quake scheduled to level 
the area on may 3rd. he has independent corroboration from 
several friends , who apparently have had similar revelations .  . the 
5.7 quake was , in fact , in response to a request from the lot of 
them seeking a sign from god on the veracity of their visions .  . 

none of this would be terribly interesting , except for the amount 
of stir it has created in the area. many , many people are taking 
these claims very seriously. there are some making plans to be 
out of the are on the target date. my local religious radio 
station devoted 4 hours of discussion on the topic. 

i even called up during one of the live broadcasts to tell the 
host that he would have a full account of my conversion on may 
4th , provided my family and i survived the devastation and ruin 
that will invariably follow the quake .  . 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



i know of a similar incident about 3 years ago. a  ( climatologist ithink 
that was his profession ) named browning predicted that an earthquake 
would hit the new madrid fault on dec . 3 .  . some schools in missouri that were 
on the fault line actually cancelled school for the day. many people 
evacuated new madrid and other towns in teh are. i would n't be suprised if 
there were more journalists in the area than residents .  . of course , teh 
earthquake never occured .  . how do i know about his i used to live in 
southern illinois and the lican middle school was built directly on the 
fault line. no we still had school .  .  .  . we laughed at the poor idiots who 
believed the prediction .  . ) ) ) ) 

bob , if you 're wanting an excuse to convert to christianity , you gonna have 
to look elsewhere. 

tammy no trim healy 



from  ( ray ingles ) 
subject re metaphysics 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 45 
distribution world 
nntp posting host agar . engin . umich . edu . 

in article  ( charley wingate ) writes 
benedikt rosenau writes , with great authority 

if it is contradictory it cannot exist. 

contradictory is a property of language. if i correct this to 

things defined by contradictory language do not exist 

i will object to definitions as reality. if you then amend it to 

things described by contradictory language do not exist 

then we 've come to something which is plainly false .  . failures in 
description are merely failures in description. 

how about this description an object that is , at one time , both a 
euclidean square and a euclidean circle i hold that no object satisfying 
this description could exist. the description is inconsistent , and hence 
describes an object that could not exist. 
now , suppose someone pointed to a bicycle , and said , that object is , 
at one time , both a euclidean square and a euclidean circle .  . this does 
not mean that the bicycle does not exist , it measn that the description 
was incorrectly applied .  . 

the atheist says , the descriptions of god that i have been presented with 
are contradictory , and hence describe something that cannot exist. 
now , your position  ( so far as i can gather ) is that god exists , but the 
descriptions atheists have been presented with are simply bad descriptions 
of it. 
this is roughly analogous to someone who has never seen a bicycle , and , 
when they ask for a description from people who claim to have seen one , 
are told that it is a euclidean circle square . can they be blamed for 
doubting rather strongly that this  bicycle  exists at all 

 ( i'm not an objectivist , remember . ) . 

no kidding. 

sincerely , 

ray ingles 

the meek can have the earth. the rest of us are going to the 
stars ! robert a. heinlein 

from  ( jim perry ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
article i.d. dsi . 1pq6skinnhi4 . 
distribution usa 
organization decision support inc. 
lines 28 
nntp posting host dsi . dsinc . com . 

in article writes 
in article  ( jim perry ) writes 
bigots never concede that their bigotry is irrational it 
is other people who determine that by examining their arguments .  . 
... 
no ! i expected it ! you 've set yourself up a wonderful little 
world where a bigot is whomever you say it is. this is very 
comfortable for you imagine , never having to entertain an 
argument against your belief system. simply accuse the person 
making of being a bigot .  . 

well , this particular thread of vituperation slopped its venom over 
into alt.atheism , where we spend most of our time entertaining 
arguments against our belief system , without resorting to accusing 
others of bigotry .  . it 's somewhat ironic that our exposure to bigotry 
happens in this instance to have originated in rec . scouting . , since i 
always understood scouting to teach tolerance and diversity .  . i 
understand bigotry to be irrational prejudice against other people who 
happen to be of a different race , religion , ethnic background , sex , or 
other inconsequential characteristics .  . all the evidence i 've seen 
indicates that sexual orientation and lack of belief in gods are 
exactly such inconsequential characteristics .  . thus , pending further 
evidence , i conclude that those who show prejudice against such people 
are bigots , and organizations that exclude such people are 
discriminatory .  . 

jim perry decision support , inc. , matthews nc 
these are my opinions. for a nominal fee , they can be yours. 

from mathew 
subject re koresh is god ! 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 5 

the latest news seems to be that koresh will give himself up once he 's 
finished writing a sequel to the bible .  . 


mathew 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject nostalgia 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 1049 


the recent rise of nostalgia in this group , combined with the 
incredible level of utter bullshit , has prompted me to comb 
through my archives and pull out some of the best of alt.atheism 
for your reading pleasure. i 'll post a couple of these a day 
unless group concensus demands that i stop , or i run out of good 
material. 

i have n't been particularly careful in the past about saving 
attributions .  . i think the following comes from john a. johnson , 
but someone correct me if i'm wrong. this is probably the longest 
of my entire collection. 




so that the 
prophecy be 
fulfilled 



in considering the christian religion , and judging it 
according to its claims , it is important to look at its claims at 
fulfilling earlier jewish prophecy .  . the scribe matthew is perhaps 
the most eager to draw out what he thinks are prophetic answers in 
the career of jesus of nazareth .  . as you will see , matthew 's main 
strategy is to take various old testament passages , often not even 
about the promised messiah , and apply them to the circumstances in 
the new testament .  . we must also bear in mind the question of the 
authenticity of the accounts. since the gospels were written at 
least 35 years after jesus was executed , we do not know how much 
happened exactly as stated .  . but , for purposes of analysis , we 
will take particular claims at face value. 

immanuel 

we begin , of course , at the beginning. 

 ( mt 1.21 22 ) mary will bear a son , and you , 
joseph , will name him  jesus   ( which means g 'd is 
salvation ) , for he will save his people from their 
sins .  . all this happened to fulfil what the lord had 
spoken by a prophet 

isaiah 7.1 16 in the days of ahaz (c .  . 750 bce ) , 
king of judah , of syria and of israel made 
war on jerusalem  ( capitol of judah) , but could not 
quite conquer it. when the house of david (i . e .  . ahaz 
and his court in judah) were told of this ,  .  .  . its . 
heart and the heart of its people shook .  .  .  . and , the 
lord g 'd said to isaiah , go to meet with ahaz .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . and . the lord spoke to ahaz  ( through prophet isaiah , 
naturally ) saying , ask a sign of g 'd your lord .  . it 
can be as deep as sheol or as high as heaven. but , 
ahaz said , i wo n't ask i will not put the lord to a 
test. then  ( isaiah ) said , hear then , o house of 
david .  . is it not enough for you to weary men , that 
you must weary my god too therefore , the lord 
himself will give you a sign behold , a young woman 
is with child and will bear a son , and name him 
immanuel , which means , g 'd is with us. he will 
eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse evil 
and choose good. for , before the child knows how to 
refuse evil and choose good , the land of the two kings 
you dread will have been deserted .  .  .  . 

matthew homes in on just the sentence that is in italics .  . 
further , he the hebrew word almah ,  ( young woman ) , as 
specifically , virgin .  . but , this is not a prophecy about the 
messiah .  . it is not a prophecy about an event to happen 750 years 
later. it is not a prophecy about a virgin  ( bethulah ) mother. in 
short , it not about jesus .  . matthew has made use of a verse out of 
context , and tries to make it fit the specific case of mary .  . it 
should be noted that if we want to read the prophecy in a general 
manner , a very general one , it can be made to fit mary .  . mary , 
virgin or not , was indeed a young woman with child. of course , 
the fit is shady and has problems. jesus , while thought of by 
later christians to be g 'd walking among men , was never called by 
the name , immanuel .  . if christianity wished to claim this prophecy 
for jesus , it becomes at best a cut and paste prophecy .  .  .  . a second 
class prophecy .  . not too convincing .  . 

egypt 

after jesus 's birth in bethlehem , matthew tells about a 
quick  ( and elsewhere unmentioned ) excursion to egypt , as if he 
wishes to liken jesus to moses .  . this was done to escape an 
alleged infanticidal rampage of the king , herod .  . 

mt 2.15  .  .  . and . remained there until the death of 
herod .  . this was to fulfil what the lord had spoken 
out of egypt i have cal led my son. 


what the lord really said was this. 

hosea 11.1 when israel was a child , i loved him. 
and , out of egypt i called my son. the more i called 
them  ( my people ) , the more they went from me they 
kept sacrificing to the , and kept burning 
incense to idols .  . 

matthew conveniently omits the rest of hosea 's oracle .  . but , it 
was indeed israel that , once called out of egypt , wanted to 
return. this is history. jesus is certainly not being spoken of 
here. and , if we are to draw some kind of parallel here , we wind 
up with a jesus that flees and resists g 'd .  . again , this prophecy 
is just not as convincing as matthew probably had hoped .  . 

rachel weeps 

while jesus is off vacationing in egypt , matthew says that 
king herod sought to kill him , and thus ordered the executions of 
all young male children. matthew then writes , 

mt 2.17 18 by this , that which was spoken by the 
prophet jeremiah was fulfilled 

a voice was heard in ramah , wailing and loud 
lamentation rachel weeping for her children 
she refused to be consoled , because they were 
no more. 

the reference is to a passage in jeremiah 31.15 , referring to the 
carrying off of israel into exile by sargon  ( of assyria ) in 722 
bce .  . rachel , the ancestor of the major tribes of israel , ephraim , 
and , is said to weep for her descendants who are no 
more. it is metaphorical , of course , since rachel lived and dies 
before the hebrews were even in the egyptian exile .  . 
it is interesting to note that it was leah , not rachel , who 
was the ancestor of the  ( the land where jesus and 
bethlehem were) .  . if anyone should do weeping for her children , 
it is leah .  . the only connexion that rachel has with bethlehem is 
that the legends have it that she was buried north of the city , 
on the way to , (bethlehem) .  . 
as for herod and his infanticide , it is rather unlikely 
that such an event actually occurred .  . one never knows , but the 
event is not mentioned or alluded to anywhere else in the bible , 
nor is it mentioned in any of the secular records of the time. 
herod was particularly unliked in his reign , and many far less 
evil deeds of herod were carefully recorded .  . this might be a 
prime example of how events were added to jesus 's life to enhance 
the message of the church 's gospel .  . 
because of the whole story 's similarity to the tale of the 
infant moses in egypt , it is highly likely that it is a device set 
up by matthew to add prophetic , yet artificial , approval of jesus .  . 
it is not surprising that matthew conveniently neglects to mention 
the rest of the jeremiah quote. the children the prophet 
speaks of are not dead , but exiled in the assyrian empire .  . g 'd 
comforts the weeping rachel , saying that the children will be 
returned he will gather them back together. of course , this 
would not suit matthew 's purpose , as the children he speaks of are 
dead for good. again , the prophecy matthew sets up is not even 
that , and to anyone who bothers to check it out , is not too 
convincing .  . 

the nazarene 

we do not even have to go to the next chapter to find 
another prophecy .  . after leaving egypt , joseph wife 
take the infant jesus to live in the city of nazareth , 

mt 2.23  .  .  . that . what was spoken of by the prophets 
might be fulfilled , he shall be called a nazarene .  . 

first thing we notice is that matthew does not mention the name of 
the  ( prophet(s ) this time. second , we have to ask who he is. 
there are no messianic prophecies speaking of a nazarene .  . worse , 
there are no prophecies , period , mentioning a nazarene .  . still 
worse , there are no mentioned in the old testament at 
all. in the book of judges , an angel tells samson 's mother that 
she will , 

judges 13.5  .  .  . conceive . and bear a son. no razor 
shall tough his head , for he will be a nazirite to his 
god from the day of his birth. he will deliver israel 
from the hands of the philistines .  . 

this is of course not a prophecy of jesus , or the messiah of g 'd .  . 
but , it is the best that can be found. obviously , matthew has 
begun to go overboard in cut and paste prophecies , in that he is 
simple making them up now. 

bearing our 
diseases 

jesus next goes around healing people of physical illnesses 
and disabilities .  . 

mt 8.17 this was to fulfil what was spoken by the 
prophet isaiah , he took our infirmities and bore our 
diseases .  . 

as expected , the verse quoted in isaiah is quoted out of context , 
and a few words are skewed to fit the christian scheme .  . we have , 

is 53.4 surely he , the suffering servant , has 
borne our sickness , and carried our pains .  . 

from a reading of the surrounding passages in isaiah , we know that 
the prophet is speaking in present tense of the collective nation 
of israel , jehovah 's chosen servant and people. he speaks to the 
israelites suffering in exile , in the voice of the gentile nations 
that look upon it. this image is deeply ingrained in jewish 
identity an image of a chastised , yet cherished , israel as the 
instrument of the nations  salvation by g 'd .  . 
the verses speak of israel taking on the sicknesses which 
are the literal and metaphorical manifestations of guilt and 
discipline .  . they do not speak of a servant going around and 
healing people. notice that the servant in isaiah takes on the 
sicknesses and pains of the nations  ( and individual jews) .  . jesus , 
as we all know , did not take the diseases onto himself. the 
verses here in isaiah are not a prophecy of something to come , but 
rather something that had already happened. while it is believed 
that jesus took on the eternal punishment of hell , he did not bear 
the illnesses he healed .  . so , while someone might want to say 
that , figuratively , jesus reenacted the deeds of israel in his 
spiritual atonement , he has to admit that matthew 's parallel 
misses where he intended it to have its effect. 


silent messiah 

upon healing multitudes of commoners , it is said that jesus 
ordered them to keep quiet , presumable so that he would n't arouse 
the attention of the local rulers .  . 

mt 12.15 21 this was to fulfill what was spoken by 
the prophet isaiah .  . 

behold my servant whom i have chosen , my beloved , 
with whom my soul is pleased. i will put my spirit on 
him , and he will announce justice to the gentiles .  . he 
will not wrangle or cry aloud , nor will anyone hear 
his voice in the streets. he will not break a bruised 
reed or quench a smoldering wick until he brings 
justice to victory , and the gentiles will hope in his 
name. 

the isaiah passage quoted reads , 

is 42.1 4 behold my servant whom i uphold , my 
chosen , in whom my soul delights .  . i have put my 
spirit on him , and he will bring forth justice to the 
nations .  . we will not cry or lift up his voice , or 
make it heard in the street. he will not break a 
bruised reed , or quench a smoldering wick .  . he will 
faithfully bring forth justice. he will not fail 
 ( burn dimly ) or be discouraged  ( bruised ) until he has 
established justice in the earth. and the coastlands 
await his law. 

you see , matthew has conveniently left out part of the passage , 
because it does not suit the dealings of jesus .  . christians could 
never think of jesus failing , never would the light of mankind 
burn dimly .  . but , the servant nation of israel will indeed come to 
an end when its job is done. when the gentiles come to embrace 
g 'd there will no longer be a chosen people , but rather all will 
be the children of g 'd .  . also , the ending phrase has been changed 
from the judaic  .  .  . the . coastlands await his law. to the 
, the gentiles will hope in his name. while the 
original proclaims the torah law of jehovah , the other rewrites it 
to fit its strange doctrine of believing in the name. if one 
has any doubt the servant referred to is not jesus , one has only 
to read the whole chapter , isaiah 42 , and hear about the beloved 
but blind and imperfect servant , a people robbed and 
plundered .  .  .  . so , we see that when matthew 's attempt at 
prophecy is examined , it crumbles .  . 

three days and 
three nights 

now we come upon a prophecy supposedly uttered by the very 
mouth of the god jesus himself. he speaks of his crucifixion and 
resurrection .  . 

mt 12.40 for as jonah was in the belly of the 
whale for three days and three nights , so will the son 
of man be in the heart of the earth three days and 
three nights. 

before any further discussion can occur , it is necessary to know 
how the jews understood days. as far as day names went , each was 
24 hours long , lasting from sunset 6pm to the following sunset 
6pm .  . what was referred to as a day was the period of light from 
6am to the ending sunset at 6pm .  . thus , according to our time 
scale , a sabbath day began at 6pm friday evening , and lasted until 
6pm saturday evening. this is why the jews celebrate their 
sabbath on the daylight portion of saturdays , instead of sundays .  . 
 ( it seems like a real miracle that christians did n't forget that 
saturday was indeed the seventh and last day of the week ! ) thus , 
when days and nights are referred to together , 12 hour daylight 
portions and 12 hour night periods are being spoken of. thus , 
jesus says that he will be in the grave , or in hell , or otherwise 
for three days and three nights. 

as the good book tells us , jesus was crucified on the ninth 
hour , which is 3pm , friday afternoon. he then was put into the 
grave sometime after that. then , jesus left the grave , rose , 
before dawn of what we call sunday  ( the dawn after the sabbath was 
over) .  . what this means is that jesus was , using our time for 
clarity , in the grave from 6pm friday night to some time before 
6am sunday morning. we could also add a little time before 6pm 
friday , since the bible is not specific here. what this means 
using jewish time is that he was in the grave for one day , two 
nights , and possibly a couple of hours of one day. certainly this 
is a problem for jesus prediction .  . there is absolutely no way we 
are even able to have his death involve three days and three 
nights even using modern time measurements .  . we then are led to 
suspect that this error is another one of matthew 's little 
mistakes , and that the gospel writer put false words into his 
god 's mouth. and no matter who made the prediction , it is more 
than unconvincing .  .  .  . it is counter convincing .  . 

hearing 
understanding 

jesus tool on a habit of speaking to his vast audiences in 
parables stories in which a deeper meaning could be found , if 
you were already one of the elect , those chosen to understand the 
message of jesus .  . he reasons that those who can understand the 
parables are the ones he wants. if the people cannot understand 
them , there is no need to bother with them , since they will not 
accept the plain message any better. matthew says , 

mt 13.14 16 with them the audience indeed in 
fulfilled the prophecy of isaiah which says , 

you will indeed hear but never understand and you 
will indeed see , but never perceive .  . because this 
people 's heart has grown dull , their ears are heavy of 
hearing , and they have shut their eyes so the they 
would not perceive with them , her with their ears , and 
understand with their heart , and turn for me to heal 
them. 

the original isaiah passages are part of his earlier works , his 
call to the ministry .  . this is in 740 bce , when israel is 
flourishing , right before it falls under the authority of assyria .  . 
isaiah sees the good times ending , and also a vision from g 'd , 
calling him to bring reform to israel and judah .  . 

is 6.9 13 and g 'd said , go , and say to this 
people , and hear , but do not understand see and 
see , but do not perceive . ' . make the heart of this 
people fat , make their ears heavy , and shut their 
eyes , so they will not see with their eyes , or hear 
with their ears , and understand with their hearts , and 
turn and be healed .  . then isaiah said , how long , 
lord and he said , until the cities lie waste 
without inhabitant , and houses without men , and the 
land is utterly desolate , and the g  take men far 
away , and forsaken places are many in the land. and 
though a tenth will remain in it , it will be burned 
again , like a terebinth or an oak whose stump still 
stands when the tree is felled .  . the holy seed is its 
stump .  . 

here we see that it is really g 'd who causes the people of israel 
to stop listening to the prophet 's warnings , but reaffirms the 
promise made to solomon 's  ( and david 's ) seed lineage .  . if you read 
the rest of isaiah , you find that this is done to fulfil the plan 
of g 'd to use israel as a servant , a light to the nations .  .  ( look 
at isaiah 42.18 25 , 48.20 , 49 . 3) . 
we see that matthew has cut and pasted just a little portion 
of isaiah 's verse , to suit his own gospel needs. more than that , 
he has altered the words , to make it fit the people who did n't 
understand jesus 's stories. and , as we see , isaiah 's verses are 
not prophecies , but rather commands from g 'd to him , in the 
present. once again , matthew 's prophecy falls flat on its face. 

matthew tries again to make jesus 's parables look like they 
have the prophetic approval .  . 

mt 13.35  .  .  . he . said nothing to them without a 
parable .  . this was to fulfil what was spoken of by the 
prophet , i will open my mouth to them in parables .  . i 
will utter that which has been hidden since the 
foundation of the world. 

matthew really botches up here. he attempts to quote not from a 
prophet , but from the psalms .  . 

ps 78.2 4 i will open my mouth in parable .  . i will 
utter dark sayings of old , things that we all have 
heard and known , things that our fathers have told us. 
we will not hide them from their children , but tell to 
the coming generation the glorious deeds of the 
lord .  .  .  . 

as was pointed out , the verses in the psalms do not really come 
from a prophet .  . you might also want to know that earlier copies 
of matthew 's gospel even inserted isaiah 's name as this prophet .  . 
apparently , later scribes caught the error and tried to cover some 
of it up. 
perhaps the most significant part of this is that , once 
again , matthew has altered the old testament scriptures .  . as jesus 
has said earlier , he speaks in parables so that some will not 
understand them. the parables in the psalms are not to be hidden .  . 
further , they speak of things known , that our fathers have told 
us. jesus deals with things hidden since the foundation of the 
world. indeed jesus dealt in a lot of secrecy and confusion. 
this is in direct opposition to the parables in the psalms .  . no 
wonder matthew had to rewrite them ! and still once again , 
matthew 's artificial prophecies fall flat on their face. but , 
christians rarely look at this. matthew 's prophecies are n't the 
only things about christianity that are beginning to look bad. 


excuses of 
little faith 

in mt. 17.14 21 , we see that the disciples are able to go 
around casting out demons , except in one case. not knowing what 
epilepsy was , the people thought those with the disease were 
possesed with demons .  . it is no wonder that the disciples were 
unable to dispossess the epileptic .  . but , jesus , perhaps no more 
enlightened than they , is reported to have rebuked them , saying 
they did n't have enough faith. this seems strange. why was this 
demon special it seems that either a true believer has faith or 
he does not. apparently , enough faith will allow someone to move 
mountains .  . of course , you will find no one , these days that can 
move real mountains .  . no one parts seas .  . the only miracles the 
charismatics can speak of are those rumoured to happen on trips to 
mexico or some faraway place. major miracles are making some old 
woman 's arthritis feel better on sunday morning t.v. 

and the gods , including jesus , are always shrouded in 
ancient lore and writings , protected from the skeptics in their 
sacred pasts .  . they are either dead , sleeping , or hiding in 
heaven , with people about their imminent return and 
their great miracles of days long gone. yet , life goes on. 

tales of mystics , stories of miracles all in a distant time 
or a distant place. gods used to reveal themselves to men in the 
old days , jehovah too. but , now they are silent .  . all the 
theologians give are various excuses as to why we do n't get to see 
god anymore. 

we 're too lazy we 're not zealous enough we 're 
sinful it 's just his plan we put too many of our 
own demands on g 'd 's appearance if we had the right 
faith , if we were willing to meet g 'd on his terms .  .  .  . 

yet , even the most pious of men have not seen g 'd .  . you , dear 
reader , have not seen g 'd .  . not literally , you know that to be 
true. (i know that 's presumptuous and bold .  . but , searching your 
heart , you know what i mean . ) . all that we 've seen religions do is 
make people feel good and content about not seeing g 'd .  . they say 
our little faith does not merit us to see g 'd .  . sometimes , they 
say , see the love in these people you worship with .  .  .  . see the 
lives of people change .  .  .  . that is seeing g 'd .  . thus people get 
lulled to sleep , satisfied with turning g 'd into the everyday 
sights .  . but , that is not seeing g 'd as i am speaking of .  .  .  . it is 
not seeing g 'd the way people used to see. 
what we see in the world that is good , is the compassion of 
human hearts , the love given and taken by men and women , the 
forgiveness practised by christian atheist alike , beauty created 
by the mind of man. these are the things that are done these are 
what we see. but , it is said this is so only because everybody 
has little faith. 

jesus rides on 
an ass 

shortly after accepting the role of the jewish messiah 
king , jesus requests a donkey be brought in for him to ride into 
jerusalem .  . 

mt 21.5 this took place to fulfil what was spoken 
by the prophet , saying , 

tell the daughter of zion , behold , your king is 
coming to you , humble , mounted on an ass , and on a 
ass colt .  . 

of course , the passage quoted from zechariah 9.9 reads a little 
differently. 

lo , your king comes to you he is triumphant and 
victorious , humble , and riding on an ass , on an ass 
colt .  .  .  . he will command peace to the nations .  . 

there is n't all that much difference here , except that zechariah 
only involves one animal an ass colt while matthew reads the 
poetic wording slightly differently. thus , he has jesus call for 
both a colt and an adult ass. from matthew 's version , we get a 
comical picture of the divine christ sweating it to straddle two 
donkeys .  . this could inevitably lead to a theological , 
dilemma ! we find that in the account written 
earlier by st. mark , only the colt was called for and brought to 
jesus .  . this indeed fits the verses of zechariah properly , and 
shows us that in matthew attempt to use prophetic verses , he has 
bungled .  . now , excluding many respectable christians i have met , i 
have noticed that while christ is thought to have ridden on asses , 
the situation is often reversed nowadays .  .  .  . 

then , entering the jerusalem temple , the priests were 
angered at people and youngsters calling jesus the messiah .  . but , 
jesus replied as we might expect matthew to have done , 

mt 21.16 have n't you read of the mouth of 
babes and sucklings thou has brought perfect praise . ' . 

it is more likely that matthew made this response up since jesus 
was never one to point out such little prophetic things and 
since , as we might expect , the quote is in error , which seems to 
fit matthew 's track record quite well. we might ask jesus or 
matthew , have n't you read for the source reads , 

psalms 8.1 2 o yahweh our lord , how majestic is 
your name in the whole world ! you , whose glory is 
chanted above the heavens by babes and infants , you 
have founded a bulwark against your foes to still the 
enemy and the avenger .  . 

the passages hardly need comment. there is no perfect praise 
spoken of in the psalm , and what praise is there is given to g 'd , 
not his messiah king , and not jesus .  . as mentioned , it seems to be 
just one more case of matthew 's pen making up convenient prophetic 
scripture .  . 

yhvh said to 
my lord .  .  .  . 

jesus is said to have asked from whom the promised jewish 
messiah king is to be descended .  . the jews agree it is king 
david .  . but , then jesus counters by quoting psalms 110 , 

the lord said to my lord , sit at my right hand , until 
i put your enemies under your feet. 

taken at face value , jesus is denying the necessity of 
descent .  . one assumes he is in opposition to their answer. of 
course , the christian answer is that he agrees , but is trying to 
make some hidden point , to reveal some mystery about the divine 
nature of the messiah king .  . it 's tempting to believe this , if one 
is a christian and not interested in matters of investigation .  . 
but , there are problems. 
in jesus 's time , the psalm was thought to be about the 
messiah .  . and , it is easy to see why david might refer to the 
messiah as his superior .  . we need only look at the scriptures 
about the messiah to see that he is expected to be a great king , 
bringing the jews to times even better than those under david 's 
rule. of course , the jews listening had no good answer , and the 
passage could indeed refer to a divine messiah , such as the 
christians worship .  . the problem lies in the meaning of this 
psalm , an error that apparently several jews of jesus 's time had 
also made. one must remember that there were various factions 
among the jews , often as a result of different expectations of the 
messiah king .  . jesus was apparently one of these adventists , like 
his audience , who thought the messiah 's advent was imminent , and 
who interpreted psalms 110 , among others , as being messianic .  . 
what is the problem , then psalm 110 literally reads , 

yhvh 's utterance to my lord 
sit at my right hand , until i make your enemies your 
footstool .  . 

yhvh sends forth your mighty scepter from zion .  . rule 
in the midst of your foes ! your people will offer 
themselves freely on the day you lead your host on the 
holy mountains .  . 

you are a priest of the order of melchizedek 
forever. 

the word lord is often mistakenly capitalised by christian 
bibles to denote divinity in this lord .  . but , in the hebrew , the 
word is , and no capitalisation exists. simply means 
lord , a generic term as we would use it. it is used often in 
the scriptures to refer to kings and to g 'd .  . it is merely an 
address of respect. 
there is nothing in the text itself to imply that the word 
refers either to divinity or to the messiah king .  . that this is 
supposed to be written by david is not certain .  . the title of the 
psalm translates to either a psalm of david , or a psalm about 
david .  . it seems fitting to assume it to be written by a court 
poet , about david 's covenant and endorsement from g 'd .  . if the 
psalm had been written by david , it is unlikely that he would be 
talking about the messiah .  . the idea of a perfect king , descended 
from david , was not present in david 's age. we have extensive 
tales of david 's doings and sayings none of which include any 
praises of a messiah .  . 
many of the psalms show evidence of being written long after 
david was dead , in times of the exile when g 'd had put his show of 
favour for david 's kingdom on hold .  . 
the description in the psalm fit david very well. david was 
promised by g 'd a rise to power , victory over his enemies , 
successful judgement among the nations he conquered .  . he achieved 
the priesthood common to melchizedek in being a righteous king , 
enabled to bless the people. it all fits .  . 
we do not have to blame this problem on matthew alone , 
though. here , there is not artificial prophecy alluded to , though 
his use of the scripture is rather questionable .  . still , this 
event is common to the other gospels too. so , we let matthew off 
a little more easily this time. it is interesting to note , 
though , how matthew dresses up the event. the earlier gospel of 
mark tells the tale with jesus simply speaking to a crowd. 
matthew has the pharisees , who became the religious competition of 
an infant christianity , be the target of jesus 's question. as we 
might expect , matthew writes that the event ends up by 
embarrassing the pharisees .  . such power is the pen. 

moses jesus , 
had it together 
all along .  .  .  . 

we leave the gospel story of matthew momentarily to see a 
pseudo prophecy in john 's gospel .  . the gospel story of john 
deserves special treatment , because it seems to be so far removed 
from the real events of jesus 's career as told by even matthew .  . 
but , for the moment , we will just look at one verse .  . the early 
church leaders founded a religion on the jewish hopes of a messiah 
king , and on an artificial extension of the original promises made 
by g 'd .  . when constructing the history of abraham , moses wrote of 
a promise of land and nationhood to the jewish people. while this 
was accomplished eventually , under the rule of king david , the 
christians who came along later decided that they would claim the 
fulfillment of the promise. but , to do so , they expanded on the 
promise , preaching about a heavenly kingdom .  . 

john 8.56 (j . c .  . speaking ) your father , abraham , 
rejoiced to see my day. he say it and was glad. 

it would be nice to tie in approval for jesus from abraham , but , 
abraham knew nothing of jesus or a messiah , or anything christian .  . 
i have tried , and failed to find any event in the old testament 
which corresponds to john 's little prophecy .  . it is par for the 
course to see st. john making up old testament backings , just like 
his forerunner matthew .  . many christians know that their faith has 
many of its foundations in such fraud , and it is surprising they 
still cling to it. 

the potter 's 
field 

we are told that jesus was betrayed while in jerusalem by 
one of his followers , judas iscariot .  . matthew writes , 

mt 27.5 10 and throwing down the pieces of silver 
in the temple , judas departed .  .  .  . but , the chief 
priests , taking the silver , said , it is n't lawful for 
us to put it in the treasury , since it is blood 
money. so they .  .  .  . bought a potter 's field with it to 
bury strangers in .  .  .  . then was fulfilled what was 
spoken by the prophet jeremiah , 

and they took the thirty pieces of silver , the price 
of him on whom a price had been set by some of the 
sons of israel , and they gave them for the potter 's 
field , as the lord directed me. 

this prophecy is an utterly gross bastardisation of old testament 
scripture .  . first , matthew has made a mistake regarding the name 
of the prophet .  . it is zechariah who utters the verses which 
matthew makes use of. 

zech .  . 11.12 13  .  .  . and . they weighed out my wages , 
thirty shekels of silver .  . then yhvh said to me , cast 
them to the treasury , the lordly price at which i 
was paid off by them. so i took the thirty shekels of 
silver and cast them into the treasury in the house of 
yhvh .  . 

first of all , the verses of zechariah do not deal with a betrayer 
of the messiah , or of g 'd .  . the deal with a shepherd , most likely 
a priest , chosen to serve a function of presiding over the people 
shortly before g 'd would send judah and israel into conflict with 
one another. the word , treasury , had been replaced by the king 
james scholars with to the potter , precisely because this made 
matthew 's quote fit better. but , this is a blatant error. the 
correct translation of the hebrew is indeed treasury , which also 
makes perfect sense in zechariah 's context , whereas potter 's 
field is totally unrelated .  . whether the mistranslation was 
intentional or not seems to be beyond speculation .  . however , given 
matthew 's track record , one finds it hard to resist the notion of 
intentional dishonesty .  . 
of course , matthew would have ample reason for altering the 
text. the thirty pieces of silver match judas 's situation , and if 
as most christians seem to be , the reader is willing to disregard 
the contextual incongruity , matthew might have another prophecy to 
toss around. however , the correct translation of zechariah 
directly contradicts the situation with judas and the high 
priests .  . the high priests would not put the money in the 
treasury .  . the worthless shepherd of zechariah does exactly the 
opposite ! of course , to the average thursday night bible student , 
the prophecy as presented by matthew would be taken at new 
testament face value. to those , matthew 's work is convincing 
enough. 

wine , vinegar , 
casting lots 

then , jesus is led away to be crucified .  . 

mt 27.34 35  .  .  . they . gave him vinegar to drink , 
mingled with gall but when he tasted it , he would not 
drink it. and , when they had crucified him , they 
divided his garments among them by casting lots that 
it might be fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet , 

they parted my garments among them , and upon my 
vesture did they cast lots .  . 

first of all , the vinegar offered to jesus is actually common sour 
wine , of the type that roman soldiers drank regularly. we find 
that right before jesus dies , the soldiers themselves give him 
some to drink not polluted with gall .  . 

jn 19.28 30 jesus .  .  .  . said , i thirst .  . a bowl of 
vinegar stood there , so they put a sponge full of the 
vinegar on hyssop and held it to his mouth. when he 
had received the vinegar , he said , it is finished 

but , matthew seems to be drawing on , not a passage from the 
prophets , but one from the psalms .  . 

ps 69.20 28 i looked for pity , but there was none 
and for comforters , but i found none. they gave me 
poison for food (lit .  . they put gall in my meat ) , and 
for my thirst , they gave me vinegar to drink .  .  .  . add 
to them punishment upon punishment , may they have no 
acquittal from thee .  . let them be blotted out of the 
book of the living. 

of course , the sour wine offered to jesus is done at his request 
of drink. this does indeed seem to be a show of pity .  . the psalm 
quoted is about david and his political and military enemies .  . it 
is not about the messiah or jesus .  . it is then not surprising that 
we run into further problem when we see that the jesus in the 
psalm asks g 'd for the damnation of the crucifiers , whereas the 
jesus of the gospels says , 

lk 23.34 jesus said , father , forgive them , the 
do n't know what they do ! 

further , matthew misses with his attempt to create prophecy by 
having gall (a bitter substance ) put into jesus 's drink , not his 
meat , as the psalm stipulates .  . 

with the prophecy of the vinegar faulty , we naturally 
ask , what of the casting of lots this brings up the 22nd 
psalm , which deserves discussion all by itself. suffice it now to 
say that the fact that jesus 's clothes were divided as told is no 
great thing. it turns out that this happened often to any felon 
in those days. as we will soon see , it is perhaps the least 
erroneous passage of the psalm when applied to jesus .  . it does 
indeed bring up the interesting question as to the quality of 
jesus 's clothes. for a man so removed from worldly possessions , 
his ownership of clothes worthy of casting lots raises some 
suspicions .  . 

the 22nd psalm 

this psalm is attributed to david , as a lament of his 
condition under the attack of his enemies .  . it becomes a song of 
praise to yhvh and of hope. taken out of context , parts of it 
seem to fit the plight of jesus at the crucifixion quite well. we 
will examine the primary passages .  . 

verse 1 2 my god , my god ! why have you forsaken me ! 
why are you so far from helping me , far from the words 
of my groaning oh , my god , i cry by day , but you 
do n't answer , and by night , but find no rest. 

jesus is said to have cried the first sentence while on the cross .  . 
this suggests that the whole psalm is really about jesus , rather 
than king david .  . of course , the rest of the first stanza does not 
fit as nicely to jesus or his execution .  . jesus is not pictured as 
complaining about the whole ordeal , he is supposed to be like the 
lamb led mute before its shearers .  . indeed , jesus does n't do much 
groaning , even when on the cross .  . he certainly does not cry by 
both day and night on the cross .  . 

6 8 but , i am a worm , and no man scorned by men .  .  .  . 
all who see me mock at me. they make faces and wag 
their heads he committed his cause to yhvh .  . so let 
him deliver him .  .  .  . for he delights in him. 

this seems to fit jesus 's execution pretty well , with the 
exception of the holy messiah being called a worm .  . 

12 13 many bulls encompass me .  .  .  . they open their 
mouths widely at me like a ravening and roaring lion .  . 

16 18 yea , dogs are round about me , a company of 
evildoers cle me , they have pierced my hands and 
feet. i can see all my bones .  .  .  . they divide my 
garments among them , and cast lost for my raiment .  . 

19 21 but you , yhvh , be not far away !  .  .  . deliver . my 
soul from the sword , my life from the power of the 
dog ! save me from the mouth of the lion , and my 
afflicted soul from the horns of the wild bull ! 

it would seem quite convincing , and i'm sure the early christian 
fathers who wrote of this prophecy thought so too. unfortunately , 
this prophecy has a fatal flaw .  . the words have pierced really 
do not exist in the psalm .  . the correct hebrew translation is , 

16 yea , dogs are round about me , a company of 
evildoers encircles me , like the lion , they are at my 
hands and feet .  .  .  . 

in hebrew the phrase like the lion and a very rare verb form 
which can mean pierced differ by one phonetic character. the 
word in the hebrew text is literally , like the lion  ( ka'ari ) , 
which makes sense in the context , and even further fits the animal 
imagery employed by the psalm writer. it is convenience that 
would urge a christian to change the word to ka'aru .  . but , to 
add the needed  ( yet artificial ) weight to the prophecy this is 
just what the christian translators have chosen to do. while the 
correct translation does not eliminate the psalm from referring to 
jesus , its absence does not say much for the honesty of the 
translators .  . 

apart from the erroneous verse 16 , the psalm does not lend 
itself to jesus so easily. verse 20 speaks of the sufferer being 
saved from a sword rather than a cross .  . this naturally fits the 
psalm 's true subject , king david .  . as a side note , we now know 
that crucifixions did not pierce the hands , the palms , but rather 
the forearms .  . this does n't say much in favour of the traditional 
thought of a resurrected jesus showing his disciples the scars on 
his palms .  . but then , facts are n't bound by our religious beliefs .  . 

matthew escapes culpability this time , as he does not 
attempt to draw many direct links between this psalm and his lord 
jesus .  . but the psalm , like many others , was on the minds of all 
the gospel writers when they compiled the stories and 
interpretations of jesus 's life and death. how much these 
scriptures may have contributed to what actually got written down 
is a question that has serious repercussions for christian 
theology .  . it is easy to see , for those who are not faithful 
fundamentalists , how some of the events in the new testament might 
have been enhanced by scribes such as the eager matthew .  . but , 
it does less to speculate than to simply investigate scriptural 
matters and prophetic claims .  . so far , this has not said good 
things for st. matthew .  . 

the reference to the piercing looks a lot like jesus 's 
crucifixion .  . john 's gospel recount , written about 70 years after 
the fact , tells us at jesus 's execution , 

jn 19.34 , 37 but one of the soldiers pierced his 
side with a spear , and out came blood and water .  .  .  . 
these things took place that scripture be fulfilled .  .  .  . 
the will look on him whom they 've pierced .  . 

of course , this is built on a passage taken blatantly out of 
context. prophet zechariah tells us how much of the nation of 
israel will split off from jerusalem and judah and go to war with 
them. 

zc 12.7 10 and yhvh will give victory to judah .  .  .  . 
and on that day , i will seek to destroy the nations 
that come against jerusalem  ( in judah) .  . and i will 
pour a spirit of compassion and supplication .  .  .  . on 
jerusalem so that when they look on him who they have 
pierced , they will mourn , and weep bitterly over him 
like you weep over a firstborn child. 

john 's attempt to make up prophecy is perhaps weaker that 
matthew 's attempts .  . matthew , at least , usually more 
than just one passage .  . john 's errors are grossly obvious and 
blatant here. it does not speak well for any of the gospel 
writers , as it helps to show how the prophetic aspects of their 
religion were founded .  . 


reckoned with 
transgressors 

after his arrest , jesus is quickly executed for claiming 
the jewish kingship , messiahship .  . according to one version of 
the gospel tale , jesus gets executed along with two thieves .  . 

mk 15.27 and with him they crucified two robbers , 
one on his right , one on his left. and so the 
scripture was fulfilled which says , 

he was reckoned with the transgressors .  . 

here , mark is trying to link jesus to a passage in isaiah 53 , 
about the servant nation of israel .  . the passage is not about the 
messiah , for if one reads the whole chapter of isaiah 53 , and its 
surrounding chapters , one sees that the servant is a nation .  . the 
verses are also about what this servant has gone through in the 
past , not a prediction of what is to come , in any event. the 
servant is thought of as a criminal .  . this also happens to fit the 
description of jesus .  . had the passage really been about the 
messiah , it still is not at all clear why executing jesus between 
two thieves would fulfill the prophecy in isaiah .  . jesus would 
more fittingly fulfill it with his whole ministry .  . he was 
considered a blasphemer and troublemaker all throughout his 
career. locking onto a single event is a rather poor way to 
steal prophecy , at least in this case , as we see that mark could 
have had made a better analogy with general comparisons .  . 

mark goes on to tell us how those who were crucified with 
jesus also reviled him. 15.32 this is to be expected from a 
couple of robbers .  . of course in his later recount , st. luke 
decides to change some things. luke tells us , 

lk 23.39 43 and one of the criminals who was hanged 
with him railed , are n't you the messiah ! save 
yourself , and us ! 

this certainly fits with mark 's recount , which tells how the 
people who crucified jesus said , save yourself ! and that the 
robbers did the same. but then luke goes on , 

but the other criminal rebuked the first saying , 
do n't you fear g 'd , since you are under the same 
sentence of condemnation and we , indeed justly so , 
for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds .  . 
but , this man has done nothing wrong. and he said , 
jesus , remember me when you come in your kingdom .  . 
and jesus answered , verily i say to you , today you 
will be with me in paradise .  . 

now , this little dialogue seems highly contrived .  . it stretches 
the imagination a bit to see this picture of one ruffian rebuking 
his fellow criminal with such eloquent speech. we have a rather 
strange picture of a criminal lamenting over the goodness of his 
punishment and the justness of his suffering .  . such a man , 
apparently noble and of principle , does n't seem likely to have 
been a robber .  . we wonder at the amount of theatrics created by 
luke .  . of course , luke 's recount also disagrees with mark 's .  . 
luke has only one criminal revile jesus , not both. it is easy 
enough to discount the discrepancy because the account was made 
up , but those who wish to believe it is all part of the error free 
words of g 'd do not have this avenue open. this is yet another 
example of a writer trying to take an old testament passage and 
expand it and reinterpret it to suit his theology .  . in this case , 
the embroidery creates some embarrassing problems , as we have 
seen. 

the end of the 
world 
mt. 24 

now comes perhaps one of the most extraordinary and 
embarrassing passages in the new testament .  . it is found in all 
three of the synoptic gospel stories , and casts some of the most 
unfavourable doubt on the whole theory of christianity .  . jesus 
mentions the destruction of the jewish temples and buildings , and 
his disciples ask him about this , and about the end of the world 
which he has been warning about. 

the disciples tell us , when will this the temple 's 
destruction be , and what will be the sign of your 
coming , and of the close of the age 

jesus take care that no one leads you astray , for 
many will come in my name , saying , i am the christ .  . 
 .  .  . you . will hear of wars and rumours of wars .  .  .  . for 
this must take place , but the end is not yet. for , 
nation will rise against nation .  .  .  . all this is but the 
beginning of the birthpangs .  . 
they will deliver you up .  .  .  . put you to death , 
and false prophets will arise and lead many astray .  . 
 .  .  . but . he who endures to the end will be saved .  . this 
gospel will be preached throughout the whole world , a 
testimony to the nations , and then the end will come. 
so , when you see the desolation spoken of by the 
prophet daniel ,  .  .  . let . those who are in judea flee to 
the mountains .  . 

immediately after the tribulation of those days , 
the sun will be darkened .  .  .  . the stars will fall from 
heaven .  .  .  . then will appear the sign of the son of man 
in heaven , and all the tribes of the earth will mourn , 
and see the son of man coming .  .  .  . and he will send out 
his angels .  .  .  . and gather his elect .  .  .  . 
learn the lesson of the fig tree as soon as its 
branch becomes tender and puts forth leaves , you know 
that summer is near .  . so also , when you see all these 
things , you will know that he is near , at the very 
gate .  . truly i say to you , this generation will not 
pass away until all these things take place .  .  .  . 
but , of the day and hour , no one knows not the 
angels , not the son , but only the father .  .  .  . therefore , 
you also must be ready , for the son of man is coming 
at an hour you do not expect. 

from this , it is clear that jesus thought the world would in 
within the lifetimes of at least some of his disciples .  . he tells 
them that although he does n't know the exact day or hour , that it 
will come , and thus they must be ready. theologians have wet 
their pants in panic to find some way out of this holy error. 
but , unfortunately , jesus made himself to explicit .  . he told his 
disciples that their generation would still be around at the end , 
and that they in particular should prepare for it , prepare to be 
swept away. 
there have been some who resorted to removing the inerrant 
nature of the bible , and said that the phrase , this generation 
shall not pass away .  .  .  . really means this race of people will not 
pass away .  .  .  . of course , the word for generation is used many 
times to refer to exactly that , the generation of the disciples .  . 
it is an interesting notion that when god decided to learn greek , 
he did n't learn it well enough to make himself clear. but .  . it is 
quite obvious from the rest of the dialogue that the disciples  ( at 
least some of them) are supposed to live to the end of the world. 
the charge of mistranslation is completely blown away by looking 
at the apostles  responses. it becomes abundantly clear from 
rev. 22.7 , 1 peter 4.7 , 1 john 2.18 , and rev. 22.20 , that jesus 
meant exactly what he said. the end was very near .  . 

for 2 , 000 years , christians have rationalised this 24th 
chapter of matthew , or ignored its meaning altogether. for 2 , 000 
years , they have waited for their executed leader to come back , 
hearing of wars , and rumours of wars , sure that he is coming soon. 
surely he must be. all we must do is wait. can you imagine how 
tired he must be , sitting around up there , being holy , waiting for 
just the right moment to spring 


so , shortly after his crucifixion , jesus of nazareth , 
 ( joshua ben joseph ) , died. it is said that after three days , or 
three days and three nights , or three periods of time , or three 
eternal seconds or three of whatever they can decide makes for 
less trouble he was seen again , resurrected , glowing with divine 
radiance .  . then the saviour decided it was n't in the best 
interests of his new religion to stick around , and therefore 
disappeared from sight into heaven. so the story goes , anyway. 
as has been seen , there were many things attributed to jesus when 
people got around to writing the gospel stories down. to them , 
jesus was the fulfiller of all prophecy and scripture .  . we have 
seen , though , that this matter is quite shaky .  . but , throughout 
church history , christians have held fast to faith , in simple 
belief .  . what doctrinal objections could not be solved with 
argumentation or brute force , faith and forgetfulness kept away 
from question. to question and investigate has never been the 
easiest way to treat matters. thus for 2 , 000 years , the 
prophecies cited in the new testament have gone on largely 
accepted. things may well continue that way for some time. 
pausing a moment to consider the way the doctrines of christianity 
have been accepted and used  ( properly or improperly ) to support 
wars and persecution , i suppose there is one prophecy of which 
christianity can securely keep hold .  . 

mt 10.34 jesus do n't think that i have come to 
bring peace on earth. i have n't come to bring peace , 
but rather a sword .  . 




from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re yeah , right 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 54 

in article 
 ( charley wingate ) writes 

and what about that revelation thing , charley 

if you 're talking about this intellectual engagement of revelation , well , 
it 's obviously a risk one takes .  . 


i see , it is not rational , but it is intellectual .  . does madness qualify 
as intellectual engagement , too 


many people say that the concept of metaphysical and religious knowledge 
is contradictive .  . 

i'm not an objectivist , so i'm not particularly impressed with problems of 
conceptualization .  . the problem in this case is at least as bad as that of 
trying to explain quantum mechanics and relativity in the terms of ordinary 
experience. one can get some rough understanding , but the language is , from 
the perspective of ordinary phenomena , inconsistent , and from the 
perspective of what 's being described , rather inexact  ( to be charitable) .  . 


exactly why science uses mathematics .  . qm representation in natural language 
is not supposed to replace the elaborate representation in mathematical 
terminology .  . nor is it supposed to be the truth , as opposed to the 
representation of gods or religions in ordinary language. admittedly , 
not every religion says so , but a fancy side effect of their inept 
representations are the eternal hassles between religions .  . 

and qm allows for making experiments that will lead to results that will 
be agreed upon as being similar. show me something similar in religion. 


an analogous situation  ( supposedly ) obtains in metaphysics the problem is 
that the better descriptive language is not available. 


with the effect that the models presented are useless. and one can argue 
that the other way around , namely that the only reason metaphysics still 
flourish is because it makes no statements that can be verified or falsified 
showing that it is bogus .  . 


and in case it holds reliable information , can you show how you establish 
that 

this word reliable is essentially meaningless in the context unless you 
can show how reliability can be determined .  . 

have n't you read the many posts about what reliability is and how it can 
be acheived respectively determined 
benedikt 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 27 

in article 
 ( james hogan ) writes 


20 52 p . s . t .  . i come to my senses and accept the all knowing 
wisdom and power of the quran and allah .  . not only that , but allah 
himself drops by to congratulate me on my wise choice. allah rolls a 
few bones and we get down. then allah gets out the crisco , bends 
over , and invites me to take a spin around the block. wow. 


20 56 p . s . t .  . i realize that maybe allah is looking for more of a 
commitment than i'm ready for , so i say man , i 've got some 
programming to do. gotta go. i 'll call you. 


20 59 p . s . t . thinking it over , i renounce islam .  . 

what loyalty ! 

jim , it seems you 've been reading a little too much russell hoban 
lately. as hemingway said , my imitators always imitate the bad 
aspects of my writing. hoban would , no doubt , say the same here. 



gregg 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re not the omni ! 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 18 

charley wingate wrote 

please enlighten me. how is omnipotence contradictory 

by definition , all that can occur in the universe is governed by the rules 
of nature. thus god cannot break them. anything that god does must be allowed 
in the rules somewhere. therefore , omnipotence cannot exist ! it contradicts 
the rules of nature. 

obviously , an omnipotent god can change the rules. 

when you say , by definition , what exactly is being defined 
certainly not omnipotence .  . you seem to be saying that the rules of 
nature are pre existant somehow , that they not only define nature but 
actually cause it. if that 's what you mean i 'd like to hear your 
further thoughts on the question. 

bill 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 76 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 

how many do you want to see 
good question. if i claim something is a general trend , then to disprove this , 
i guess you 'd have to show that it was not a general trend .  . 
no , if you 're going to claim something , then it is up to you to prove it. 
think cold fusion . 

well , i 've provided examples to show that the trend was general , and you 
 ( or others ) have provided some counterexamples , mostly ones surrounding 
mating practices , etc. i do n't think that these few cases are enough to 
disprove the general trend of natural morality .  . and , again , the mating 
practices need to be reexamined .  .  .  . 

try to find immoral non mating related activities. 
so you 're excluding mating related activities from your natural morality 

no , but mating practices are a special case. i 'll have to think about it 
some more. 

yes , i think that the natural system can be objectively deduced with the 
goal of species propogation in mind. but , i am not equating the two 
as you so think. that is , an objective system is n't necessarily the 
natural one. 
are you or are you not the man who wrote 
a natural moral system is the objective moral system that most animals 
follow . 

indeed. but , while the natural system is objective , all objective systems 
are not the natural one. so , the terms can not be equated .  . the natural 
system is a subset of the objective ones. 

now , since homosexuality has been observed in most animals  ( including 
birds and dolphins ) , are you going to claim that most animals have 
the capacity of being immoral 

i do n't claim that homosexuality is immoral .  . it is n't harmful , although 
it is n't helpful either  ( to the mating process) .  . and , when you say that 
homosexuality is observed in the animal kingdom , do n't you mean bisexuality 

because we ca n't determine to what end we should be moral .  . 
are you claiming to be a group we usually implies more than one entity .  . 

this is standard jargon .  . read any textbook .  . the we forms are used 
throughout. 

well , i'm saying that these goals are not inherent .  . that is why they must 
be postulates , because there is not really a way to determine them 
otherwise  ( although it could be argued that they arise from the natural 
goal but they are somewhat removed) .  . 
postulate to assume posit .  . 

that 's right. the goals themselves are n't inherent .  . 

i can create a theory with a postulate that the sun revolves around the 
earth , that the moon is actually made of green cheese , and the stars are 
the portions of angels that intrudes into three dimensional reality. 

you could , but such would contradict observations .  . 

i can build a mathematical proof with a postulate that given the length 
of one side of a triangle , the length of a second side of the triangle , and 
the degree of angle connecting them , i can determine the length of the 
third side. 

but a postulate is something that is generally  ( or always ) found to be 
true. i do n't think your postulate would be valid .  . 

guess which one people are going to be more receptive to. in order to assume 
something about your system , you have to be able to show that your postulates 
work. 

yes , and i think the goals of survival and happiness do work. you think 
they do n't or are they not good goals 

keith 

from  ( david nye ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 38 

reply to  ( frank o'dwyer ) 

i'm one of those people who does not know what the word objective means 
when put next to the word morality .  . i assume its an idiom and cannot 
be defined by its separate terms. 

give it a try. 

objective morality is morality built from objective values .  . 

from a dictionary of philosophy , by anthony flew 

objectivism the belief that there are certain moral truths that would 
remain true whatever anyone or everyone thought or desired .  . for 
instance ,  no one should ever deliberately inflict pain on another 
simply to take pleasure in his suffering  might be thought of as a 
plausible example. even in a world of sadists who all rejected it , the 
contention remains true , just as  5 7 12  remains correct even if 
there is no one left to count. the problem for the objectivist is to 
determine the status of moral truths and the method by which they can be 
established .  . if we accept that such judgements are not reports of what 
is but only relate to what ought to be  ( see naturalistic fallacy ) then 
they cannot be proved by any facts about the nature of the world. nor 
can they be analytic , since this would involve lack of action guiding 
content  one ought always to do the right thing  is plainly true in 
virtue of the involved but it is unhelpful as a practical guide to 
action  ( see analytic and synthetic) .  . at this point the objectivist may 
talk of  self evident truths  , but can he deny the subjectivist 's claim 
that self evidence is in the mind of the beholder if not , what is left 
of the claim that some moral judgements are true the subjectivist may 
well feel that all that remains is that there are some moral judgements 
with which he would wish to associate himself. to hold a moral opinion 
is , he suggests , not to know something to be true but to have 
preferences regarding human activity. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( warren vonroeschlaub ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
reply to  ( warren vonroeschlaub ) 
organization ministry of silly walks 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( mike cobb ) 
writes 
in  ( bruce salem ) 
writes 
in article  ( mike 
cobb ) writes 
theory of creationism my theistic view of the theory of creationism ,  ( there 
are many others ) is stated in genesis 1. in the beginning god created 
the heavens and the earth. 

wonderful , now try alittle imaginative thinking ! 

huh imaginative thinking what did that have to do with what i said would it 
have been better if i said the world has existed forever and never was created 
and has an endless supply of energy and there was spontaneous generation of 
life from non life would that make me all wise , and knowing , and 
imaginative 

no , but at least it would be a theory. 

l 
warren kurt vonroeschlaub 
o 
` ' iowa state university 
math department 
400 carver hall 
ames , ia 50011 
j 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 131 

in robert knowles writes 

date sat , 3 apr 1993 10 00 39 gmt 
from fred rice 

in  ( jon livesey ) writes 

should we british go around blowing up skyscrapers next 

i do n't know if you are doing so , but it seems you are implying 
(1) that the person accused of blowing up the wtc in ny actually did it , 
and 
(2) that islamic teachings have something to do with blowing up the wtc .  . 

wtc world trade centre , which was the building that was blown up , i 
think. 

okay .  .  .  . to make some comments .  .  .  . 

(1) the person has only been accused innocent until proven guilty , 
remember secondly , there seem to be some holes in his accusation that 
i read about. for instance , if they guy used that particular van to 
blow up the building , and then to go back and claim his deposit back 
afterwards , he must be incredibly stupid. 

perhaps was one of those uneducated muslims we hear so much about. 

nevertheless , he was 
apparently smart enough to put together a very sophisticated bomb .  . it 
does n't seem to fit together , somehow. 

actually , was not the only person involved. the other fellow was 
a chemical engineer working for allied signal who had specifically studied 
explosive devices in school  ( believe it or not we actually allow radical 
muslim types to study things like this in our universities so much for 
the price of freedom ) 

from what i read , the other fellow told how to put it together 
over the phone. the bomb was supposedly some sort of sophisticated 
type , so to put a (i assume complicated ) sophisticated bomb together 
from instructions over the phone ( ! ) one must need some brains i would 
expect. 

despite this , there have 
already been many attacks and threats against mosques and muslims in the 
united states as a consequence of his accusation , i have read. 


o.k. , now please tell us where this is happening. i live in the u.s. and 
i have heard very little about these mosque attacks .  . there are many mosques 
in houston , texas and i would like to know what is going on so i can verify 
this. or is the great jewish media conspiracy keeping us from knowing about 
this in the u.s. we heard about the mosque attacks during the desert storm 
venture , so why is it so quiet now maybe it is localized to new jersey 

i read this in an article in the australian muslim times , the 
newspaper  ( weekly ) of the australian muslim community. 

if this is true , perhaps one of the muslims based in north america  ( if 
they see this posting) can elaborate .  . 

(2) islamic teachings teach against harming the innocent .  . in the qur'an 
it explicitly teaches against harming innocents even in times of war. 
the blowing up of the wtc and harming innocents is therefore in blatant 
contradiction to islamic teachings .  . 

this means absolutely nothing. plenty of people commit violence while 
following what they think are valid religious principles .  . i have seen 
people post many things here from the koran which could be misinterpreted 
 ( if that is the explanation you wish to use ) by an uneducated muslim to 
allow them to harm idolators and unbelievers .  . the first thing every muslim 
says is that no muslim could have done that because islam teaches against 
harming innocents .  . and we are supposed to take you word that it never 
happens. what do you think is the consequence does allah strike them 
down before the alleged violence occurs of course not. muslims commit 
the violent act and then everyone hides behind verses in the koran .  . we 're 
pretty hip to that trick. and i even doubt that it will come up in the 
trials .  . 

my defense is that i am muslim and islam teaches me not to harm the innocent .  . 
therefore , the people who were killed must not have been innocent .  . sure we 
set off the bomb , your honor , but you must remember , sir , i am a muslim .  . 
allah is all powerful .  . allah would not have allowed this. are you insulting 
my religion 

great defense , eh 

just admit that there are some incredibly stupid , violent muslims in the 
world and stop hiding from that fact. it does no one any good to deny it. 
it only makes the more reasonable muslims look like they are protecting the 
bad ones. can you see that 

i do n't deny this fact. 

the thrust of my argument here is that 

 ( a ) is , according to us law , innocent as he has not been found 
guilty in a court of law. as his guilt has not been established , it is 
wrong for people to make postings based on this assumption .  . 

 ( b ) islam teaches us not to harm innocents .  . if muslims who perhaps 
have not realized that islam teaches this perform such actions , it is 
not because of the teachings of islam , but rather in spite of and 
in contradiction to the teachings of islam .  . this is an important 
distinction .  . 

i should clarify what muslims usually mean when they say muslim . in 
general , anyone who calls themselves a muslim and does not do or 
outwardly profess 
something in clear contradiction with the essential teachings of islam 
is considered to be a muslim .  . thus , one who might do things contrary to 
islam  ( through ignorance , for example) does not suddenly not become a 
muslim .  . if one knowingly transgresses islamic teachings and essential 
principles , though , then one does leave islam .  . 

the term muslim is to be contrasted with , which means true 
believer . however , whether a muslim is in reality a is 
something known only by god  ( and perhaps that person himself) .  . so you 
will not find the term used very much by muslims in alt.atheism , 
because it is not known to anybody  ( except myself and god) , whether i , 
for example , am a true believer or not. for example , i could just be 
putting on a show here , and in reality believe something opposite to 
what i write here , without anyone knowing .  . thus , when we say muslims 
we mean all those who outwardly profess to follow islam , whether in 
practice they might , in ignorance , transgress islamic teachings .  . by 
muslim we do not necessarily mean , or true believer in 
islam .  . 

fred rice 



from  ( aario sami ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization tampere university of technology , computing centre 
lines 16 
distribution sfnet 
nntp posting host cc . tut . fi . 

in  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

wait. you just said that humans are rarely reasonable .  . does n't that 
contradict atheism , where everything is explained through logic and 
reason this is the contradiction in atheism that proves it false .  . 
bobby mozumder proving the existence of allah , 2 

does anybody have bobby 's post in which he said something like i do n't 
know why there are more men than women in islamic countries. maybe it 's 
atheists killing the female children it 's my personal favorite ! 


sami aario can you see or measure an atom yet you can explode 
one. sunlight is comprised of many atoms .  . 
' your stupid minds ! stupid , stupid ! 
eros in plan 9 from outer space disclaimer i do n't agree with eros .  . 

from steve 
subject re bible quiz 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma .  . 
lines 20 
nntp posting host m72 . eng . stratus . com . 


in article wrote 
in article ,  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
only when the sun starts to orbit the earth will i accept the bible .  . 

since when does atheism mean trashing other religions there must be a god 

of inbreeding to which you are his only son. 


a ) i think that he has a rather witty  . sig . file. it sums up a great 
deal of atheistic thought (imo) in one simple sentence. 
b ) atheism is n't an other religion . 


sm 

steve () if a man empties his purse into his 
my opinions stratus  opinions () head , no one can take it from him 
() benjamin franklin 

from mathew 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 13 

 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( mats 
andtbacka ) writes 
and these objective values are ... 
please be specific , and more importantly , motivate .  . 

i 'll take a wild guess and say freedom is objectively valuable .  . 

yes , but whose freedom the world in general does n't seem to value the 
freedom of tibetans , for example. 


mathew 

from robert knowles 
subject re suggestion for resources faq 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 34 

date mon , 19 apr 1993 15 01 10 gmt 
from bruce stephens 

i think a good book summarizing and comparing religions would be good. 

i confess i do n't know of any indeed that 's why i checked the faq to see 
if it had one but i'm sure some alert reader does. 

i think the list of books suffers far too much from being christian based 
i agree that most of the traffic is of this nature  ( although a few islamic 
references might be good ) but i still think an overview would be nice. 

one book i have which presents a fairly unbiased account of many religions 
is called man 's religions by john b. noss .  . it was a textbook in a class 
i had on comparative religion or some such thing. it has some decent 
bibliographies on each chapter as a jumping off point for further reading. 

it does n't compare religions directly but describes each one individually 
and notes a few similarities .  . but nothing i have read in it could be even 
remotely described as preachy or christian based .  . in fact , christianity 
mercifully consumes only 90 or so of its nearly 600 pages. the book is 
divided according to major regions of the world where the biggies began 
 ( india , east asia , near east) .  . there is nothing about new world religions 
from the aztecs , mayas , incas , etc. just the stuff people kill each 
other over nowadays. and a few of the older religions snuffed out along 
the way. 

if you like the old stuff , then a couple of books called the ancient near 
east by james b. pritchard are pretty cool. got the epic of gilgamesh , 
code of hammurabi , all the stuff from way back when men were gods and gods 
were men. essential reading for anyone who wishes to make up their own 
religion and make it sound real good. 



from  ( graham jenkins 61 6 276 6812 ) 
subject re islamic authority over women 
organization csiro its 
lines 41 


in article , (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 



that 's your mistake. it would be better for the children if the mother 
raised the child. 

one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that say mom , 
because of the love of their mom. it makes for more virile men. 
compare that with how homos are raised .  . do a study and you will get my 
point. 

but in no way do you have a claim that it would be better if the men 
stayed home and raised the child. that is something false made up by 
feminists that seek a status above men. you do not recognize the fact 
that men and women have natural differences .  . not just physically , but 
mentally also. 


bobby , there 's a question here that i just have to ask. if all 
of your posts are n't some sort of extended , elaborate hoax , why 
are you trying so hard to convince the entire civilised world 
that you 're feeble minded you have a talent for saying the most 
absurd things. here 's a little sign for you , print it , cut it out 
and put it on top of your computer terminal .  . 

engage brain prior to operating keyboard 


 ( having said all that , i must admit we all get a laugh from 
your stuff . ) . 






graham jenkins 
csiro  ( commonwealth scientific industrial 
canberra , australia research organisation ) 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re biblical rape 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 14 

in article 
 ( rob strom ) writes 


in article bs . de . , bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 

i did n't have time to read the rest of the posting , but 
i had to respond to this. 

i am absolutely not a messianic jew . 


another mistake. sorry , i should have read alt. , messianic more carefully .  . 
benedikt 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization sgi 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( fred rice ) writes 
in  ( jon livesey ) writes 

should we british go around blowing up skyscrapers next 

i do n't know if you are doing so , but it seems you are implying 
(1) that the person accused of blowing up the wtc in ny actually did it , 
and 
(2) that islamic teachings have something to do with blowing up the wtc .  . 

i was replying to a person who attempted to justify the fatwa 
against rushdie on the grounds that his work was intentionally 
insulting .  . 

i think that to take a single sentence from a fairly long 
posting , and to say 

i do n't know if you are doing so , but it 
seems you are implying .  .  .  .  .  . 

is at the very best quite disingenuous , and perhaps even 
dishonest .  . if anyone care to dig back and read the full 
posting , they will see nothing of the kind. 

i trust you do n't deny that islamic teaching has something 
to do with the fatwa against rushdie 

jon .  . 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re nicknames 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 36 

maddi hausmann wrote 
 ( the one and only ) writes 

we could start with those posters who annoy us the most , like bobby or 
bill. 

your wish is my command. 

bill shit stirrer connor 
bobby circular mozumder 

i'm not sure my new nom d net is exactly appropriate , but it comes 
very close. considering what i have to wade through before i make one 
of my insightful , dead on the money repsonses , i have to agree that 
something 's getting stirred up. i would like to believe my 
characterization of what i respond to would be kinder though , but if 
you insist ... 

i am also surprised to find that i have offended anyone , but in some 
cases it 's unavoidable if i am to say anything at all. for those to 
whom fairness is important , check out my contributions , have n't i been 
most generous and patient , a veritable paragon of gentility 

oh , btw , i do n't mind being paired with bobby i admire his tenacity .  . 
how many of you would do as well in this hostile environment you 
think i'm offensive ! read your own posts ... 

love and kisses , 

bill 

p.s. 

my name is conner , not connor .  . no point in humiliating the innocents .  . 



from  ( jeffrey clark ) 
subject re ancient islamic rituals 
nntp posting host kraken . itc . gu . edu . au . 
organization itc , griffith university , brisbane , australia 
lines 27 

 ( chris faehl ) writes 

why is it more reasonable than the trend towards obesity and the trend towards 
depression you ca n't just pick your two favorite trends , notice a correlation 
in them , and make a sweeping statement of generality .  . i mean , you can , and 
people have , but that does not mean that it is a valid or reasonable thesis. 
at best it 's a gross oversimplification of the push pull factors people 
experience. 

i agree , i reckon it 's television and the increase in fundamentalism .  .  . you 
think its the increase in pre marital sex .  .  .  . others thinks its because 
psychologists have taken over the criminal justice system and let violent 
criminals con them into letting them out into the streets .  .  .  . others think 
it 's the increase in designer drugs .  .  .  . others think it 's a communist plot .  . 
basically the social interactions of all the changing factors in our society 
are far too complicated for us to control. we just have to hold on to the 
panic handles and hope that we are heading for a soft landing .  . but one 
things for sure , depression and the destruction of the nuclear family is not 
due solely to sex out of marriage. 

jeff .  . 


fred rice a muslim , giving his point of view. 




subject re is morality constant  ( was re biblical rape ) 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 28 

in article  ( bill conner ) writes 

there are a couple of things about your post and others in this thread 
that are a little confusing. an atheist is one for whom all things can 
be understood as processes of nature exclusively .  . there is no need 
for any recourse to to describe or explain anything. there is 
no purpose or direction for any event beyond those required by 
physics , chemistry , biology , etc. everything is random , nothing is 
determnined .  . 

this posts contains too many fallacies to respond too. 

1 ) the abolishment of divinity requires the elimination of 
freewill .  . 

you have not shown this. you have not even attempted to. however , 
the existance of an omniscience being does eliminate freewill in mortals .  . 

posted over five months ago. no one has been able to refute it , 
nor give any reasonable reasons against it. 




satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

from  ( eric sieferman ) 
subject re i do n't beleive in you either. 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 15 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

in article writes 
i stopped believing in you as well , long before the invention of technology. 

god 


do n't listen to this guy , he 's just a crank .  . at first , this business 
about being the one true god was tolerated by the rest of us , 
but now it has gotten completely out of hand. 

besides , it really is n't so bad when people stop believing in you. 
it 's much more relaxing when mortals are n't always begging you for favors .  . 

zeus 


from  ( simon clippingdale ) 
subject re note to bobby m. , again 
nntp posting host nin 
organization department of computer science , warwick university , england 
lines 30 

in article (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

how about people who are not religous take the inner city. there are 
many people that care little for religion. lot of crime .  . lot of 
murder .  . this is the other end lack of religion that allows wrong to 
happen. 

i lived in tokyo for a year and a half , and one of the many reasons why 
i intend to go back indefinitely is the freedom one enjoys when one can 
walk anywhere  ( and i mean anywhere ) at any time of day or night and not 
feel uneasy , even if one 's from an ethnic minority as i was. 

clues for bobby  ( why do i bother )  ( i ) tokyo is a city , and inner tokyo 
is an inner city  ( ii ) there is a negligible level of violent crime , and 
a street murder will be a lead item on national tv news  ( iii ) the 
population is almost universally atheistic .  . 

next time i go for a stroll around beirut at night , i 'll let you know how 
it compares .  . 

bobby mozumder 

cheers 

simon 

simon clippingdale 
department of computer science tel ( 44 ) 203 
university of warwick fax ( 44 ) 203 
coventry , u.k. 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject you will all go to hell ! ! ! 
lines 2 

you ! ! ! you will all go to hell for not believing in god ! ! ! ! be 
prepared for your eternal damnation ! ! ! 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re if only he knew 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 20 

wrote 

upon arriving at home , joseph probably took advantage of mary .  .  . had . his way 
with her so to speak. of course , word of this could n't get around so mary , 
being the highly religious follower that she was decided hey , i 'll just say 
that god impregnated me .  .  . no . one will ever know ! 

thus , seen as a trustworthy and honorable soul , she was believed .  .  .  . 

and then came jesus , the child born from violence .  . 




dave , 

can you explain the purpose of your post , i ca n't imagine what you 
must have thougt it meant. 

bill 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 52 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

explain to me 
how instinctive acts can be moral acts , and i am happy to listen. 
for example , if it were instinctive not to murder .  .  .  . 
then not murdering would have no moral significance , since there 
would be nothing voluntary about it. 

see , there you go again , saying that a moral act is only significant 
if it is voluntary .  . why do you think this 

and anyway , humans have the ability to disregard some of their instincts .  . 

so , only intelligent beings can be moral , even if the bahavior of other 
beings mimics theirs 
you are starting to get the point. mimicry is not necessarily the 
same as the action being imitated .  . a parrot saying pretty polly 
is n't necessarily commenting on the pulchritude of polly .  . 

you are attaching too many things to the term moral , i think. 
let 's try this is it good that animals of the same species 
do n't kill each other. or , do you think this is right 

or do you think that animals are machines , and that nothing they do 
is either right nor wrong 


animals of the same species could kill each other arbitarily , but 
they do n't .  . 
they do. i and other posters have given you many examples of exactly 
this , but you seem to have a very short memory. 

those were n't arbitrary killings .  . they were slayings related to some sort 
of mating ritual or whatnot .  . 

are you trying to say that this is n't an act of morality because 
most animals are n't intelligent enough to think like we do 
i'm saying 
there must be the possibility that the organism it 's not 
just people we are talking about can consider alternatives .  . 
it 's right there in the posting you are replying to. 

yes it was , but i still do n't understand your distinctions .  . what 
do you mean by consider can a small child be moral how about 
a gorilla a dolphin a platypus where is the line drawn does 
the being need to be self aware 

what do you call the mechanism which seems to prevent animals of 
the same species from  ( arbitrarily ) killing each other do n't 
you find the fact that they do n't at all significant 

keith 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re you will all go to hell ! ! ! 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 18 

in article 
andrew newell writes 

in article writes 
you ! ! ! you will all go to hell for not believing in god ! ! ! ! be 
prepared for your eternal damnation ! ! ! 

readers of the group. how convenient that he does n't have a real name .  .  .  . 
let 's start up the letters to the sysadmin , shall we 

his real name is jeremy scott noonan .  . 
should have at least some authority , 
or at least know who to email. 


respectively p or p  ( the sys admins ) 
at the same node are probably a better idea than the operator .  . 
benedikt 

from  ( david nye ) 
subject re radical agnostic .  .  .  . not ! 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 51 

reply to (e .  . h. welbon ) 

there is no means that i can possibly think of to prove beyond doubt 
that a god does not exist  ( but if anyone has one , by all means , tell me 
what it is) .  . therefore , lacking this ability of absolute proof , being an 
atheist becomes an act of faith in and of itself , and this i cannot accept .  . 
i accept nothing on blind faith. 

invisible pink flying unicorns ! need i say more 

 .  .  . i . harbor no beliefs at all , there is no good evidence for god 
existing or not. some folks call this agnosticism .  . it does not suffer 
from blind faith at all. i think of it as do n't worry , be happy . 

for many atheists , the lack of belief in gods is secondary to an 
epistemological consideration what do we accept as a reliable way of 
knowing there are no known valid logical arguments for the existence 
of gods , nor is there any empirical evidence that they exist. most 
philosophers and theologians agree that the idea of a god is one that 
must be accepted on faith. faith is belief without a sound logical 
basis or empirical evidence. it is a reliable way of knowing 

there is probably nothing else most people would accept in the absence 
of any possibility of proof. even when we agree to take someone elses 
word on faith , we just mean that having found this person to be 
reliable in the past , we judge him likely to be a reliable source now. 
if we find faith less reliable than logic and empirical evidence 
everywhere else , why assume it will provide reliable knowledge about 
gods 

the difference between the atheist and the theist is fundamentally then 
one of whether or not faith is held to be a reliable way of knowing , 
rather than , as some agnostic posters would have it , whether ones faith 
is in gods or no gods .  . the theist believes that faith is an acceptable 
basis for a belief in gods , even if he rejects faith as reliable at 
other times , for example in his work as a scientist .  . the atheist 
believes that only logic and empirical evidence lead to reliable 
knowledge. agnosticism seems to me a less defensible position than 
theism or atheism , unless one is a sceptic in regards to all other 
knowledge. without evidence , why should we believe in gods rather than 
santa claus or the easter bunny 

i would also like to point out as others have that the atheist does n't 
require absolute knowledge of the lack of gods .  . i do n't believe that 
there is any such thing as absolute knowledge. atheism is the best and 
simplest theory to fit the  ( lack of ) facts and so should be held until 
contrary evidence is found. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( david wood ) 
subject re and another thing 
in reply to 's message of 3 apr 93 00 46 07 gmt 
organization software engineering institute 
lines 39 



 ( charley wingate ) writes 

keith ryan writes 

you will ignore any criticism of your logic , or any possible 
in your stance you will not answer any questions on the validity of any 
opinion and or facts you state 

when i have to start saying that 's not what i said , and the response is 
did so ! , there 's no reason to continue. if someone is not going to argue 
with my version of my position , then they cannot be argued with. 

but of course your version of your position has been included in the 
charley challenges , so your claim above is a flat out lie. further , 
only last week you claimed that you might not answer the challenges 
because you were turned off by included text . so which is it , do 
you want your context included in my articles or not come to think 
of it , this contradiction has the makings of a new entry in the next 
challenges post. 

by the way , i 've kept every bloody thing that you 've written related 
to this thread , and will be only too pleased to re post any of it to 
back my position. you seem to have forgotten that you leave an 
electronic paper trail on the net. 

this is the usual theist approach. no matter how many times a certain 
argument has been disproven , shown to be non applicable or non sequitur 
they keep cropping up time after time. 

speaking of non sequiturs , this has little to do with what i just said. and 
have some sauce for the goose some of the disproof is fallacies repeated 
over and over  ( such as the law of nature argument someone posted recently) .  . 

now , now , let 's not change the subject. would n't it be best to finish 
up the thread in question before you begin new ones 

dave wood 

subject re islamic authority over women 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 29 

in article  ( simon clippingdale ) writes 

for the guy who said he 's just arrived , and asked whether bobby 's for real , 
you betcha .  . welcome to alt.atheism , and rest assured that it gets worse. 
i have a few pearls of wisdom from bobby which i reproduce below. is anyone 
 ( keith ) keeping a big file of such stuff 

sorry , i was , but i somehow have misplaced my diskette from the last 
couple of months or so. however , thanks to the efforts of bobby , it is being 
replenished rather quickly ! 

here is a recent favorite 




satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 





satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re ancient islamic rituals 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 29 

in  ( jeffrey clark ) writes 

 ( chris faehl ) writes 

why is it more reasonable than the trend towards obesity and the trend towards 
depression you ca n't just pick your two favorite trends , notice a correlation 
in them , and make a sweeping statement of generality .  . i mean , you can , and 
people have , but that does not mean that it is a valid or reasonable thesis. 
at best it 's a gross oversimplification of the push pull factors people 
experience. 

... 
basically the social interactions of all the changing factors in our society 
are far too complicated for us to control. we just have to hold on to the 
panic handles and hope that we are heading for a soft landing .  . but one 
things for sure , depression and the destruction of the nuclear family is not 
due solely to sex out of marriage. 

note that i never said that depression and the destruction of the 
nuclear family is due solely to extra marital sex. i specifically 
said that it was a prime cause of this , not the prime cause or the 
only cause of this i recognize that there are probably other factors 
too , but i think that extra marital sex and subsequent destabilization 
of the family is probably a significant factor to the rise in 
psychological problems , including depression , in the west in the 20th 
century. 

fred rice 


from  ( maddi hausmann ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
organization society for putting things on top of other things 
lines 40 

 ( bake timmons ) writes 

ok , you have disproved one thing , but you failed to nail me. 

see , nowhere in my post did i claim that something must be believed in. here 
are the three possibilities 

1 ) god exists. 
2 ) god does not exist. 
3) i do n't know. 

my attack was on strong atheism , (2) .  . since i am  ( 3 ) , i guess by what you said 
below that makes me a weak atheist .  . 
snip 
first of all , you seem to be a reasonable guy. why not try to be more honest 
and include my sentence afterwards that 

honest , it just ended like that , i swear ! 

hmmmm .  .  . i . recognize the warning signs .  .  . alternating . polite and 
rude .  .  . coming . into newsgroup with huge chip on shoulder .  .  . calls . 
people names and then makes nice .  .  . whirrr .  .  . click .  .  . whirrr . 

clam bake timmons bill shit stirrer connor 

q . e . d .  . 

whirr click whirr .  .  . frank . o'dwyer might also be contained 
in that shell .  .  . pop . stack to determine .  .  . whirr .  .  . click .  . whirr . 

killfile keith allen schneider frank closet theist o'dwyer 

the mind reels .  . maybe they 're all bobby mozumder .  . 


maddi hausmann 
communications corp san jose california 408 428 3553 

kids , please do n't try this at home. remember , i post professionally .  . 


from  ( naren bala ) 
subject re theists posting 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 21 

in article  ( umar khan ) writes 

stuff deleted 

is there a concordance for the faq which translation is considered 
most authoritative is there an orthodox commentary for the faq 
available is there one faq for militant atheists and another for 
moderate atheists or , do you all read from the same faq if so , 
how do you resolve differences of interpretation 

hmmmmmmmmmmmm .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
i can put the same question to followers of any religion. how do you 
moslems resolve differences of opinion do n't tell me that there 
is one interpretation of the quran .  . read the soc . culture .  . newsgroups .  . 
you will zillions of different interpretations .  . 

naren 


all standard disclaimers apply 


from  ( david go go kitaguchi ) 
subject re americans and evolution 
nntp posting host uss1 . welch . jhu . edu . 
reply to 
organization welch medical library 
lines 56 


p my atheism is incidental , and the question of god is trivial .  . 
p 
p but .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
p 
p it matters a great deal to me when idiots try to force their belief on me , 
p when they try to enforce their creation myths to be taught as scientific 
p fact in school , when they tell me i can have no morals because morals are 
p from god , when a successful presidential candidate says that an atheist 
p should n't be considered a citizen and could n't be patriotic because after 
p all this is one nation under god , when the fundies try to take over the 
p party that may well provide the next president of the united states of 
p america so that they can force their beliefs on the rest of the country , 
p et cetera .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
p 
p that 's why i subscribe to alt . atheism .  . 
p 
p and in the middle of this , people who are n't mind readers pop up on 
p alt.atheism to tell me what i do or do n't believe , or to concoct some 
p straw man reason why i do n't share their particular belief .  . 
p 
p you think i should just accept this 
p 
p this is n't particularly a dig at fundamentalist christians .  . i have been 
p told on alt.atheism that i reject allah because i am too proud to embrace 
p islam , and that i reject krishna because my eyes are closed. but most of 
p the religious nuts who post on alt.atheism are some kind of militant 
p christian who ca n't accept that others do n't share their beliefs .  . this 
p kind of stuff should be kept on talk . religion . misc . , where it belongs .  . 
p 
p atheism t a belief , it's the absence of belief in any gods .  . 
p 
p 
p do you have a problem with this 
p 
p 
p bill 
, i would like to say that atheism is in fact a belief .  . it is a 
a belief in something you hold to with ador and faith. an atheist says there are no gods .  . this cannot be proven .  . therefore you are excepting this on 
alone. that is a belief .  . secondly , you complain so much about how the 
christians are trying to force their beliefs on you , but you do n't 
anything about how the atheists , such as murry  ( o'hare(founder 
pof the atheists association in austin texas ) , and robert  ( sherman(from the chicago area ) have been trying to force their beliefs on everyone by trying to get rid of god from our society by banning religious paintings from parks during chistmas , forcing cities to change their town seals if there is any mention of god in it  ( like sherman has done ) , or trying to get the slogan in god we trust off of the american currency you also talk about creation myths as if they are in fact myths and tha 
p 
p 
p 
concrete of this. you probably 
pdo n't and that just enforces my point that your atheism is just as much belief as my christianity .  . if this is not so please do show me why it is n't .  . 


the only real problem i have with the argument of christianity is that they seem to ignore their origin that being asiatic in origin .  . as soon as christians become the 
good non ego centric buddhists they are supposed to be , then i might listen. 

my opinion , i speak not for my place of employment .  .  .  . but i should .  .  .  . 
christ was over rated , and will the atf follow koresh  ( the current christ ) through 
his ascention to heaven 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was re genocide is caused by atheism) 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 19 

in article 
 ( fred rice ) writes 

and it is he  ( god almighty ) who created the night and the 
day , and the sun and the earth all  ( the bodies ) 
swim along , each in its rounded course.  ( holy quran 21 33 ) 

hmm .  . this agrees with the system of the earth at the centre , 
with the planets orbitting round it. so copernicus and were 
wrong after all ! 

you have n't read very carefully if you look again , you will see that 
it does n't say anything about what is circling what. 


anyway , they are not moving in circles .  . nor is there any evidence that 
everything goes around in a rounded course in a general sense. wishy 
washy statements are not scientific .  . 
benedikt 

from  ( chris blask ) 
subject re islamic authority over women 
reply to  ( chris blask ) 
organization me , mississauga , ontario , canada 
lines 78 

(s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
in article writes 
and belief causes far more horrors .  . 
crusades , 
the emasculation and internment of native americans , 
the killing of various tribes in south america .  . 
the inquisition 
the counter reformation and the wars that followed 
the salem witch trials 
the european witch hunts 
the holy wars of the middle east 
the colonization destruction of africa 
the wars between christianity and islam  ( post crusade ) 
the genocide  ( biblical ) of the canaanites and philistines 
invasion of india 
the attempted genocide of jews by nazi germany 
the current missionary assaults on tribes in africa 

i think all the horrors you mentioned are due to lack of people 
following religion. 
 . d .  . 
by lack of people following religion i also include fanatics people 
that do n't know what they are following. 
 . d .  . 
so how do you know that you were right 
why are you trying to shove down my throat that religion causes horrors .  . 
it really covers yourself something false to save yourself. 

peace , 

bobby mozumder 

i just thought of another one , in the bible , so it 's definately not because 
of lack of religion. the book of esther  ( which i read the other day for 
other reasons ) describes the origin of im , a jewish celbration of joy 
and peace. the long and short of the story is that 75 , 000 people were 
killed when people were tripping over all of the peacefull solutions 
lying about  ( you could n't swing a sacred cow without slammin into a nice , 
peaceful solution . ) .  course joshua and the jawbone of an ass spring to 
mind .  .  .  . 

i agree with bobby this far religion as it is used to kill large numbers 
of people is usually not used in the form or manner that it was originally 
intended for. 

that does n't reduce the number of deaths directly caused by religion , it is 
just a minor observation of the fact that there is almost nothing pure in 
the universe. the very act of honestly attempting to find true meaning in 
religious teaching has many times inspired hatred and led to war. many 
people have been led by religious leaders more involved in their own 
stomache in any absolute truth , and have therefore been driven to 
kill by their leaders .  . 

the point is that there are many things involved in religion that often 
lead to war. whether these things are a part of religion , an unpleasant 
side effect or  ( as bobby would have it) the result of people switching 
between religion and atheism spontaneously , the results are the same. 

groups have long been involved in the majority of the bloodiest 
parts of man 's 

atheists , on the other hand  ( preen , preen ) are typically not an ideological 
social caste , nor are they driven to organize and spread their beliefs .  . 
the overuse of nazism and stalinism just show how true this is two groups 
with very clear and specific ideologies using religious persecution to 
further their means. anyone who cannot see the obvious namely that these 
were groups founded for reasons entirely their own , who used religious 
persecution not because of any belief system but because it made them more 
powerfull is trying too hard. basically , bobby uses these examples 
because there are so few wars that were not specifically fought over 
religion that he does not have many choices. 

well , i'm off to key west where the only flames are heating the bottom of 
little silver butter dishes. 

ciao 

chris blask 

subject re ancient islamic rituals 
from  ( jon livesey ) 
organization sgi 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( fred rice ) writes 

i propose that these two trends greater level of general 
depression in society  ( and other psychological problems ) and 
greater sexual promiscuity are linked , with the latter being 
a prime cause of the former .  . i cannot provide any evidence beyond 
this at this stage , but the whole thesis seems very reasonable to 
me and i request that people ponder upon it. 

i pondered it for all of ten seconds when i realised that since 
we do n't have any reliable statistics for sexual promiscuity , 
and since the whole issue of depression is n't at all well 
defined for earlier centuries , you are probably talking crap. 

of course , you could pull a mozumder on us , and say that people 
who are having sex outside marriage are defined to be depressed .  . 

i ca n't say i 'd ever noticed , myself. 

jon .  . 

from  ( bake timmons ) 
subject re amusing atheists and anarchists 
lines 117 

writes 

my turn 
i went back and reread your post. all you did is attack atheism , and 
say that agnosticism was n't as funny as atheism .  . nowhere does that 
imply that you are agnostic , or weak atheist .  . as most people who post 
such inflammatory remarks are theists , it was a reasonable assumption .  . 

sorry , you 're right. i did not clearly state it. 

rule 2 condescending to the population at large (i . e .  . , theists ) will not 
win many people to your faith anytime soon. it only ruins your credibility .  . 

how am i being condescending to the population at large i am stating 
something that happened to be true for a long time , i could n't believe 
that people actually believed in this god idea. it was an alien concept 
to me. i am not trying to win people to my faith as you put it. i have 
no faith. religion was a non issue when i had the attitude above because 
it never even occurred to me to believe. atheist by default i guess you 
could say. 

the most common form of condescending is the rational versus irrational 
attitude. once one has accepted the assumption that there is no  ( god(s ) , 
and then consider other faiths to be irrational simply because their 
 ( assumption(s ) contradict your assumption , then i would say there 's a 
lack of consistency here. 

now i know you 'll get on me about faith. if the positive belief that god 
does not exist were a closed , logical argument , why do so many rational 
people have problems with that logic 

but you , probably like me , seem to be a soft atheist .  . sorry for the flamage .  . 

the line about atheists haveing something up their sleeves is what seemed 
to imply that. sorry , been reading too much on the clipper project lately , 
and the paranoia over there may have seeped in some. 

) what is the clipper project btw 

rule 4 do n't mix apples with oranges .  . how can you say that the 
extermination by the mongols was worse than stalin khan conquered people 
unsympathetic to his cause. that was atrocious .  . but stalin killed millions of 
his own people who loved and worshipped him and his atheist state ! ! how can 
anyone be worse than that 

many rulers have done similar things in the past , only stalin did it 
when there was plenty of documentation to afix the blame on him. the 
evidence is that some of the early european rulers ruled with an iron 
fist much like stalin 's .  . you threw in numbers , and i am sick of hearing 
about stalin as an example because the example does n't apply. you 
managed to get me angry with your post because it appeared to attack 
all forms of atheism .  . 

it might have appeared to attack atheism in general , but its point was 
that mass killing happens for all sorts of reasons. people will hate who 
they will and will wave whatever flag to justify it , be it cross or 
hammer sickle .  . the stalin example is important not only because it 's 
still a widely unappreciated era that people want to forget but also 
because people really did love him and his ideas , even after all that he 
had wrought .  . 

the evidence i am referring to is more a lack of evidence than negative 
evidence. say i claim there are no pink crows .  . i have never seen 
a pink crow , but that does n't mean it could n't exist. but , this person 
here claims that there are pink crows , even though he admits he has n't 
been able to capture one or get a photo , or find one with me etc. 
in a sense that is evidence to not believe in the existence of pink crows .  . 
that is what i am saying when i look at the evidence. i look at the 
suppossed evidence for a deity , show how it is flawed , and does n't show 
what theists want it to show , and go on. 

first , all the pink crows unicorns elves arguments in the world will not 
sway most people , for they simply do not accept the analogy .  . why 

one of the big reasons is that many , many people want something 
beyond this life. you can pretend that they do n't want this , but i for 
one can accept it and even want it myself sometimes. 

and there is nothing unique in this example of why people want a god. 
can love as a truth be proven , logically 

themselves , namely , a god or gods .  . so in principle it 's hard to see how 
theists are necessarily arrogant .  . 

makes no sense to me. they seem arrogant to make such a claim to me. 
but my previous refutation still stands , and i believe there may be 
another one on the net. 

john the baptist boasted of jesus to many people. i find it hard to see 
how that behavior is arrogant at all. many christians i know also boast 
in this way , but i still do not necessarily see it as arrogance .  . of course , 
i do know arrogant christians , doctors , and teachers as well. technically , 
you might consider the person who originally made a given claim to be arrogant , 
jesus , for instance .  . 

are you talking about all atheism or just strong atheism if you are 
talking about weak atheism which i believe in , then i refuse such a claim .  . 
atheism is a lack of belief .  . i used good ol' occam 's razor to make the 
final rejection of a deity , in that , as i see things , even if i 
present the hypothesises in an equal fasion , i find the theist argument 
not plausible .  . 

i speak against strong atheism .  . i also often find that the evidence 
supporting a faith is very subjective , just as , say , the evidence supporting 
love as truth is subjective .  . 

i believe i answered that. i apologize for the  ( as you stated ) incorrect 
assumption on your theism , but i saw nothing to indicate that you 
were an agnostic , only that you were just another newbie christian 
on the net trying to get some cheap shots in. 

no apology necessary. ) 

bake timmons , iii 

 .  .  . there . 's nothing higher , stronger , more wholesome and more useful in life 
than some good memory .  .  .  . in brothers  ( dostoevsky ) 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 37 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 
keywords dan bissell 

 ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . 

well , this is alt . atheism .  . i hope you arent here to try to convert anyone. 

it makes sense to be one. 

many would disagree. 

... 
the book says that jesus was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 
modern day koresh ) or he was actually who he said he was. 

well , you should n't give any particular book too much weight. actually , 
i do n't think that any of these statements is correct. it is more likely 
that most of jesus  fame was attributed to him after his death by those 
who had some strong motives .  .  .  . 

... 
some other things to note. he fulfilled loads of prophecies in 
the psalms , isaiah and elsewhere in 24 hrs alone. 

what 's a prophecy , and what 's so significant about them 

i do n't think most people understand what a christian is. 

i think we understand. 

it is certainly not what i see a lot in churches. rather i think it 
should be a way of life , and a total sacrafice of everything for god 's 
sake. 

well , sell your computer and donate you life to your religion now .  .  .  . 
do n't waste any time. 

keith 

from 
subject re a little too satanic 
organization texas a m university 
lines 21 
nntp posting host tamvm1 . tamu . edu . 

in article 
 ( charley wingate ) writes 


nanci ann miller writes 

the corrupted over and over theory is pretty weak. comparison of the 
current hebrew text with old versions and translations shows that the text 
has in fact changed very little over a space of some two millennia .  . this 
should n't be all that suprising people who believe in a text in this manner 
are likely to makes some pains to make good copies .  . 

tell it to king james , mate. 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 


john burke , 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re cruel  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 33 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

this whole thread started because of a discussion about whether 
or not the death penalty constituted cruel punishment , which is forbidden 
by the us constitution .  . 
yes , but they did n't say what they meant by cruel , which is why 
a ) you have the supreme court , and b ) it makes no sense to refer 
to the constitution , which is quite silent on the meaning of the 
word cruel . 

they spent quite a bit of time on the wording of the constitution .  . they 
picked words whose meanings implied the intent .  . we have already looked 
in the dictionary to define the word. is n't this sufficient 

we only need to ask the question what did the founding fathers 
consider cruel and unusual punishment 

hanging hanging there slowing being strangled would be very 
painful , both physically and , i imagine. 

firing squad note not a clean way to die back in those 
days , etc. 

all would be considered cruel under your definition .  . 
all were allowed under the constitution by the founding fathers .  . 



whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. 

john laws , a man without the honor to keep his given word. 



from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 29 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

mathew writes 
as for rape , surely there the burden of guilt is solely on the rapist 

not so. if you are thrown into a cage with a tiger and get mauled , do you 
blame the tiger 

a human has greater control over his her actions , than a 
predominately tiger .  . 

a proper analogy would be 

if you are thrown into a cage with a person and get mauled , do you 
blame that person 

yes. providing that that person was in a responsible frame of 
mind , eg not insane , on pcb 's , etc. 



one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that 
say mom , because of the love of their mom. it makes for more 
virile men. 

bobby mozumder ( ) 
april 4 , 1993 

the one true muslim left in the world. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( dan 
lawrence bissell ) wrote 

first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 
makes sense to be one. have any of you read tony 's book liar , 
lunatic , or the real thing (i might be a little off on the title , but he 
writes the book. anyway he was part of an effort to destroy christianity , 
in the process he became a christian himself. 

seems he did n't understand anything about realities , liar , lunatic 
or the real thing is a very narrow view of the possibilities of jesus 
message. 

sigh , it seems religion makes your mind brain filter out anything 
that does not fit into your personal scheme .  . 

so anyone that thinks the possibilities with jesus is bound to the 
classical lewis notion of  liar , lunatic or saint  is indeed bound 
to become a christian .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re motto mania 
lines 33 

mathew writes 

i prefer mark jason dominus 's suggestion that the motto should be changed to 
mind your own fucking business . 

in this era of aids , is n't someone 's fucking everyone 's interest  ( semi 
 ) 

i propose we have no motto .  . 

recently in the glorious state of maryland  ( the only state whose state song 
refers to abraham lincoln as a tyrant ) , people have gotten all wound up over 
the state motto  ( which we inherited from the calverts ) 

fatti , parole femine 

which , if you read italian , says , 

manly deeds , womanly words 

or something to that effect. in the state which not so long ago had four 
women out of seven representatives , this represents a problem. the official 
solution was to change the translation , so now it means 

strong deeds , gentle words 

my personal suggestion was changing it to walk softly and carry a big 
stick. 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 50 

in article  ( leonard newnham ) writes 

gregg jaeger wrote 

was a jerk and so were plenty of 
british leaders , so what 

the qur'an is the basis of judgement .  . was clearly a heretic 
by the standards of the qur'an .  . end of story. 

could you be a little more specific as to exactly why was a 
heretic and a jerk as judged by the koran .  . i have no liking for the 
guy , but as far as i know he has done nothing contrary to the teachings 
of the koran , or at least so i'm told by several iranian research 
students that i share an office with. 

it is easy and convenient for you to denounce him. but i have the 
feeling that your views are not as clear cut and widely accepted as you 
suggest .  . 

i have made this clear elsewhere but will do so again. khomeini put a 
price on the head of someone in another country , this makes him a jerk 
as well as an international outlaw .  . khomeini advocates the view that 
there was a series of twelve islamic leaders  ( the twelve imams ) who 
are free of error or sin .  . this makes him a heretic .  . in the qur'an 
muhammad is chastised for error directly by god the qur'an says that 
muhammad is the greatest example of proper islamic behavior thus 
no muslim is free from error. 


as usual there seems to be almost as many islamic viewpoints as there 
are muslims .  . 

perhaps it seems so to you , but this is hardly the case. there is 
widespread agreement about matters of islam .  . there certainly are 
many viewpoints on issues which are not particularly islamic in 
and of themselves , but this is so for any large group of people 
under the same name. 

it all comes back to the koran being so imprecise in its wording .  . 

the qur'an is not particularly imprecise in wording , though it is true 
that several interpretations are possible in the interpretations of 
many words. however , as an entire text the qur'an makes its meanings 
precise enough for intelligent people free from power lust to come 
to agreement about them. 



gregg 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( jim halat ) writes 
in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

he 'd have to be precise about is rejection of god and his leaving islam .  . 
one is perfectly free to be muslim and to doubt and question the 
existence of god , so long as one does not reject god. i am sure that 
rushdie has be now made his atheism clear in front of a sufficient 
number of proper witnesses .  . the question in regard to the legal issue 
is his status at the time the crime was committed .  . 


i 'll also add that it is impossible to actually tell when one 
rejects god. therefore , you choose to punish only those who 
talk about it. 


jim halat 





















subject re death penalty  ( was re political atheists ) 
from  ( scott d. sauyet ) 
distribution world 
organization wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . 20in . reply to 's message of 16 apr 93 16 37 29 34 
lines 34 

writes 
( in ) 
( responding to dave first with official a.a nickname fuller ) 

... 
the death penalty is a deterrent , dave .  . the person executed will never 
commit a crime again. guaranteed .  . ... 

that means that it is an effective anti recidivism measure. it does 
not say that it deters an individual from committing a capital crime 
in the first place. 

the true question is whether the threat of death is likely to actually 
stop one from murdering .  .  ( or commiting treason are there any other 
capital crimes anywhere in the usa ) that is , if there were no death 
penalty , would its introduction deter a would be criminal from 
committing her his crime i doubt it. 

this is only the first step. even if it were a strong deterrent 
 ( short of being a complete deterrent ) i would reject it. for what 
about the case of the innocent executed 

and even if we could eliminate this possibility , i would reject the 
death penalty as immoral .  . this makes me something of a radical on 
the issue , although i think there are many opponents of captial 
punishment who agree with me , but who find the innocent executed the 
strongest argument to make. 

i would , if magically placed in charge , facilitate state aided suicide 
for criminals who have life sentences .  . this could be a replacement 
for capital punishment .  . those who do n't want to live the rest of 
their lives in jail would always have this option. 

scott sauyet 

from  ( yevgeny  ( gene ) kilman ) 
subject re usatoday ad ( family values ) 
organization florida international university , miami 
lines 15 

in article  ( dan e babcock ) writes 
there was a funny ad in usatoday from american family association . 
i 'll post a few choice parts for your enjoyment  ( all emphases is in 
the ad i'm not adding anything) .  . all the typos are mine. ) 

dan 's article deleted 

i found the same add in our local sunday newspaper .  . 
the add was placed in the ..... cartoon section ! 
the perfect place for it ! ) 

y . k .  . 




from (q . p . liu) . 
subject re free moral agency 
originator 
nntp posting host phoenix . princeton . edu . 
reply to 
organization princeton university 
lines 26 

in article  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
in article (q . p . liu) . writes 

so while faith itself is a gift , obedience is what makes faith possible. 
what makes obeying different from believing 

i am still wondering how it is that i am to be obedient , when i have 
no idea to whom i am to be obedient ! 

it is all written in the wholly babble the users guide to invisible 
pink unicorns . 

to be granted faith in invisible pink unicorns , you must read the babble , 
and obey what is written in it. 

to obey what is written in the babble , you must believe that doing so is 
the way to be granted faith in invisible pink unicorns .  . 

to believe that obeying what is written in the babble leads to believing 
in invisible pink unicorns , you must , essentially , believe in invisible 
pink unicorns .  . 

this bit of circular reasoning begs the question 
what makes obeying different from believing 

standard opinion opinions are delta correlated .  . 

subject re there must be a creator !  ( maybe ) 
from  ( jim halat ) 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( brad porter ) writes 

science is wonderful at answering most of our questions. i'm not the type 
to question scientific findings very often , but .  .  .  . personally , i find the 
theory of evolution to be unfathomable .  . could humans , a highly evolved , 
complex organism that thinks , learns , and develops truly be an organism 
that resulted from random genetic mutations and natural selection 

 .  .  . stuff . deleted .  .  .  . 

computers are an excellent example .  .  . of . evolution without a creator .  . 
we did not create computers. we did not create the sand that goes 
into the silicon that goes into the integrated circuits that go into 
processor board. we took these things and put them together in an 
interesting way. just like plants create oxygen using light through 
photosynthesis .  . it 's a much bigger leap to talk about something that 
created everything from nothing. i find it unfathomable to resort 
to believing in a creator when a much simpler alternative exists we 
simply are incapable of understanding our beginnings if there even 
were beginnings at all. and that 's ok with me. the present keeps me 
perfectly busy. 

jim halat 


from  ( dewey henize ) 
subject re sci . skeptic . religion .  ( was why alt.atheism ) 
organization motorola , inc. austin , tx 
lines 33 
nntp posting host thug . sps . mot . com . 

in article john a. johnson writes 

standard groups  ( sci , soc , talk ) must conform to stricter rules when being 
established and must show a certain volume of postings or else they will 
cease to exist. these groups also reach more sites on usenet than alt 
groups. i already posted my opinion to mathew 's suggestion , which was that 
alt.atheism is on the verge of having too many garbage postings from 
fundies , and elevating its status to a standard group  ( and consequently , 
the volume of such postings ) could make it unreadable .  . 

i tend to agree. i came here when it first started and watched it grow 
from the roots on talk . religion . misc .  . it seemed to take a while for enough 
atheists to come forward to get past the let 's trash xians and such. 
now there 's a stable core , and frankly there 's a feeling that this is 
our group. 

if we go mainstream , we 're going to be in a lot more places. and every 
fucking fundy loonie freshman will be dumping on us to find jeesus ! and 
warn us that we 're all going to hell. 

want to see what we 'll get go real alt . fan . brother . jed and imagine that 
those imbecilic tirades will be here. all the time. every other post. 

i'm being selfish .  . i find i really learn a lot here and the s n is n't too 
bad. the browns and the are a distraction , but they are few enough 
that they even bring in some of the leavening needed to offset them. but 
i greatly fear that mainstreaming would basically put us at the swamping 
level of the conners of the world. 

regards , 
dew 

dewey henize sys net admin risc hardware (512) 891 8637 pager 928 7447 x 9637 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 35 

in article andrews . ac . uk . andrews . ac . uk .  ( norman r. paterson ) writes 

i do n't think you 're right about germany .  . my daughter was born there and 
i do n't think she has any german rights eg to vote or live there  ( beyond the 
rights of all ec citizens) .  . she is a british citizen by virtue of 
her parentage , but that 's not full citizenship .  . for example , i do n't think 
her children could be british by virtue of her in the same way. 

i am fairly sure that she could obtain citizenship by making an 
application for it. it might require immigration to germany , but 
i am almost certain that once applied for citizenship is inevitable 
in this case. 

more interesting is your sentence , 

in fact , many people try to come to the us to have their children 
born here so that they will have some human rights. 

how does the us compare to an islamic country in this respect do people 
go to iran so their children will have some human rights would you 

more interesting only for your propaganda purposes. i have said several 
times now that i do n't consider iran particularly exemplary as a good 
islamic state. we might talk about the rights of people in capitalist 
secular third world countries to give other examples of the lack of 
rights in third world countries broadly .  . say , for example , central 
american secular capitalist countries whose govt 's the us supports 
but who amnesty international has pointed out are human rights vacua .  . 


gregg 





from  ( jim perry ) 
subject re is morality constant  ( was re biblical rape ) 
organization decision support inc. 
lines 51 
nntp posting host dsi . dsinc . com . 

this  ( frayed ) thread has turned into a patented alt.atheism 5 on 1 
ping pong game , and i do n't have any strong disagreement , so i 'll try 
to stick to the one thing i do n't quite follow about the argument 

it seems to me that there is a contradiction in arguing that the bible 
was enlightened for its times (i . e .  . closer to what we would consider 
morally good based on our standards and past experience ) on the one 
hand i hope this summarizes this argument adequately , and on the 
other hand 

in article  ( rob strom ) writes 
in article ,  ( jim perry ) writes 

disclaimer i'm speaking from the jewish perspective , 
where the bible means what many call the old testament , 
and where the interpretation is not necessarily the 
raw text , but instead the court cases , commentaries 
and traditions passed down through jewish communities .  . 

this seems the crux to me if you judge the bible according to a long 
line of traditions and interpretations coming down to the current day , 
rather than on its own merits as a cultural artifact , then of course 
it will correspond more closely with more contemporary values .  . 

but if that 's how the bible is actually being used today , 
should n't that be how we should judge it if most people 
use scissors to cut paper , should n't consumer 's reports 
test scissors for paper cutting ability , even though 
scissors may have been designed originally to cut cloth 

that 's possibly a good way to judge the use of the bible in teaching 
jewish morality today , but it hardly seems fair to claim that this 
highly interpreted version is what was enlightened for its times . 
to  ( attempt to) extend the analogy , this is like saying that the 
original scissor makers were unusually advanced at paper cutting for 
their times , even though they only ever cut cloth , and had never even 
heard of paper. 

i'm not arguing that the bible is disgusting , though some of the 
history depicted in it is , by modern standards. however , history is 
full of similar abuses , and i do n't think the biblical accounts are 
worse than their contemporaries or possibly ours. on the other hand , 
i do n't know of any reason to think the history described in the bible 
shows less abuse than their contemporaries , or ours. that complex 
and benign moral traditions have evolved based on particular mythic 
interpretations of that history is interesting , but i still do n't 
think it fair to take that long tradition of interpretation and use it 
to attack condemnation of the original history. 

jim perry decision support , inc. , matthews nc 
these are my opinions. for a nominal fee , they can be yours. 

from nanci ann miller nm0w 
subject re concerning god 's morality  ( long ) 
organization sponsored account , school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 56 

nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 


writes 
sorry , but there are no supernatural 
forces necessary to create a pathogen .  . you are saying , since 
diseases are bad , the bad entity must have created it. so 
what would you say about acid rain , meteors falling from the 
sky , volcanoes , earthquakes , and other quote unquote acts 
of god 

i would say that they are not acts of god but natural 
occurrences .  . 

it amazes me that you have the audacity to say that human creation was not 
the result of the natural process of evolution  ( but rather an act of god ) 
and then in the same post say that these other processes  ( volcanos et al . ) . 
are natural occurrences .  . who gave you the right to choose what things are 
natural processes and what are direct acts of god how do you know that 
god does n't cause each and every natural disaster with a specific purpose 
in mind it would certainly go along with the sadistic nature i 've seen in 
the bible .  . 

even if satan had nothing to do with the original inception of 
disease , evolution by random chance would have produced them since 
humanity forsook god 's protection. if we choose to live apart from 
god 's law  ( humanity collectively ) , then it should come as no surprise 
that there are adverse consequences to our  ( collective ) action. one 
of these is that we are left to deal with disease and disorders which 
inevitably result in an entropic universe. 

may i ask , where is this  collective  bullcrap coming from 

by collective i was referring to the idea that god works with 
humanity on two levels , individually and collectively .  . if mankind 
as a whole decides to undertake a certain action  ( the majority of 
mankind ) , then god will allow the consequences of that action to 
affect mankind as a whole .  . 

adam eve  ( two people ) , even tho they had the honor  ( or so you christians 
claim) of being the first two , definitely do not represent a majority in 
the billions and trillions  ( probably more ) of people that have come after 
them. perhaps they were the majority then , but i  ( and you) were n't 
around to vote , and perhaps we might have voted differently about what to 
do with that tree. but your god never asked us. he just assumes that if 
you have two bad people then they all must be bad. hmm .  . sounds like the 
same kind of false generalization that i see many of the theists posting 
here resorting to. so that 's where they get it .  .  .  . shoulda known. 

jim b. 

nanci 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
if you know  ( and are sure of ) the author of this quote , please send me 
email  ( nm0w 
lying to ourselves is more deeply ingrained than lying to others. 


from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re islam dress code for women 
organization sgi 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( selim ) writes 

i would n't consider this quote as being exemplary of the islamic 
 ( tm ) viewpoint though. for all we know , the prophet 's cousin and 
the fourth khalif i ali may have said this after a 
frustrating night with a woman. 

that 's very interesting. i wonder , are women 's reactions 
recorded after a frustrating night with a man is that 
considered to be important 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re keith schneider stealth poster 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 12 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( kent sandvik ) writes 

to borrow from philosophy , you do n't truly understand the color red 
until you have seen it. 
not true , even if you have experienced the color red you still might 
have a different interpretation of it. 

but , you would n't know what red was , and you certainly could n't judge 
it subjectively .  . and , objectivity is not applicable , since you are wanting 
to discuss the merits of red. 

keith 

from  ( the desert brat ) 
subject keith is a relativist ! 
organization cured , discharged 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

not so. if you are thrown into a cage with a tiger and get mauled , do you 
blame the tiger 

aha ! he admits it ! he is a moral relativist ! 

keith , if you start on about how it is different for a human 
to maul someone thrown into it 's cage  ( so to speak ) , you 'd better start 
posting tome decent evidence or retract your  i think there is an absolute 
morality' blurb a few weeks ago. 

keith 

the desert brat 

john j mcvey , elc eng , , uni s australia , 
t . s . a . k . c .  . darwin o 
for replies , mail to 
disclaimer unisa hates my opinions. bb bb 

it does n't make a rainbow any less beautiful that we god 's name is smack 
understand the refractive mechanisms that chance to for some. 
produce it. jim perry , alice in chains 


from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 14 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

well , chimps must have some system. they live in social groups 
as we do , so they must have some laws dictating undesired behavior. 

why must 



whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. 

john laws , a man without the honor to keep his given word. 



subject re speculations 
from  ( douglas graham ) 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 17 

in article mathew writes 
nanci ann miller nm0w writes 
if this god is truly omnipotent as you folks like to claim , then why ca n't 
he terminate eternity 

for the same reason he ca n't glop ork groink .  . 

the thing you are demanding that he must be able to do , has no meaning in its 
own terms. 

this is a classic example of excessive faith in reason. the fact that we 
have trouble talking about something does n't imply that it is impossible it 
simply implies that it is hard to talk about. there is a very good chance 
that god can glop ork groink .  . charlie wingate can glop 
ork groink , and he is n't even god. 

doug graham my opinions are my own. 

from  ( david mcgaughey ) 
subject re the pope is jewish ! 
organization texas tech university 
lines 12 

 ( stilgar ) writes 
the pope is jewish 

i always thought that the pope was a bear. 

you know , because of that little saying 

does a bear shit in the woods 
is the pope catholic 

there must be some connection between those two lines ! 


from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization sgi 
lines 93 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

explain to me 
how instinctive acts can be moral acts , and i am happy to listen. 
for example , if it were instinctive not to murder .  .  .  . 

then not murdering would have no moral significance , since there 
would be nothing voluntary about it. 

see , there you go again , saying that a moral act is only significant 
if it is voluntary .  . why do you think this 

if you force me to do something , am i morally responsible for it 


and anyway , humans have the ability to disregard some of their instincts .  . 

well , make up your mind. is it to be instinctive not to murder 
or not 


so , only intelligent beings can be moral , even if the bahavior of other 
beings mimics theirs 

you are starting to get the point. mimicry is not necessarily the 
same as the action being imitated .  . a parrot saying pretty polly 
is n't necessarily commenting on the pulchritude of polly .  . 

you are attaching too many things to the term moral , i think. 
let 's try this is it good that animals of the same species 
do n't kill each other. or , do you think this is right 

it 's not even correct. animals of the same species do kill 
one another. 


or do you think that animals are machines , and that nothing they do 
is either right nor wrong 

sigh. i wonder how many times we have been round this loop. 

i think that instinctive bahaviour has no moral significance .  . 
i am quite prepared to believe that higher animals , such as 
primates , have the beginnings of a moral sense , since they seem 
to exhibit self awareness .  . 



animals of the same species could kill each other arbitarily , but 
they do n't .  . 

they do. i and other posters have given you many examples of exactly 
this , but you seem to have a very short memory. 

those were n't arbitrary killings .  . they were slayings related to some 
sort of mating ritual or whatnot .  . 

so what are you trying to say that some killing in animals 
has a moral significance and some does not is this your 
natural morality 



are you trying to say that this is n't an act of morality because 
most animals are n't intelligent enough to think like we do 

i'm saying 
there must be the possibility that the organism it 's not 
just people we are talking about can consider alternatives .  . 

it 's right there in the posting you are replying to. 

yes it was , but i still do n't understand your distinctions .  . what 
do you mean by consider can a small child be moral how about 
a gorilla a dolphin a platypus where is the line drawn does 
the being need to be self aware 

are you blind what do you think that this sentence means 

there must be the possibility that the organism it 's not 
just people we are talking about can consider alternatives .  . 

what would that imply 


what do you call the mechanism which seems to prevent animals of 
the same species from  ( arbitrarily ) killing each other do n't 
you find the fact that they do n't at all significant 

i find the fact that they do to be significant .  . 

jon .  . 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re islamic genocide 
organization sgi 
lines 48 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

at any rate , even if your interpretation is correct this does 
not imply that the killings are religously motivated , which was 
the original poster 's seeming claim .  . 

tricky , tricky .  . i'm replying to your blanket claim that they 
are not religiously motivated .  . 

they are n't .  . irish catholics in the south do not kill irish protestants 
in the south , yet have precisely the same history behind them. those 
who think the killings are religously motivated ignore the rather 
obvious matter of british occupation , partition and misguided patriotism 
on both sides. 

false dichotomy .  . you claimed the killing were not religiously 
motivated , and i'm saying that 's wrong. i'm not saying that 
each and every killing is religiously motivate , as i spelled out 
in detail. 



the problems fault along the religious divide because at the historical 
roots of this thing we have a catholic country partitioned and populated 
by a protestant one. the grotesque killing of soldiers and 
civilians is supposedly motivated by patriotism , civil rights issues , and 
revenge .  . it 's only difficult to understand insanity is hard 
to understand religion need not be invoked to explain it. 

does anyone else see the contradiction in this paragraph 


but to claim that the killings in n . i . are not religously 
motivated .  . is grotesque .  . all that means is that the church 
and believers are doing what they always do with history 
they ca n't face they rewrite it. 

you 're attacking a different claim .  . my claim is that when an ira 
terrorist plants a bomb in warrington s he does not have as a motive 
the greater glory of god. 

sorry , frank , but what i put in quotes is your own words from your 
posting . do n't tell us now that 
it 's a different claim .  . if you can no longer stand behind your 
original claim , just say so. 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 191 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

much though it might be fun to debate capital punishment itself , 
this is probably the wrong group for it. the only relevance here 
is that you do n't seem to be able to tell us what capital punishment 
actually is , and when it is murder .  . that is , when you tell us murder 
is wrong , you are using a term you have not yet defined .  . 

well , i 've said that when an innocent person has been executed , this is 
objectively a murder .  . however , who is at blame is another question. 
it seems that the entire society that sanctions any sorts of executions 
realizing the risks is to blame .  . 

there is a probability of 
killing an innocent person by shooting at random into the air , and 
there is a probability of killing an innocent person when the 
state administers a system of capital punishment .  . so when you do 
either , you know that they actions you are taking will sooner or 
later result in the killing of an innocent person. 

yes , but there is also a probablity that you will kill someone doing 
any activity. presumably , you had not isolated yourself totally 
from the rest of society because of this. 

and , driving will kill people , as will airlines , but people continue to do 
both. 
driving and flying are not punishments inflicted on unwilling 
prisoners by courts .  . they are risks that we take upon ourselves 
willingly .  . 

and i argue that our law system is a similar risk. perhaps an innocent 
person will be punished someday , but we work to prevent this. in fact , 
many criminals go free as a result of our trying to prevent punishment 
of innocents .  . 

if our own driving kills someone else , then sure , there is a moral 
issue. i know at least one person who was involved in a fatal 
accident , and they felt vey guilty afterwards. 

but , such accidents are to be totally expected , given the of vehicals 
on the road. again , the blame is on society. 

no i'm not. this is what you said. you were saying that if there were such 
a false witness that resulted in an innocent person being convicted and killed 
, it would still be the fault of the state , since it did the actual killing .  . 
no , i just commented that the state does the killing .  . it does not 
depend on there being false witnesses .  . how could it the state 
does the killing even in the case of sincere mistakes 

yes , but the state is not at fault in such a case. the state can only do 
so much to prevent false witnesses .  . 

it is possible. so , what are you trying to say , that capital punishment 
is always murder because of the possibilty of human error invalidating 
the system 
i'm saying capital punishment is murder , period. not because of 
this that and the other , but because it involves taking human life. 
that 's my definition of murder .  . i make no appeals to dictionaries 
or to objective morals .  . 

okay , so this is what you call murder .  . but , the question is whether or not 
all such murders are wrong. are you saying that all taking of human life 
is wrong , no matter what the circumstances 

if we , as a society , decide to murder someone , then we should say 
that , and lists our reasons for doing so , and live with the moral 
consequences .  . we should not play word games and pretend that 
murder is n't murder .  . and that 's my opinion about how society 
ought to be run. 

but , this is basically how it works. society accepts the risk that an 
innocent person will be murdered by execution .  . and , every member of 
society shares this blame .  . and , most people 's definitions of murder 
include some sort of malicious intent , which is not involved in an 
execution , is it 

but , we were trying to discuss an objective moral system , or at least its 
possibilty .  . what ramifications does your personal system have on an 
objective one 
no , we were not discussing an objective moral system. i was showing 
you that you did n't have one , because , for one thing , you were incapable 
of defining the terms in it , for example , murder . 

murder violates the golden rule. executions do not , because by allowing 
it at all , society implicitly accepts the consequences no matter who the 
innocent victim is. 

we 're not talking about reading minds , we are just talking about knowing the 
truth. yes , we can never be absolutely certain that we have the truth , but 
the court systems work on a principle of knowing the truth beyond a 
reasonable doubt. 
sorry , but you simply are not quoting yourself accurately .  . here 
is what you said 
and , since we are looking totally objectively at this case , 
then we know what people are thinking when they are voting to 
execute the person or not. if the intent is malicious and 
unfair , then the execution would be murder .  . 
what you are doing now is to slide into another claim , which is 
quite different. the jury being persuaded beyond a serious 
doubt is not the same as us knowing what is in their minds beyond 
a serious doubt. 

reading the minds of the jury would certainly tell whether or not a conviction 
was moral or not. but , in an objective system , only the absolute truth 
matters , and the jury system is one method to approximate such a truth. that 
is , twelve members must be convinced of a truth. 

moreover , a jury which comes from a sufficiently prejudiced background 
may allow itself to be persuaded beyond a serious doubt on evidence 
that you and i would laugh at. 

but then , if we read the minds of these people , we would know that the 
conviction was unfair .  . 

but , would it be perfectly fair if we could read minds if we assume that 
it would be fair if we knew the absolute truth , why is it so much less 
fair , in your opinion , if we only have a good approximation of the absolute 
truth 
it 's not a question of fairness .  . your claim , which i have quoted 
above is a claim about whether we can know it was fair , so as to 
be able to distinguish capital from murder .  . 

yes , while we could objectively determine the difference  ( if we knew all 
possible information ) , we ca n't always determine the difference in our 
flawed system. i think that our system is almost as good as possible , 
but it still is n't objectively perfect. you see , it does n't matter if 
we know it is fair or not. objectively , it is either fair or it is not. 

now there 's a huge difference. if we can read minds , we can know , 
and if we cannot read minds , we can know nothing. the difference 
is not in degree of fairness , but in what we can know. 

but what we know has no effect on an objective system. 

i think it is possible to produce a fairly objective system , if we are 
clear on which goals it is supposed to promote .  . 
i'm not going to waste my time trying to devise a system that i am 
pretty sure does not exist. 

why are you so sure 

i simply want people to confront reality. my reality , remember. 

why is your reality important 

in this case , the reality is that , ideal theories  apart , we can 
never know , even after the fact , about the fairness of the justice 
system. for every innocent person released from death row , there 
may have been a dozen innocent people executed , or a hundred , or 
none at all. we simply do n't know. 

but , we can assume that the system is fairly decent , at least most likely. 
and , you realize that the correctness of our system says nothing about a 
totally ideal and objective system. 

now what are we going to do on the one hand , we can pretend 
that we have an  ideal  theory , and that we can know things we can 
never know , and the system is fair , and that we can wave a 
magic wand and make certain types of killing not murder , and go 
on our way. 

well , we can have an ideal system , but the working system can not be ideal .  . 
we can only hope to create a system that is as close an approximation to 
the ideal system as possible. 

on the other hand , we can recognize that all justice has a small 
we hope probability of punishing the innocent , and that in the 
end we do bear moral responsibility even for the probabilistic 
consequences of the systems we set up , and then say , well , here 
we go , murdering again. maybe some of us will even say gee , i 
wonder if all this is strictly necessary 

yes , we all bear the responsibility .  . most people seem willing to do this. 

i think that the second is preferable in that if requires people 
to face the moral consequences of what we do as a society , instead 
of sheltering ourselves from them by magic ceremonies and word 
games. 

we must realize the consequences of all our actions .  . why do you keep 
separating the justice system from the pack 

and lest i forget , i also do n't think we have an objective moral 
system , and i believe i only have to take that idea seriously 
when someone presents evidence of it. 

i do n't think our country has an objective system , but i think such an 
objective system can exist , in theory. without omniscience , an objective 
system is not possible in practice. 

keith 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re allah akbar and praise the lord .  . 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 15 

maddi hausmann wrote 

and thank the lord that bill connor has returned to set 
us straight ! now i know i can die happy when my lexus 
wipes out on that rain slick curve in 1997. the 
rest of you had best straighten up , because your time 
is even more limited .  . most of you are going in the flu 
of 1994. 

maddi , 

you know you 're glad to have me visit ... 
but i wo n't stay long this time , just shopping around. 

bill 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 46 

in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

i hope an islamic bank is something other than bcci , which 
ripped off so many small depositors among the muslim 
community in the uk and elsewhere. 

grow up , childish propagandist .  . 

gregg , i'm really sorry if having it pointed out that in practice 
things are n't quite the wonderful utopia you folks seem to claim 
them to be upsets you .  .  . 

you have done no such thing. 


was an example of an islamically owned and operated bank 
what will someone bet me they were n't real islamic owners and 
operators 

an islamic bank is a bank which operates according to the rules 
of islam in regard to banking .  . this is done explicitly by the 
bank. this was not the case with bcci .  . 

and why did these naive depositors put their life savings into 
bcci rather than the nasty interest motivated western bank down 
the street 

this is crap. bcci was motivated by the same motives as other 
international banks , with perhaps an emphasis on dealing with 
outlaws and the intelligence services of various governments .  . 

so please do n't try to con us into thinking that it will all 
work out right next time. 

back to childish propaganda again. you really ought to get a life 
rather than wasting bandwith on such empty typing .  . there are thousands 
of islamic banks operating throughout the world which no one ever hears 
about. if you want to talk about corrupted banks we can talk about 
all the people who 've been robbed by american banks .  . 


gregg 




from  ( mats andtbacka ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization unorganized usenet postings uninc .  . 
lines 24 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 1993 23 15 09 gmt 
x news reader vms news 1.24 

in writes 

 ( attempting to define  objective morality' ) 

i 'll take a wild guess and say freedom is objectively valuable .  . i base 
this on the assumption that if everyone in the world were deprived utterly 
of their freedom  ( so that their every act was contrary to their volition ) , 
almost all would want to complain. 

so long as you keep that almost in there , freedom will be a 
mostly valuable thing , to most people. that is , i think you 're really 
saying , a real big lot of people agree freedom is subjectively valuable 
to them . that 's good , and a quite nice starting point for a moral 
system , but it 's not universal , and thus not objective . 

therefore i take it that to assert or 
believe that freedom is not very valuable , when almost everyone can see 
that it is , is every bit as absurd as to assert it is not raining on 
a rainy day. 

it is n't in sahara .  . 


disclaimer it 's great to be young and insane ! 

from  ( nancy patricia o'connor ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 11 

 ( bake timmons ) writes 

rule 4 do n't mix apples with oranges .  . how can you say that the 
extermination by the mongols was worse than stalin khan conquered people 
unsympathetic to his cause. that was atrocious .  . but stalin killed millions of 
his own people who loved and worshipped him and his atheist state ! ! how can 
anyone be worse than that 

you 're right. and david koresh claimed to be a christian .  . 



subject so what is maddi 
from  ( maddi hausmann ) 
organization society for putting things on top of other things 
lines 12 

as i was created in the image of gaea , therefore i must 
be the pinnacle of creation , she which creates , she which 
births , she which continues .  . 

or , to cut all the religious crap , i'm a woman , thanks. 
and it 's sexism that started me on the road to atheism .  . 


maddi hausmann 
communications corp san jose california 408 428 3553 

kids , please do n't try this at home. remember , i post professionally .  . 

from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re thoughts on christians 
in reply to 's message of 16 apr 93 05 10 18 gmt 
organization compaq computer corp 
lines 26 

on 16 apr 93 05 10 18 gmt ,  ( robert beauchaine ) said 

rb in article  ( patrick c leger ) writes 
ever hear of 
baptism at birth if that is n't preying on the young , i do n't know what 
is .  .  .  . 

rb 
rb no , that 's praying on the young. preying on the young comes 
rb later , when the bright eyed little altar boy finds out what the 
rb priest really wears under that chasible .  . 

the same thing where under there kilt .  . 

i 'll never forget the day when i was about tweleve and accidently 
walked in on a of priests sitting around in their underware 
drinking beer and watching football. 

kind of changed my opinion a bit. they did n't seem so menacing after 
that. 



ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from  ( vinayak dutt ) 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was 
reply to 
organization mayo foundation mayo graduate school rochester , mn 
lines 53 

in article ,  ( umar khan ) writes 
i strongly suggest that you look up a book called the bible , the quran , and 
science by maurice , a french surgeon .  . it is not comprehensive , 
but , it is well researched .  . i imagine your library has it or can get it 
for you through interlibrary loan .  . 


i shall try to get hold of it  ( when i have time to read of course ) 

in short , dr began investigating the bible because of pre 
ceived scientific inaccuracies and inconsistencies .  . he assumed that 
some of the problems may have been caused by poor translations in by 
gone days. so , he read what he could find in hebrew , greek , aramaic .  . 
what he found was that the problems did n't go away , they got worse. 
then , he decided to see if other religions had the same problems. 
so , he picked up the holy qur'an  ( in french ) and found similar prob 
lems , but not as many. so , he applied the same logoic as he had 
with the bible he learned to read it in arabic .  . the problems he 
had found with the french version went away in arabic .  . he was unable 
to find a wealth of scientific statements in the holy qur'an , but , 
what he did find made sense with modern understanding. so , he 
investigated the traditions  ( the hadith ) to see what they had to 
say about science. they were filled with science problems after 
all , they were contemporary narratives from a time which had , by 
pour standards , a primitive world view. his conclusion was that , 
while he was impressed that what little the holy qur'an had to 
say about science was accurate , he was far more impressed that the 
holy qur'an did not contain the same rampant errors evidenced in 
the traditions .  . how would a man of 7th century arabia have known 
what not to include in the holy qur'an  ( assuming he had authored 
it) 


so in short the writer  ( or writers ) of quran decided to stay away from 
science.  ( if you do not open your mouth , then you do n't put you foot into 
your mouth either) .  . 

but then if you say quran does not talk much about science , then one can 
not make claims  ( like bobby does ) that you have great science in quran .  . 

basically i want to say that none of the religious texts are supposed to 
be scientific treatises .  . so i am just requesting the theists to stop making 
such wild claims .  . 

vinayak 

vinayak dutt 
e mail 

standard disclaimers apply 




from robert knowles 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 18 

date 19 apr 93 23 23 26 gmt 
from bake timmons 

my my , there are a few atheists with time on their hands. ) 

ok , first i apologize .  . i did n't bother reading the faq first and so fired an 
imprecise flame .  . that was inexcusable .  . 


how about the nickname bake flamethrower timmons 

you were n't at the koresh compound around noon today by any chance , were you 

remember , koresh dried for your sins .  . 

and pass that beef jerky .  . umm umm .  . 



from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re thoughts on christians 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 19 

in article  ( patrick c leger ) writes 
ever hear of 
baptism at birth if that is n't preying on the young , i do n't know what 
is .  .  .  . 


no , that 's praying on the young. preying on the young comes 
later , when the bright eyed little altar boy finds out what the 
priest really wears under that chasible .  . 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re cruel  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 18 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

they spent quite a bit of time on the wording of the constitution .  . 
i realise that this is widely held belief in america , but in fact 
the clause on cruel and unusual punishments , like a lot of the 
rest , was lifted from the english bill of rights of 1689 .  . 

just because the wording is elsewhere does not mean they did n't spend 
much time on the wording .  . 

we have already looked in the dictionary to define the word. is n't 
this sufficient 
since the dictionary said that a lack of mercy or an intent to 
inflict injury or grief counted as cruel , sure. 

people can be described as cruel in this way , but punishments cannot .  . 

keith 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 9 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

but chimps are almost human .  .  .  . 
does this mean that chimps have a moral will 

well , chimps must have some system. they live in social groups 
as we do , so they must have some laws dictating undesired behavior. 

keith 

from  ( mike cobb ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 23 

in david r. sacco 
writes 

after tons of mail , could we move this discussion to alt . religion . 

yes. 

mac 

there are many here among us who feel that life is but a joke.  ( bob dylan ) 
if you were happy every day of your life you would n't be a human 
being , you 'd be a game show host.  ( taken from the movie heathers .  . ) 
lecture  ( lek chur ) process by which the notes of the professor 
become the notes of the student without passing through the minds of 
either. 


michael a. cobb 
 .  .  . and . i wo n't raise taxes on the middle university of illinois 
class to pay for my programs. champaign urbana 
bill clinton 3rd debate 

with new taxes and spending cuts we 'll still have 310 billion dollar deficits .  . 

from 
subject re thoughts on christians 
organization college 
lines 94 

in article ,  ( tan meng dan ) writes 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article ,  ( eric 
molas ) wrote 
christianity is an infectious cult .  . the reasons it flourishes are 
because 1 ) it gives people without hope or driven purpose in life 
a safety blanked to hide behind. oh wow .  . all . i have to do is 
follow this christian moral standard and i get eternal happiness. 

i agree that in many cases primitive emotional feelings based on 
 , you wo n't laugh in hell  mentalities makes certain religions 
very attractive for certain personalities .  . 

i agree with both of u , but i would like to make a small point. xtianity , 
other dogmatic religions , not only attract people without hope etc but 
also attract average people as well. i believe that , thru 
its escapist doctrines absolutist attitudes , provides great psychological 
shelter from day to day frustrations , unhappiness fear of uncertainty 
unknown etc. 


this is a good point , but i think average people do not take up christianity 
so much out of fear or escapism , but , quite simply , as a way to improve their 
social life , or to get more involved with american culture , if they are kids of 
immigrants for example. since it is the overwhelming major religion in the 
western world  ( in some form or other ) , it is simply the choice people take if 
they are bored and want to do something new with their lives , but not 
too new , or too out of the ordinary .  . seems a little weak , but as long as it 
does n't hurt anybody .  .  .  . 

the buddha had something to say about the attractiveness of religions 

when driven by fear , man worships sacred mountains , sacred stones , 
and sacred trees. 

however , the buddha also said , 

if somebody finds peace in any religion , let him be . 



these are good quotes , and i agree with both of them , but let 's make sure to 
alter the scond one so that includes something like  .  .  . let . him be , as long as 
he is not preventing others from finding their peace. or something like that. 
 ( of course , i suppose , if someone were really at peace , there would be no 
need for inflicting evangelism ) 


personally , i feel that since religion have such a poweful 
psychological effect , we should let theists be. but the problem is that 
religions cause enormous harm to non believers and to humanity as a whole 
 ( holy wars , inquisitions , inter religious hatred , impedence of science 
intellectual progress , us them attitudes etc etc. need i say more ) .  . 
i really do n't know what we can do about them. any comments 

well , it is a sure thing we will have to live with them all our lives. their 
popularity seems to come and go. i remember when i first entered high school , 
i was an atheist  ( always had been ) and so were about 7 of my friends. at this 
time , 5 of those 7 have converted , always to christianity  ( they were all also 
immigrants from taiwan , or sons of immigrants , hence my earlier gross 
generalization) .  . christianity seems a lot more popular to people now than it 
ever has before  ( since i 've been noticing) .  . maybe it is just my perceptions 
that are chagning .  . who knows 
i for one am perfectly willing to live and let live with them , so long as we 
have some set of abstract rights agreements on how we should treat each other 
i have no desire to be hurt by them or their notions .  . for all the well put 
arguments on this usenet , it never does any good. argumentation does not 
really seem to apply to christians  ( or even some atheists ) it must simply be a 
step the person takes naturally , almost , instinctively ... 


best regards , 


adam john cooper verily , often have i laughed at the weaklings 
who thought themselves good simply because 
they had no claws .  . 




the unenlightened one 

buddhism has the characteristics of what would be 
tan meng expected in a cosmic religion for the future it 
singapore transcends a personal god , avoids dogmas and theology 
it covers both the natural spiritual , and it is 
based on a religious sense aspiring from the experience 
of all things , natural and spiritual , as a meaningful 
unity einstein 





from  ( ray ingles ) 
subject re concerning god 's morality  ( long ) 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 32 
distribution world 
nntp posting host syndicoot . engin . umich . edu . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( scott compton ) writes 
deletions 
now , back to your post. you have done a fine job at using 
your seventh grade  life science  course to explain why 
bad diseases are caused by satan and good things are a 
result of god. but i want to let you in on a little secret. 
we can create an amino acid sequence in lab ! and guess 
what , the sequence curls into a helix ! wow ! that 's right , 
it can happen without a supernatural force. 

wow ! all it takes is a few advanced science degrees and millions 
of dollars of state of the art equipment. and i thought it took 
intelligence to create the building blocks of life. foolish me ! 

people with advanced science degrees use state of the art equipment 
and spend millions of dollars to simulate tornadoes .  . but tornadoes 
do not require intelligence to exist. 
not only that , the equipment needed is not really  state of the art . ' . 
to study the products , yes , but not to generate them. 

if you want to be sure that i read your post and to provide a 
response , send a copy to jim i ca n't read 
a.a. every day , and some posts slip by. thanks. 

oh , i will. 

sincerely , 

ray ingles the above opinions are probably 
not those of the university of 
michigan .  . yet. 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re objective morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 22 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

in another part of this thread , you 've been telling us that the 
goal of a natural morality is what animals do to survive. 

that 's right. humans have gone somewhat beyond this though. perhaps 
our goal is one of self actualization .  . 

but suppose that your omniscient being told you that the long 
term survival of humanity requires us to exterminate some 
other species , either terrestrial or alien .  . 

now you are letting an omniscient being give information to me. this 
was not part of the original premise .  . 

does that make it moral to do so 

which type of morality are you talking about in a natural sense , it 
is not at all immoral to harm another species  ( as long as it does n't 
adversely affect your own , i guess) .  . 

keith 

from mathew 
subject re political atheists 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 22 

 ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
( i am almost sure that zyklon b is immediate and painless method of 
death. if not , insert soem other form. ) 

and , ethnic and minority groups have been killed , mutilated and 
exterminated through out history , so i guess it was not unusual .  . 

so , you would agree that the holocost would be allowed under the us 
constitution in so far , the punishment .  . i doubt they recieved what would 
be considered a fair trial by us standards. 

do n't be so sure. look what happened to japanese citizens in the us during 
world war ii. if you 're prepared to say let 's round these people up and 
stick them in a concentration camp without trial , it 's only a short step to 
gassing them without trial .  . after all , it seems that the nazis originally 
only intended to imprison the jews the final solution was dreamt up partly 
because they could n't afford to run the camps because of the devastation 
caused by 's total war. those who were n't gassed generally died of 
malnutrition or disease. 


mathew 

subject re request for support 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 16 

in article  ( david wood ) writes 

2. if you must respond to one of his articles , include within it 
something similar to the following 

please answer the questions posed to you in the charley challenges .  . 

agreed. 




satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

subject re islamic authority over women 
from  ( jon livesey ) 
organization sgi 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 
lines 11 

in article , (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

my claim is that a person that committs a crime does n't believe in 
god , for the moment that the crime is committed , at least , whether 
they are originally believers or not. to believe is to do good. 
your statistics indicate people that have declared atheism .  . 

and doubtless , when an atheist does an act of charity 
they temporarily become a baptist .  . 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 9 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

then why do people keep asking the same questions over and over 
because you rarely ever answer them. 

nope , i 've answered each question posed , and most were answered multiple 
times. 

keith 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 25 

in article  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

i hope an islamic bank is something other than bcci , which 
ripped off so many small depositors among the muslim 
community in the uk and elsewhere. 

grow up , childish propagandist .  . 


gosh , gregg .  . i'm pretty good a reading between the lines , but 
you 've given me precious little to work with in this refutation .  . 
could you maybe flesh it out just a bit or did i miss the full 
grandeur of it 's content by virtue of my blinding atheism 





bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 11 

in article 
writes 

 ( deletion ) 
nope , germany has extremely restrictive citizenship laws .  . the 
ethnic germans who have lived in russia for over 100 years 
automatically become citizens if they move to germany , but the 
turks who are now in their third generation in germany ca n't .  . 

that 's wrong. they can. 
benedikt 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re islam a clearer view 
lines 25 
organization walla walla college 
lines 25 

in article bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 
from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re islam a clearer view 
date tue , 13 apr 1993 13 15 18 gmt 
in article 
 ( tammy r healy ) writes 

sorry , it is generally accepted that the rise of the inquisition is 
the reason why torture was introduced outside the romanic countries 
at the end of the middle ages. in other words , the holy mother church 
which is lead infallibly by the holy ghost has spread it. 

the roman catholic church claims to be lead by the infallable pope .  . 
that 's why she  ( the rc church ) has done so many wicked things to xtians and 
non believers alike. 


the rationale that the pope speaking ex cathedra is infallible is based 
on the claim above. the dogma about the pope is of origin and 
has not been been accepted before the mid of the last century. 
benedikt 

you 're right. thanks for enlightening me. 

tammy 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 63 

in article  ( fred rice ) writes 

in article  ( umar khan ) writes 

i just borrowed a book from the library on khomeini 's fatwa etc. 

i found this useful passage regarding the legitimacy of the fatwa 

it was also common knowledge as prescribed by islamic law , that the 
sentence was only applicable where the jurisdiction of islamic law 
applies .  . moreover , the sentence has to be passed by an islamic court 
and executed by the state machinery through the due process of the law. 
even in islamic countries , let alone in non muslim lands , individuals 
cannot take the law into their own hands. the sentence when passed , 
must be carried out by the state through the usual machinery and not by 
individuals .  . indeed it becomes a criminal act to take the law into 
one 's own hands and punish the offender unless it is in the process of 
self defence .  . moreover , the offender must be brought to the notice of 
the court and it is the court who shoud decide how to deal with him. 
this law applies equally to muslim as well as non muslim territories .  . 


i agree fully with the above statement and is precisely what i meant 
by my previous statements about islam not being anarchist and the 
law not being despite the law being applicable .  . 


hence , on such clarification from the ulama islamic scholars , muslims 
in britain before and after imam khomeini 's fatwa made it very clear 
that since islamic law is not applicable to britain , the hadd 
compulsory punishment cannot be applied here. 


i disagree with this conclusion about the applicability of the 
islamic law to all muslims , wherever they may be. the above conclusion 
does not strictly follow from the foregoing , but only the conclusion 
that the fatwa cannot be enforced according to islamic law. however , 
i do agree that the punishment cannot be applied to rushdie even were 
it well founded .  . 

wow .  .  .  . from the above , it looks like that from an islamic viewpoint 
khomeini 's fatwa constitutes a criminal act .... perhaps i could 
even go out on a limb and call khomeini a criminal on this basis .  .  .  .  . 


certainly putting a price on the head of rushdie in britain is a criminal 
act according to islamic law. 


anyhow , i think it is understood by knowledgeable muslims that 
khomeini 's fatwa is islamically illegitimate , at least on the basis 
expounded above. others , such as myself and others who have posted here 
 ( particularly umar khan and gregg jaeger , i think) go further and say 
that even the punishment constituted in the fatwa is against islamic law 
according to our understanding. 

yes. 





gregg 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re keith schneider stealth poster 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 19 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( mike mcangus ) writes 

let me see if i understand what you are saying. in order to talk 
knowledgeably about religion , atheists must first have been so immersed 
in a religion that only the rare individual could have left. 

no , you do n't understand. i said that i do n't think people can discuss 
the subjective merits of religion objectively .  . this should be obvious. 
people here have said that everyone would be better off without religion , 
but this almost certainly is n't true. 

but really , are you threatened by the motto , or by the people that use it 
the motto is a tool. let 's try to take away the tool. 

but , guns and axes are tools , both of which have been used for murder .  . 
should both be taken away that is to say , i do n't think motto misuse 
warrants its removal .  . at least not in this case. 

keith 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization sgi 
lines 51 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

so , you are saying that it is n't possible for an instinctive act 
to be moral one 

i like to think that many things are possible. explain to me 
how instinctive acts can be moral acts , and i am happy to listen. 

for example , if it were instinctive not to murder .  .  .  . 

then not murdering would have no moral significance , since there 
would be nothing voluntary about it. 


that is , in order for an act to be an act of morality , 
the person must consider the immoral action but then disregard 
it 

weaker than that. there must be the possibility that the 
organism it 's not just people we are talking about can 
consider alternatives .  . 

so , only intelligent beings can be moral , even if the bahavior of other 
beings mimics theirs 

you are starting to get the point. mimicry is not necessarily the 
same as the action being imitated .  . a parrot saying pretty polly 
is n't necessarily commenting on the pulchritude of polly .  . 

and , how much emphasis do you place on intelligence 

see above. 

animals of the same species could kill each other arbitarily , but 
they do n't .  . 

they do. i and other posters have given you many examples of exactly 
this , but you seem to have a very short memory. 

are you trying to say that this is n't an act of morality because 
most animals are n't intelligent enough to think like we do 

i'm saying 

there must be the possibility that the organism it 's not 
just people we are talking about can consider alternatives .  . 

it 's right there in the posting you are replying to. 

jon .  . 

from  ( vinayak dutt ) 
subject re islamic banks  ( was re slavery 
reply to 
organization mayo foundation mayo graduate school rochester , mn 
lines 39 

in article ,  ( fred rice ) writes 
in  ( vinayak dutt ) writes 
so instead of calling it interest on deposits , you call it returns on investements 
and instead of calling loans you call it investing in business  ( that is in other words 
floating stocks in your company) .  . 

no , interest is different from a return on an investment .  . for one 
thing , a return on an investment has greater risk , and not a set return 
(i . e .  . the amount of money you make can go up or down , or you might even 
lose money) .  . the difference is , the risk of loss is shared by the 
investor , rather than practically all the risk being taken by the 
borrower when the borrower borrows from the bank. 


but is it different from stocks if you wish to call an investor in stocks as 
a banker , well then its your choice ..... 

relabeling does not make it interest free ! ! 

it is not just relabeling , as i have explained above. 

it is relabeling ... 
also its still not interest free. the investor is still taking some money ... as 
dividend on his investment ... ofcourse the investor  ( in islamic banking , its your 
so called bank ) is taking more risk than the usual bank , but its still getting some 
thing back in return .... 

also have you heard of junk bonds 


vinayak 

vinayak dutt 
e mail 

standard disclaimers apply 




from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re slavery  ( was re why is sex only allowed in marriage  .  .  . ) . 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 18 

oh , this all sounds so nice ! everyone helping each other and always smiling 
and fluffy bunnies everywhere. wake up ! people are just not like that. it 
seems evident from history that no society has succeeded when it had to rely 
upon the goodwill and unselfishness of the people. is n't it obvious from 
places like iran that even if there are only a few greedy people in society 
then they are going to be attracted to positions of power sounds like a 
recipe for disaster .  . 

looking at historical evidence such  perfect  islamic states 
did n't survive. i agree , people are people , and even if you might 
start an islamic revolution and create this perfect state , it takes 
some time and the internal corruption will destroy the ground rules 
again. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

subject re political atheists 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 47 

in article  ( ken arromdee ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 
i would say that one innocent person killed is in some sense 
as bad as many. we certainly feel that way when we punish 
someone for a single murder .  . 
now if we reform system x , by reducing the number of deaths 
by one , we produce system xx .  . i 'd say we should not go back 
to system x , even though by doing so we would re introduce only 
a single extra death. 

bob seems to think that one is as bad as many in a sense somewhat stronger than 
the one you indicate .  . 


yes , i do. 

my argument is that the sole purpose of the death penalty is to 
kill people. that is it 's primary  ( and i would argue only ) 
purpose. to continue to kill people by a practice that has 
almost no utility , especially when you know you will be killing 
innocents , is unconscionable .  . 

at the very least , the existence of the prison system and our 
transportation system are based on their merits to society , not 
their detriments .  . we are willing to accept a few lost innocent 
lives because there is an overwhelming benefit to the continued 
existence of these systems. one has to stretch the evidence and 
the arguments to make the same claim for capital punishment .  . 

just in case i was n't clear again we maintain a capital 
system that kills innocent people and provides us with 
no net positive gain .  . why 

were you to pin me in a corner and ask , i would have to respond 
that i do n't belief the state should have the right to take life 
at all. but i wo n't open that debate , as it seems others are 
tiring of this thread on a.a anyway. 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re slavery  ( was re why is sex only allowed in marriage  .  .  . ) . 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 208 

in  ( selim ) writes 

you might not like what bernard lewis writes about , label him 
as a zionist or such to discredit him etc. 

you misrepresent me , selim .  . the hard evidence for my statements about 
his lack of objectivity are presented quite clearly in the book 
orientalism by edward said. edward said , by the way , is a christian , 
not a muslim .  . 

i think he is 
pretty much objective in his treatment in race and slavery in 
the middle east , since he clearly distinguishes between 
slavery under islam , and the practice of slavery in other countries , 
like the us prior to the civil war. he also does not conceal 
that there are verses in the quran which promote the liberation 
of slaves .  . what he does n't , and i do n't think nobody can , 
deduce from these verses is that slavery will eventually be 
abolished in islamic countries. now you might , rather conveniently , 
blame the practice of slavery on muslims , but the facts are out 
there. i also fail to see the relevance of the claim of lewis being 
a zionist to what i wrote. 

regarding bernard lewis 

him being a zionist gives him a political motive for his 
giving misrepresentations and half truths about islam .  . 

read orientalism by edward said see the evidence for yourself. 

in fact , i may post some of it here  ( if it is n't too long) .  . 

they were encyclopaedic information 
which anybody can access that slavery was abolished at certain 
dates some 1200 years after muhammed , that this was the cause 
of tensions in the ottoman empire between the arab slave traders 
and the government etc .  .  . we also have in the asu library volumes 
of british documents on slavery where reports and documents 
concerning slavery all around the world can be found , which i 
checked some of the incidents lewis mentions .  . so i do n't think 
ones political stance has anything to do with documentary evidence. 

i have n't read lewis 's article , so i ca n't comment directly upon it , and 
have only spoken about his writings in general so far , that his 
political motives make him a biased writer on islam .  . his anti islamic 
polemics , as i understand it , are often quite subtle and are often based 
on telling half truths .  . 

again , read orientalism by edward said. i am not asking you to take 
what i say on trust , in fact i am urging you not to do so but to get 
this book  ( it is a well known book ) and check the evidence out for 
yourself . 

the issue i raised was that slaves were used for sexual purposes , 
when it was claimed that islam prohibits extra marital sex. 
i wrote that the prophet himself had concubines , i wrote an 
incident in which the prophet advised on someone who did not 
want his concubine to get pregnant etc. , which is contrary 
to the notion that sex is for procreation only . in other 
words , such claims are baseless in the quran and the hadith .  . 

if slavery is in reality  ( as opposed to in the practice of some 
muslims ) opposed by islam , then using slaves for sexual 
purposes is necessarily opposed too. 

i seem to be unsuccesful in getting through to you. islam is 
not advocating slavery .  . slavery was an existing institution in the 
7th century. it advised on slaves being freed for good 
deeds etc. , which is nothing new. many cultures saw this as a 
good thing. what is the problem here but i can argue rightfully 
that slaves were discouraged about thinking about their statuses 
politically the quran rewards the good slave , so obey your 
master and perhaps one day you 'll be free. but , it is very 
understandable that i do not communicate with muslims , since 
they assume the quran is from a god , and i think it is a rule based 
system imposed on the society for preservation of the status quo .  . 
slaves are a part of this system , the subordination of women 
so that their function in society boils down to child making 
is a part of this system , etc. 

i understand your point of view , selim i think , rather , it is us 
who are not getting through to you . 

some of the points you repeat above i have already answered before. 

regarding women , i have made posting after posting on this subject , 
showing that islam is not anti woman , etc. however , have you been 
completely ignoring my postings or just missing them i just reposted a 
very good one , under the title islam and women , reposted from 
soc . religion . islam .  . if this has already disappeared from your site , 
then please email me telling me so and i will email you a copy of this 
excellent article. 

imho , your understanding of the issue of women in islam is sadly deficient .  . 

regarding slaves , my posting on slavery the second one i made , 
which is a repost of an article i wrote early last year is based 
completely on the qur'an and contains numerous verses and 
hadiths to support its point of view. 

our approaches are different you are arguing from a historical 
standpoint and i am arguing directly from the teachings of the qur'an 
and hadiths .  . now , just because people say they are muslims and perform 
a particular action , does that automatically mean that their action is 
part of islam , even if it is opposed by the qur'an and sunnah no ! of 
course not. 

let me give you a concrete example , which might help clarify this for 
you. the qur'an prohibits drinking .  . now , if a person says i am a 
muslim and then proceeds to drink a bottle of beer , does this now mean 
that islam teaches that people should drink beer of course not , and 
only an idiot would think so. 

do you see my point 

it is very natural to think that 
the author authors of the quran had no idea that the socio economic 
structure they were advocating would experience at least two paradigm 
shifts in 1400 years in the western cultures first with the end of 
the feudal era and the rise of commerce , second with the industrial 
revolution .  . well , rules have changed and the status quo has driven 
muslim countries into misery trying to survive in a heathen world. 
muslim countries have failed economically , they were unable to 
accumulate any wealth directly due to the economic 
rules in the quran .  . in fact , the rise of islam can easily be modeled 
after the pyramid effect you do not produce any wealth at home , 
but increase your wealth by conquering places. 

you are judging islam here on capitalist terms. capitalism is an 
ideology based largely on the assumption that people want to maximise 
their wealth this assumption is in opposition to islamic teachings .  . 
to say islam is bad because it is not capitalist is pretty unthinking 
islam does not pretend to be capitalist and does not try to be 
capitalist .  .  ( this does not mean that islam does not support a 
free market for it does in general but there are other parts of 
capitalism which are opposed to islam as i understand it . ) . 

when this stopped , 
you  ( and i ) were left bare in the open for to devour .  . 
no capital , no industry , very poor social services the education 
level in muslim countries are the lowest in the world , the health 
statistics are miserable etc .  .  . 

one can postulate numerous reasons for this. your theory is that it is 
because islam is not secularist and capitalist , etc. etc. 

selim , i will give you a clear historical example to show you the 
fallacy of your views if you think  ( as you obviously do ) that 
islam lack of education and power. 

for a large part of history , the islamic world was very powerful .  . for a 
significant section of history , the islamic world was the foremost in 
the sciences .  . so to say that islam is , for example , anti education is 
completely absurd .  . you try to blame this situation on islam history 
shows that your conclusion is false and that , instead , there must be 
other reasons for this situation. 

you blame muslims for not following the quran , but i blame muslims 
for following the quran .  . 

well , selim , your viewpoint on women in islam makes me question the extent 
of your knowledge of islam .  . i really think you are not 
knowledgeable enough to be able to judge whether the muslims are 
following the qur'an or not. 

your idea is baseless from historical 
facts , it is a poor utopia , 

the islamic world was at the forefront of the world in science at one 
stage yet somehow , in your theory , it is by following the qur'an 
that muslims are backwards in education. selim , it is your thesis 
that is anti historical , for you conveniently overlook this historical 
fact which contradicts your theory. 

while my ideas are derived from social 
and economic history. 

you have certainly not shown this you have merely stated it. 
so far , it seems to me that your view on islam being anti education is 
quite contrary to history. that you are so convinced of your views 
makes me wonder just how objectively you are trying to look at all of 
this. 

my solution to all muslims is simple 
cut the crap , 

i think , selim , you should consider taking your own advice. 

get the facts straight 

here too. 

and work hard to reverse 
the effects of 1300 years of ignorance .  . 

selim , you have such conviction of your viewpoint , yet you demonstrate 
ignorance , not only of islam but also of islamic history  ( particularly 
with respect to muslims being leaders of science till about 1400 or so i 
think) .  . yet you say that your viewpoint is based on history ! 

selim , if i remember right , you say in one of your earlier posts that 
you are an apostate from islam .  . i think you should slow down and start 
thinking clearly about the issues , and start reading some of our 
postings about islam rather than ignoring them as you so obviously 
have. 

fred rice 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 13 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

well , chimps must have some system. they live in social groups 
as we do , so they must have some laws dictating undesired behavior. 
so , why must they have such laws 

the quotation marks should enclose laws , not must. 

if there were no such rules , even instinctive ones or unwritten ones , 
etc. , then surely some sort of random chance would lead a chimp society 
into chaos .  . 

keith 

from  ( jonathan w newton ) 
subject re societally acceptable behavior 
organization kansas state university 
lines 35 
distribution world 
nntp posting host citation . ksu . ksu . edu . 


in article ,  ( mike cobb ) writes 
merely a question for the basis of morality 

moral ethical behavior societally acceptable behavior . 

i disagree with these. what society thinks should be irrelevant .  . what the 
individual decides is all that is important. 


1)who ) is society 

i think this is fairly obvious 


2)how ) do they define what is acceptable 

generally by what they feel is right , which is the most idiotic policy i can 
think of. 


3)how ) do we keep from a whatever is legal is what is moral position 

by thinking for ourselves. 


mac 


michael a. cobb 
 .  .  . and . i wo n't raise taxes on the middle university of illinois 
class to pay for my programs. champaign urbana 
bill clinton 3rd debate 

with new taxes and spending cuts we 'll still have 310 billion dollar deficits .  . 

from  ( dewey henize ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization motorola , inc. austin , tx 
lines 43 
nntp posting host rtfm . sps . mot . com . 


is it just me , or has this part gotten beyond useful 

gregg is not , as i understand his posts , giving any support to the bounty 
on rushdie 's life. if that 's correct , end of one point .  .  .  . 

gregg is using the concept of legal in a way most westerners do n't accept .  . 
his comments about islamic law i think make a great deal of sense to him , 
and are even making a little sense to me now if a person is a member 
of a group  ( religion or whatever ) they bind themselves to follow the ways 
of the group within the bounds of what the group requires as a minimum. 
the big bone of contention here that i'm picking up is that in the west 
we have secular governments that maintain , more or less , a level of control 
and of requirements outside the requirements of optional groups. i think 
the majority of us reading this thread are in tune  ( note i did n't say 
in agreement ) with the idea that you are finally responsible to the 
secular government , and within that to the group or groups a person may 
have chosen .  . 

with that in mind , it not possible under secular law ( legally as most 
people would define the term ) to hold a person to a particular group once 
they decide to separate from it. only if the secular authorities agree 
that there is a requirement of some sort  ( contractual , etc ) is there 
any secular enforcement allowed by a group to a group member or past 
group member. 

a religion can , and often does , believe in and require additional duties 
of a group member. and it can enforce the fulfillment of those duties 
in many ways ostracism is common for example. but the limit comes when 
the enforcement would impose unwanted and or unaccepted onus on a person 
in conflict with secular law . 

this is the difference. in a theocracy , the requirements of the secular 
authorities are , by definition , congruent with the religious authorities .  . 
outside a theocracy , this is not necessarily true. religious requirements 
may coincide or may not. similiarly , religious consequences may or 
may not coincide with secular consequences  ( if any) .  . 

regards , 

dew 

dewey henize sys net admin risc hardware (512) 891 8637 pager 928 7447 x 9637 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re an anecdote about islam 
organization sgi 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

i do n't understand the point of this petty sarcasm .  . it is a basic 
principle of islam that if one is born muslim or one says i testify 
that there is no god but god and mohammad is a prophet of god that , 
so long as one does not explicitly reject islam by word then one must 
be considered muslim by all muslims .  . so the phenomenon you 're attempting 
to make into a general rule or psychology is a direct odds with basic 
islamic principles .  . if you want to attack islam you could do better than 
than to argue against something that islam explicitly contradicts .  . 

then mr mozumder is incorrect when he says that when committing 
bad acts , people temporarily become atheists 

jon .  . 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 24 

in article  ( umar khan ) writes 
how would a man of 7th century arabia have known 
what not to include in the holy qur'an  ( assuming he had authored 
it) 


so now we 're judging the qur'an by what 's not in it 

how many mutton headed arguments am i going to have to wade 
through today 

lots of other books have been written on this subject. those 
books can speak far more eloquently than i. 

one would hope. 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( john munch ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 11 

in article  ( rashid ) writes 
p.s. i'm not sure about this but i think the charge of also 
applies to rushdie and may be encompassed under the umbrella 
of the ruling .  . 

please define the words and before you use them again. 

john david munch 
.... the heart can change , be full of hate , or love. if people are allowed 
to base their lives through their hearts , anything can happen. a dangerous 
situation , in my opinion. bobby mozumder describing problems with atheism 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 23 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

so , you are saying that it is n't possible for an instinctive act 
to be moral one 
i like to think that many things are possible. explain to me 
how instinctive acts can be moral acts , and i am happy to listen. 

for example , if it were instinctive not to murder .  .  .  . 

that is , in order for an act to be an act of morality , 
the person must consider the immoral action but then disregard 
it 
weaker than that. there must be the possibility that the 
organism it 's not just people we are talking about can 
consider alternatives .  . 

so , only intelligent beings can be moral , even if the bahavior of other 
beings mimics theirs and , how much emphasis do you place on intelligence 
animals of the same species could kill each other arbitarily , but they 
do n't .  . are you trying to say that this is n't an act of morality because 
most animals are n't intelligent enough to think like we do 

keith 

from  ( kevin marshall ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va 
lines 72 
nntp posting host csugrad . cs . vt . edu . 
keywords dan bissell 

 ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar people 
gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
someone who was or had been healed .  . call me a fool , but i believe he did 
heal people. 

anyone who dies for a cause runs the risk of dying for a lie. as for 
people being able to tell if he was a liar , well , we 've had grifters and 
charlatans since the beginning of civilization .  . if david copperfield had 
been the messiah , i bet he could have found plenty of believers .  . 
jesus was hardly the first to claim to be a faith healer , and he was n't the 
first to be witnessed .  . what sets him apart 

niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 
anyone who is drawn to david koresh is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 

rubbish .  . nations have followed crazies , liars , psychopaths , and 
megalomaniacs throughout history. hitler , tojo , mussolini , khomeini , 
, stalin , papa doc , and nixon come to mind .  .  . all . from this century. 
koresh is a non issue. 


therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 

take a discrete mathematics or formal logic course. there are flaws in your 
logic everywhere. and as i'm sure others will tell you , read the faq ! 


some other things to note. he fulfilled loads of prophecies in 
the psalms , isaiah and elsewhere in 24 hrs alone. this in his betrayal 
and crucifixion .  . i do n't have my bible with me at this moment , next time i 
write i will use it. 

of course , you have to believe the bible first. just because something is 
written in the bible does not mean it is true , and the age of that tome plus 
the lack of external supporting evidence makes it less credible .  . so if you 
do quote from the bible in the future , try to back up that quote with 
supporting evidence. otherwise , you will get flamed mercilessly .  . 


i do n't think most people understand what a christian is. it 
is certainly not what i see a lot in churches. rather i think it 
should be a way of life , and a total sacrafice of everything for god 's 
sake. he loved us enough to die and save us so we should do the 
same. hey we ca n't do it , god himself inspires us to turn our lives 
over to him. that 's tuff and most people do n't want to do it , to be a 
real christian would be something for the strong to persevere at. but 
just like weight lifting or guitar playing , drums , whatever it takes 
time. we do n't rush it in one day , christianity is your whole life. 
it is not going to church once a week , or helping poor people once in 
a while. we box everything into time units. such as work at this 
time , sports , tv , social life. god is above these boxes and should be 
carried with us into all these boxes that we have created for 
ourselves. 

just like weight lifting or guitar playing , eh i do n't know how you 
define the world total , but i would imagine a total sacrafice sp 
of everything for god 's sake would involve more than a time commitment .  . 

you are correct about our tendency to box everything into time units. 
would you explain how one should god in sports and  ( hehehe ) 
television 


kevin marshall computer science department 
virginia tech 
blacksburg , virginia (703) 232 6529 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 57 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( michael wang ) writes 

i was looking for a rigorous definition because otherwise we would be 
spending the rest of our lives arguing what a christian really 
believes .  . 

i do n't think we need to argue about this. 

ks do you think that the motto points out that this country is proud 
ks of its freedom of religion , and that this is something that 
ks distinguishes us from many other countries 
mw no. 
ks well , your opinion is not shared by most people , i gather .  . 
perhaps not , but that is because those seeking to make government 
recognize christianity as the dominant religion in this country do not 
think they are infringing on the rights of others who do not share 
their beliefs .  . 

yes , but also many people who are not trying to make government recognize 
christianity as the dominant religion in this country do no think 
the motto infringes upon the rights of others who do not share their 
beliefs .  . 

and actually , i think that the government already does recognize that 
christianity is the dominant religion in this country. i mean , it is. 
do n't you realize recognize this 

this is n't to say that we are supposed to believe the teachings of 
christianity , just that most people do. 

like i 've said before i personally do n't think the motto is a major 
concern. 

if you agree with me , then what are we discussing 

ks since most people do n't seem to associate christmas with jesus much 
ks anymore , i do n't see what the problem is. 
can you prove your assertion that most people in the u.s. do n't 
associate christmas with jesus anymore 

no , but i hear quite a bit about christmas , and little if anything about 
jesus .  . would n't this figure be more prominent if the holiday were really 
associated to a high degree with him or are you saying that the 
association with jesus is on a personal level , and that everyone thinks 
about it but just never talks about it 

that is , can you prove that most people do associate christmas 
most importantly with jesus 

anyways , the point again is that there are people who do associate 
christmas with jesus .  . it does n't matter if these people are a majority 
or not. 

i think the numbers do matter. it takes a majority , or at least a 
majority of those in power , to discriminate .  . does n't it 

keith 

from  ( mike cobb ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 42 

in  ( frank o'dwyer ) 
writes 

in article at1 59 . rice . edu . 
 ( peter walker ) writes 
in article ,  ( frank 
o'dwyer ) wrote 
objective morality is morality built from objective values .  . 

but where do those objective values come from how can we measure them 
what mediated thair interaction with the real world , a or a scalar 
field 

science ( the real world ) has its basis in values , not the other way round , 
as you would wish it. if there is no such thing as objective value , then 
science can not objectively be said to be more useful than a kick in the head. 
simple theories with accurate predictions could not objectively be said 
to be more useful than a set of tarot cards. you like those conclusions 
i do n't .  . 

and how do we know they exist in the first place 

one assumes objective reality , one does n't know it. 


frank o'dwyer  i m not hatching that  
from hens , by evelyn conlon 

how do we measure truth , beauty , goodness , love , friendship , trust , honesty , 
etc. if things have no basis in objective fact then are n't we limited in what 
we know to be true ca n't we say that we can examples or instances of reason , 
but cannot measure reason , or is that semantics 

mac 


michael a. cobb 
 .  .  . and . i wo n't raise taxes on the middle university of illinois 
class to pay for my programs. champaign urbana 
bill clinton 3rd debate 

with new taxes and spending cuts we 'll still have 310 billion dollar deficits .  . 

from  ( brian cash ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 4 

i'm sold ! where do i sign up 


brian the next book charles manson lord , lunatic , or liar 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 14 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 

no , that 's just what you thought the theory meant. while all humans 
are generally capable of overpowering their instincts , it does not 
follow that those who do this often are necessarily more intelligent .  . 
ok , so why are n't animals generally capable of overpowering their instincts 

good question. i'm sure some biologist could answer better than i , 
but animals brains are just set up differently. 

animals can be trained , but if they 're instincts serve them well , there is 
no reason to contradict them. 

keith 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re cruel  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 26 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

this whole thread started because of a discussion about whether 
or not the death penalty constituted cruel punishment , which is forbidden 
by the us constitution .  . 
yes , but they did n't say what they meant by cruel , which is why 
a ) you have the supreme court , and b ) it makes no sense to refer 
to the constitution , which is quite silent on the meaning of the 
word cruel . 

they spent quite a bit of time on the wording of the constitution .  . they 
picked words whose meanings implied the intent .  . we have already looked 
in the dictionary to define the word. is n't this sufficient 

oh , but we were discussing the death penalty  ( and that discussion 
resulted from the one about murder which resulted from an intial 
discussion about objective morality so this is already three times 
removed from the morality discussion) .  . 
actually , we were discussing the mening of the word cruel and 
the us constitution says nothing about that. 

but we were discussing it in relation to the death penalty .  . and , the 
constitution need not define each of the words within .  . anyone who does n't 
know what cruel is can look in the dictionary  ( and we did) .  . 

keith 

from nanci ann miller nm0w 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization sponsored account , school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 27 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

(s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
more horrible deaths resulted from atheism than anything else. 

there are definitely quite a few horrible deaths as the result of both 
atheists and theists .  . i'm sure bobby can list quite a few for the atheist 
side but fails to recognize that the theists are equally proficient at 
genocide .  . perhaps , since i'm a bit weak on history , somone here would like 
to give a list of wars caused led by theists i can think of a few  ( hitler 
claimed to be a christian for example) but a more complete list would 
probably be more effective in showing bobby just how absurd his statement 
is. 

peace , 

on a side note , i notice you always sign your posts peace . perhaps you 
should take your own advice and leave the atheists in peace with their 
beliefs 

bobby mozumder 

nanci 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
if you know  ( and are sure of ) the author of this quote , please send me 
email  ( nm0w 
lying to ourselves is more deeply ingrained than lying to others. 


from  ( james hogan ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
keywords slander calumny 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 60 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( rashid ) writes 
in article , 
 ( john munch ) wrote 

in article  ( rashid ) writes 
p.s. i'm not sure about this but i think the charge of also 
applies to rushdie and may be encompassed under the umbrella 
of the ruling .  . 

please define the words and before you use them again. 

my apologies .  . , i believe , refers to slandering or spreading 
slander and lies about the prophets(a . s) . any of the prophets .  . 

basically , any prophet i 've ever dealt with has either been busy 
hawking stolen merchandise or selling swampland house lots in 
florida .  . then you hear all the stories of sexual abuse by prophets 
and how the families of victims were paid to keep quiet about it. 

it 's a kind of willful and cursing that 's indicated by the 
word. this is the best explanation i can come up with off the top 
of my head i 'll try and look up a more technical definition when i 
have the time. 

never mind that , but let me tell you about this chevelle i bought 
from this dude  ( you guessed it , a prophet ) named mohammed .  . i 've 
got the car for like two days when the tranny kicks , then manny , 
my mechanic , tells me it was loaded with sawdust ! take a guess 
whether mohammed was anywhere to be found. i do n't think so. 


is a little more difficult to describe .  . again , this is not 
a technical definition i 'll try and get that later. literally , 

oh , mohammed ! 

the word means mischief .  . but it 's a mischief on the order of 
magnitude indicated by the word corruption . it 's when someone who 
is doing something wrong to begin with , seeks to escalate the hurt , 

yeah , you , mohammed ! 

disorder , concern , harm etc.  ( the mischief ) initially caused by their 
actions .  . the wrong is specifically related to attacks against 
god and his messenger and mischief , corruption , disorder etc. 

you slimy mass of pond scum ! 

resulting from that. the attack need not be a physical attack and there 
are different levels of penalty proscribed , depending on the extent 
of the mischief and whether the person or persons sought to 
make hay of the situation. the severest punishment is death. 

yeah , right ! you 're the one should be watching your butt. you and 
your buddy allah .  . the stereo he sold me croaked after two days. 
your ass is grass ! 

jim 

yeah , that 's right , jim .  . 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re new member 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 20 

in article , 
 ( dave fuller ) wrote 
he is right. just because an event was explained by a human to have been 
done in the name of religion , does not mean that it actually followed 
the religion. he will always point to the ideal and say that it was n't 
followed so it ca n't be the reason for the event. there really is no way 
to argue with him , so why bother .  . sure , you may get upset because his 
answer is blind and not supported factually but he will win every time 
with his little argument. i do n't think there will be any postings from 
me in direct response to one of his. 

hey ! glad to have some serious and constructive contributors in this 
newsgroup .  . i agree 100 on the statement above , you might argue with 
bobby for eons , and he still does not get it , so the best thing is 
to spare your mental resources to discuss more interesting issues. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re thoughts on christians 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 17 

ed mccreary wrote 
on 16 apr 93 05 10 18 gmt ,  ( robert beauchaine ) said 

rb in article  ( patrick c leger ) writes 
ever hear of 
baptism at birth if that is n't preying on the young , i do n't know what 
is .  .  .  . 

rb 
rb no , that 's praying on the young. preying on the young comes 
rb later , when the bright eyed little altar boy finds out what the 
rb priest really wears under that chasible .  . 

does this statement further the atheist cause in some way , surely it 's 
not intended as wit ... 

bill 

subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses  ( good grief ! ) 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 14 

in article  ( charley wingate ) writes 

the amount of energy being spent on one lousy syllogism says volumes for the 
true position of reason in this group. 

i agree , we spend too much energy on the of god. 




satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

from  ( bake timmons ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
lines 66 


james hogan writes 

 ( bake timmons ) writes 
jim hogan quips 

...  ( summary of jim 's stuff ) 

jim , i'm afraid you 've missed the point. 

thus , i think you 'll have to admit that atheists have a lot 
more up their sleeve than you might have suspected .  . 

nah .  . i will encourage people to learn about atheism to see how little atheists 
have up their sleeves. whatever i might have suspected is actually quite 
meager .  . if you want i 'll send them your address to learn less about your 
faith. 

faith 

yeah , do you expect people to read the faq , etc. and actually accept hard 
atheism no , you need a little leap of faith , jimmy .  . your logic runs out 
of steam ! 

fine , but why do these people shoot themselves in the foot and mock 
the idea of a god .... 

i hope you understand now. 

yes , jim .  . i do understand now. thank you for providing some healthy sarcasm 
that would have dispelled any sympathies i would have had for your faith. 

bake , 

real glad you detected the sarcasm angle , but am really  that 
i wo n't be getting any of your sympathy .  . still , if your inclined 
to have sympathy for somebody 's faith , you might try one of the 
religion newsgroups .  . 

just be careful over there , though.  ( make believe i'm 
whispering in your ear here ) they 're all delusional ! 

jim , 

sorry i ca n't pity you , jim .  . and i'm sorry that you have these feelings of 
denial about the faith you need to get by. oh well , just pretend that it will 
all end happily ever after anyway. maybe if you start a new newsgroup , 
alt . atheist . hard . , you wo n't be  so much 

good job , jim .  . 
. 

bye , bake .  . 


more slim jim  ( tm ) deleted 

bye , bake ! 
bye , bye ! 

bye bye , big jim .  . do n't forget your flintstone 's chewables ! ) 

bake timmons , iii 

 .  .  . there . 's nothing higher , stronger , more wholesome and more useful in life 
than some good memory .  .  .  . in brothers  ( dostoevsky ) 

from  ( eric sieferman ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 75 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 
keywords dan bissell 

in article  ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

it appears that walla walla college will fill the same role in alt . atheist . 
that allegheny college fills in alt . fan . dan . quayle .  . 

first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 
makes sense to be one. have any of you read tony 's book liar , 
lunatic , or the real thing (i might be a little off on the title , but he 
writes the book. anyway he was part of an effort to destroy christianity , 
in the process he became a christian himself. 

converts to xtianity have this tendency to excessively darken their 
pre xtian past , frequently falsely .  . anyone who embarks on an 
effort to destroy xtianity is suffering from deep megalomania , a 
defect which is not cured by religious conversion .  . 

the arguements he uses i am summing up. the book is about whether 
jesus was god or not. i know many of you do n't believe , but listen to a 
different perspective for we all have something to gain by listening to what 
others have to say. 

different perspective different perspective ! ! ! 

the book says that jesus was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 
modern day koresh ) or he was actually who he said he was. 

 ( sigh ! ) perhaps big j was just mistaken about some of his claims .  . 
perhaps he was normally insightful , but had a few off days. perhaps 
many  ( most ) of the statements attributed to jesus were not made by 
him , but were put into his mouth by later authors .  . other possibilities 
abound .  . surely , someone seriously examining this question could 
come up with a decent list of possible alternatives , unless the task 
is not serious examination of the question  ( much less destroying 
xtianity ) but rather religious salesmanship .  . 

some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie 

how many germans died for nazism how many russians died in the name 
of the proletarian dictatorship how many americans died to make the 
world safe for democracy . what a silly question ! 

would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar people 
gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
someone who was or had been healed .  . call me a fool , but i believe he did 
heal people. 

is everyone who performs a healing god 

niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. 

it 's probably hard to draw an entire nation to you unless you 
are crazy. 

very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 
anyone who is drawn to david koresh is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 
therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 

anyone who is convinced by this laughable logic deserves 
to be a xtian .  . 

some other things to note. he fulfilled loads of prophecies in 
the psalms , isaiah and elsewhere in 24 hrs alone. this in his betrayal 
and crucifixion .  . i do n't have my bible with me at this moment , next time i 
write i will use it. 

do n't bother .  . many of the prophecies were fulfilled only in the 
eyes of xtian apologists , who distort the meaning of isaiah and 
other ot books. 




from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 26 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

if i kill this person an innocent person convicted of murder , 
then a murder would be committed , but i would not be the murderer .  . at least , 
i would n't reasonably be considered a murderer , with reasonable being 
introduced as a fudge factor necessary to account for the inability to be 
totally objective due to a lack of absolutely true information. 
if society collective decides to carry the burden of executing 
it 's citizens , then it also carries the blame for their innocent 
blood. each and every voter who casts a ballot in favor of 
capital punishment is in part guilty of the murder of each and 
every innocent victim of the system. 

why are only those people in favor of the system to blame .  . if society 
accepts such a system , then each member of society is to blame when 
an innocent person gets executed .  . those that are not in favor should 
work to convince others. 

and , most members of our society have accepted the blame they 've considered 
the risk to be acceptable .  . similarly , every person who drives must accept 
the blame for fatal traffic accidents .  . this is something that is surely 
going to happen when so many people are driving. it is all a question of 
what risk is acceptable .  . it is much more likely that an innocent person 
will be killed driving than it is that one will be executed .  . 

keith 

from patrick c leger 
subject it 's all mary 's fault ! 
organization sophomore , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 23 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

you know , it just occurred to me today that this whole christian thing 
can be blamed solely on mary .  . 

so , she 's married to joseph .  . she gets knocked up. what do you think 
ol' joe will do if he finds she 's been getting around so mary comes up 
with this ridiculous story about god making her pregnant. actually , it 
ca n't be all that ridiculous , considering the number of people that 
believe it. anyway , she never tells anyone the truth , and even tells 
poor little jesus that he 's hot shit , the son of god. everyone else 
tells him this too , since they 've bought mary 's story. so , what does 
mary actually turn out to be an adultress and a liar , and the cause of 
mankind 's greatest folly .  .  .  . 

just my recently minted two cents. 

chris 


chris leger 
sophomore , carnegie mellon computer engineering 
remember .  .  . if . you do n't like what somebody is saying , you can always 
ignore them ! 


from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 48 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( heikki t. suopanki ) writes 
god is eternal .  . a b 
jesus is god. c a 
therefore , jesus is eternal .  . c b 

this works both logically and mathematically .  . god is of the set of 
things which are eternal .  . jesus is a subset of god. therefore 
jesus belongs to the set of things which are eternal .  . 

everything is n't always so logical .  .  .  .  . 

mercedes is a car. 
that girl is mercedes .  . 
therefore , that girl is a car 

this is not strickly correct. only by incorrect application of the 
rules of language , does it seem to work. 

the mercedes in the first premis , and the one in the second are not 
the same mercedes .  . 

in your case , 

a b 
c d 

a and d are not equal .  . one is a name of a person , the other the 
name of a object. you can not simply extract a word without taking the 
context into account. 

of course , your case does n't imply that a d. 

in his case , a does equal d. 


try again .  .  .  . 



one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that 
say mom , because of the love of their mom. it makes for more 
virile men. 

bobby mozumder ( ) 
april 4 , 1993 

the one true muslim left in the world. 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 12 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( roy dace ) writes 

keith allan schneider wrote 

some soldiers are dependent on religion , for a number of purposes. 
and some are no doubt dependent on cocaine , yet i do n't see the military paying 
for coca fields .  . 

while religion certainly has some benefits in a combat situation , what are 
the benefits of cocaine 

keith 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization sgi 
lines 31 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

i hope an islamic bank is something other than bcci , which 
ripped off so many small depositors among the muslim 
community in the uk and elsewhere. 

jon .  . 

grow up , childish propagandist .  . 

gregg , i'm really sorry if having it pointed out that in practice 
things are n't quite the wonderful utopia you folks seem to claim 
them to be upsets you , but exactly who is being childish here is 
open to question. 

was an example of an islamically owned and operated bank 
what will someone bet me they were n't real islamic owners and 
operators and yet it actually turned out to be a long running 
and quite ruthless operation to steal money from small and often 
quite naive depositors .  . 

and why did these naive depositors put their life savings into 
bcci rather than the nasty interest motivated western bank down 
the street could it be that they believed an islamically owned 
and operated bank could n't possibly cheat them 

so please do n't try to con us into thinking that it will all 
work out right next time. 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 12 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

now along comes mr keith schneider and says here is an objective 
moral system . and then i start to ask him about the definitions 
that this objective system depends on , and , predictably , the whole 
thing falls apart. 

it only falls apart if you attempt to apply it. this does n't mean that 
an objective system ca n't exist. it just means that one cannot be 
implemented .  . 

keith 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 16 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

... 
the  things above were in reference to germany , clearly .  . people 
said that there were similar things in germany , but no one could name any. 
that 's not true. i gave you two examples .  . one was the rather 
anti semitism in german christianity well before hitler 
arrived. the other was the system of social ranks that were used 
in germany and austria to distinguish jews from the rest 
of the population .  . 

these do n't seem like little things to me. at least , they are orders 
worse than the motto .  . do you think that the motto is a little thing 
that will lead to worse things 

keith 

from  ( selim ) 
subject re islam dress code for women 
organization arizona state university , tempe , az 
lines 53 

in article bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 
in article 
 ( fred rice ) writes 

(2) do women have souls in islam 

people have said here that some muslims say that women do not have 
souls .  . i must admit i have never heard of such a view being held by 
muslims of any era. i have heard of some christians of some eras 
holding this viewpoint , but not muslims .  . are you sure you might not be 
confusing christian history with islamic history 


yes , it is supposed to have been a predominant view in the turkish 
caliphate .  . 


i am not aware of any turkish caliphate viewpoint on this. can you 
reference 

however , i found a quote due to imam ali , whom the shias follow 

men , never obey your women in any way whatsoever. never let them give their 
advice on any matter whatsoever , even those of everyday life. indeed , allow 
them freely to give advice on anything and they will fritter away one 's 
wealth and disobey the wishes of the owner of this wealth .  . 
we see them without religion , when , alone , they are left to their own 
devices they are lacking in both pity and virtue when their carnal 
desires are at stake .  . it is easy to enjoy them , but they cause great 
anxiety .  . the most among them are libertines .  . but the most 
corrupt are whores .  . only those of them whom age has deprived of any 
charm are untainted by vice .  . they have three qualities particular to 
miscreants they complain of being oppressed , whereas it is they 
who oppress they make oaths , whereas they are lying they pretend 
to refuse men 's solicitations , whereas they desire them most ardently .  . 
let us beg the help of god to emerge victorious from their evil deeds .  . 
and preserve us in any case from their good ones. 

 ( quote from mas al , ref. a. , sexuality in islam , 
p. 118) .  . 

i would n't consider this quote as being exemplary of the islamic  ( tm ) 
viewpoint though. for all we know , the prophet 's cousin and 
the fourth khalif i ali may have said this after a frustrating 
night with a woman. 

selim 


selim e. jaca negra , luna grande , 
asu y en mi alforja .  . 
(602) 965 4096 aunque sepa los caminos 
yo nunca a cordoba .  .  .  ( fgl ) 

from  ( chris blask ) 
subject re a silly question on x 
reply to  ( chris blask ) 
organization sea change corporation , mississauga , ontario , canada 
lines 44 

 ( andrew tong ) writes 
 ( mark mccullough ) writes 

question 2 this attitude god character seems awfully egotistical 
and proud. but christianity tells people to be humble .  . what 's the deal 

well , god pretty much has a right to be egotistical and proud. i 
mean , he created you , does n't he have the right to be proud of such 
a job 

of course , people do n't have much of a right to be proud. what have 
they accomplished that can match god 's accomplishments , anyways how 
do their abilities compare with those of god 's .  . we 're an imbecile 
worm of the earth , to quote pascal .  . 

grumblegrumble .  .  .  . 

if you were god , and you created a universe , would n't you be just a 
little irked if some self organizing cell globules on a tiny planet 
started thinking they were as great and awesome as you 

unfortunately the logic falls apart quick all perfect insulted or 
threatened by the actions of a lesser creature actually by offspring 


how why shuold any all powerful all perfect feel either proud or offended 
anything capable of being aware of the relationship of every aspect of every 
particle in the universe during every moment of time simultaneously should 
be able to understand the cause of every action of every  cell  on 
each planet .  .  .  . 

well , actually , now that i think of it , it seems kinda odd that god 
would care at all about the earth. ok , so it was a bad example. but 
the amazing fact is that he does care , apparently , and that he was 
willing to make some grand sacrifices to ensure our happiness. 

all powerful , owner of everything in the universe makes great sacrifices 
makes a great headline but it does n't make any sense. what did he 
sacrifice where did it go that he could n't get it back if he gave 
something up , who 'd he give it up to 

chris 

you guys have fun , i'm  to key west ! ! 

from  ( lucio de re ) 
subject a fundamental contradiction  ( was a visit from jws ) 
reply to 
organization megabyte digital telecommunications 
lines 35 

writes 

will is self determination . in other words , god created conscious 
beings who have the ability to choose between moral choices independently 
of god. all will , therefore , is free will . 

the above is probably not the most representative paragraph , but i 
thought i 'd hop on , anyway .  .  .  . 

what strikes me as self contradicting in the fable of lucifer 's 
fall which , by the way , i seem to recall to be more speculation 
than based on biblical text , but my ex may be showing is 
that , as benedikt pointed out , lucifer had perfect nature , yet he 
had the free will to choose evil. but where did that choice come 
from 

we know from genesis that eve was offered an opportunity to sin by a 
tempter which many assume was satan , but how did lucifer discover , 
invent , create , call the action what you will , something that god 
had not given origin to 

also , where in the bible is there mention of lucifer 's free will 
we make a big fuss about mankind having free will , but it strikes me 
as being an after the fact rationalisation , and in fact , like 
salvation , not one that all christians believe in identically .  . 

at least in my mind , salvation and free will are very tightly 
coupled , but then my theology was roman catholic .  .  .  . 

still , how do theologian explain lucifer 's fall if lucifer had 
perfect nature  ( did man ) how could he fall how could he execute an 
act that  ( a ) contradicted his nature and  ( b ) in effect cause evil to 
exist for the first time 

lucio de re tab stops at four. 

cs . utexas . edu . ! uunet ! ! ! ! adagio . panasonic . com . ! nntp server . caltech . edu . ! 
subject re the wrong and the right. 
from  ( brendan dunn ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 
lines 25 

in article writes 
hi . i'm . a turkish guy who had tried atheism , and buddism at some instant 
s of hislife . finally . i decided on of many facts which i intend to 
write here . from . my point of view , you atheists are people who has dropped to a 
deep , dark well and thinking the only reality is the dusty walls of the well . but . 
if you had looked a little bit upward you would see the blue skies . you .  t 
he truth but you close your eyes . allah . is the only god and mohammed is his mess 
ager . now . , let 's generate some entropy in means of theology and thermodynamics . w . 
hat 's your point of view to the problem of the   first   that is , the first 
spark which was generated for the formation of the universe . has . it formed by i 
you are bothering yourselves with the big bang but where is the first spa 
rk please think a bit . think . and return to the only reality of the universe isla 
m 

uh oh. this looks a bit too much like bobby 's atheism is false stuff. are 
we really going to have to go through this again maybe the universe is 
cyclical ! ) ( 







brendan dunn 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re objective morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 13 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( kent sandvik ) writes 

which type of morality are you talking about in a natural sense , it 
is not at all immoral to harm another species  ( as long as it does n't 
adversely affect your own , i guess) .  . 
hehehe , so you say , but this objective morality somehere tells you 
that this is not the case , and you do n't know all the rules of such 
transcendental game systems .  .  .  . 

which objective system are you talking about what is its goal 
again , which brand of morality are you talking about 

keith 

cs . utexas . edu . ! geraldo . cc . utexas . edu . ! portal . austin . ibm . com . ! awdprime . austin . ibm . com . ! karner 
subject re islamic marriage 
from (f .  . karner ) 

organization ibm advanced workstation division 
originator 
lines 50 


in article ,  ( masud khan ) writes 
in article (f .  . karner ) writes 

okay. so you want me to name names there are obviously no official 
records of these pseudo marriages because they are performed for 
convenience .  . what happens typically is that the woman is willing to move 
in with her lover without any scruples or legal contracts to speak of. 
the man is merely utilizing a loophole by entering into a temporary 
religious marriage contract in order to have sex. nobody complains , 
nobody cares , nobody needs to know. 

perhaps you should alert your imam .  . it could be that this practice is 
far more widespread than you may think. or maybe it takes 4 muslim men 
to witness the penetration to decide if the practice exists ! 



again you astound me with the level of ignorance you display , muslims 
are not allowed to enter temporary marriages , got that there is 
no evidence for it it an outlawed practise so get your facts 
straight buddy. give me references for it or just tell everyone you 
were lying .  . it is not a widespread as you may think  ( fantasise ) in 
fact contrary to your fantasies it is not practised at all amongst 
muslims .  . 

first of all , i'm not your buddy ! second , read what i wrote. i'm not 
talking about what muslims are allowed to do , merely what some 
practice. they consider themselves as muslim as you , so do n't retort 
with the old and tired they must not be true muslims bullshit .  . if i 
gave you the names what will you do with this information is a fatwa 
going to be leashed out against the perpetrators do you honestly think 
that someone who did it would voluntarily come forward and confess 
with the kind of extremism shown by your co fat chance. 

at any rate , there can be no conclusive proof by the very nature of 
the act. perhaps people that indulge in this practice agree with you in 
theory , but hope that allah will forgive them in the end. 

i think it 's rather arrogant of you to pretend to speak for all muslims 
in this regard .  . also , kind of silly. are you insinuating that because 
the koranic law forbids it , there are no criminals in muslim countries 

this is as far as i care to go on this subject. the weakness of your 
arguments are for all netters to see. over and out .  .  .  . 


disclaimer the opinions expressed in this posting are mine 
solely and do not represent my employer in any way. 
f. a. karner aix technical support 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 20 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

the  things above were in reference to germany , clearly .  . people 
said that there were similar things in germany , but no one could name any. 
they said that these were things that everyone should know , and that they 
were n't going to waste their time repeating them. sounds to me like no one 
knew , either. i looked in some books , but to no avail. 

if the anne frank exhibit makes it to your small little world , 
take an afternoon to go see it. 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject getting to the point ! 
lines 12 
organization walla walla college 
lines 12 

to all a.a readers 
i have been asked be several of you to post a list of the sda church 's 
27 fundamental beliefs .  . i warn you now , it 's a long list. however , i 'll 
post it on sunday .  . sabbath is coming up soon so i wo n't be reading on 
saturday .  . and i do n't have time to do it now. 
i would greatly appreciate it if you would keep me in touch with what 's 
going on. 
i hope all of you have a and relaxing weekend. i hope it 's 
the best one so far ! ! 

tammy 


from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject re gospel dating 
lines 48 

so then , you require the same amount of evidence to believe that i 
a ) own a pair of bluejeans and b ) have superhuman powers 

well , i could use the argument that some here use about nature and claim 
that you cannot have superhuman powers because you are a human superhuman 
powers are beyond what a human has , and since you are a human , any powers 
you have are not beyond those of a human. hence , you cannot have superhuman 
powers .  . sound good to you 

anyway , to the evidence question it depends on the context. in this group , 
since you are posting from a american college site , i'm willing to take it 
as given that you have a pair of blue jeans. and , assuming there is some 
coherency in your position , i will take it as a given that you do not have 
superhuman powers .  . arguments are evidence in themselves , in some respects .  . 

when you say the existence of sic jesus , i assume that you 
mean just the man , without any special powers , etc. 

yep .  . 

many will agree that it is very possible that a man called jesus did 
in fact live. in fact , i am willing to agree that there was some man named 
jesus .  . i have no reason to believe that there was n't ever a man. 

good. 

however , most of the claims are eg virgin birth 
virgin in the sense of not having any sexual intercourse , resurection , 
son of god , etc. those claims require extra evidence. 

extra evidence why do n't we start with evidence at all 

i cannot see any evidence for the v. b. which the cynics in this group would 
ever accept .  . as for the second , it is the foundation of the religion. 
anyone who claims to have seen the risen jesus  ( back in the 40 day period ) 
is a believer , and therefore is discounted by those in this group since 
these are all ancients anyway , one again to choose to dismiss the whole 
thing. the third is as much a metaphysical relationship as anything else 
even those who agree to it have argued at length over what it means , so 
again i do n't see how evidence is possible. 

i thus interpret the extraordinary claims claim as a statement that the 
speaker will not accept any evidence on the matter. 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

cs . utexas . edu . ! uunet ! ! ! ! adagio . panasonic . com . ! nntp server . caltech . edu . ! keith 
subject re political atheists 
from  ( keith allan schneider ) 

organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 
lines 17 

 ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

and in the us , even that argument does n't stand. it costs far 
more to execute a criminal in this country than it does to feed , 
clothe , and shelter them for the remainder of their natural life. 
some people believe this is a fault of our judicial system. i 
find it to be one of it 's greatest virtues .  . 

i assume that you are talking about the appeals processes , etc. 
well , it should be noted that people who are imprisoned for life 
will also tend to appeal  ( though not quite as much in the final 
hours. 

anyway , economics is not a very good reason to either favor or oppose 
the punishment .  . 

keith 

from  ( ray ingles ) 
subject re concerning god 's morality  ( was americans and evolution ) 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 110 
distribution world 
nntp posting host syndicoot . engin . umich . edu . 

in article writes 
why do babies get diseases , etc. 
what god did create was life according to a protein code which is 
mutable and can evolve .  . without delving into a deep discussion of 
creationism vs evolutionism , 

here 's the  ( main ) problem. the scenario you outline is reasonably 
consistent , but all the evidence that i am familiar with not only does 
not support it , but indicates something far different. the earth , by 
latest estimates , is about 4.6 billion years old , and has had life for 
about 3.5 billion of those years. humans have only been around for  ( at 
most ) about 200 , 000 years. but , the fossil evidence that life 
has been changing and evolving , and , in fact , disease ridden , long before 
there were people.  ( yes , there are fossils that show signs of disease .  .  .  . 
mostly bone disorders , of course , but there are some . ) . heck , not just 
fossil evidence , but what we 've been able to glean from genetic study shows 
that disease has been around for a long , long time. if human sin was what 
brought about disease  ( at least , indirectly , though necessarily ) then 
how could it exist before humans 

god created the original genetic code 
perfect and without flaw .  . and without getting sidetracked into 
the theological ramifications of the original sin , the main effect 
of the so called original sin for this discussion was to remove 
humanity from god 's protection since by their choice a e cut 
themselves off from intimate fellowship with god. in addition , their 
sin caused them to come under the dominion of satan , who then assumed 
dominion over the earth .  .  .  . 
deletions 
since humanity was no longer under god 's protection but under satan 's 
dominion , it was no great feat for satan to genetically engineer 
diseases , both bacterial viral and genetic .  . although the forces of 
natural selection tend to improve the survivability of species , the 
degeneration of the genetic code tends to more than offset this. 

uh .  .  .  . i know of many evolutionary biologists , who know more about 
biology than you claim to , who will strongly disagree with this. there 
is no evidence that the human genetic code  ( or any other )  started off  
in perfect condition. it seems to adapt to its envionment , in a 
collective sense. i'm really curious as to what you mean by  the 
degeneration of the genetic code' .  . 

human dna , being more complex , tends to accumulate errors adversely 
affecting our well being and ability to fight off disease , while the 
simpler dna of bacteria and viruses tend to become more efficient in 
causing infection and disease. it is a bad combination. 

umm .  . nah , we seem to do a pretty good job of adapting to viruses and 
bacteria , and they to us. only a very small percentage of is 
harmful to humans .  .  .  . and that small percentage seems to be 
constant in size , but the ranks keep changing .  . for example , bubonic 
plague used to be a really nasty disease , i'm sure you 'll agree. but 
it still pops up from time to time , even today .  .  .  . and does n't do as 
much damage. part of that is because of better sanitation , but even 
when people get the disease , the symptoms tend to be less severe than in 
the past. this seems to be partly because people who were very susceptible 
died off long ago , and because the really nasty variants   , 
 ( forgive the poor terminology , i'm an engineer , not a doctor ! ) and 
died off for lack of nearby hosts .  . 
i could be wrong on this , but from what i gather acne is only a few 
hundred years old , and used to be nastier , though no killer .  . it seems to 
be getting less nasty w age .  .  .  . 

hence 
we have newborns that suffer from genetic , viral , and bacterial 
diseases disorders .  . 

now , wait a minute. i have a question. humans were created perfect , right 
and , you admit that we have an inbuilt to fight off disease. it 
seems unlikely that satan , who 's making the diseases , would also gift 
humans with the means to fight them off. simpler to make the diseases less 
lethal , if he wants survivors .  . as far as i can see , our immune systems , 
imperfect though they may  ( presently ) be , must have been built into us 
by god. i want to be clear on this are you saying that god was planning 
ahead for the time when satan would be in charge by building an immune 
system that was not , at the time of design , necessary that is , god made 
our immune systems ahead of time , knowing that adam and eve would sin and 
their descendents would need to fight off diseases 

this may be more of a mystical supernatural explanation than you 
are prepared to accept , but god is not responsible for disease. 
even if satan had nothing to do with the original inception of 
disease , evolution by random chance would have produced them since 
humanity forsook god 's protection. 

here 's another puzzle .  . what , exactly , do you mean by  perfect  in the 
phrase , 'created .  .  .  . perfect and without flaw  to my mind , a  perfect  
system would be incapable of degrading over time. a  perfect  system 
that will , without constant intervention , become imperfect is not a 
perfect system. at least , imho .  . 
or is it that god did something like writing a masterpiece novel on a 
bunch of gum wrappers held together with elmer 's glue that is , the 
original genetic  instructions  were perfect , but were  written  in 
inferior materials that had to be carefully tended or would fall apart 
if so , why could god not have used better materials 
was god incapable of creating a system that could maintain itself , 
of did it just choose not to 

deletions 
in summary , newborns are innocent , but god does not cause their suffering .  . 

my main point , as i said , was that there really is n't any evidence for 
the explanation you give .  .  ( at least , that i'm aware of . ) . but , i could n't 
help making a few nitpicks here and there. 

sincerely , 

ray ingles the above opinions are probably 
not those of the university of 
michigan .  . yet. 

from 
subject re origins of the bible .  . 
lines 56 

in article , (a . wainwright) . writes 
hi , 

i have been having an argument about the origins of the bible lately with 
a theist acquaintance .  . he stated that thousands of bibles were discovered 
at a certain point in time which were syllable perfect. this therefore 
meant that there must have been one copy at a certain time the time quoted 
by my was approximately 50 years after the death of jesus .  . 

hi adda , 

most bible scholars agree that there was one copy of each book at a certain 
time the time when the author wrote it. unfortunately , like all works 
from this time period and earlier , all that exists today are copies .  . 


cutting all of the crap out of the way  ( ie god wrote it) could anyone answer 
the following 

1. how old is the oldest surviving copy of the new testament 

there are parts of books , scraps really , that date from around the 
mid second century (a . d .  . 130 ) .  . there are some complete books , letters , 
etc. from the middle third century. the first complete collection of 
the new testament dates from the early 4th century (a . d .  . 325) .  . throughout 
this period are writings of various early church fathers leaders who 
quoted various scriptures in their writings .  . 

2. is there any truth in my acquaintance 's statements 

if you mean that someone discovered thousands of bibles which were all 
perfect copies dating from the last part of the 1st century .  .  . no . ! 

if you mean that there are thousands of early manuscripts  ( within the 
dates given above , but not letter perfect ) and that the most probable 
text can be reconstructed from these documents and that the earliest 
original autographs  ( now lost ) probably were written starting sometime 
shortly after a.d. 50 , then yes. 

3. from who where did the bible originate 

from the original authors .  . we call them matthew , mark , luke , john , peter , 
paul , james , and one other not identified .  . 

4. how long is a piece of string ) 

as long as you make it. 


adda 



regards , 

jim b. 

from  ( charley wingate ) 
subject a remarkable admission 
lines 19 

jon livesey writes 

i'm certainly not going to attempt to distinguish between different 
flavours of christian , all loudly claiming to be the one true christian .  . 

well , it 's obvious that you do n't attempt , otherwise you would be aware 
that they do n't all loudly claim to be the one true christian . 

i 've tried to avoid using the phrase is is not christian because of these 
ownership issues instead , i 've tried the phrase nicene christianity in an 
attempt to identify the vast majority of christianity which has roughly 
similar viewpoints on the core theological issues. the jws do not fall 
within this group and in fact espouse a position known as , which is 
rejected by all the nicene churches and virtually everyone else as well. 

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace , 
but strife closed in the sod .  . 
yet , brothers , pray for but one thing 
tove ! the peace of god. 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re genocide is caused by theism evidence 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 26 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

i do n't see anything special about theism in general that makes it a 
particular hazard  ( more so than say , stupidity , anarchy , or patriotism) .  . 
of course , it depends on the religion , but i see nothing about believing 
in gods that in and of itself entails or even promotes xenophobia , genocide , 
etc. 

if the emphasis is on the in general , then of course you 're 
correct , since you have n't really said anything. if we restrict 
our observations to practiced religions , there are lots of 
examples of god mandated genocide .  . just ask the canaanites .  . the 
point is that if you believe in a god , and if you believe he has 
ordered you to eliminate an entire race , you will likely make the 
attempt .  . after all , if it was ok in the past , it could surely be 
ok in the present. 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from patrick c leger 
subject re thoughts on christians 
organization sophomore , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 51 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . alt . atheism . 15 apr 93 re thoughts on christians 
by dave 
i'm sick of religious types being pampered , looked out for , and worst 
of all . . . . respected more than atheists .  . there must be an end 
in sight. 

i think it 'd help if we got a couple good atheists  ( or even some good , 
steadfast agnostics ) in some high political offices .  . when was the last 
time we had an  ( openly ) atheist president have we ever (i do n't 
actually know these are n't rhetorical questions . ) . how  some 
supreme court justices 

one thing that really ticked me off a while ago was an ad for a news 
program on a local station .  .  . the . promo said something like who are 
these cults , and why do they prey on the young ahem .  . ever hear of 
baptism at birth if that is n't preying on the young , i do n't know what 
is .  .  .  . 

i used to be  ( ack , barf ) a catholic , and was even confirmed .  .  . shortly . 
thereafter i decided it was a load of bs .  . my mom , who really insisted 
that i continue to go to church , felt it was her duty ( ! ) to bring me up 
as a believer ! that was one of the more presumptuous things i 've heard 
in my life. i suggested we go talk to the priest , and she agreed. the 
priest was amazingly cool about it .  .  . he . basically said that if i did n't 
believe it , there was no good in forcing it on me. actually , i guess he 
was n't amazingly cool about it his response is what you 'd hope for 
 ( indeed , expect ) from a human being. i s pose i just did n't expect 
it .  .  .  . 

i find it absurd that religion exists yet , i can also see its 
usefulness to people. facing up to the fact that you 're just going to 
be worm food in a few decades , and that there is n't some cosmic purpose 
to humanity and the universe , can be pretty difficult for some people. 
having a readily available , pre digested solution to this is pretty 
attractive , if you 're either a ) gullible enough , b ) willing to suspend 
your reasoning abilities for the piece of mind , or c ) have had the stuff 
rammed down your throat for as long as you can remember. religion in 
general provides a nice patch for some human weaknesses organized 
religion provides a nice way to keep a population under control. 

blech .  . 

chris 



chris leger 
sophomore , carnegie mellon computer engineering 
remember .  .  . if . you do n't like what somebody is saying , you can always 
ignore them ! 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re objective morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( keith 
allan schneider ) wrote 
which type of morality are you talking about in a natural sense , it 
is not at all immoral to harm another species  ( as long as it does n't 
adversely affect your own , i guess) .  . 

hehehe , so you say , but this objective morality somehere tells you 
that this is not the case , and you do n't know all the rules of such 
transcendental game systems .  .  .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject ontology  ( was metaphysics ) 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 46 

in article 
 ( charley wingate ) writes 


if it is contradictory it cannot exist. 

contradictory is a property of language. if i correct this to 


things defined by contradictory language do not exist 


no need to correct it , it stands as it is said. 



i will object to definitions as reality. if you then amend it to 

things described by contradictory language do not exist 

then we 've come to something which is plainly false .  . failures in 
description are merely failures in description. 


you miss the point entirely .  . things defined by contradictory language 
do not exist. though something existing might be meant , conclusions 
drawn from the description are wrong , unless there is the possibility 
to find the described , and draw conclusions from direct knowledge of 
the described then. another possibility is to drop the contradictory 
part , but that implies that one can trust the concept as presented 
and that one has not got to doubt the source of it as well. 

 ( i'm not an objectivist , remember . ) . 


neither am i. but either things are directly sensed  ( which includes 
some form of modelling , by the way ) or they are used in modelling .  . 
using something contradictive in modelling is not approved of. 
wonder why 

we remain with the question if something contradictory can be sensed 
as contradictory .  . an important point is that either one manages to 
resolve the contradictions or one is forced not to use or to refer 
to the contradictory part in drawing conclusions , or one will fall 
in the garbage in garbage out trap .  . 
benedikt 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 18 

kent sandvik wrote 
in article ,  ( robert 
beauchaine ) wrote 
someone spank me if i'm wrong , but did n't lord , liar , or lunatic 
originate with c.s. lewis who 's this fellow anyway 

i do think so , and is n't there a clear connection with the i do 
believe , because it is absurd notion by one of the original 
christians  ( origen ) .  . 

there is a similar statement attributed to anselm , i believe so that 
i may understand . in both cases reason is somewhat less exalted than 
anyone posting here could accept , which means that neither statement 
can be properly analysed in this venue .  . 

bill 



from nanci ann miller nm0w 
subject re new member 
organization sponsored account , school of computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 16 

nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

 ( the one and only ) writes 
welcome. i am the official keeper of the list of nicknames that people 
are known by on alt.atheism  ( did n't know we had such a list , did you) .  . 
your have been awarded the nickname of buckminster .  . so the next time 
you post an article , sign with your nickname like so 
dave buckminster fuller .  . thanks again. 

jim humor means never having to say you 're sorry copeland 

of course , the list has to agree with the nickname laws laid down by the 
almost 2000 years ago  ( you know .  .  .  . the 9 of them that were written on 
the iron tablets that melted once and had to be ) .  . since i am 
a prophet of the i decree that you should post the whole list of 
nicknames for the frequent posters here ! 

nanci 

subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
from  ( james j. lippard ) 
distribution world , local 
organization university of arizona 
nntp posting host skyblu . ccit . arizona . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( chris bell ) writes .  .  .  . 
writes 

my syllogism is of the form 
a is b. 
c is a. 
therefore c is b. 

this is a logically valid construction. 

your syllogism , however , is of the form 
a is b. 
c is b. 
therefore c is a. 

therefore yours is a logically invalid construction , 
and your comments do n't apply. 

if all of those are is 's of identity , both syllogisms are valid .  . 
if , however , b is a predicate , then the second syllogism is invalid .  . 
 ( the first syllogism , as you have pointed out , is valid whether b 
is a predicate or designates an individual . ) . 

jim lippard 
dept. of philosophy 
university of arizona 
tucson , az 85721 

organization penn state university 
from andrew newell 
subject re pompous ass 



lines 36 

in article ,  ( keith allan 
schneider ) says 

andrew newell writes 

sure , they may fall back on other things , but this is one they 
should not have available to use. 

it is worse than others the national anthem should it be changed too 
god bless america the list goes on .  .  .  . 

worse maybe not , but it is definately a violation of the 
rules the us govt. supposedly follows .  . maybe the others 
should be changed to but i'm not personally as concerned 
about the anthem since i do n't come across it in daily 
nearly unavoidable routines .  . 

every christian .  . and i 'd be tempted to rub that motto in the 
face of christians when debunking their standard motto slinging 
gets boring. 

then you 'd be no better than the people you despise .  . 

i do n't despise the people .  .  . just . their opinions. i meant 
when chatting with the ones who refuse to listen to any idea 
other than their own .  .  . then . it just becomes an exercise for 
amusement .  . 

... 
for the motto to be legitimate , it would have to read 
in god , gods , or godlessness we trust 

would you approve of such a motto 

no.  .  .  . not . unless the only way to get rid of the current one 
was to change it to such as that. 

from  ( nancy patricia o'connor ) 
subject re the pope is jewish ! 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 39 

in article 
 ( stilgar ) writes 

last night , while watching the 2a . m .  . rebroadcast of jerry springer (a 
talk show ) i heard this jewel of a thought from a 12 year old racist .  . 
the focus of this show was on these kids and their hatred for the jewish 
religion , and why. 

some stuff deleted 

interesting  ( and scary ) no they went on to say how the jews had 
killed their god , and how in the end of time that all the races would 
go to their homelands  ( of course , they would remain in america , which 
is new , as it says in gen 2  ( what another kid said ) but 
the rest of the races would go home ) and then the great battle or plague 
or whatever revel .  . says would happen , and the jews would be killed. 

the most interesting thing about this was that my roomate is catholic , 
and had the kjv of the bible on his desk. he immediatly opened it up 
and began to search for the quoted passages  ( gen , rev , and john ) to 
look for himself , and could n't find what they said they saw. i do n't 
know 

i saw this show a while back , and when i heard these kids 
quote the bible to justify their racist claims , i looked up 
that quote about jesus hating jews  ( since jesus himself was a 
jew , my curiousity had been piqued by such a claim) .  . 
the jist of the passage  ( and i am sorry but i ca n't recall 
which passage it was exactly ) was that jesus was condemning 
the pharisees for being corrupt .  . 
of course , the pharisees were jewish too , but it was n't jews 
as a whole that jesus was condemning , just the powers that be. 


nancy o'connor 
psychology undergrad the opinions i express 
simon fraser university , are my own. 
burnaby , b.c. 
canada 

from robert knowles 
subject re koresh is god ! 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 15 

date fri , 16 apr 1993 14 15 20 0100 
from mathew 

the latest news seems to be that koresh will give himself up once he 's 
finished writing a sequel to the bible .  . 

mathew 

writing the seven seals or something along those lines. he 's already 
written the first of the seven which was around 30 pages or so and has 
handed it over to an assistant for proofreading ! . i would expect any 
decent messiah to have a built in spellchecker .  . maybe koresh 2.0 will 
come with one. 



subject a word of advice 
from  ( the one and only ) 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
summary was re yeah , right 
lines 14 

in article  ( charley wingate ) writes 

i 've said enough times that there is no alternative that should think you 
might have caught on by now. and there is no alternative , but the point 
is , rationality is n't an alternative either. the problems of metaphysical 
and religious knowledge are unsolvable or i should say , humans cannot 
solve them. 

how does that saying go those who say it ca n't be done should n't interrupt 
those who are doing it. 

jim 

have you washed your brain today 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 23 

in article  ( leonard newnham ) writes 

gregg jaeger wrote 

well , it seemed slightly incongruous to find the union jack flying 
at city hall in belfast .  . 

may i ask why it 's there not because the british want it there  ( ni 
is just one big expensive problem ) , it 's there because that is 
what the majority of the population of ni want. is there some 
problem with that 

the majority of those who can open their mouths in public perhaps. 
there seems quite alot of incentive for the british to have control 
of ni , like using the north channel and irish sea as a waste dump (i was 
appalled at the dumping i saw in the harbor in belfast) .  . it is my 
understanding that quite alot of radioactivity enters the water 
it 'd be quite a problem if ni got its independence from britain and 
then stopped accepting the waste. are you suggesting that british 
industry is n't making profit off the situation as well 


gregg 

from robert knowles 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 35 

date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 23 54 gmt 
from umar khan 

his conclusion was that , 
while he was impressed that what little the holy qur'an had to 
say about science was accurate , he was far more impressed that the 
holy qur'an did not contain the same rampant errors evidenced in 
the traditions .  . how would a man of 7th century arabia have known 
what not to include in the holy qur'an  ( assuming he had authored 
it) 

well , it looks like the folks in soc . religion . islam . have loosened up 
a bit and are discussing this topic as well as the banking interest 
topic. a few books on the subject have also been mentioned in addition 
to the one you mentioned. these may be hard to find , but i think i may 
take a stab at it out of curiosity .  . i know the one film i saw on this 
subject was pretty weak and the only two quotes i have seen which were 
used to show science in the koran  ( which i posted here ) were also pretty 
vague .  . i suspect that these books will extrapolate an awful lot on the 
quotes they have. 

at least one poster on the islam channel seems to have some misgivings 
about the practice of using the koran to decide what is good science. 

i wonder if islam has ever come up with the equivalent of the christians 
creation science on any topic. it would be interesting to find a history 
of scientific interpretations of the koran , to see if anyone used the koran 
to support earlier science which has since been discarded .  . it is all too 
easy to look at science as it exists today and then interpret passages 
to match those findings .  . people do similar things with the sayings of 
nostradamus all the time. 

anyway , it is a rather unique claim of islam and may be worth checking .  . 



from  ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) 
subject we do n't need no stinking subjects ! 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization the loyal order of keiths .  . 
lines 93 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 
 ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 

no , if you 're going to claim something , then it is up to you to prove it. 
think cold fusion . 

well , i 've provided examples to show that the trend was general , and you 
 ( or others ) have provided some counterexamples , mostly ones surrounding 
mating practices , etc. i do n't think that these few cases are enough to 
disprove the general trend of natural morality .  . and , again , the mating 
practices need to be reexamined .  .  .  . 

so what you 're saying is that your mind is made up , and you 'll just explain 
away any differences at being statistically insignificant 

try to find immoral non mating related activities. 
so you 're excluding mating related activities from your natural morality 

no , but mating practices are a special case. i 'll have to think about it 
some more. 

so you 'll just explain away any inconsistancies in your theory as being 
a special case . 

yes , i think that the natural system can be objectively deduced with the 
goal of species propogation in mind. but , i am not equating the two 
as you so think. that is , an objective system is n't necessarily the 
natural one. 
are you or are you not the man who wrote 
a natural moral system is the objective moral system that most animals 
follow . 

indeed. but , while the natural system is objective , all objective systems 
are not the natural one. so , the terms can not be equated .  . the natural 
system is a subset of the objective ones. 

you just equated them. re read your own words. 

now , since homosexuality has been observed in most animals  ( including 
birds and dolphins ) , are you going to claim that most animals have 
the capacity of being immoral 

i do n't claim that homosexuality is immoral .  . it is n't harmful , although 
it is n't helpful either  ( to the mating process) .  . and , when you say that 
homosexuality is observed in the animal kingdom , do n't you mean bisexuality 

a study release in 1991 found that 11 of female seagulls are lesbians .  . 

well , i'm saying that these goals are not inherent .  . that is why they must 
be postulates , because there is not really a way to determine them 
otherwise  ( although it could be argued that they arise from the natural 
goal but they are somewhat removed) .  . 
postulate to assume posit .  . 

that 's right. the goals themselves are n't inherent .  . 

i can create a theory with a postulate that the sun revolves around the 
earth , that the moon is actually made of green cheese , and the stars are 
the portions of angels that intrudes into three dimensional reality. 

you could , but such would contradict observations .  . 

now , apply this last sentence of your to your theory. notice how your are 
contridicting observations 

i can build a mathematical proof with a postulate that given the length 
of one side of a triangle , the length of a second side of the triangle , and 
the degree of angle connecting them , i can determine the length of the 
third side. 

but a postulate is something that is generally  ( or always ) found to be 
true. i do n't think your postulate would be valid .  . 

you do n't know much math , do you the ability to use sas to determine the 
length of the third side of the triangle is fundemental to geometry .  . 

guess which one people are going to be more receptive to. in order to assume 
something about your system , you have to be able to show that your postulates 
work. 

yes , and i think the goals of survival and happiness do work. you think 
they do n't or are they not good goals 

goals postulates .  . 

again , if one of the goals of this objective natural morality system 
you are proposing is survival of the species , then homosexuality is 
immoral .  . 

 ( b(0 4 ) c d e f g  ( k ) m  ( r ) s ( ) t 
my thoughts , my posts , my ideas , my responsibility , my beer , my pizza. ok 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 20 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

perhaps the chimps that failed to evolve cooperative behaviour 
died out , and we are left with the ones that did evolve such 
behaviour , entirely by chance. 

that 's the entire point ! 

are you going to proclaim a natural morality every time an 
organism evolves cooperative behaviour 

yes ! 

natural morality is a morality that developed naturally .  . 

what about the natural morality of bee dance 

huh 

keith 

from (q . p . liu) . 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
originator 
nntp posting host ernie . princeton . edu . 
reply to 
organization princeton university 
lines 34 

in article writes 
in article bs . de . , bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 
but could you give a definition of free will especially in the 
presence of an omniscient being 

will is self determination . in other words , god created conscious 
beings who have the ability to choose between moral choices independently 
of god. all will , therefore , is free will . 

so these hypothetical conscious beings can ignore any influences of 
their circumstances  ( their genetics , their environment , their experiences ) 
which are not all self determined 

 ( of course , the idea of hell makes the idea of free will dubious .  . 
on the other hand , the idea of hell is not a very powerful idea. 

a parable for you 

there was once our main character who blah blah blah .  . 
one day , a thug pointed a mean looking gun at omc , and 
said ,  do what i say , or i'm blasting you to hell . ' . 
omc thought ,  if i believe this thug , and follow the 
instructions that will be given , i 'll avoid getting blasted to 
hell. on the other hand , if i believe this thug , and do not 
follow the instructions that will be given , i 'll get blasted to 
hell. hmm .  .  .  . the more attractive choice is obvious , i 'll 
follow the instructions . ' . now , omc found the choice obvious 
because everything omc had learned about getting blasted to 
hell made it appear very undesirable .  . 
but then omc noticed that the thug 's gun was n't a real 
gun. the thug 's threats were make believe. 
so omc ignored the thug and resumed blah blah blah .  . ) 

standard opinion opinions are delta correlated .  . 

from  ( gregg jaeger ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization boston university physics department 
lines 57 

in article  ( rashid ) writes 


what about the twelve imams , who he considered incapable of error 
or sin khomeini supports this view of the twelve imans .  . this is 
heresy for the very reasons i gave above. 


i would be happy to discuss the issue of the 12 imams with you , although 
my preference would be to move the discussion to another 
newsgroup .  . i feel a philosophy or religion group would be more 
appropriate. 


i think many reading this group would also benefit by knowing how 
deviant the view as i 've articulated it above  ( which may not be 
the true view of khomeini ) is from the basic principles of islam .  . 
so that the non muslim readers of this group will see how far from 
the simple basics of islam such views are on the face of them. and 
if they are not in contradiction with the basics of islam , how 
subtle such issues are and how it seems sects exist in islam while 
they are explicitly proscribed by the qur'an .  . 


the topic is deeply embedded in the world view of islam and the 
esoteric teachings of the prophet (s . a . ) .  . heresy does not enter 
into it at all except for those who see islam only as an exoteric 
religion that is only nominally  ( if at all ) concerned with the metaphysical 
substance of man 's being and nature. 


in my opinion considering any human being as having a substance 
or metaphysical fundamentally different from that of any other human 
being is a heretical notion and one proscribed by islam .  . 


from your posts , you seem fairly well versed in sunni thought. you 
should seek to know shi'ite thought through knowledgeable 
shi'ite authors as well at least that much respect is due before the 
charge of heresy is levelled .  . 


absolutely ! i would be interested in discussing this privately and 
i am interested in hearing how one might try to make the concept of 
error free and sinless human beings philosophically consistent with 
the teachings of the qur'an .  . however , prima facie such 
are highly susceptible to degenerating into , explicitly 
proscribed by the qur'an .  . 


as salaam a 

alaikum wassalam 


gregg 


subject re gospel dating 
from  ( robert knowles ) 
organization , east of krakatoa 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 22 

date mon , 5 apr 1993 16 30 50 gmt 
from stilgar 

in article  ( keith m. 
ryan ) writes 
in article 
 ( stilgar ) writes 

the illiad is the undisputed word of  ( god(tm ) prove me wrong 

i dispute it. 

ergo by counter example you are proven wrong. 

i dispute your counter example 

ergo by counter counter example you are wrong and 
i am right so nanny nanny boo boo 
8 p 


this looks like a serious case of temporary islam .  . 

from  ( bake timmons ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
lines 29 


robert knowles writes 


my my , there are a few atheists with time on their hands. ) 

ok , first i apologize .  . i did n't bother reading the faq first and so fired an 
imprecise flame .  . that was inexcusable .  . 


how about the nickname bake flamethrower timmons 

sure , but robert koresh  ( sic ) knowles seems good , too. ) 

you were n't at the koresh compound around noon today by any chance , were you 

remember , koresh dried for your sins .  . 

and pass that beef jerky .  . umm umm .  . 

though i was n't there , at least i can rely on you now to keep me posted on what 
what he 's doing. 

have you any other fetishes besides those for beef jerky and david koresh 

bake timmons , iii 

 .  .  . there . 's nothing higher , stronger , more wholesome and more useful in life 
than some good memory .  .  .  . in brothers  ( dostoevsky ) 

from  ( ron house ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
keywords dan bissell 
organization university of southern queensland 
lines 42 

 ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 

i know i should n't get involved , but .  .  .  . ) 

bit deleted 

the book says that jesus was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 
modern day koresh ) or he was actually who he said he was. 
some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar people 
gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
someone who was or had been healed .  . call me a fool , but i believe he did 
heal people. 
niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 
anyone who is drawn to david koresh is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 
therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 

righto , dan , try this one with your cornflakes .  .  .  . 

the book says that muhammad was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 
modern day mad mahdi ) or he was actually who he said he was. 
some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar people 
gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
how his son in law made the sun stand still. call me a fool , but i believe 
he did make the sun stand still. 
niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 
anyone who is drawn to the mad mahdi is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 
therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 



ron house. 
toowoomba , australia .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 28 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( ken arromdee ) writes 

look , i'm not the one that made those nazi comparisons .  . other people 
compared what the religious people are doing now to nazi germany .  . they 
have said that it started out with little things  ( but no one really knew 
about any of these little things , strangely enough ) and grew to bigger 
things. they said that the motto is but one of the little things 
you just contradicted yourself. the motto is one of those little things that 
nobody has bothered to you , huh 

the  things above were in reference to germany , clearly .  . people 
said that there were similar things in germany , but no one could name any. 
they said that these were things that everyone should know , and that they 
were n't going to waste their time repeating them. sounds to me like no one 
knew , either. i looked in some books , but to no avail. 

that is 
going to pave the way for other intrusions .  . of course , if the motto 
has n't caused problems in its 40 year history , then i doubt it is going to .  .  .  . 
it has caused problems. you just ignore every instance when someone 
describes one to you. 

it has caused problems again , no one has shown that things were better 
before the motto , or that they 'd likely be better after. i do n't think 
the motto initiates any sort of harassment .  . harassment will occur whether 
or not the motto is present. 

keith 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re nicknames 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 21 

in article , 
 ( john munch ) wrote 
mathew faq ca n't remember his last name 
keith lie tally  . sig . ryan 
kent finn tastic 
cindy popsicle toes kandolf 
jim face  . sig . tims 
simon clip that theist 
umar reasonable khan 
rob argue with g d strom 
dave buckminster fuller 
maddi never a useful post hausmann 

hey , what about an affectionate nickname for me 

you could take my wrongly spelled surname ) .  . 

cheers , 
kent sandvik 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re islamic genocide 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 21 

o.k. , so pick former yugoslavia instead and say their problems are caused 
by communism , it does n't really matter. but i guess religious leaders are 
calling for an end to that , too , so it ca n't be religiously motivated .  . this 
despite the fact that the christians carve crosses in dead muslims chests .  . 
maybe they just want land. maybe its something else they want. maybe the 
cross carvings are just accidental .  . i do n't know. just looks suspicious .  . 

most likely the tragic situation in bosnia is a combination of ethnical 
and religious motives , where religion is just one attribute that separates 
the groups from each other. 

but i must agree that the sad saga in bosnia is a terrible example 
of a case where religion is not helping , instead it is used as a weapon 
against other humans. and my sympathies are mostly on the bosnian side , 
it looks like the serbs are the oppressors , willing to use even 
christianity as a weapon against their former friends. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was re genocide is caused by atheism) 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 41 

in bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 

in article 
 ( fred rice ) writes 

and it is he  ( god almighty ) who created the night and the 
day , and the sun and the earth all  ( the bodies ) 
swim along , each in its rounded course.  ( holy quran 21 33 ) 

hmm .  . this agrees with the system of the earth at the centre , 
with the planets orbitting round it. so copernicus and were 
wrong after all ! 

you have n't read very carefully if you look again , you will see that 
it does n't say anything about what is circling what. 

anyway , they are not moving in circles .  . 

oops , sorry , my words , not the words of the qur'an .  . 

nor is there any evidence that 
everything goes around in a rounded course in a general sense. wishy 
washy statements are not scientific .  . 

note that  ( the celestial bodies ) in the above verse is an 
interpolation  ( which is why it is in brackets ) it is the translator 's 
 ( incorrect , imho ) interpretation .  . 

here is maurice 's translation  ( he studied arabic for his 
research into the qur'an and science ) of this verse 

 ( god is) the one who created the night , the day , the sun and the moon. 
each is travelling in an orbit with its own motion.  ( qur'an 33 ) 

the positive aspect of this verse noted by dr. maurice is that 
while geocentrism was the commonly accepted notion at the time  ( and for 
a long time afterwards ) , there is no notion of geocentrism in this verse 
 ( or anywhere in the qur'an) .  . 

fred rice 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 57 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 

i think that you are confusing the words objective and inherent .  . 
and objective system is simply one in which an outside observer who , 
given the postulates of the system , could perfectly judge any situation 
or action as consistent with the system  ( right ) or not (wrong) .  . you seem 
to be objecting because the goals of the system are not inherent .  . that is , 
you seem to want to define an objective system as one in which the 
postulates themselves could be determined by some outside observer .  . 
i do n't think that this is a good definition of an objective system. 
then you need to learn english. 

really ` 

gravity is an objective system. anybody can learn what it is , and perform 
experiments .  . they will get the same results as every other person who 
has performed those experiments .  . 

no , gravity is an inherent system. you do n't need any excess information 
other than observations to determine anything. it is possible to objectively 
determine someone 's guilt or innocence within an non inherent system. 
i agree that morality is not necessarily inherent  ( unless you state that 
everything we do has an evolutionary basis ) , but this does not mean that 
it cannot be objective in theory. 

this natural morality is not an objective system , as evidenced by 
your comments about lions , and mine. 

perhaps it can be objective , but not inherent .  . anyway , as i noted before , 
the practices related to mating rituals , etc. among the animals are likely 
the only ones to be considered immoral under the previous definitions 
of the natural law. therefore , some revisions are in order , since the 
class of activities surrounding mating seem to pose some general problems. 

and in fact , the only way that the postulates could be determined by an 
outsider would be if there were some sort of higher truth , like some 
sort of god or something. but , i do not think that a god is necessary 
for an objective system , while it seems that you do. 
what are you trying to say here 

it seens that you are objecting to the notion of an objective system 
because perhaps you think that it would imply inherence , which would 
necessitate some sort of grand design 

no , i have classified behavior of most animals as in line with a 
moral system. it is certainly possible for animals to commit acts 
which are outside of their rules of ethics , but they do n't seem to 
do so very often. perhaps they are not intelligent enough to be 
immoral .  . 
and perhaps it 's because you have yet to define a moral system. 

i think i have. it is a code of ethics which basically defines undesired 
behaviors , etc. an immoral behavior could be unwanted , unproductive , 
or destructive , etc. , depending on the goal of the system  ( that is , 
immoral to what end ) .  . 

keith 

from  ( naren bala ) 
subject re slavery  ( was re why is sex only allowed in marriage  .  .  . ) . 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 21 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
looking at historical evidence such  perfect  islamic states 
did n't survive. i agree , people are people , and even if you might 
start an islamic revolution and create this perfect state , it takes 
some time and the internal corruption will destroy the ground rules 
again. 


nothing is perfect. nothing is perpetual .  . i.e. even if it is perfect , 
it is n't going to stay that way forever. 

perpetual machines cannot exist. i thought that there 
were some laws in mechanics or thermodynamics stating that. 

not an atheist 
bn 


naren bala  ( software evaluation engineer ) 
home (503) 627 0380 work (503) 627 2742 
all standard disclaimers apply. 

from andrews . ac . uk .  ( norman r. paterson ) 
subject re genocide is caused by atheism 
organization association against having fun with your clothes on 
lines 23 

in article (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 
... 
one of the reasons that you are atheist is that you limit god by giving 
god a form. god does not have a face . 

wait a minute. i thought you said that allah (i presume allah god) was unknowable , 
and yet here you are claiming to know a very concrete fact about him. 

you say that god does not have a face . does n't the bible say that god has 

how do you suggest i decide which  ( if any) of you is right or are you both right 
god has but no face or does your use of quotation marks 

god does not have a face . 

allow you to interpret this to mean whatever you like 


peace , 

bobby mozumder 

norman 

from  ( heikki t. suopanki ) 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
in reply to 's message of 5 apr 93 11 24 30 mst 
lines 17 
reply to 
organization , finlandia 



on 5 apr 93 11 24 30 mst , said 

god is eternal .  . a b 
jesus is god. c a 
therefore , jesus is eternal .  . c b 

this works both logically and mathematically .  . god is of the set of 
things which are eternal .  . jesus is a subset of god. therefore 
jesus belongs to the set of things which are eternal .  . 

everything is n't always so logical .  .  .  .  . 

mercedes is a car. 
that girl is mercedes .  . 
therefore , that girl is a car 

heikki 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 25 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

the probability that the automobile system will kill someone 
innocent in an accident goes asymptotically close to 1 , just 
like the court system. 
however , anyone who does n't like the automobile system can 
opt out , as i have. 

this is n't true. many people are forced to use the automobile system. 
i certainly do n't use it by choice. if there were other ways of getting 
around , i 'd do it. 

secondly , we do try to make the automobile system as safe 
as possible , because we do recognize the danger to the 
innocent , whereas the us the current example is not trying 
to make the court system safer , which it could fairly easily 
do by replacing fatal punishments with non fatal punishments .  . 

but i think that the court system has been refined over hundreds of 
years in the us , britain , and other countries. we have tried to make 
it as fair as possible. can it be made better  ( without removing the 
death penalty ) besides , life imprisonment sounds like a fatal punishment 
to me. 

keith 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re where are they now 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article pepper . east . sun . com .  ( geoff arnold @ sun bos r.h. coast near the top ) writes 

your posting provoked me into checking my save file for memorable 
posts. the first i captured was by ken arromdee on 19 feb 1990 , on the 
subject re atheist too . that was article 473 here your question 
was article , which is an average of about 48 articles a day for 
the last three years. as others have noted , the current posting rate is 
such that my kill file is depressing large .  .  .  .  .  .  . among the posting i 
saved in the early days were articles from the following notables 

hey , it might to interesting to read some of these posts .  .  .  . 
especially from ones who still regularly posts on alt.atheism ! 


from  ( loren petrich ) 
from  ( jesus christ of nazareth ) 
from cho . cac . washington . edu .  ( mark crispin ) 
from  ( jim perry ) 
from  ( james j. lippard ) 
from  ( marvin minsky ) 

an interesting bunch .  .  .  .  . i wonder where 2 is 

hee hee hee. 

i ai n't going to say .  .  .  .  . 



whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. 

john laws , a man without the honor to keep his given word. 



subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 27 

in article  ( fred rice ) writes 
i should clarify what muslims usually mean when they say muslim . in 
general , anyone who calls themselves a muslim and does not do or 
outwardly profess 
something in clear contradiction with the essential teachings of islam 
is considered to be a muslim .  . thus , one who might do things contrary to 
islam  ( through ignorance , for example) does not suddenly not become a 
muslim .  . if one knowingly transgresses islamic teachings and essential 
principles , though , then one does leave islam .  . 

you and mr. bobby really need to sit down and decide what 
exactly islam is before posting here. 

according to 'zlumber , one is not a muslim when one is doing evil. 
a muslin can do no evil according to him , one who does evil is suffering 
from temporary athiesm .  . 

now , would the members who claim to be muslims get their stories 
straight 




satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

from  ( geoff arnold @ sun bos r.h. coast near the top ) 
subject re where are they now 
organization 
lines 22 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host poori . east . sun . com . 

your posting provoked me into checking my save file for memorable 
posts. the first i captured was by ken arromdee on 19 feb 1990 , on the 
subject re atheist too . that was article 473 here your question 
was article , which is an average of about 48 articles a day for 
the last three years. as others have noted , the current posting rate is 
such that my kill file is depressing large .  .  .  .  .  .  . among the posting i 
saved in the early days were articles from the following notables 

from  ( loren petrich ) 
from  ( jesus christ of nazareth ) 
from cho . cac . washington . edu .  ( mark crispin ) 
from  ( jim perry ) 
from  ( james j. lippard ) 
from  ( marvin minsky ) 

an interesting bunch .  .  .  .  . i wonder where 2 is 

geoff arnold , pc nfs architect , sun select .  . 

what if they made the whole thing up the great lie by 
four guys , two thousand years ago , over wine .  .  .  . the tear garden 


from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re free moral agency and kent s. 
lines 37 
organization walla walla college 
lines 37 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re free moral agency and kent s. 
date thu , 15 apr 1993 01 51 57 gmt 
in article , 
 ( tammy r healy ) wrote 
ezekiel 28 17 says , your hart was filled with pride because of all your 
beauty you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor .  . therefore 
i have cast you down the the ground and exposed you helpless before the 
curious gaze of kings .  . 

for those of you who are bible scholars , you knowthat the 1st 11 verses 
refer to the prince of tyre .  . this is a prophesy about and addressed to the 
human prince .  . verses 12 19 refer to the king of tyre , which is a term for 
satan .  . 

tammy , what 's the rationale to connect the prince of tyre with satan , 
could you give us more rational bible cites , thanks i'm afraid that 
if this is not the case , your thinking model falls apart like a house 
of cards. but let 's see ! 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

at the time ezekiel was written , israel was in apostacy again and if i'm not 
mistaken , tyre was about to make war on israel .  . like i said , the prince of 
tyre was the human ruler of tyre .  . he was a wicked man. by calling satan 
the king of tyre , ezekiel was saying that satan is the real ruler over tyre .  . 

do n't think my interpretation is neccessarily the orthodox christian one , 
although most christian bible commentaries interpret the king of tyre as 
being a reference to satan .  . (i have n't read ezekiel throughly in a long 
time . ) . 

tammy 

from  ( voelkerding ) 
subject re death penalty  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 52 

in article  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 
in article  ( voelkerding ) writes 

if we worry about the one case in 20 , 000  ( or more ) where an innocent man is 
convicted of something horrible enough to warrant the death penalty , and 
hence put laws into place which make it virtually impossible to actually 
execute real criminals , then the death penalty is not serving its original 
purpose. it should either be changed or done away with. 


i do n't have numbers to back this up , so take the following 
accordingly. 

you use an off the cuff number of 1 in 20 , 000 innocent people 
sentenced to die as an acceptable loss for the benefit of capital 
punishment .  . i 'd be very , very surprised if the ratio were that 
low. there have been approximately a dozen known cases of the 
execution of the innocent in the us since the turn of the century. 
have we in that same period sentenced 240 , 000 people to death 
accounting for those cases that we do n't know the truth , it seems 
reasonable to assume that twice that many innocent people have in 
fact been executed .  . that would raise the number of death 
sentences metered out since 1900 to half a million for your 
acceptance ratio to hold .  . i rather doubt that 's the case. 


the point , of course , is what is an acceptable loss. 1 in 
10 , 000 seems we 're probably not doing even that well. 1 in 100 
1 in 2 or should we perhaps find a better solution 



bob beauchaine 


any suggestions as to what a better solution might be i realize the 
off hand nature of the numbers i used. and i ca n't answer as to what 
an acceptable loss rate is. however , as i said in another post , i 
despise the idea of supporting criminals for life. it 's the economics 
of the situation that concern me most. the money spent feeding , clothing , 
housing and taking care of people who have demonstrated that they are 
unfit to live in society could go to a number of places , all of which 
i , and probably others , would consider far more worthwhile and which 
would the lives of all americans .  . give people jobs , give the 
homeless shelter .  . any number of things. 

clyde 



little girls , like butterflies , do n't need a reason ! 
robert heinlein 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re death penalty  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 28 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( mark mccullough ) writes 
you exagerate to the point of libel .  . i gave only unpopular reasons 
deliberately .  . or do you think that we should have let iraq absorb kuwait 
i could make the tired old 1939 poland comparison , but i think you 've 
heard it. but the principle aplies , never play a chamberlain and 
roll over to another country being invaded .  . that only invites further 
invasions .  . 

perhaps we ought not to have supported a known 
provided him with weapon systems , tactical support , technology , 
etc. 

we made hussein .  . 

what did bush call him oh yes , an ally and a freind .  . 




i 'd cheat on hillary too. 

john laws 
local gop 
extolling traditional family values .  . 





from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization sgi 
lines 63 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

what if i act morally for no particular reason then am i moral what 
if morality is instinctive , as in most animals 

saying that morality is instinctive in animals is an attempt to 
assume your conclusion .  . 

which conclusion 

you conclusion correct me if i err that the behaviour which is 
instinctive in animals is a natural moral system. 

see , we are disagreeing on the definition of moral here. earlier , you said 
that it must be a conscious act. by your definition , no instinctive 
behavior pattern could be an act of morality .  . you are trying to apply 
human terms to non humans. 

pardon me i am trying to apply human terms to non humans 

i think there must be some confusion here. i'm the guy who is 
saying that if animal behaviour is instinctive then it does not 
have any moral sugnificance .  . how does refusing to apply human 
terms to animals get turned into applying human terms 

i think that even if someone is not conscious of an alternative , 
this does not prevent his behavior from being moral .  . 

i'm sure you do think this , if you say so. how about trying to 
convince me 


you do n't think that morality is a behavior pattern what is human 
morality a moral action is one that is consistent with a given 
pattern. that is , we enforce a certain behavior as moral .  . 

you keep getting this backwards. you are trying to show that 
the behaviour pattern is a morality .  . whether morality is a behavior 
pattern is irrelevant , since there can be behavior pattern , for 
example the motions of the planets , that most  ( all ) people would 
not call a morality .  . 

i try to show it , but by your definition , it ca n't be shown .  . 

i 've offered , four times , i think , to accept your definition if 
you allow me to ascribe moral to the orbital motion 
of the planets .  . 


and , morality can be thought of a large class of princples .  . it could be 
defined in terms of many things the laws of physics if you wish. however , 
it seems silly to talk of a moral planet because it obeys the laws of 
phyics .  . it is less silly to talk about animals , as they have at least 
some free will. 

ah , the law of silly and less silly . what mr livesey finds 
intuitive is silly but what mr schneider finds intuitive is less 
silly . 

now that 's a devastating argument , is n't it. 

jon .  . 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 54 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( reference line trimmed ) 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

... 

there is a good deal more confusion here. you started off with the 
assertion that there was some objective morality , and as you admit 
here , you finished up with a recursive definition .  . murder is 
objectively immoral , but eactly what is murder and what is not itself 
requires an appeal to morality .  . 

yes. 

now you have switch targets a little , but only a little. now you are 
asking what is the goal what do you mean by goal . are you 
suggesting that there is some objective goal out there somewhere , 
and we form our morals to achieve it 

well , for example , the goal of natural morality is the survival and 
propogation of the species .  . another example of a moral system is 
presented within the declaration of independence , which states that we 
should be guaranteed life liberty and the pursuit of happiness. you see , 
to have a moral system , we must define the purpose of the system. that is , 
we shall be moral unto what end 

murder is certainly a violation of the golden rule. and , i thought i had 
defined murder as an intentional killing of a non murderer , against his will. 
and you responded to this by asking whether or not the execution of an 
innocent person under our system of capital punishment was a murder or not. 
i fail to see what this has to do with anything. i never claimed that our 
system of morality was an objective one. 
i thought that was your very first claim .  . that there was 
some kind of objective morality , and that an example of that was 
that murder is wrong. if you do n't want to claim that any more , 
that 's fine. 

well , murder violates the rule , which is certainly a pillar of most 
every moral system. however , i am not assuming that our current system 
and the manner of its implementation are objectively moral .  . i think that 
it is a very good approximation , but we ca n't be perfect. 

and by the way , you do n't seem to understand the difference between 
arbitrary and objective . if keith schneider defines murder 
to be this that and the other , that 's arbitrary .  . jon livesey may 
still say well , according to my personal system of morality , all 
killing of humans against their will is murder , and wrong , and what 
the legal definition of murder may be in the usa , , saudi 
arabia , or the prc may be matters not a whit to me . 

well , objective would assume a system based on clear and fundamental 
concepts , while arbitary implies no clear line of reasoning .  . 

keith 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re wholly babble  ( was re free moral agency ) 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 10 

in article 
robert knowles writes 

 ( deletion ) 
of course , there is also the 
book of the subgenius and that whole collection of writings as well. 


does someone know a ftp site with it 
benedikt 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re atheist 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 38 

in article 
tony writes 

 ( deletion ) 
in other words , if there were gods , they would hardly make sense , and 
it is possible to explain the phenomenon of religion without gods .  . 

the concept is useless , and i do n't have to introduce new assumptions 
in order to show that. 

yes i fully agree with that , but is it i do n't believe gods exist , or 
i believe no gods exist as  ( mats andtbacka ) 
pointed out , it all hinges on what you take the word believe to mean. 


for me , it is a i believe no gods exist and a i do n't believe gods exist . 

in other words , i think that statements like gods are or somehow interfere 
with this world are false or meaningless .  . in ontology , one can fairly 
conclude that when a exist is meaningless a does not exist. under the 
pragmatic definition of truth , a exists is meaningless makes a exist 
even logically false .  . 

a problem with such statements is that one ca n't disprove a subjective god 
by definition , and there might be cases where a subjective god would even 
make sense. the trouble with most god definitions is that they include 
some form of objective existence with the consequence of the gods affecting 
all. believers derive from it a right to interfere with the life of others. 


 ( deletion ) 

should the faq be clarified to try to pin down this notion of belief 
can it 


honestly , i do n't see the problem. 
benedikt 

from mathew 
subject alt.atheism faq frequently asked questions 
summary please read this file before posting to alt.atheism 
keywords faq , atheism 
expires fri , 14 may 1993 09 39 55 gmt 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
supersedes 
lines 733 

archive name atheism faq 
alt atheism archive name faq 
last modified 5 april 1993 
version 1.1 

alt.atheism frequently asked questions 

this file contains responses to articles which occur repeatedly in 
alt . atheism .  . points covered here are ones which are not covered in the 
introduction to atheism you are advised to read that article as well 
before posting. 

these answers are not intended to be exhaustive or definitive .  . the purpose of 
the periodic faq postings is not to stifle debate , but to raise its level. if 
you have something to say concerning one of these questions and which is n't 
covered by the answer given , please feel free to make your point. 

overview of contents 

what is the purpose of this newsgroup 
hitler was an atheist ! 
the bible proves it 
pascal 's wager 
what is occam 's razor 
why it 's good to believe in jesus 
why i know that god exists 
einstein and god does not play dice 
everyone worships something 
why there must be a causeless cause 
the universe is so complex it must have been designed 
independent evidence that the bible is true 
godel 's incompleteness theorem 
george bush on atheism and patriotism 
i know where hell is ! 
biblical contradictions wanted 
the usa is a christian nation 
the usa is not a christian nation 



subject what is the purpose of this newsgroup 

typical posting 

why have a newsgroup about atheism why do atheists organize in groups 
what is there to discuss 

response 

many things are discussed here , including 

whether it is reasonable to feign theism in order to avoid upsetting one 's 
family 
prayer in schools 
discrimination against atheists 
sunday trading laws 
the satanic child abuse myth 
whether one should be an overt atheist or  stay in the closet  
how religious societies prey  ( sic ) on new college students 
how to get rid of unwanted proselytizers 
whether religion is a danger to society and or the individual 
why people become atheists 

of course , inevitably alt.atheism tends to attract evangelical christians 
looking for someone to convert .  . most readers of the newsgroup do n't 
want to be preached to , although a few seem to derive perverse pleasure 
from tearing apart particularly ill considered or uninformed postings .  . 



subject hitler was an atheist ! 

typical posting 

hitler was an atheist , and look at what he did ! 

response 

adolf hitler was emphatically not an atheist .  . as he said himself 

the folkish minded man , in particular , has the sacred duty , each in 
his own denomination , of making people stop just talking 
superficially of god 's will , and actually fulfill god 's will , and 
not let god 's word be desecrated .  . orig. ital .  . 

for god 's will gave men their form , their essence , and their 
abilities .  . anyone who destroys his work is declaring war on the 
lord 's creation , the divine will. therefore , let every man be 
active , each in his own denomination if you please , and let every 
man take it as his first and most sacred duty to oppose anyone who 
in his activity by word or deed steps outside the confines of his 
religious community and tries to butt into the other. 

... 

hence today i believe that i am acting in accordance with the will 
of the almighty creator by defending myself against the jew , i am 
fighting for the work of the lord .  . orig. ital .  . 

adolf hitler , from mein kampf , trans. ralph mannheim .  . 

of course , someone bad believing something does not make that belief 
wrong. it 's also entirely possible that hitler was lying when he claimed 
to believe in god. we certainly ca n't conclude that he 's an atheist , 
though. 



subject the bible proves it 

typical posting 

in the bible it says that .  .  .  . 

response 

most of the readers of alt.atheism feel that the bible is of questionable 
accuracy , as it was written thousands of years ago by many authors who were 
recording oral tradition that existed many years before. thus , any claimed 
 truth  in it is of questionable legitimacy .  . this is n't to say that the 
bible has no truth in it simply that any truth must be examined before being 
accepted. 

many of the readers of this group also feel that because any passage is 
subject to interpretation , any claim that a passage  means  one thing and 
one thing only is not legitimate .  . 

note that this feeling tends to extend to other books. 

it is also remarkable to many atheists that theists tend to ignore other 
equally plausible religious books in favour of those of their own religion. 



subject pascal 's wager 

typical posting 

if you believe in god and turn out to be incorrect , you have lost nothing 
but if you do n't believe in god and turn out to be incorrect , you will go to 
hell. therefore it is foolish to be an atheist .  . 

response 

this argument is known as pascal 's wager .  . it has several flaws .  . 

firstly , it does not indicate which religion to follow. indeed , there are 
many mutually exclusive and contradictory religions out there. this is often 
described as the avoiding the wrong hell problem. if a person is a 
follower of religion x , he may end up in religion y 's version of hell. 

secondly , the statement that if you believe in god and turn out to be 
incorrect , you have lost nothing is not true. suppose you 're believing in 
the wrong god the true god might punish you for your foolishness .  . 
consider also the deaths that have resulted from people rejecting medicine in 
favour of prayer .  . 

another flaw in the argument is that it is based on the assumption that 
the two possibilities are equally likely or at least , that they are of 
comparable likelihood .  . if , in fact , the possibility of there being a god 
is close to zero , the argument becomes much less persuasive .  . so sadly the 
argument is only likely to convince those who believe already. 

also , many feel that for intellectually honest people , belief is based on 
evidence , with some amount of intuition .  . it is not a matter of will or 
cost benefit analysis. 

formally speaking , the argument consists of four statements 

1. one does not know whether god exists. 
2. not believing in god is bad for one 's eternal soul if god does 
exist. 
3. believing in god is of no consequence if god does not exist. 
4. therefore it is in one 's interest to believe in god. 

there are two approaches to the argument. the first is to view 1 as an 
assumption , and 2 as a consequence of it. one problem with this approach , in 
the abstract , is that it creates information from no information. this is 
considered invalid in information theory. statement 1 indicates one has no 
information about god but statement 2 indicates that beneficial information 
can be gained from the absolute lack of information about god. this violates 
information entropy information has been extracted from no information , at 
no cost . 

the alternative approach is to claim that 1 and 2 are both assumptions .  . the 
problem with this is that 2 is then basically an assumption which states the 
christian position , and only a christian will agree with that assumption .  . the 
argument thus collapses to if you are a christian , it is in your interests 
to believe in god a rather vacuous tautology , and not the way pascal 
intended the argument to be viewed .  . 

the biggest reason why pascal 's wager is a failure is that if god is 
omniscient he will certainly know who really believes and who believes as 
a wager .  . he will spurn the latter .  .  .  . assuming he actually cares at all 
whether people believe in him. 



subject what is occam 's razor 

typical posting 

people keep talking about occam 's razor .  . what is it 

response 

william of occam formulated a principle which has become known as occam 's 
razor .  . in its original form , it said do not multiply entities 
unnecessarily .  . that is , if you can explain something without supposing 
the existence of some entity , then do so. 

nowadays when people refer to occam 's razor , they generally express it 
more generally , for example as take the simplest solution . 

the relevance to atheism is that we can look at two possible explanations 
for what we see around us 

1. there is an incredibly intricate and complex universe out there , which 
came into being as a result of natural processes .  . 

2. there is an incredibly intricate and complex universe out there , and 
there is also a god who created the universe. clearly this god must be 
of non zero complexity .  . 

given that both explanations fit the facts , occam 's razor might suggest 
that we should take the simpler of the two solution number one. 
unfortunately , some argue that there is a third even more simple solution 

3. there is n't an incredibly intricate and complex universe out there. 
we just imagine that there is. 

this third option leads us logically towards solipsism , which many people 
find unacceptable .  . 



subject why it 's good to believe in jesus 

typical posting 

i want to tell people about the virtues and benefits of my religion. 

response 

preaching is not appreciated. 

feel free to talk about your religion , but please do not write postings that 
are on a conversion theme. such postings do not belong on alt.atheism and 
will be rejected from alt . atheism . moderated .  ( try the newsgroup 
talk . religion . misc) .  . 

you would doubtless not welcome postings from atheists to your favourite 
newsgroup in an attempt to convert you please do unto others as you would 
have them do unto you ! 

often theists make their basic claims about god in the form of lengthy 
analogies or parables .  . be aware that atheists have heard of god and know the 
basic claims about him if the sole purpose of your parable is to tell 
atheists that god exists and brings salvation , you may as well not post it , 
since it tells us nothing we have not been told before. 



subject why i know that god exists 

typical posting 

i know from personal experience and prayer that god exists. 

response 

just as many theists have personal evidence that the being they worship 
exists , so many atheists have personal evidence that such beings do not 
exist. that evidence varies from person to person. 

furthermore , without wishing to dismiss your evidence out of hand , many 
people have claimed all kinds of unlikely things that they have been 
abducted by ufos , visited by the ghost of elvis , and so on. 



subject einstein and god does not play dice 

typical posting 

albert einstein believed in god. do you think you 're cleverer than him 

response 

einstein did once comment that god does not play dice with the universe . 
this quotation is commonly mentioned to show that einstein believed in the 
christian god. used this way , it is out of context it refers to einstein 's 
refusal to accept the uncertainties indicated by quantum theory. furthermore , 
einstein 's religious background was jewish rather than christian .  . 

a better quotation showing what einstein thought about god is the following 
i believe in spinoza 's god who reveals himself in the orderly harmony of 
what exists , not in a god who concerns himself with fates and actions of 
human beings .  . 

einstein was unable to accept quantum theory because of his belief in an 
objective , orderly reality a reality which would not be subject to random 
events and which would not be dependent upon the observer .  . he believed that 
qm was incomplete , and that a better theory would have no need for 
statistical interpretations .  . so far no such better theory has been found , 
and much evidence suggests that it never will be. 

a longer quote from einstein appears in science , philosophy , and religion , a 
symposium , published by the conference on science , philosophy and religion 
in their relation to the democratic way of life , inc. , new york , 1941 .  . in 
it he says 

the more a man is imbued with the ordered regularity of all events 
the firmer becomes his conviction that there is no room left by the side 
of this ordered regularity for causes of a different nature. for him 
neither the rule of human nor the rule of divine will exists as an 
independent cause of natural events. to be sure , the doctrine of a 
personal god interfering with natural events could never be 
refuted italics his , in the real sense , by science , for this 
doctrine can always take refuge in those domains in which scientific 
knowledge has not yet been able to set foot. 

but i am convinced that such behavior on the part of representatives 
of religion would not only be unworthy but also fatal .  . for a doctrine 
which is to maintain itself not in clear light but only in the dark , 
will of necessity lose its effect on mankind , with incalculable harm 
to human progress. in their struggle for the ethical good , teachers 
of religion must have the stature to give up the doctrine of a personal 
god , that is , give up that source of fear and hope which in the past 
placed such vast power in the hands of priests .  . in their labors they 
will have to avail themselves of those forces which are capable 
of cultivating the good , the true , and the beautiful in humanity 
itself. this is , to be sure , a more difficult but an incomparably 
more worthy task .  .  .  . 

einstein has also said 

it was , of course , a lie what you read about my religous convictions , 
a lie which is being systematically repeated .  . i do not believe in a 
personal god and i have never denied this but have expressed it clearly .  . 
if something is in me which can be called religious then it is the 
unbounded admiration for the structure of the world so far as our 
science can reveal it. 

the latter quote is from albert einstein the human side , edited by helen 
dukas and hoffman , and published by princeton university press. 
also from the same book 

i do not believe in immortality of the individual , and i consider ethics 
to be an exclusively human concern with no superhuman authority behind 
it. 

of course , the fact that einstein chose not to believe in christianity does 
not in itself imply that christianity is false .  . 



subject everyone worships something 

typical posting 

everyone worships something , whether it 's money , power or god. 

response 

if that is true , everyone is a polytheist .  . theists care just as much about 
those things that atheists care about. if the atheists  reactions to  ( for 
example) their families amount to worship then so do the theists' .  . 



subject why there must be a causeless cause 

typical posting 

sets of integers that have a lower bound each have a smallest member , so 
chains of causes must all have a first element , a causeless cause. 

response 

the set of real numbers greater than zero has a definite lower bound , but has 
no smallest member. 

further , even if it is true that there must be a causeless cause , that does 
not imply that that cause must be a conscious supernatural entity , and 
especially not that any such entity must match the description favoured by 
any particular religion. 



subject the universe is so complex it must have been designed 

typical posting 

the presence of design in the universe proves there is a god. surely you 
do n't think all this appeared here just by chance 

response 

this is known as the argument from design. 

it is a matter of dispute whether there is any element of design in the 
universe. those who believe that the complexity and diversity of living 
creatures on the earth is evidence of a creator are best advised to read the 
newsgroup talk.origins for a while. 

there is insufficient space to summarize both sides of that debate here. 
however , the conclusion is that there is no scientific evidence in favour of 
so called scientific creationism .  . furthermore , there is much evidence , 
observation and theory that can explain many of the complexities of the 
universe and life on earth. 

the origin of the argument by design is a feeling that the existence of 
something as incredibly intricate as , say , a human is so improbable that 
surely it ca n't have come about by chance that surely there must be some 
external intelligence directing things so that humans come from the chaos 
deliberately .  . 

but if human intelligence is so improbable , surely the existence of a mind 
capable of fashioning an entire universe complete with conscious beings must 
be immeasurably more unlikely the approach used to argue in favour of the 
existence of a creator can be turned around and applied to the creationist 
position. 

this leads us to the familiar theme of if a creator created the universe , 
what created the creator , but with the addition of spiralling 
improbability .  . the only way out is to declare that the creator was not 
created and just is  ( or was ) .  . 

from here we might as well ask what is wrong with saying that the universe 
just is without introducing a creator indeed stephen hawking , in his book 
a brief history of time , explains his theory that the universe is closed 
and finite in extent , with no beginning or end. 

the argument from design is often stated by analogy , in the so called 
watchmaker argument. one is asked to imagine that one has found a watch on 
the beach. does one assume that it was created by a watchmaker , or that it 
evolved naturally of course one assumes a watchmaker .  . yet like the 
watch , the universe is intricate and complex so , the argument goes , the 
universe too must have a creator .  . 

the watchmaker analogy suffers from three particular flaws , over and above 
those common to all arguments by design. firstly , a watchmaker creates 
watches from pre existing materials , whereas god is claimed to have 
created the universe from nothing. these two sorts of creation are 
clearly fundamentally different , and the analogy is therefore rather weak. 

secondly , a watchmaker makes watches , but there are many other things in 
the world. if we walked further along the beach and found a nuclear 
reactor , we would n't assume it was created by the watchmaker .  . the argument 
would therefore suggest a multitude of creators , each responsible for a 
different part of creation. 

finally , in the first part of the watchmaker argument we conclude that 
the watch is not part of nature because it is ordered , and therefore 
stands out from the randomness of nature. yet in the second part of the 
argument , we start from the position that the universe is obviously not 
random , but shows elements of order. the watchmaker argument is thus 
internally inconsistent .  . 



subject independent evidence that the bible is true 

typical posting 

the events of the new testament are confirmed by independent documentary 
evidence. for example .  .  .  . 

response 

the writings of josephus are often mentioned as independent documentary 
evidence. 

early versions of josephus 's work are thought not to have mentioned jesus or 
james the extant version discusses john in a non christian context. many 
scholars believe that the original mentioned jesus and james in passing , but 
that this was expanded by christian copyists .  . several reconstructions of 
the original text have been published to this effect. 

much information appears in the ecclesiastical history of  ( about 320 
c . e . ) .  . it is worthless as historical material because of the deliberate 
falsification of the wily who is generally acknowledged as  the 
first thoroughly dishonest historian of antiquity . ' . it is who is 
generally given the title of authorship for this material. 

aside from the new testament , the biographical information about jesus is 
more well documented .  . for further information , please consult the frequently 
asked questions file for the newsgroup soc . religion . christian .  . 



subject godel 's incompleteness theorem 

typical posting 

godel 's incompleteness theorem demonstrates that it is impossible for the 
bible to be both true and complete. 

response 

godel 's first incompleteness theorem says that in any consistent formal 
system which is sufficiently expressive that it can model ordinary 
arithmetic , one can formulate expressions which can never be proven to be 
valid or invalid  ( 'true' or 'false' ) within that formal system.  ( technically 
speaking , the system must also be recursive that is , there must be a decision 
procedure for determining whether a given string is an axiom within the formal 
system . ) . 

essentially , all such systems can formulate what is known as a liar 
paradox .  . the classic liar paradox sentence in ordinary english is this 
sentence is false .  . note that if a proposition is undecidable , the formal 
system cannot even deduce that it is undecidable .  . 

the logic used in theological discussions is rarely well defined , so claims 
that godel 's incompleteness theorem demonstrates that it is impossible to 
prove or disprove ) the existence of god are worthless in isolation .  . 

one can trivially define a formal system in which it is possible to prove the 
existence of god , simply by having the existence of god stated as an axiom .  . 
this is unlikely to be viewed by atheists as a convincing proof , however. 

it may be possible to succeed in producing a formal system built on axioms 
that both atheists and theists agree with. it may then be possible to show 
that godel 's incompleteness theorem holds for that system. however , that 
would still not demonstrate that it is impossible to prove that god exists 
within the system. furthermore , it certainly would n't tell us anything about 
whether it is possible to prove the existence of god generally .  . 

note also that all of these hypothetical formal systems tell us nothing about 
the actual existence of god the formal systems are just abstractions .  . 

another frequent claim is that godel 's incompleteness theorem demonstrates 
that a religious text  ( the bible , the book of mormon or whatever ) cannot be 
both consistent and universally applicable .  . religious texts are not formal 
systems , so such claims are nonsense. 



subject george bush on atheism and patriotism 

typical posting 

did george bush really say that atheists should not be considered citizens 

response 

the following exchange took place at the chicago airport between robert i. 
sherman of american atheist press and george bush , on august 27 1988. sherman 
is a fully accredited reporter , and was present by invitation as a member of 
the press corps .  . the republican presidential nominee was there to announce 
federal disaster relief for illinois .  . the discussion turned to the 
presidential primary 

rs what will you do to win the votes of americans who are atheists 

gb i guess i'm pretty weak in the atheist community. faith in 
god is important to me. 

rs surely you recognize the equal citizenship and patriotism of 
americans who are atheists 

gb no , i do n't know that atheists should be considered as citizens , 
nor should they be considered patriots .  . this is one nation under 
god. 

rs do you support as a sound constitutional principle the separation 
of state and church 

gb yes , i support the separation of church and state. i'm just not 
very high on atheists .  . 

upi reported on may 8 , 1989 , that various atheist organizations were 
still angry over the remarks .  . 

the exchange appeared in the boulder daily camera on monday february 27 , 
1989. it can also be found in free enquiry magazine , fall 1988 issue , 
volume 8 , number 4 , page 16. 

on october 29 , 1988 , mr. sherman had a confrontation with ed , 
cochairman of the bush quayle '88 illinois campaign. this concerned a 
lawsuit mr. sherman had filed to stop the community consolidated school 
district 21  ( chicago , illinois ) from forcing his first grade atheist son to 
pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states as one nation under god 
 ( bush 's phrase) .  . the following conversation took place 

rs american atheists filed the pledge of allegiance lawsuit yesterday. 
does the bush campaign have an official response to this filing 

em it 's bullshit .  . 

rs what is bullshit 

em everything that american atheists does , rob , is bullshit .  . 

rs thank you for telling me what the official position of the bush 
campaign is on this issue. 

em you 're welcome. 

after bush 's election , american atheists wrote to bush asking him to retract 
his statement. on february 21st 1989 , c. gray , counsel to the 
president , replied on white house stationery that bush substantively stood by 
his original statement , and wrote 

as you are aware , the president is a religious man who neither supports 
atheism nor believes that atheism should be unnecessarily encouraged or 
supported by the government. 

for further information , contact american atheist veterans at the american 
atheist press 's cameron road address. 



subject i know where hell is ! 

typical posting 

i know where hell is ! hell is in norway ! 

response 

there are several towns called hell in various countries around the 
world , including norway and the usa .  . whilst this information is mildly 
amusing the first time one hears it , readers of alt.atheism are now 
getting pretty fed up with hearing it every week. 



subject biblical contradictions wanted 

typical posting 

does anyone have a list of biblical contradictions 

response 

american atheist press publish an atheist 's handbook detailing biblical 
contradictions .  . see the accompanying posting on atheist resources for 
details. 

there is a file containing some biblical contradictions available from the 
archive see the contacts file for more information. 



subject the usa is a christian nation 

typical posting 

because of the religious beliefs of the founding fathers , should n't the 
united states be considered a christian nation 

response 

based upon the writings of several important founding fathers , it is clear 
that they never intended the us to be a christian nation .  . here are some 
quotes there are many more. 

what influence , in fact , have ecclesiastical establishments had on society 
in some instances they have been seen to erect a spiritual tyranny on the 
ruins of the civil authority on many instances they have been seen 
upholding the thrones of political tyranny in no instance have they been 
the guardians of the liberties of the people. rulers who wish to subvert 
the public liberty may have found an established clergy convenient 
auxiliaries .  . a just government , instituted to secure and perpetuate it , 
needs them not. 
james madison , a memorial and remonstrance , 1785 

i almost shudder at the thought of alluding to the most fatal example of 
the abuses of grief which the history of mankind has preserved the cross .  . 
consider what calamities that engine of grief has produced ! 
john adams , in a letter to thomas jefferson 

history i believe furnishes no example of a priest ridden people 
maintaining a free civil government. this marks the lowest grade of 
ignorance , of which their political as well as religious leaders will 
always avail themselves for their own purpose. 

thomas jefferson to baron von humboldt , 1813 

i cannot conceive otherwise than that he , the infinite father , expects or 
requires no worship or praise from us , but that he is even infinitely 
above it. 

benjamin franklin , from articles of belief and acts of religion , 
nov. 20 , 1728 



subject the usa is not a christian nation 

typical posting 

is it true that george washington said that the united states is not in any 
sense founded upon the christian religion 

response 

no. the quotation often given is in fact from article xi of the 1797 treaty 
of tripoli  ( 8 stat 154 , treaty series 358 ) 

article 11 

as the government of the united states of america is not in any sense 
founded on the christian religion , as it has in itself no character of 
enmity against the laws , religion or tranquility of , and as 
the said states never have entered into any war or act of hostility 
against any nation , it is declared by the parties that no 
pretext arising from religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption 
of the harmony existing between the two countries. 

the text may be found in the congressional record or in treaty collections 
such as charles  treaties and other international agreements of the 
united states of america 1776 1949 , vol. 11 (pp .  . 1070 1080) .  . 

the english text of the treaty of tripoli was approved by the u.s. senate on 
june 7 , 1797 and ratified by president john adams on june 10 , 1797 .  . it was 
recently discovered that the arabic version of the treaty not only lacks the 
quotation , it lacks article xi altogether. 

the person who translated the arabic to english was joel barlow , consul 
general at algiers , a close friend of thomas paine and an opponent of 
christianity .  . it is possible that barlow made up article xi , but since there 
is no arabic version of that article to be found , it 's hard to say. 

in 1806 a new treaty of tripoli was ratified which no longer contained the 
quotation .  . 


end of faq digest 



from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 15 

in article  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 

what i 've been saying is that moral behavior is likely the null behavior. 

do i smell  . sig . material here 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 50 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

i think that about 70  ( or so ) people approve of the 
death penalty , even realizing all of its shortcomings .  . does n't this make 
it reasonable or are you the sole judge of reasonability 
aside from revenge , what merits do you find in capital punishment 

are we talking about me , or the majority of the people that support it 
anyway , i think that revenge or fairness is why most people are in 
favor of the punishment .  . if a murderer is going to be punished , people 
that think that he should get what he deserves .  . most people would n't 
think it would be fair for the murderer to live , while his victim died. 

revenge petty and pathetic .  . 

perhaps you think that it is petty and pathetic , but your views are in the 
minority .  . 

we have a local televised hot topic talk show that very recently 
did a segment on capital punishment .  . each and every advocate of 
the use of this portion of our system of jurisprudence cited the 
main reason for supporting it that bastard deserved it . true 
human compassion , forgiveness , and sympathy .  . 

where are we required to have compassion , forgiveness , and sympathy if 
someone wrongs me , i will take great lengths to make sure that his advantage 
is removed , or a similar situation is forced upon him. if someone kills 
another , then we can apply the golden rule and kill this person in turn. 
is not our entire moral system based on such a concept 

or , are you stating that human life is sacred , somehow , and that it should 
never be violated this would sound like some sort of religious view. 

i mean , how reasonable is imprisonment , really , when you think about it 
sure , the person could be released if found innocent , but you still 
ca n't undo the that was served .  . perhaps we should n't 
people if we could watch them closely instead. the cost would 
probably be similar , especially if we just implanted some sort of 
electronic device. 
would you rather be alive in prison or dead in the chair 

once a criminal has committed a murder , his desires are irrelevant .  . 

and , you still have not answered my question. if you are concerned about 
the death penalty due to the possibility of the execution of an innocent , 
then why is n't this same concern shared with imprisonment .  . should n't we , 
by your logic , administer as minimum as punishment as possible , to avoid 
violating the liberty or happiness of an innocent person 

keith 

from  ( stilgar ) 
subject re gospel dating 
nntp posting host next15csc . wam . umd . edu . 
reply to 
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park 
lines 35 

in article  ( keith m. 
ryan ) writes 
in article 
 ( stilgar ) writes 
in article  ( keith m. 
ryan ) writes 
in article 
 ( stilgar ) writes 

the illiad is the undisputed word of  ( god(tm ) prove me wrong 

i dispute it. 

ergo by counter example you are proven wrong. 

i dispute your counter example 

ergo by counter counter example you are wrong and 
i am right so nanny nanny boo boo 

no. the premis stated that it was undisputed .  . 


fine .  .  .  . the illiad is the word of  ( god(tm )  ( disputed or not , it is) 

dispute that. it wo n't matter. prove me wrong. 

brian west 

this is not a sig file to the earth , we have been 
this is not a sig file here but for the blink of an 
ok , so it's a sig file eye , if we were gone tomorrow , 
posted by we would not be missed. 
who does n't care who knows it.  ( jurassic park ) 
i said this , i meant this , nobody made me do it. 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re an anecdote about islam 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 74 

in article 
 ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

in cases of prostitution 
both the man and the prostitute would be punished in public , quite 
severely .  . 

 ( deletion ) 


no gregg , you cannot say a is lenient and a punishes severely in public. 
unless , of course , it is one of the exceptions implied by almost all 
matters . 

that depends on the statistics and who is punished in public. if some 
power  ( for example , nothing islamic about it) allows men to rape women 
five times before blowing the rapist 's head off in public then i 'd call 
that leniency , would n't you 


you have given that example. it is not lenient .  . end of argument. 

and chopping off the hands or heads of people is not lenient either. it 
rather appears that you are internalized the claims about the legal system 
without checking if they suit the description. 

and was n't the argument that it takes five men to rape a woman according 
to islamic law 


while i do n't approve of it , i think both the prostitute and the customer 
have the right to do what they do. in other words , punishing them is a 
violation of their rights. and to punish them severely in public is just 
another pointer to the hysteria connected with sexuality in so many 
religions .  . 

believe what you like. 


no , i even believe what i do n't like. can you give better answers than that 
have you got any evidence for your probably opposite claims 


in this case , i do n't see why i should accept the complex ridden views 
of an oriental goatherd .  . 

ah , yes , i forget that the west is historically so much without sexual 
neurosis ) 

oriental goatherd , really intellectual .  . 


a fact , if memory serves .  . and most will see the connection between the 
primitive machism in the orient and in islam .  . 

if people agree on having sex it is fine. and i would assume that a 
god would have a clue of what the detrimental effects of supressing it 
are. 

huh ever heard of aids  ( of course you 'll probably go on to say that 
god must be evil because he allows the disease to exist , bla bla) .  . 


as usually you miss the point. aids is neither spread only through sex 
nor necessarily spread by having sex. futher , the point is , a very important 
point , the urge for sex is stronger than the fear of aids .  . it is even 
stronger than the religious attempts to channel or to forbid sex. the 
consequences of suppressing sex are worse than the consequences of aids .  . 
please note that the idea that everybody would end up with aids when sex 
is not controlled is completely counterfactual .  . 


and since you have brought up the point , is your god evil or not 
benedikt 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization sgi 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

... 
the  things above were in reference to germany , clearly .  . people 
said that there were similar things in germany , but no one could name any. 
that 's not true. i gave you two examples .  . one was the rather 
anti semitism in german christianity well before hitler 
arrived. the other was the system of social ranks that were used 
in germany and austria to distinguish jews from the rest 
of the population .  . 

these do n't seem like little things to me. at least , they are orders 
worse than the motto .  . do you think that the motto is a little thing 
that will lead to worse things 

you do n't think these are little things because with twenty twenty 
hindsight , you know what they led to. 

jon .  . 

from  ( stan krieger ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
article i.d. cbnewsl . 1993apr6 . 041343 . 24997 . 
organization summit nj 
lines 39 

student writes 

somewhere , roger colin shouse writes about radical gay dogma .  . somewhere else 
he claims not to claim to have a claim to knowing those he does n't know. 
there are at least twenty instances of this kind of muddleheaded fourth 
reich shit in his postings .  . maybe more. in fact i'm not sure 
the instances could be counted , because they reproduce like a virus the more 
you consider his words. 
my question is this what is the best response to weasels like 
shouse and stan krieger possibilities 
 ( a ) study them dispassionately and figure out how they work , then 
(1) remember what you 've learned so as to combat them when they or their clones 
get into office 
(2) contribute your insights to your favorite abnormal psych ward 
 ( b ) learn to overcome your repugnance for serial murder 

this posting is totally uncalled for in rec . scouting .  . 

the point has been raised and has been answered. roger and i have 
clearly stated our support of the bsa position on the issue 
specifically , that homosexual behavior constitutes a violation of 
the scout oath  ( specifically , the promise to live morally straight ) .  . 

there is really nothing else to discuss. trying to cloud the issue 
with comparisons to blacks or other minorities is also meaningless 
because it 's like comparing apples to oranges (i . e .  . , people ca n't 
control their race but they can control their behavior) .  . 

what else is there to possibly discuss on rec . scouting . on this issue 
nobody , including bsa , is denying anybody the right to live and or 
worship as they please or do n't please , but it does n't mean that bsa 
is the big bad wolf for adhering to the recognized , positive , religious 
and moral standards on which our society has been established and on 
which it should continue to be based .  . 

stan krieger all opinions , advice , or suggestions , even 
unix system laboratories if related to my employment , are my own. 
summit , nj 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 13 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 

so , you are saying that it is n't possible for an instinctive act 
to be moral one that is , in order for an act to be an act of morality , 
the person must consider the immoral action but then disregard it 
no , i'm saying that in order for an act to be moral or immoral , somebody 
someone something must consider it to be so. that implies intelligence , 
not instinct .  . 

who has to consider it the being that does the action i'm still 
not sure i know what you are trying to say. 

keith 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re ancient islamic rituals 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 72 

in  ( chris faehl ) writes 

in article ,  ( fred rice ) writes 
deleted , to get to the point 

therefore , in a nutshell , my opinion is that pre marital sex makes the 
likelihood of extra marital sex more probable .  . furthermore , 
in my opinion , extra marital sex helps break down partnerships and leads 
to greater divorce rates. this in turn , in my opinion , creates trauma 
and a less stable environment for children , who are then , in my opinion , 
more likely to grow up with psychological problems such as depression , 
etc. and thus , sex outside of marriage is , in the long run , harmful to 
society. 

i think that you are drawing links where there are none having sex before 
marriage has nothing to do with adultery once committed into marriage. the 
issue as i see it is more of how committed you are to not foisting pain on 
your spouse , and how confident you are about yourself. 
in addition , what someone does within their marriage is their own 
business , not mine , and not yours. i have witnessed strong relationships 
that incorporate extra marital sex. 
i would agree with your assertion about children children should not be witness to such confusing relationships if adultery is stressful to 
adults , which i assume it in general is , how can we expect children to 
understand it 

where is the evidence for my opinions at the moment , there are just 
generalities i can cite .  . for example , i read that in the 20th century , 
the percentage of youth  ( and people in general ) who suffer from 
depression has been steadily climbing in western societies  ( probably 
what i was reading referred particularly to the usa) .  . similarly , one 
can detect a trend towards greater occurrence of sex outside of marriage 
in this century in western societies particularly with the sexual 
revolution of the 60 's , but even before that i think  ( otherwise the 
sexual revolution of the 60 's would not have been possible ) , 
particularly with the gradual weakening of christianity and consequently 
christian moral teachings against sex outside of marriage. i propose 
that these two trends greater level of general depression in society 
 ( and other psychological problems ) and greater sexual promiscuity are 
linked , with the latter being a prime cause of the former .  . i cannot 
provide any evidence beyond this at this stage , but the whole thesis 
seems very reasonable to me and i request that people ponder upon it. 

why is it more reasonable than the trend towards obesity and the trend towards 
depression you ca n't just pick your two favorite trends , notice a correlation 
in them , and make a sweeping statement of generality .  . i mean , you can , and 
people have , but that does not mean that it is a valid or reasonable thesis. 
at best it 's a gross oversimplification of the push pull factors people 
experience. 

my argument is mainly a proposal of what i think is a plausible argument 
against extra marital sex one which i personally believe has some 
truth. my main purpose for posting it here is to show that a 
plausible argument can be made against extra marital sex. at this 
stage i am not saying that this particular viewpoint is proven or 
anything like that , just that it is plausible .  . to try to convince you 
all of this particular point of view , i would probably have to do a lot 
of work researching what has been done in this field , etc. , in order to 
gather further evidence , which i simply do not have time to do now. 

also note that i said that i think extra marital sex is a prime cause 
 ( in my opinion ) of the generally greater levels of psychological 
problems , especially depression , in western societies .  . i am not saying 
it is the prime cause or the only cause , just a prime cause 
i.e. one of the significant contributions to this trend .  . i think when 
you say you think my view is simplistic , you have forgotten this i 
admit that there are probably other factors , but i do think that 
extra marital sex  ( and , imo , subsequent destabilization of the family ) 
is a significant factor in the rise in psychological problems like 
depression in western society this century. 

fred rice 


from  ( douglas graham ) 
subject re jews ca n't hide from 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 40 

in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( douglas graham ) writes 
the poster casually trashed two thousand years of jewish history , and 
ken replied that there had previously been people like him in germany .  . 

i think the problem here is that i pretty much ignored the part 
about the jews sightseeing for 2000 years , thinking instead that 
the important part of what the original poster said was the bit 
about killing palestinians .  . in retrospect , i can see how the 
sightseeing thing would be offensive to many. i originally saw 
it just as poetic license , but it 's understandable that others 
might see it differently. i still think that ken came on a bit 
strong though. i also think that your advice to masud khan 

before you argue with someone like mr arromdee , it 's a good idea to 
do a little homework , or at least think. 

was unnecessary .  . 

that 's right. there have been. there have also been people who 
were formally nazis .  . but the nazi party would have gone nowhere 
without the active and tacit support of the ordinary man in the 
street who behaved as though casual anti semitism was perfectly 
acceptable .  . 

now what exactly do n't you understand about what i wrote , and why 
do n't you see what it has to do with the matter at hand 

throughout all your articles in this thread there is the tacit 
assumption that the original poster was exhibiting casual 
anti semitism .  . if i agreed with that , then maybe your speech 
on why this is bad might have been relevant .  . but i think you 're 
reading a lot into one flip sentence. while probably not 
true in this case , too often the charge of anti semitism gets 
thrown around in order to stifle legitimate criticism of the 
state of israel .  . 

anyway , i 'd rather be somewhere else , so i'm outta this thread. 

doug graham my opinions are my own. 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 34 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

what if i act morally for no particular reason then am i moral what 
if morality is instinctive , as in most animals 
saying that morality is instinctive in animals is an attempt to 
assume your conclusion .  . 
which conclusion 
you conclusion correct me if i err that the behaviour which is 
instinctive in animals is a natural moral system. 

see , we are disagreeing on the definition of moral here. earlier , you said 
that it must be a conscious act. by your definition , no instinctive 
behavior pattern could be an act of morality .  . you are trying to apply 
human terms to non humans. i think that even if someone is not conscious 
of an alternative , this does not prevent his behavior from being moral .  . 

you do n't think that morality is a behavior pattern what is human 
morality a moral action is one that is consistent with a given 
pattern. that is , we enforce a certain behavior as moral .  . 
you keep getting this backwards. you are trying to show that 
the behaviour pattern is a morality .  . whether morality is a behavior 
pattern is irrelevant , since there can be behavior pattern , for 
example the motions of the planets , that most  ( all ) people would 
not call a morality .  . 

i try to show it , but by your definition , it ca n't be shown .  . 

and , morality can be thought of a large class of princples .  . it could be 
defined in terms of many things the laws of physics if you wish. however , 
it seems silly to talk of a moral planet because it obeys the laws of 
phyics .  . it is less silly to talk about animals , as they have at least 
some free will. 

keith 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 226 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

writes 

many people would probably think  ( especially if the fanatics 
this) that this was a conflict between the atheists and the religious .  . 
many would get the impression that we were trying to outlaw religion , if 
we to try to remove all things with a religious reference. 
that 's not what the people i 've asked think. perhaps you would be right 
if you said the fundamentalists would think this way after all , they think 
they are being oppressed when they are not allowed to oppress .  . however , 
you have not shown where you get this idea that  many  people would 
 probably  think it 's atheism vs. religion , winner take all. as far as i can 
tell , it is your groundless prediction that this will happen. 

but you have n't taken into the account of propoganda .  . remember , if you 
asked germans before wwii if the jews shoudl be slaughtered , they would 
probably answer no , but , after the propoganda machine rolled through , at 
least some were able to tolerate it. 

you see , it only takes a small group of fanatics to whip up a general 
frenzy .  . 

the propoganda machines have been in gear over a number of issues , including 
abortion and gays .  .  .  . look at some of the things that have happened. 
well , so far they have passed one amendment , which is currently under 
intense scrutiny , and they have failed to outlaw abortion , which is their 
prime goal on that issue. yep , they seem sooo effective. sure. 

well , they have n't managed to outlaw abortion due to the possible objectivity 
of the courts .  . but , they have managed to create quite a few problems for 
people that wanted to have an abortion .  . they could create similar problems 
for us. and , it could be worse. they can try to stop abortions by blocking 
clinics , etc. , but imagine what they 'd have to do to stop atheism .  . 

besides , the margin of error is very large when you only talk to two people. 
better than your one , that is , your opinion. also , i have branched 
out and the informal survey is up over half a dozen now. 
and , what have they said were you questions unbiased 
keith , you would claim that my questions are biased the minute i posted 
them , because the answers agreed with me. everyone i have asked about 
the possible removal of the motto  ( the christian portion ) has expressed 
regret about its loss , because they like it. however , when it is pointed 
out to them that a new motto will not be in the works , none have expressed 
the desire to rape , murder , pillage , etc. , which you have basically claimed .  . 

so , you are able to convince them individually , but could you convince a 
whole room of them a whole nation 

as for the atheist portion (i know some around here ) , they have all 
expressed disgust with the motto .  . some noted being harassed by christians 
who used the motto to try to seem justified .  . and all would see it gone. 

yes , i 'd be glad if it were gone to. i 've never supported it. however , 
i think that it is a minor problem that can be easily ignored , contrasted 
with what could happen  ( an what may be likely) .  . 

which christians designed the motto does the motto say anything about 
jesus why do you think that it refers only to christians 
christians wrote it christians think that their religion is right , and 
all others are wrong therefore , why would they  include  other religions 
in the realm of being correct i doubt that any other religions were meant 
to be included. 

well , i am not clear on the religious convictions of francis scott key  ( the 
motto can be attributed to him ) , but it is at least clear that he believed 
in a god. and , surely there are a few christians that think as you say , 
but i do n't think that most do. do you think that all christians actively 
despise other religions most that i have met have n't and do n't do so. 

no christian 
that i have queried thinks it means anything but them , and only them. 
why not ask some people of other faiths 
sorry , i would , but christianity is just so awfully popular around here. 
suppose you could ask a few people 

well , i have asked a hindu , , and a few jews , and all of them think 
that it is applicable to them. of course , i ca n't say that these people 
 ( just some that i know pretty well ) are accurate representations of their 
faiths .  . 

it is always a good idea to assume that there were dissenting views on any 
given issue. you are assuming that all the views were the same , and nothing 
leads to this conclusion .  . 
without evidence to the contrary , i doubt that there were dissenting 
opinions. you claim there were. provide some evidence for your assertion .  . 

well , i 'd really like to , and i 've tried , but i really do n't know where to 
get access to congressional records from the 1950 's .  . can anyone help 
out here 

comparing christians to nazis interesting. 

only in the sense that neither can probably convinced to change their beliefs .  . 

no , again , the motto on the money does n't cost you anything extra .  . however , 
if you abolished the motto , we 'd all have to pay to have all the dies and 
plates redone .  . 
like people paid before to get them changed to have the motto on them. 
you now need to show that there is a good reason to change everything again. 

... also , i doubt that they use th3 
same plates for more than a year 's printing this would make it easy 
to remove the motto  ( simply make next year 's plates without it) .  . your 
claim , evidently , is that they will have to pay extra somewhere. 
provide some evidence for this assertion .  . 

so , are you saying that they redesign the plates each year 

anyway , your whole argument  ( conveniently deleted i see ) was that the motto 
somehow costs us all a lot of money. this is just not correct. 

the ones i read did n't mention anything about jesus .  . i think the issue was 
concerning the distinction between religion and not. 
how could it be between religious and not religious the motto 
refers to god it is a religious motto .  . the question is whether or 
not it is only christian .  . you say it is more. i doubt this. provide 
some evidence for this assertion .  . 

that is to say , the religion of this country , and the non religion of 
the ussr .  . that was what most of those quotes were about , and some included 
all atheists , in general , as well. i do n't think that any of the quotes 
 ( although i seem to have lost them) mentioned anything at all about jesus .  . 
they advocated religion over non religion. a specific religion was not 
mentioned. 

you have missed this point. i said that the motto did n't say anything 
about anyone in particular .  . that is , the motto does n't imply anything 
about your particular beliefs .  . it does n't say that everyone trusts 
in some form of god , only that the nation on the whole does. 
we have been through this before. it 's obvious it does not include me 
this much is beyond doubt. your claim , again , is that the motto refers 
to more than christians .  . based on the facts that christianity says all 
other religions are wrong , and because it seems that the motto was 
written by christians , i doubt your claim .  . 

so , you are saying that all christians must believe that all other religions 
should be outlawed , just because they think they are wrong that 's silly. 
i think the flat earthers are wrong , but i do n't advocate their banishment .  . 

... based on this idea i doubt that any additional expense would 
even be incurred by removing the motto .  . provide some evidence for your 
claim that it would. 

i think that any such cost would be insignificant .  . i mentioned the slight 
cost because you said that the motto was costing us a lot of money by 
being on our currency .  . 

disregarding the digression of the other motto .  .  . if . it is used for 
harassment , and no other purpose has been found for it , why should 
it not be removed 

well , mottos in general do n't really have purposes .  .  .  . i do n't think it 
should be removed because i think the benefit would be outweighed by the 
consequences .  . 

and do you know what the vote was were there other opinions do you 
think that the main reason the motto was required by law was to bother 
atheists do you think that this is what the majority of congress at 
the time had in mind if you do , then show why. 
again , it is the opinion of the people who put it there that i am 
concerned with. 

then you should be concerned with the opinion of the entire congress .  . 

again , it is not necessary that the complete majority 
shared the purpose of confronting  communism  with this motto .  . 

why not it is the majority that put it there. 

the general public probably does not know about the anti atheist intent 
of a few people in the 50 's either. 
i daresay more people remember the 50 's than the time when key wrote 
the anthem .  . 

but do they remember the debate surrounding the motto do they remember 
that some people intended it to be a message against atheists why do n't 
you include this in your little survey that you were conducting 

... 
you claim here that scientists would believe someone 's claims .  . i doubt 
this. provide evidence for your assertion .  . 

what should i ask some scientists the probability that something einstein 
said about relativity is worthy i mean , if einstein said it , there 's a 
good chance that it was right  ( at least at the time) .  . 

as for the courts , the 
method scientists use can be applied .  . i need not agree with the court 
by default because of a  good record . ' . 

you need not agree with them all of the time , but you would certainly think 
that their decisions would be good evidence in favor of some point. 

what but you said you did n't agree with the court because they allowed 
congress to attempt to make an amendment prohibiting flag burning .  . if 
you do n't realize that something like this is external to the realm of 
the court 's power , then how can i be confident that you know anything 
about the court 's powers i mean , if you do n't know how the court works , 
how can you participate in a discussion of the court 
a judge can go to speak before congress .  . and still you ignore the 
abortion gag rule , as you make your claims on abortion .  . 

no , i think that it would be clearly inappropriate for a supreme court 
justice to testify before congress during the consideration of a 
constitutional amendment .  . 

and , in order for the court to rule on something , a case usually must be 
presented .  . 

mushrooms , flowers , trees , buildings , signs , whatever .  .  .  . the analogy is 
the same. just because something that i might find offensive is present 
does n't mean that my rights are being violated .  . 
we are talking about something put there by people , keith .  .  . not . 
a mushroom .  . no one caused that mushroom to exist , unless you 're 
finding things offensive in a mushroom farm .  . 

yes , some mushrooms can be planted .  . and , i do n't appreciate mushrooms on 
my pizza , either. 

this is not the case 
with the motto .  . and you 're ignoring the harassment which is the 
only known result of the motto , and you 're ignoring that somewhere 
along the line people were forced to put the motto there. 

who was forced to put the motto there what do you mean 

keith 

subject re gospel dating 
from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
organization case western reserve university 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 
lines 64 

in article  ( bill conner ) writes 

keith m. ryan wrote 

wild and fanciful claims require greater evidence. if you state that 
one of the books in your room is blue , i certainly do not need as much 
evidence to believe than if you were to claim that there is a two headed 
leapard in your bed. and i do n't mean a male lover in a leotard ! 

keith , 

if the issue is , what is truth then the consequences of whatever 
proposition argued is irrelevent .  . if the issue is , what are the consequences 
if such and such is true , then truth is irrelevent .  . which is it to 
be 

i disagree every proposition needs a certain amount of evidence 
and support , before one can believe it. there are a miriad of factors for 
each individual .  . as we are all different , we quite obviously require 
different levels of evidence. 

as one pointed out , one 's history is important. while in , one 
may not believe a comrade who states that he owns five pairs of blue jeans. 
one would need more evidence , than if one lived in the united states. the 
only time such a statement here would raise an eyebrow in the us , is if the 
individual always wear business suits , etc. 

the degree of the effect upon the world , and the strength of the 
claim also determine the amount of evidence necessary. when determining the 
level of evidence one needs , it is most certainly relevent what the 
consequences of the proposition are. 



if the consequences of a proposition is , please explain 
why one would not accept the electro magnetic force of attraction between 
two charged particles is inversely proportional to the cube of their 
distance apart. 

remember , if the consequences of the law are not relevent , then 
we can not use experimental evidence as a disproof .  . if one of the 
consequences of the law is an incongruency between the law and the state of 
affairs , or an incongruency between this law and any other natural law , 
they are irrelevent when theorizing about the truth of the law. 

given that any consequences of a proposition is , including 
the consequence of self contradiction or contradiction with the state of 
affiars , how are we ever able to judge what is true or not let alone find 
the truth 



by the way , what is truth please define before inserting it in 
the conversation. please explain what truth or truth is. i do think that 
anything is ever known for certain .  . even if there is a truth , we could 
never possibly know if it were. i find the concept to be meaningless .  . 




satan and the angels do not have freewill .  . 
they do what god tells them to do. 

s.n. mozumder 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re gospel dating 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 

keith m. ryan wrote 

wild and fanciful claims require greater evidence. if you state that 
one of the books in your room is blue , i certainly do not need as much 
evidence to believe than if you were to claim that there is a two headed 
leapard in your bed. and i do n't mean a male lover in a leotard ! 

keith , 

if the issue is , what is truth then the consequences of whatever 
proposition argued is irrelevent .  . if the issue is , what are the consequences 
if such and such is true , then truth is irrelevent .  . which is it to 
be 


bill 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject islam is caused by believing  ( was re genocide is caused by theism ) 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 40 



in article (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

i'm only saying that anything can happen under atheism .  . being a 
beleiver , a knowledgeable one in religion , only good can happen. 

this is becoming a tiresome statement. coming from you it is 
a definition , not an assertion 

islam is good. belief in islam is good. therefore , being a 
believer in islam can produce only good .  .  . because . islam is 
good. blah blah blah .  . 

that 's about as circular as it gets , and equally meaningless .  . to 
say that something produces only good because it is only good that 
it produces is nothing more than an unapplied definition .  . and 
all you 're application is saying that it 's true if you really 
believe it 's true. that 's silly. 

conversely , you say off handedly that anything can happen under 
atheism .  . again , just an offshoot of believe it and it becomes true 
do n't believe it and it does n't .  . 

like other religions i'm aquainted with , islam teaches exclusion and 
caste , and suggests harsh penalties for behaviors that have no 
logical call for punishment  ( certain limits on speech and sex , for 
example) .  . to me this is not good. i see much pain and suffering 
without any justification , except for the waving of the hand of 
some inaccessible god. 

by the by , you toss around the word knowledgable a bit carelessly .  . 
for what is a knowledgeable believer except a contradiction of 
terms. i infer that you mean believer in terms of having faith. 
and if you need knowledge to believe then faith has nothing 
to do with it , does it 

jim halat 



organization penn state university 
from 
subject why the bible 
lines 38 

one thing i think is interesting about alt . athiesm . is the fact that 
without bible thumpers and their ilk this would be a much duller newsgroup .  . 
it almost needs the deluded masses to write silly things for athiests to 
tear apart. oh well , that little tidbit aside here is what i really wanted 
write about. 

how can anyone believe in such a sorry document as the bible if you 
want to be religious are n't there more plausable books out there seriously , 
the bible was written by multiple authors who repeatedly contradict each 
other. one minute it tells you to kill your kid if he talks back and the next 
it says not to kill at all. i think that if xtians really want to follow a 
deity they should pick one that can be consistent , unlike the last one they 
invented .  . 

for people who say jesus was the son of god , did n't god say not to 
ever put anyone else before him looks like you did just that. did n't god 
say not to make any symbols or idols what are crosses then do n't you think 
that if you do in fact believe in the bible that you are rather far off track 

was jesus illiterate why did n't he write anything anyone know 

i honestly hope that people who believe in the bible understand that 
it is just one of the religious texts out there and that it is one of the 
poorer quality ones to boot. the only reason xtianity escaped the middle east 
is because a certain roman who 's wine was poisoned with lead made all of rome 
xtian after a bad dream. 

if this posting keeps one person , just one person , from standing on a 
streetcorner and telling people they are going to hell i will be happy. 





only hatred and snap judgements can guide your robots through life. 
dr. clayton forester 
mad scientist 


from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re islamic authority over women 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 8 

keith m. ryan wrote 

nice cop out bill. 

i'm sure you 're right , but i have no idea to what you refer .  . would you 
mind explaining how i copped out 

bill 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
keywords dan bissell 
lines 31 
organization walla walla college 
lines 31 

in article  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
keywords dan bissell 
date 15 apr 93 18 21 21 gmt 
in article  ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 
makes sense to be one. have any of you read tony 's book liar , 
lunatic , or the real thing (i might be a little off on the title , but he 
writes the book. anyway he was part of an effort to destroy christianity , 
in the process he became a christian himself. 

this should be good fun. it 's been a while since the group has 
had such a ripe opportunity to gut , gill , and fillet some poor 
bastard. 

ah well. off to get the popcorn .  .  .  . 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 


i hope you 're not going to flame him. please give him the same coutesy you  
ve given me. 

tammy 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 26 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

i 'll take a wild guess and say freedom is objectively valuable .  . i base 
this on the assumption that if everyone in the world were deprived utterly 
of their freedom  ( so that their every act was contrary to their volition ) , 
almost all would want to complain. therefore i take it that to assert or 
believe that freedom is not very valuable , when almost everyone can see 
that it is , is every bit as absurd as to assert it is not raining on 
a rainy day. i take this to be a candidate for an objective value , and it 
it is a necessary condition for objective morality that objective values 
such as this exist. 

you have only shown that a vast majority ( if not all ) would 
agree to this. however , there is nothing against a subjective majority .  . 

in any event , i must challenge your assertion .  . i know many 
societies heck , many us citizens willing to trade freedom for security . 




whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. 

john laws , a man without the honor to keep his given word. 



from 
subject islamic authority sic over women 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 62 


who  ( keith m. ryan ) 
what 
with 
what 

other readers i just joined , but is this guy for real 
i'm simply amazed .  . 

kr sadly yes. do n't loose any sleep over old 'zlumber .  . just 
kr have some fun with him , but he is basically harmless .  . 
kr at least , if you do n't work in ny city. 

i do n't find it hard to believe that ole 'zlumber really believes 
the hate and ignorant prattle he writes .  . the frightening thought is , 
there are people even worse than he ! to say that feminism equals 
superiority over men is laughable as long as he does n't then proceed 
to pick up a rifle and start to shoot women as a preemptive strike 
aka the canada slaughter that occured a few years ago. but then , men 
killing women is nothing new. islamic fundamentalists just have a 
better excuse (qu'ran) .  . 

from the vancouver sun , thursday , october 4 , 1990 
by john davidson , canadian press 

montreal perhaps it 's the letter to the five year old 
daughter that shocks the most. 

i hope one day you will be old enough to understand what 
happened to your parents , wrote patrick prevost .  . i loved 
your mother with a passion that went as far as hatred .  . 

police found the piece of paper near prevost 's body in his 
apartment in northeast montreal .  . 

they say the 39 year old mechanic committed suicide after 
killing his wife , parent , 31. 

the couple had been separated for a month and the woman had 
gone to his apartment to talk about getting some more money 
for food. a violent quarrel broke out and prevost attacked 
his wife with a kitchen knife , cutting her throat , police said. 

she was only the latest of 13 women slain by a husband or 
lover in quebec in the last five weeks. 

five children have also been slain as a result of the same 
domestic battles .  . 

last year in quebec alone , 29 women were slain by their 
husbands .  . that was more than one third of such cases across 
canada , according to statistics from the canadian centre for 
justice. rest of article ommited 

then to say that women are somehow better or should be the 
one to stay home and raise a child is also laughable .  . women 
have traditionally done hard labor to support a family , often 
more than men in many cultures , throughout history. seems to me 
it takes at least two adults to raise a child , and that both should 
stay home to do so ! 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 19 

in article 
 ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 
certainly .  . it is a central aspect of islam to show mercy and to give 
those who 've done wrong  ( even presuming rushdie did violate islamic 
law ) and committed crimes .  . this was the basis for my posts regarding 
leniency which seemed not to have penetrated benedikt 's skull .  . 

you have demanded harsh punishments of several crimes .  . repeating 
offenders have slipped in only as justification of harsh punishment at 
all. typically religious doublespeak .  . whenever you have contradictory 
statements you choose the possibility that suits your current argument. 

it is disgusting that someone with ideas that would make theodore 
feel cozy can go along under the protection of religion. 

gregg , tell us , would you kill idolaters 
benedikt 

! uunet ! ! ! sgi ! fido ! solntze . wpd . sgi . com . ! livesey 
subject re pompous ass 
from  ( jon livesey ) 


organization sgi 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

how long does it the motto have to stay around before it becomes the 
default ... where 's the cutoff point 
i do n't know where the exact cutoff is , but it is at least after a few 
years , and surely after 40 years. 
why does the notion of default not take into account changes 
in population makeup 

specifically , which changes are you talking about are you arguing 
that the motto is interpreted as offensive by a larger portion of the 
population now than 40 years ago 

no , do i have to i'm just commenting that it makes very 
little sense to consider everything we inherit to be the default. 

seen any steam trains recently 

jon .  . 

from  ( chris bell ) 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
organization south australian regional academic and research network 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host baarnie . tafe . sa . edu . au . 

writes 

my syllogism is of the form 
a is b. 
c is a. 
therefore c is b. 

this is a logically valid construction. 

your syllogism , however , is of the form 
a is b. 
c is b. 
therefore c is a. 

therefore yours is a logically invalid construction , 
and your comments do n't apply. 

i appeal to mathew  ( mantis ) here who wrote the excellent 
post  ( now part of the faq) on logical argument. 

jim b. 

i am not mathew  ( mantis ) but any  ( successful ) first year logic student will see that you are logically correct , the other poster is logically incorrect .  . 


i know is nothing more than i believe with pretentions .  . 

from  ( bake timmons ) 
subject re amusing atheists and agnostics 
lines 76 


chris faehl writes 

many atheists do not mock the concept of a god , they are shocked that 
so many theists have fallen to such a low level that they actually 
believe in a god. you accuse all atheists of being part of a conspiracy , 
again without evidence. 

rule 2 condescending to the population at large (i . e .  . , theists ) will not 
win many people to your faith anytime soon. it only ruins your credibility .  . 

fallacy 1 atheism is a faith. lo ! i hear the faq beckoning once again .  .  .  . 
wonderful rule 3 deleted you 're correct , you did n't say anything about 
a conspiracy 

correction hard atheism is a faith. 

rule 4 do n't mix apples with oranges .  . how can you say that the 
extermination by the mongols was worse than stalin khan conquered people 
unsympathetic to his cause. that was atrocious .  . but stalin killed millions of 
his own people who loved and worshipped him and his atheist state ! ! how can 
anyone be worse than that 

i will not explain this to you again stalin did nothing in the name of 
atheism .  . whethe he was or was not an atheist is irrelevant .  . 

get a grip , man. the stalin example was brought up not as an 
indictment of atheism , but merely as another example of how people will 
kill others under any name that 's fit for the occasion. 

rule 6 if you rely on evidence , state it. we 're waiting. 

as opposed to relying on a bunch of black ink on some crumbling old paper .  .  .  . 
atheism has to prove nothing to you or anyone else. it is the burden of 
dogmatic religious bullshit to provide their 'evidence' .  . which  we  
might you be referring to , and how long are you going to wait 

so hard atheism has nothing to prove then how does it justify that 
god does not exist i know , there 's the faq , etc. but guess what if 
those justifications were so compelling why are n't people flocking to 
hard atheism they 're not , and they wo n't .  . i for one will discourage 
people from hard atheism by pointing out those very sources as reliable 
statements on hard atheism .  . 

second , what makes you think i'm defending any given religion i'm merely 
recognizing hard atheism for what it is , a faith. 

and yes , by we i am referring to every reader of the post. where is the 
evidence that the poster stated that he relied upon 

oh yes , though i'm not a theist , i can say safely that by definition many 
theists are not arrogant , since they boast about something outside 
themselves , namely , a god or gods .  . so in principle it 's hard to see how 
theists are necessarily arrogant .  . 

because they say , such and such is absolutely unalterably true , because 

my dogma says it is true. i am not prepared to issue blanket statements 
indicting all theists of arrogance as you are wont to do with atheists .  . 

bzzt ! by virtue of your innocent little pronoun , they , you 've just issued 
a blanket statement. at least i will apologize by qualifying my original 
statement with hard atheist in place of atheist .  . would you call john the 
baptist arrogant , who boasted of one greater than he that 's what many 
christians do today. how is that in itself arrogant 

i'm not worthy ! 
only seriously misinformed .  . 
with your sophisticated put down of they , the theists , your serious 
misinformation shines through. 


bake timmons , iii 

 .  .  . there . 's nothing higher , stronger , more wholesome and more useful in life 
than some good memory .  .  .  . in brothers  ( dostoevsky ) 

from 
subject re some thoughts. 
organization college 
lines 100 

in article ,  ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 
first i want to start right out and say that i'm a christian .  . it 

that 's okay it 's what all the rest of them who come on here say .  .  .  . 

makes sense to be one. have any of you read tony 's book liar , 
lunatic , or the real thing (i might be a little off on the title , but he 
writes the book. anyway he was part of an effort to destroy christianity , 
in the process he became a christian himself. 

this is n't the guy who was a lawyer was he could you give more info on this 
guy  ( never mind i'm sure there will be plenty of responses to this post , and 
it will appear there ) 

the arguements he uses i am summing up. the book is about whether 
jesus was god or not. i know many of you do n't believe , but listen to a 
different perspective for we all have something to gain by listening to what 
others have to say. 

this is true. make sure it is true for all cases. 

the book says that jesus was either a liar , or he was crazy ( a 

why not both ) 

modern day koresh ) or he was actually who he said he was. 
some reasons why he would n't be a liar are as follows .  . who would 
die for a lie would n't people be able to tell if he was a liar 

why not die for a lie if you were poverty stricken and , sounds 
to me. as to whether the societal dregs he had for 
followers would be able to tell if he was a liar or not , not necessarily .  . 
even if he died for what he believed in , this still makes him completely 
selfish .  . like us all. so what 's the difference. 


people 
gathered around him and kept doing it , many gathered from hearing or seeing 
someone who was or had been healed .  . call me a fool , but i believe he did 
heal people. 

there is no historical proof of this  ( see earlier threads) .  . besides , he  ( or at 
least his name) , have been the cause of enough deaths to make up for whatever 
healing he gave .  . 


niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. 

sieg heil ! ! 


very doubtful , in fact rediculous .  . for example 
anyone who is drawn to david koresh is obviously a fool , logical people see 
this right away. 


who is david koresh i am curious. 

therefore since he was n't a liar or a lunatic , he must have been the 
real thing. 

how does this follow your definition of lunatic  ( and disproof thereof seem 
rather .  .  .  . uhhh .  .  . shaky ) 

some other things to note. he fulfilled loads of prophecies in 
the psalms , isaiah and elsewhere in 24 hrs alone. this in his betrayal 
and crucifixion .  . i do n't have my bible with me at this moment , next time i 
write i will use it. 

good idea. 

i do n't think most people understand what a christian is. it 
is certainly not what i see a lot in churches. 

naturally , those or not true christians , right ) 

rather i think it 
should be a way of life , and a total sacrafice of everything for god 's 
sake. he loved us enough to die and save us so we should do the 
same. hey we ca n't do it , god himself inspires us to turn our lives 
over to him. that 's tuff and most people do n't want to do it , to be a 
real christian would be something for the strong to persevere at. but 
just like weight lifting or guitar playing , drums , whatever it takes 
time. we do n't rush it in one day , christianity is your whole life. 
it is not going to church once a week , or helping poor people once in 
a while. we box everything into time units. such as work at this 
time , sports , tv , social life. god is above these boxes and should be 
carried with us into all these boxes that we have created for 
ourselves. 


someone else handle this , i do n't know if it 's worth it .  .  .  . sigh 



adam john cooper verily , often have i laughed at the weaklings 
who thought themselves good simply because 
they had no claws .  . 


from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re objective morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 74 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

i want to know how this omniscient being is going to perform 
the feat of definitely terming actions right or wrong. 

if you were omniscient , you 'd know who exactly did what , and with what 
purpose in mind. then , with a particular goal in mind , you sould be 
able to methodically judge whether or not this action was in accordance 
with the general goal. 

i do n't think you 've show the existence of any objective moral system. 
they exist , but in practice , they are difficult to perfectly emulate .  . 
i mean , you understand the concept of an objective system , right 
i thought you were explaining it to us. i certainly do n't 
understand what you are explaining .  . 

in an objective system , there are known goals. then , actions are judged 
as either being compatible with these goals , or not. simple. the problem 
with most systems in current practice is that the goals differ .  . that is , 
the goals of each society are different. 

note that an objective system is not necessarily an inherent one. 

the concept of innocence is dependent on whether certain actions are 
right or wrong , and this depends on the moral system. but , if 
we have an objective system , then someone can be deemed innocent or 
not quite easily by an omniscient person. anyway , i think i cleared 
up the recursive definition of murder , because no one is complaining 
about it. 
i do n't think it solves anything to speculate where we would be 
if we did have an objective moral system. the question is 
still whether you can even say what one is. 

i 've said it many , many times. 

and for what it 's worth , i do n't think you cleared up anything 
concerning murder .  . 

which part do you have a problem with 

what do you mean by harmed is it harm if you have to spend 
your existence metabolising food for another species 
oh , most moral systems would be considered only within a species .  . it 
is okay for us to enslave other animals , right but not humans .  .  .  . 
of course , ideally , perhaps we would n't even have to bother any other 
animals .  .  .  . 
one the first point , it 's wrong to enslave humans according to my 
persoanl moral system. on the second point , i'm a vegetarian .  . 

but , we can enslave the animals , right but just not kill them or 
are you a vegetarian for health reasons 

so , are you a vegetarian 

no. i fail to see how my personal views are relevant , anyway. 

is it wrong to eat animals in your personal moral system 

of course not. it seems perfectly valid to kill members of other species 
for food. it might be nice , though , if the other animals were not made 
to suffer .  . for instance , a cow in a field lives out its life just about 
the same way it would in the wild .  . they seem happy enough. however , 
the veal youngsters are n't treated very well. 

how about an objective moral system 

i do n't know. what is the goal of this particular system there is no 
inherent system. 

how about a natural moral system. 

nope .  . again , it seems okay to kill other species for food. 

keith 

from  ( petri pihko ) 
subject re idle questions for fellow atheists 
organization university of oulu , finland 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 59 

wrote 

i wonder how many atheists out there care to speculate on the face of 
the world if atheists were the majority rather than the minority group 
of the population .  . 

i 've been thinking about this every now and then since i cut my ties 
with christianity .  . it is surprising to note that a large majority of 
people , at least in finland , seem to be even though 
90 of the population are members of the lutheran church of finland , 
religious people are actually a minority .  . 

could it be possible that many people believe in god just in case 
it seems people do not want to seek the truth they fall prey to pascal 's 
wager or other poor arguments .  . a small minority of those who do believe 
reads the bible regularly. the majority does n't care it believes , 
but does n't know what or how. 

people do n't usually allow their beliefs to change their lifestyle , 
they only want to keep the virtual gate open. a christian would say 
that they are not born in the spirit , but this does not disturb them. 
religion is not something to think about. 

i'm afraid a society with a true atheist majority is an impossible 
dream. religions have a strong appeal to people , nevertheless 
a promise of life after death is something humans eagerly listen to. 
coupled with threats of eternal torture and the idea that our 
morality is under constant scrutiny of some cosmic cop , too many 
people take the poison with a smile. or just pretend to swallow 
 ( and unconsciously hope god would n't notice ) ) 

also , how many atheists out there would actually take the stance and accor a 
higher value to their way of thinking over the theistic way of thinking. the 
typical selfish argument would be that both lines of thinking evolved from the 
same inherent motivation , so one is not , intrinsically , different from the 
other , qualitatively .  . but then again a measuring stick must be drawn 
somewhere , and if we cannot assign value to a system of beliefs at its core , 
than the only other alternative is to apply it to its periphery ie , how it 
expresses its own selfishness .  . 

if logic and reason are valued , then i would claim that atheistic thinking 
is of higher value than the theistic exposition .  . theists make unnecessary 
assumptions they believe in i 've yet to see good reasons to believe 
in gods , or to take a leap of faith at all. a revelation would do. 

however , why do we value logic and reasoning this questions bears 
some resemblance to a long disputed problem in science why mathematics 
works strong deep structuralists , like atkins , have proposed that 
perhaps , after all , everything is mathematics .  . 

is usefulness any criterion 

petri 


.  . ' . '' .  . petri pihko kem mathematics is the truth. 
!  . ' . ' . ' . ' ' . 15 c finou . oulu . fi . physics is the rule of 
' ' . ' sf 90650 oulu the game. 
' . finland phoenix . oulu . fi . chemistry is the game. 

from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 33 

in article  ( mike cobb ) writes 
in  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 


actually , my atheism is based on ignorance .  . ignorance of the 
existence of any god. do n't fall into the atheists do n't believe 
because of their pride mistake. 

how do you know it 's based on ignorance , could n't that be wrong why would it 
be wrong 
to fall into the trap that you mentioned 


if i'm wrong , god is free at any time to correct my mistake. that 
he continues not to do so , while supposedly proclaiming his 
undying love for my eternal soul , speaks volumes .  . 

as for the trap , you are not in a position to tell me that i do n't 
believe in god because i do not wish to. unless you can know my 
motivations better than i do myself , you should believe me when i 
say that i earnestly searched for god for years and never found 
him. 




bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 




from  ( brian cash ) 
subject re free moral agency 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( ron house ) writes 
 ( kevin marshall ) writes 

 ( tammy r healy ) writes 

you might think oh yeah. then why did n't god destroy it in the bud 
before it got to the point it is now with millions through the 
ages suffering along in life 
the only answer i know is that satan made the claim that his way was 
better than god 's .  . god is allowing satan the chance to prove that his way 
is better than god 's .  . we all know what that has brought .  . 

come on ! god is allowing the wishes of one individual to supercede the 
well being of billions i seriously doubt it. having read the bible 
twice , i never got the impression that god and satan were working in some 
sort of cooperative arrangement .  . 

read the book of job. 


oh , that was just a bet. 


brian 

from mathew 
subject alt.atheism faq constructing a logical argument 
summary includes a list of logical fallacies 
keywords faq , atheism , argument , fallacies , logic 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 10 52 14 gmt 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
supersedes 
lines 632 

archive name atheism logic 
alt atheism archive name logic 
last modified 5 april 1993 
version 1.4 

constructing a logical argument 

although there is much argument on usenet , the general quality of argument 
found is poor. this article attempts to provide a gentle introduction to 
logic , in the hope of improving the general level of debate. 

logic is the science of reasoning , proof , thinking , or inference concise 
oed . logic allows us to analyze a piece of reasoning and determine whether 
it is correct or not  ( valid or invalid) .  . of course , one does not need to 
study logic in order to reason correctly nevertheless , a little basic 
knowledge of logic is often helpful when constructing or analyzing an 
argument. 

note that no claim is being made here about whether logic is universally 
applicable .  . the matter is very much open for debate. this document merely 
explains how to use logic , given that you have already decided that logic is 
the right tool for the job. 

propositions  ( or statements ) are the building blocks of a logical argument. a 
proposition is a statement which is either true or false for example , it is 
raining or today is tuesday . propositions may be either asserted  ( said to 
be true ) or denied  ( said to be false) .  . note that this is a technical meaning 
of deny , not the everyday meaning. 

the proposition is the meaning of the statement , not the particular 
arrangement of words used to express it. so god exists and there exists a 
god both express the same proposition .  . 

an argument is , to quote the monty python sketch , a connected series of 
statements to establish a definite proposition . an argument consists of 
three stages .  . 

first of all , the propositions which are necessary for the argument to 
continue are stated .  . these are called the premises of the argument. they 
are the evidence or reasons for accepting the argument and its conclusions .  . 

premises  ( or assertions ) are often indicated by phrases such as because , 
since , obviously and so on.  ( the phrase obviously is often viewed with 
suspicion , as it can be used to intimidate others into accepting suspicious 
premises .  . if something does n't seem obvious to you , do n't be afraid to 
question it. you can always say oh , yes , you 're right , it is obvious when 
you 've heard the explanation . ) . 

next , the premises are used to derive further propositions by a process known 
as inference .  . in inference , one proposition is arrived at on the basis of 
one or more other propositions already accepted. there are various forms of 
valid inference .  . 

the propositions arrived at by inference may then be used in further 
inference .  . inference is often denoted by phrases such as implies that or 
therefore . 

finally , we arrive at the conclusion of the argument the proposition which 
is affirmed on the basis of the premises and inference .  . conclusions are often 
indicated by phrases such as therefore , it follows that , we conclude 
and so on. the conclusion is often stated as the final stage of inference .  . 

for example 

every event has a cause  ( premise ) 
the universe has a beginning  ( premise ) 
all beginnings involve an event  ( premise ) 
this implies that the beginning of the universe involved an event  ( inference ) 
therefore the universe has a cause  ( inference and conclusion ) 

note that the conclusion of one argument might be a premise in another 
argument. a proposition can only be called a premise or a conclusion with 
respect to a particular argument the terms do not make sense in isolation .  . 

sometimes an argument will not follow the order given above for example , 
the conclusions might be stated first and the premises stated 
afterwards in support of the conclusion .  . this is perfectly valid , if 
sometimes a little confusing. 

recognizing an argument is much harder than recognizing premises or 
conclusions .  . many people shower their writing with assertions without ever 
producing anything which one might reasonably describe as an argument. some 
statements look like arguments , but are not. for example 

if the bible is accurate , jesus must either have been insane , an evil liar , 
or the son of god. 

this is not an argument , it is a conditional statement. it does not assert 
the premises which are necessary to support what appears to be its 
conclusion .  .  ( it also suffers from a number of other logical flaws , but we 'll 
come to those later . ) . 

another example 

god created you therefore do your duty to god. 

the phrase do your duty to god is not a proposition , since it is neither 
true nor false .  . therefore it is not a conclusion , and the sentence is not an 
argument. 

finally , causality is important. consider a statement of the form a because 
b . if we 're interested in establishing a and b is offered as evidence , the 
statement is an argument. if we 're trying to establish the truth of b , then 
it is not an argument , it is an explanation. 

for example 

there must be something wrong with the engine of my car , because it will not 
start. this is an argument. 

my car will not start because there is something wrong with the engine. 
this is an explanation. 

there are two traditional types of argument , deductive and inductive .  . a 
deductive argument is one which provides conclusive proof of its conclusions 
that is , an argument where if the premises are true , the conclusion must 
also be true. a deductive argument is either valid or invalid .  . a valid 
argument is defined as one where if the premises are true , then the 
conclusion is true. 

an inductive argument is one where the premises provide some evidence for the 
truth of the conclusion .  . inductive arguments are not valid or invalid 
however , we can talk about whether they are better or worse than other 
arguments , and about how probable their premises are. 

there are forms of argument in ordinary language which are neither deductive 
nor inductive .  . however , we will concentrate for the moment on deductive 
arguments , as they are often viewed as the most rigorous and convincing .  . 

it is important to note that the fact that a deductive argument is valid does 
not imply that its conclusion holds .  . this is because of the slightly 
counter intuitive nature of implication , which we must now consider more 
carefully .  . 

obviously a valid argument can consist of true propositions .  . however , an 
argument may be entirely valid even if it contains only false propositions .  . 
for example 

all insects have wings  ( premise ) 
woodlice are insects  ( premise ) 
therefore woodlice have wings  ( conclusion ) 

here , the conclusion is not true because the argument 's premises are false .  . 
if the argument 's premises were true , however , the conclusion would be true. 
the argument is thus entirely valid .  . 

more subtly , we can reach a true conclusion from one or more false premises , 
as in 

all fish live in the sea  ( premise ) 
dolphins are fish  ( premise ) 
therefore dolphins live in the sea  ( conclusion ) 

however , the one thing we cannot do is reach a false conclusion through valid 
inference from true premises .  . we can therefore draw up a truth table for 
implication .  . 

the symbol denotes implication a is the premise , b the conclusion .  . 
t and f represent true and false respectively .  . 

premise conclusion inference 
a b a b 

f f t if the premises are false and the inference 
f t t valid , the conclusion can be true or false .  . 

t f f if the premises are true and the conclusion 
false , the inference must be invalid .  . 

t t t if the premises are true and the inference valid , 
the conclusion must be true. 

a sound argument is a valid argument whose premises are true. a sound 
argument therefore arrives at a true conclusion .  . be careful not to confuse 
valid arguments with sound arguments .  . 

to delve further into the structure of logical arguments would require 
lengthy discussion of linguistics and philosophy .  . it is simpler and probably 
more useful to summarize the major pitfalls to be avoided when constructing 
an argument. these pitfalls are known as fallacies .  . 

in everyday english the term fallacy is used to refer to mistaken beliefs 
as well as to the faulty reasoning that leads to those beliefs .  . this is fair 
enough , but in logic the term is generally used to refer to a form of 
technically incorrect argument , especially if the argument appears valid or 
convincing .  . 

so for the purposes of this discussion , we define a fallacy as a logical 
argument which appears to be correct , but which can be seen to be incorrect 
when examined more closely .  . by studying fallacies we aim to avoid being 
misled by them. the following list of fallacies is not intended to be 
exhaustive .  . 

argumentum ad baculum  ( appeal to force ) 

the appeal to force is committed when the arguer resorts to force or the 
threat of force in order to try and push the acceptance of a conclusion .  . it 
is often used by politicians , and can be summarized as might makes right . 
the force threatened need not be a direct threat from the arguer .  . 

for example 
... thus there is ample proof of the truth of the bible .  . all those who 
refuse to accept that truth will burn in hell. 

argumentum ad hominem 

argumentum ad hominem is literally argument directed at the man . 

the abusive variety of argumentum ad hominem occurs when , instead of trying 
to disprove the truth of an assertion , the arguer attacks the person or 
people making the assertion .  . this is invalid because the truth of an 
assertion does not depend upon the goodness of those asserting it. 

for example 
atheism is an evil philosophy .  . it is practised by communists and murderers .  . 

sometimes in a court of law doubt is cast upon the testimony of a witness by 
showing , for example , that he is a known perjurer .  . this is a valid way of 
reducing the credibility of the testimony given by the witness , and not 
argumentum ad hominem however , it does not demonstrate that the witness 's 
testimony is false .  . to conclude otherwise is to fall victim of the 
argumentum ad ignorantiam  ( see elsewhere in this list) .  . 

the circumstantial form of argumentum ad hominem is committed when a person 
argues that his opponent ought to accept the truth of an assertion because of 
the opponent 's particular circumstances .  . 

for example 
it is perfectly acceptable to kill animals for food. how can you argue 
otherwise when you 're quite happy to wear leather shoes 

this is an abusive charge of inconsistency , used as an excuse for dismissing 
the opponent 's argument. 

this fallacy can also be used as a means of rejecting a conclusion .  . for 
example 

of course you would argue that positive discrimination is a bad thing. 
you 're white. 

this particular form of argumentum ad hominem , when one alleges that one 's 
adversary is rationalizing a conclusion formed from selfish interests , is 
also known as poisoning the well . 

argumentum ad 

argumentum ad means argument from ignorance . this fallacy 
occurs whenever it is argued that something must be true simply because it 
has not been proved false .  . or , equivalently , when it is argued that 
something must be false because it has not been proved true.  ( note that this 
is not the same as assuming that something is false until it has been proved 
true , a basic scientific principle . ) . 

examples 
of course the bible is true. nobody can prove otherwise. 

of course telepathy and other psychic phenomena do not exist. nobody has 
shown any proof that they are real. 

note that this fallacy does not apply in a court of law , where one is 
generally assumed innocent until proven guilty .  . 

also , in scientific investigation if it is known that an event would produce 
certain evidence of its having occurred , the absence of such evidence can 
validly be used to infer that the event did not occur .  . for example 

a flood as described in the bible would require an enormous volume of water 
to be present on the earth. the earth does not have a tenth as much water , 
even if we count that which is frozen into ice at the poles .  . therefore no 
such flood occurred .  . 

in science , we can validly assume from lack of evidence that something has 
not occurred .  . we cannot conclude with certainty that it has not occurred , 
however. 

argumentum ad misericordiam 

this is the appeal to pity , also known as special pleading .  . the fallacy is 
committed when the arguer appeals to pity for the sake of getting a 
conclusion accepted. for example 

i did not murder my mother and father with an axe .  . please do n't find me 
guilty i'm suffering enough through being an orphan .  . 

argumentum ad populum 

this is known as appealing to the gallery , or appealing to the people. to 
commit this fallacy is to attempt to win acceptance of an assertion by 
appealing to a large group of people. this form of fallacy is often 
characterized by emotive language. for example 

pornography must be banned. it is violence against women. 

the bible must be true. millions of people know that it is. are you trying 
to tell them that they are all mistaken fools 

argumentum ad 

this fallacy is closely related to the argumentum ad populum .  . it consists of 
asserting that the more people who support or believe a proposition , the more 
likely it is that that proposition is correct. 

argumentum ad verecundiam 

the appeal to authority uses the admiration of the famous to try and win 
support for an assertion .  . for example 

isaac newton was a genius and he believed in god. 

this line of argument is not always completely bogus for example , reference 
to an admitted authority in a particular field may be relevant to a 
discussion of that subject. for example , we can distinguish quite clearly 
between 

stephen hawking has concluded that black holes give off radiation 
and 
john searle has concluded that it is impossible to build an intelligent 
computer 

hawking is a physicist , and so we can reasonably expect his opinions on black 
hole radiation to be informed .  . searle is a linguist , so it is questionable 
whether he is well qualified to speak on the subject of machine intelligence .  . 

the fallacy of accident 

the fallacy of accident is committed when a general rule is applied to a 
particular case whose accidental circumstances mean that the rule is 
inapplicable .  . it is the error made when one goes from the general to the 
specific .  . for example 

christians generally dislike atheists .  . you are a christian , so you must 
dislike atheists .  . 

this fallacy is often committed by moralists and legalists who try to decide 
every moral and legal question by mechanically applying general rules. 

converse accident hasty generalization 

this fallacy is the reverse of the fallacy of accident. it occurs when one 
forms a general rule by examining only a few specific cases which are not 
representative of all possible cases. 

for example 
jim bakker was an insincere christian .  . therefore all christians are 
insincere .  . 

sweeping generalization dicto simpliciter 

a sweeping generalization occurs when a general rule is applied to a 
particular situation in which the features of that particular situation 
render the rule inapplicable .  . a sweeping generalization is the opposite of a 
hasty generalization .  . 

non causa pro causa post hoc ergo propter hoc 

these are known as false cause fallacies .  . 

the fallacy of non causa pro causa occurs when one identifies something as the 
cause of an event but it has not actually been shown to be the cause. for 
example 

i took an aspirin and prayed to god , and my headache disappeared .  . so god 
cured me of the headache. 

the fallacy of post hoc ergo propter hoc occurs when something is assumed to 
be the cause of an event merely because it happened before the event. for 
example 

the soviet union collapsed after taking up atheism .  . therefore we must avoid 
atheism for the same reasons. 

cum hoc ergo propter hoc 

this fallacy is similar to post hoc ergo propter hoc .  . it asserts that 
because two events occur together , they must be causally related , and leaves 
no room for other factors that may be the  ( cause(s ) of the events. 

petitio principii 

this fallacy occurs when the premises are at least as questionable as the 
conclusion reached .  . 

in 

this fallacy occurs when one assumes as a premise the conclusion which one 
wishes to reach .  . often , the proposition will be rephrased so that the 
fallacy appears to be a valid argument. for example 

homosexuals must not be allowed to hold government office. hence any 
government official who is revealed to be a homosexual will lose his job. 
therefore homosexuals will do anything to hide their secret , and will be open 
to blackmail .  . therefore homosexuals cannot be allowed to hold government 
office. 

note that the argument is entirely circular the premise is the same as the 
conclusion .  . an argument like the above has actually been cited as the reason 
for the british secret services  official ban on homosexual employees .  . 
another example is the classic 

we know that god exists because the bible tells us so. and we know that the 
bible is true because it is the word of god. 

complex question fallacy of interrogation 

this is the fallacy of presupposition .  . one example is the classic loaded 
question 

have you stopped beating your wife 

the question presupposes a definite answer to another question which has not 
even been asked. this trick is often used by lawyers in cross examination , 
when they ask questions like 

where did you hide the money you stole 

similarly , politicians often ask loaded questions such as 

how long will this ec interference in our affairs be allowed to continue 
or 
does the chancellor plan two more years of ruinous privatization 

elenchi 

the fallacy of irrelevant conclusion consists of claiming that an argument 
supports a particular conclusion when it is actually logically nothing to do 
with that conclusion .  . 

for example , a christian may begin by saying that he will argue that the 
teachings of christianity are undoubtably true. if he then argues at length 
that christianity is of great help to many people , no matter how well he 
argues he will not have shown that christian teachings are true. 

sadly , such fallacious arguments are often successful because they arouse 
emotions which cause others to view the supposed conclusion in a more 
favourable light. 

equivocation 

equivocation occurs when a key word is used with two or more different 
meanings in the same argument. for example 

what could be more affordable than free software but to make sure that it 
remains free , that users can do what they like with it , we must place a 
license on it to make sure that will always be freely redistributable .  . 



occurs when the premises used in an argument are ambiguous because 
of careless or ungrammatical phrasing .  . 

accent 

accent is another form of fallacy through shifting meaning. in this case , 
the meaning is changed by altering which parts of a statement are 
emphasized .  . for example , consider 

we should not speak ill of our friends 
and 
we should not speak ill of our friends 

fallacies of composition 

one fallacy of composition is to conclude that a property shared by the parts 
of something must apply to the whole .  . for example 

the bicycle is made entirely of low mass components , and is therefore very 
lightweight .  . 

the other fallacy of composition is to conclude that a property of a number 
of individual items is shared by a collection of those items. for example 

a car uses less petrol and causes less pollution than a bus. therefore cars 
are less environmentally damaging than buses .  . 

fallacy of division 

the fallacy of division is the opposite of the fallacy of composition .  . like 
its opposite , it exists in two varieties .  . the first is to assume that a 
property of some thing must apply to its parts. for example 

you are studying at a rich college. therefore you must be rich. 

the other is to assume that a property of a collection of items is shared by 
each item. for example 

ants can destroy a tree. therefore this ant can destroy a tree. 

the slippery slope argument 

this argument states that should one event occur , so will other harmful 
events. there is no proof made that the harmful events are caused by the 
first event. 

for example 
if we legalize marijuana , then we would have to legalize crack and heroin 
and we 'll have a nation full of drug addicts on welfare .  . therefore we cannot 
legalize marijuana .  . 

a is based on b fallacies is a type of fallacies 

these fallacies occur when one attempts to argue that things are in some way 
similar without actually specifying in what way they are similar. 

examples 
is n't history based upon faith if so , then is n't the bible also a form of 
history 

islam is based on faith , christianity is based on faith , so is n't islam a 
form of christianity 

cats are a form of animal based on carbon chemistry , dogs are a form of 
animal based on carbon chemistry , so are n't dogs a form of cat 

affirmation of the consequent 

this fallacy is an argument of the form a implies b , b is true , therefore a 
is true . to understand why it is a fallacy , examine the truth table for 
implication given earlier. 

denial of the antecedent 

this fallacy is an argument of the form a implies b , a is false , therefore b 
is false . again , the truth table for implication makes it clear why this is 
a fallacy .  . 

note that this fallacy is different from non causa pro causa the latter has 
the form a implies b , a is false , therefore b is false , where a does not in 
fact imply b at all. here , the problem is not that the implication is 
invalid rather it is that the falseness of a does not allow us to deduce 
anything about b. 

converting a conditional 

this fallacy is an argument of the form if a then b , therefore if b then a . 

argumentum ad 

this is the fallacy of asserting that something is right or good simply 
because it is old , or because that 's the way it 's always been. 

argumentum ad 

this is the opposite of the argumentum ad it is the fallacy of 
asserting that something is more correct simply because it is new or newer 
than something else. 

argumentum ad crumenam 

the fallacy of believing that money is a criterion of correctness that those 
with more money are more likely to be right. 

argumentum ad 

the fallacy of assuming that because someone is poor he or she is sounder or 
more virtuous than one who is wealthier .  . this fallacy is the opposite of the 
argumentum ad crumenam .  . 

argumentum ad nauseam 

this is the incorrect belief that an assertion is more likely to be true the 
more often it is heard. an argumentum ad nauseum is one that employs 
constant repetition in asserting something. 

bifurcation 

also referred to as the black and white fallacy , bifurcation occurs when 
one presents a situation as having only two alternatives , where in fact other 
alternatives exist or can exist. 

many questions 

this fallacy occurs when a questioner demands a simple answer to a complex 
question. 

non sequitur 

a non sequitur is an argument where the conclusion is drawn from premises 
which are not logically connected with it. 

red herring 

this fallacy is committed when irrelevant material is introduced to the issue 
being discussed , so that everyone 's attention is diverted away from the 
points being made , towards a different conclusion .  . 

reification 

reification occurs when an abstract concept is treated as a concrete thing. 

shifting the burden of proof 

the burden of proof is always on the person making an assertion or 
proposition .  . shifting the burden of proof , a special case of argumentum ad 
, is the fallacy of putting the burden of proof on the person who 
denies or questions the assertion being made. the source of the fallacy is 
the assumption that something is true unless proven otherwise. 

straw man 

the straw man fallacy is to misrepresent someone else 's position so that it 
can be attacked more easily , then to knock down that misrepresented position , 
then to conclude that the original position has been demolished .  . it is a 
fallacy because it fails to deal with the actual arguments that have been 
made. 

the extended analogy 

the fallacy of the extended analogy often occurs when some suggested general 
rule is being argued over. the fallacy is to assume that mentioning two 
different situations , in an argument about a general rule , constitutes a 
claim that those situations are analogous to each other. 

this fallacy is best explained using a real example from a debate about 
anti cryptography legislation 

i believe it is always wrong to oppose the law by breaking it. 

such a position is odious it implies that you would not have supported 
martin luther king .  . 

are you saying that cryptography legislation is as important as the 
struggle for black liberation how dare you ! 

tu quoque 

this is the famous you too fallacy .  . it occurs when an action is argued to 
be acceptable because the other party has performed it. for instance 

you 're just being randomly abusive .  . 
so you 've been abusive too. 



from  ( mike cobb ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 39 

in  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

in article  ( mike 
cobb ) writes 
what do you base your belief on atheism on your knowledge and reasoning 
could n't that be wrong 


actually , my atheism is based on ignorance .  . ignorance of the 
existence of any god. do n't fall into the atheists do n't believe 
because of their pride mistake. 

how do you know it 's based on ignorance , could n't that be wrong why would it 
be wrong 
to fall into the trap that you mentioned 

also , if i may , what the heck where we talking about and why did n't i keep 
some comments on there to see what the line of thoughts were 

mac 





bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 




michael a. cobb 
 .  .  . and . i wo n't raise taxes on the middle university of illinois 
class to pay for my programs. champaign urbana 
bill clinton 3rd debate 

with new taxes and spending cuts we 'll still have 310 billion dollar deficits .  . 

from 
subject re death penalty gulf war 
lines 128 

in article , mathew writes 
 ( voelkerding ) writes 
in article  ( chris 
blask ) writes 
add to this the outrageous cost of putting someone to death  ( special cell 
block , years of court costs , extra guards .  .  . ) . and the benefits of the death 
penalty entirely disappear .  . 

that 's because of your earlier claim that the one innocent death 
overrides the benefit of all the others. obviously it 's tragic , but 
it is no argument for doing away with the death penalty .  . if we went 
to war and worried about accidentally killing civilians all of the time 
 ( because our determination of who the enemy really is is imperfect ) , then 
there is no way to win the war. 

yes. fortunately we have right thinking folks like your good self in power , 
and it was therefore deemed acceptable to slaughter tens or even hundreds of 
thousands of iraqis in order to liberate oil h h hkuwait .  . we won the war , 
hurrah hurrah ! 

the number of civilian iraqi deaths were way over exaggerated and 
exploited for anti war emotionalism by the liberal news media. the 
facts are that less iraqis died in the gulf war than did civilians 
in any other war of comparable size this century ! this was due mostly 
to the short duration coupled with precise surgical bombing techniques 
which were technically possible only recently. 

the idea that hundreds of thousands of iraqi citizens died is 
ludicrous .  . not even hundreds of thousands of iraqi soldiers died , 
and they were the ones being targeted ! or do you think that the us 
and its allies were specifically out to kill and maim iraqi civilians 
either the smart bombs did n't hit their targets  ( and we know they did) , 
or they were targeting civilian targets ( ! ) which is hardly condusive to 
destroying iraq 's military potential. the military mission planners are 
not fools , they know they have to hit military targets to win a war. 
hitting civilian targets does nothing but unite the people against you , 
not a laudable goal if one wants the people to rise up against their 
tyrant dictator .  . 

ok , so some innocent people died. yes , maybe the unarmed civilians fleeing 
along that road did n't need to be bombed to bits. perhaps that kid with half 
his face burned off and the little girl with the mangled legs were n't 
entirely guilty .  . but it 's worth the death of a few innocents to save the 
oil h h of the kuwaiti people , is n't it after all , the iraqis may 
not have had a chance to vote for saddam , but they showed their acceptance of 
his regime by not assassinating him , right all that surrendering and 
fleeing along open roads was just a devious ploy .  . we were entirely within 
our rights to bomb 'em just in case , without finding out if they were 
soldiers .  . 

how about all the innocent people who died in blanket bombing in ww2 
i do n't hear you bemoaning them ! war is never an exact science , but 
with smart bombs , it 's becoming more exact with a smaller percentage 
of civilian casualties .  . sometimes mistakes are made targets are 
misidentified innocents die. that 's war the way it really is. 
but the alternative , to allow tyrannical dictators to treat the earth 
like it 's one big rummage sale , grabbing everything they can get is 
worse. like patrick henry said some 217 years ago , i know not what 
course others may take but as for me , give me liberty , or give me 
death ! war is always the price one must be willing to pay if one 
wishes to stay free. 


the death penalty was conceived as a deterrent to crime , but the legal 
shenanigans that have been added  ( automatic appeals , lengthy court 
battles , etc . ) . have relegated that purpose to a very small part of what 
it should be. hence the question is , do we instate the death penalty as 
it was meant to be , and see if that deters crime , or do we get rid of 
it entirely 

yes , let 's reinstate the death penalty the way it ought to be. all that shit 
about fair trials and a court of appeals just gets in the way of justice. 
let 's give the police the absolute right to gun down the guilty , and save 
ourselves the expense of all those lawyers .  . 

think of the knock on benefits , too. la would never have had to spend so 
much money cleaning up after riots and holding showcase trials if the cops 
had been allowed to do their job properly. a quick bullet through the head 
of rodney king and another for the cameraman , and everyone would have been 
saved a great deal of unnecessary paperwork and expense .  . 

after all , if the police decide a man 's guilty , that ought to be enough. the 
fact that the death penalty has been shown not to have any deterrent effect 
over imprisonment , well , that 's entirely irrelevant .  . 


mathew 


mathew , your sarcasm is noted but you are completely off base here. 
you come off sounding like a complete peace nik idiot , although i 
feel sure that was not your intent .  . 

so the iraqi war was wrong , eh i'm sure that appeasement would have 
worked better than war , just like it did in ww2 , eh i guess we 
should n't have fought ww2 either just think of all those innocent 
german civilians killed in dresden and hamburg .  . how about all the poor 
french who died in the crossfire because we invaded the continent we 
should have just let hitler take over europe , and you 'd be speaking 
german instead of english right now. 

tyrants like hussein have to be stopped .  . his kind do n't understand 
diplomacy they only understand the point of a gun. my only regret is 
that bush wimped out and did n't have the military roll into baghdad , so 
now hussein is still in power and the iraqi people 's sacrifice  ( not to 
mention the 357 americans who died ) was for naught .  . liberating kuwait 
was a good thing , but wiping hussein off the map would 've been better ! 

and as for poor , poor rodney king ! did you ever stop and think why 
the jury in the first trial brought back a verdict of not guilty 
those who have been foaming at the mouth for the blood of those 
policemen certainly have looked no further than the video tape. 
but the jury looked at all the evidence , evidence which you and i 
have not seen. when one makes a judgment without the benefit of a 
trial where evidence can be presented on both sides , one has simply 
lowered himself to the level of vigilante justice , a state of mind 
which your sarcasm above seemingly spoke against , but instead tends 
to support in the case against the policemen .  . 

law in this country is intended to protect the rights of the accused , 
whether they be criminals or cops .  . one is not found guilty if there is 
a reasonable doubt of one 's guilt , and only the jury is in a position 
to assess the evidence and render a verdict .  . anyone else is simply 
succumbing to verbal vigilantism .  . 

regards , 

jim b. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re free moral agency and kent s. 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 19 

in article , 
 ( tammy r healy ) wrote 
at the time ezekiel was written , israel was in apostacy again and if i'm not 
mistaken , tyre was about to make war on israel .  . like i said , the prince of 
tyre was the human ruler of tyre .  . he was a wicked man. by calling satan 
the king of tyre , ezekiel was saying that satan is the real ruler over tyre .  . 

tammy , is this all explicitly stated in the bible , or do you assume 
that you know that ezekiel indirectly mentioned it could have been 
another metaphor , for instance ezekiel was mad at his landlord , so he 
talked about him when he wrote about the prince of tyre .  . 

sorry , but my interpretation is more mundane , ezekiel wrote about 
the prince of tyre when we wrote about the prince of tyre .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( brendan dunn ) 
subject re you will all go to hell ! ! ! 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 28 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

in article writes 
pitt vs. penn state controversy deleted 

bringing this back to alt.atheism relevance so the guy says we 're going to 
hell. that is n't sufficient cause to bitch to the system operator .  . at worst , 
it 's bad etiquette .  .  ( unless you really believe that someone is using his 
account without his knowledge permission , which is actually against the law . ) . 

patrick saxton pitt is a second rate school in a second rate city. 
anon 
ob . atheism . in batman we trust 


no. it would n't be sufficient cause to bitch to the system operator if this 
was just some guy saying that atheists are going to hell. the point was 
that recently many messages were posted from that address. each of these 
messages was posted to a different newsgroup , with the apparent intent of 
provoking the readers of that particular group. this , along with the fact 
that these posts were written in all caps , makes these posts suspect .  . 
whoever is using this account is using it irresponsibly .  . if it is the 
intended user , they should consider appropriate action. if it is someone 
else which seems a possibility , then this is also reason to report it. 
we get many posts in the flavor of the one that started this thread. 
it is only because i have seen posts on other groups by this user that i 
am considering action. 

brendan 


from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re gospel dating 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 93 

in article 
 ( charley wingate ) writes 

well , john has a quite different , not necessarily more elaborated theology .  . 
there is some evidence that he must have known luke , and that the content 
of q was known to him , but not in a   form. 

this is a new argument to me. could you elaborate a little 


the argument goes as follows q oid quotes appear in john , but not in 
the almost codified way they were in matthew or luke .  . however , they are 
considered to be similar enough to point to knowledge of q as such , and 
not an entirely different source. 


assuming that he knew luke would obviously put him after luke , and would 
give evidence for the latter assumption .  . 

i do n't think this follows .  . if you take the most traditional attributions , 
then luke might have known john , but john is an elder figure in either case. 
we 're talking spans of time here which are well within the range of 
lifetimes .  . 

we are talking date of texts here , not the age of the authors .  . the usual 
explanation for the time order of mark , matthew and luke does not consider 
their respective ages. it says matthew has read the text of mark , and luke 
that of matthew  ( and probably that of mark) .  . 

as it is assumed that john knew the content of luke 's text. the evidence 
for that is not overwhelming , admittedly .  . 


(1) earlier manuscripts of john have been discovered .  . 

interesting , where and which how are they dated how old are they 

unfortunately , i have n't got the info at hand. it was (i think) in the late 
'70s or early '80s , and it was possibly as old as ce 200. 


when they are from about 200 , why do they shed doubt on the order on 
putting john after the rest of the three 


i do n't see your point , it is exactly what james felder said. they had no 
first hand knowledge of the events , and it obvious that at least two of them 
used older texts as the base of their account. and even the association of 
luke to paul or mark to peter are not generally accepted. 

well , a genuine letter of peter would be close enough , would n't it 


sure , an original together with id card of sender and receiver would be 
fine. so what 's that supposed to say am i missing something 


and i do n't think a one step removed source is that bad. if luke and mark 
and matthew learned their stories directly from diciples , then i really 
cannot believe in the sort of big transformation from jesus to gospel that 
some people posit .  . in news reports , one generally gets no better 
information than this. 

and if john is a , then there 's nothing more to be said. 


that john was a disciple is not generally accepted. the style and language 
together with the theology are usually used as counterargument .  . 

the argument that john was a disciple relies on the claim in the gospel 
of john itself. is there any other evidence for it 

one step and one generation removed is bad even in our times. compare that 
to reports of similar events in our century in almost illiterate societies .  . 
not even to speak off that believers are not necessarily the best sources. 


it is also obvious that mark has been edited .  . how old are the oldest 
manuscripts to my knowledge  ( which can be antiquated ) the oldest is 
quite after any of these estimates , and it is not even complete. 

the only clear editing is problem of the ending , and it 's basically a 
hopeless mess. the oldest versions give a strong sense of incompleteness , 
to the point where the shortest versions seem to break off in midsentence .  . 
the most obvious solution is that at some point part of the text was lost. 
the material from verse 9 on is pretty clearly later and seems to represent 
a synopsys of the end of luke .  . 

in other words , one does not know what the original of mark did look like 
and arguments based on mark are pretty weak. 

but how is that connected to a of john 
benedikt 

from  ( paul moloney ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
keywords dan bissell 
organization somewhere in the twentieth century 
lines 14 

 ( dan lawrence bissell ) writes 

niether was he a lunatic .  . would more than an entire nation be drawn 
to someone who was crazy. 

find an encyclopedia .  . volume h. now look up hitler , adolf .  . he had 
many more people than just germans enamoured with him. 

p. 


clive p a u l m o l o n e y come , let us retract the foreskin of misconception 
james trinity college dublin and apply the wire brush of enlightenment 


from  ( henling , lawrence m . ) . 
subject re americans and evolution 
organization california institute of technology 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host juliet . caltech . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( david eng . sci . ) . writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( henling , lawrence m . ) . writes 
for a complete description of what is , and is not atheism 
or agnosticism see the faq for alt.atheism in alt . answers .  .  .  . i think. 


i apologize for posting this. i thought it was only going to talk . origins .  . 
i also took my definitions from a 1938 websters .  . 
nonetheless , the apparent past arguments over these words imply that like 
  and   they have no commonly accepted definitions and 
should be used with care. 

larry henling 

zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! ! uunet ! ! ! odin ! fido ! solntze . wpd . sgi . com . ! livesey 
subject re political atheists 
from  ( jon livesey ) 
organization sgi 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( reference line trimmed ) 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

... 

there is a good deal more confusion here. you started off with the 
assertion that there was some objective morality , and as you admit 
here , you finished up with a recursive definition .  . murder is 
objectively immoral , but eactly what is murder and what is not itself 
requires an appeal to morality .  . 

yes. 

now you have switch targets a little , but only a little. now you are 
asking what is the goal what do you mean by goal . are you 
suggesting that there is some objective goal out there somewhere , 
and we form our morals to achieve it 

well , for example , the goal of natural morality is the survival and 
propogation of the species .  . 


i got just this far. what do you mean by goal i hope you 
do n't mean to imply that evolution has a conscious goal . 

jon .  . 

from  ( paul moloney ) 
subject re the pope is jewish ! 
organization somewhere in the twentieth century 
lines 47 

 ( stilgar ) writes 

the pope is jewish .  .  .  .  . i guess they 're right , and i always thought that 
the thing on his head was just a fancy hat , not a jewish headpiece (i 
do n't remember the name) .  . it 's all so clear now  ( clear as mud . ) . 

as to what that headpiece is .  .  .  .  . 

 ( by 

source ap newswire 

the vatican , home of genetic misfits 

michael a. , noted geneticist , has revealed some unusual data 
after working undercover in the vatican for the past 18 years. the 
 ( popehat(tm ) is actually an advanced bone spur .  . , reveals in his 
report. , who had secretly studied the innermost 
workings of the vatican since returning from vietnam in a wheel chair , 
first approached the scientific community with his theory in the late 
1950 's .  . 

the whole hat thing , that was just a cover up. the vatican did n't 
want the catholic  ( community(tm ) to realize their leader was hefting 
nearly 8 kilograms of extraneous bone tissue on the top of his 
skull .  . , notes in his report. there are whole laboratories in 
the vatican that experiment with tissue transplants and bone marrow 
experiments .  . what started as a genetic fluke in the mid 1400 's is now 
scientifically engineered and bred for. the whole bone transplant idea 
started in the mid sixties inspired by doctor timothy leary 
transplanting deer bone cells into small white rats .  . is quick 
to point out the assassination attempt on pope john paul ii and the 
disappearance of dr. leary from the public eye. 

when it becomes time to replace the pope , says , the old pope 
and the replacement pope are locked in a padded chamber .  . they butt 
heads much like male yaks fighting for dominance of the herd .  . the 
victor emerges and has earned the privilege of inseminating the choir 
boys. 


p. 


clive p a u l m o l o n e y come , let us retract the foreskin of misconception 
james trinity college dublin and apply the wire brush of enlightenment 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re objective values  v  scientific accuracy  ( was re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is) 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 17 

in article , mathew 
wrote 

 ( steve lang ) writes 
values can also refer to meaning. for example in computer science the 
value of 1 is true , and 0 is false .  . 

not in lisp .  . 

true , all you need to define is one statement that defined one 
polarity , and all the other states are considered the other 
polarity .  . then again what is the meaning of nil , false or true ) 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re note to bobby m. 
lines 52 
organization walla walla college 
lines 52 

in article  ( mark mccullough ) writes 
from  ( mark mccullough ) 
subject re note to bobby m. 
date wed , 14 apr 1993 19 09 04 gmt 
in article  ( fred rice ) writes 
in  ( maddi hausmann ) writes 

mark , how much do you really know about vegetarian diets 
the problem is not some b vitamins , it 's balancing proteins .  . 
there is also one vitamin that cannot be obtained from non animal 
products , and this is only of concern to vegans , who eat no 
meat , dairy , or eggs. i believe it is b12 , and it is the only 
problem. supplements are available for vegans yes , the b12 
does come from animal by products. if you are on an ovo lacto 
vegetarian diet  ( eat dairy and eggs ) this is not an issue. 

i did n't see the original posting , but .  .  .  . 
yes , i do know about vegetarian diets , considering that several of my 
close friends are devout vegetarians , and have to take vitamin supplements .  . 
b12 was one of the ones i was thinking of , it has been a long time since 
i read the article i once saw talking about the special dietary needs 
of vegetarians so i did n't quote full numbers.  ( considering how nice 
this place is. ) 

b12 can also come from whole grain rice , i understand. some brands here 
in australia  ( and other places too , i'm sure ) get the b12 in the b12 
tablets from whole grain rice. 

are you sure those are n't an enriched type i know it is basically 
rice and soybeans to get almost everything you need , but i had n't heard 
of any rice having b12 .  . 

just thought i 'd contribute on a different issue from the norm ) 

you should have contributed to the programming thread earlier. ) 

fred rice 


m 2 

if one is a vegan (a vegetarian taht eats no animal products at at i.e eggs , 
milk , cheese , etc. , after about 3 years of a vegan diet , you need to start 
taking b12 supplements because b12 is found only in animals . ) . acutally our 
bodies make b12 , i think , but our bodies use up our own b12 after 2 or 3 
years. 
lacto vegetarians , like myself , still get b12 through milk products 
and eggs , so we do n't need supplements .  . 
and if anyone knows more , please post it. i'm nearly contridicting myself 
with the mish mash of knowledge i 've gleaned .  . 

tammy 

from  ( william daniel vaughan ) 
subject re a silly question on x 
lines 9 
organization university of utah computer center 

in article at1 59 . rice . edu .  ( peter walker ) writes 
from  ( peter walker ) 
subject re a silly question on x 
date mon , 12 apr 1993 07 06 33 gmt 
in article ,  ( andrew 
tong ) wrote 


so what 

from tony 
subject re atheist 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 50 

bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 

in article 
tony writes 

 ( deletion ) 

my opinion is that the strong atheist position requires too much 
belief for me to be comfortable with. any strong atheists out there 
care to comment 
... 
humans just come up with the idea of a spiritual parent .  . it is one 
of the artifacts of human thought. the evidence for that is quite 
overwhelming .  . and the information content of the conceived is vanishing .  . 

in other words , if there were gods , they would hardly make sense , and 
it is possible to explain the phenomenon of religion without gods .  . 

the concept is useless , and i do n't have to introduce new assumptions 
in order to show that. 

no leap of faith required for me. your mileage may vary .  . 

yes i fully agree with that , but is it i do n't believe gods exist , or 
i believe no gods exist as  ( mats andtbacka ) 
pointed out , it all hinges on what you take the word believe to mean. 

unfortunately this is bound up in the definitions of strong and weak 
atheism , at least according to the faq 

atheism is characterized by an absence of belief in the existence of god. 
some atheists go further , and believe that god does not exist. the former is 
often referred to as the weak atheist position , and the latter as strong 
atheism . 

it is important to note the difference between these two positions .  . weak 
atheism is simple scepticism disbelief in the existence of god. strong 
atheism is a positive belief that god does not exist. please do not 
fall into the trap of assuming that all atheists are strong atheists . 

 ( from mathew 's an introduction to atheism version 1.2 last modified 5 apr 93 ) 

should the faq be clarified to try to pin down this notion of belief 
can it 


tony is or tony or things 
like tony relay or  ( last resort ) 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 


from robert knowles 
subject re an anecdote about islam 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 32 

date 5 apr 1993 23 32 28 gmt 
from jon livesey 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 

i do n't understand the point of this petty sarcasm .  . it is a basic 
principle of islam that if one is born muslim or one says i testify 
that there is no god but god and mohammad is a prophet of god that , 
so long as one does not explicitly reject islam by word then one must 
be considered muslim by all muslims .  . so the phenomenon you 're attempting 
to make into a general rule or psychology is a direct odds with basic 
islamic principles .  . if you want to attack islam you could do better than 
than to argue against something that islam explicitly contradicts .  . 

then mr mozumder is incorrect when he says that when committing 
bad acts , people temporarily become atheists 

jon .  . 

of course b.m. is not incorrect .  . he is defending islam .  . when defending 
islam against infidels you can say anything and no one will dare criticize 
you. but when an atheist uses the same argument he is using petty sarcasm . so 
b.m. can have his temporary atheists whenever he needs them and all the 
temporary atheists can later say that they were always good muslims because 
they never explicitly rejected islam .  . 

temporary atheism , temporary islam , temporary marriage. none of it sticks .  . 
a teflon religion. how convenient .  . and so easy to clean up after. but 
then , what would you expect from a bunch of people who ca n't even agree on 
the phases of the moon 



from robert knowles 
subject re islamic marriage 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization , east of krakatoa 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 44 

date tue , 6 apr 1993 00 11 49 gmt 
from f. karner 

in article ,  ( masud khan ) writes 
in article (f .  . karner ) writes 

okay. so you want me to name names there are obviously no official 
records of these pseudo marriages because they are performed for 
convenience .  . what happens typically is that the woman is willing to move 
in with her lover without any scruples or legal contracts to speak of. 
the man is merely utilizing a loophole by entering into a temporary 
religious marriage contract in order to have sex. nobody complains , 
nobody cares , nobody needs to know. 

perhaps you should alert your imam .  . it could be that this practice is 
far more widespread than you may think. or maybe it takes 4 muslim men 
to witness the penetration to decide if the practice exists ! 



again you astound me with the level of ignorance you display , muslims 
are not allowed to enter temporary marriages , got that there is 
no evidence for it it an outlawed practise so get your facts 
straight buddy. give me references for it or just tell everyone you 
were lying .  . it is not a widespread as you may think  ( fantasise ) in 
fact contrary to your fantasies it is not practised at all amongst 
muslims .  . 

did you miss my post on this topic with the quote from the indonesian 
handbook and fred rice 's comments about temporary marriages if so , 
i will be glad to repost them. will you accept that it just may be 
a practice among some muslims , if i do or will you continue to claim 
that we are all lying and that it is not practised at all amongst muslims . 

i do n't think f. karner has to tell everyone anything. least of all that 
he is lying .  . 

since you obviously know nothing about this practice , there is very little 
you can contribute to the discussion except to accuse everyone of lying .  . 
perhaps it is your ignorance which is showing .  . learn more about islam .  . 
learn more about muslims .  . open your eyes. maybe you will also see some 
of the things the atheists see. 



from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re the inimitable rushdie 
organization sgi 
lines 24 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

you are amazed that i find it difficult to grasp it when 
people justify death threats against rushdie with the 
claim he was born muslim 

this is empty rhetoric .  . i am amazed at your inability to understand what 
i am saying not that you find it difficult to grasp it when people 
justify death threats .  .  .  . . i find it amazing that your ability to 
consider abstract questions in isolation .  . you seem to believe in the 
falsity of principles by the consequence of their abuse .  . you must hate 
physics ! 

you 're closer than you might imagine. i certainly despised living 
under the soviet regime when it purported to organize society according 
to what they fondly imagined to be the objective conclusions of 
marxist dialectic .  . 

but i do n't hate physics so long as some clown does n't start trying 
to control my life on the assumption that we are all interchangeable 
atoms , rather than individual human beings .  . 

jon .  . 

from mathew 
subject re the inimitable rushdie  ( re an anecdote about islam 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 32 

 ( gregg jaeger ) writes 
why would the rushdie case be particularly legitimate as i 've said 
elsewhere on this issue , rushdie 's actions had effects in islamic 
countries so that it is not so simple to say that he did n't commit 
a crime in an islamic country. 

actually , it is simple. 

a person p has committed a crime c in country x if p was within the borders 
of x at the time when c was committed .  . it does n't matter if the physical 
manifestation of c is outside x. 

for instance , if i hack into nasa 's ames research lab and delete all their 
files , i have committed a crime in the united kingdom .  . if the us authorities 
wish to prosecute me under us law rather than uk law , they have no automatic 
right to do so. 

this is why the net authorities in the us tried to put pressure on some sites 
in holland .  . holland had no anti cracking legislation , and so it was viewed 
as a hacker haven by some us system administrators .  . 

similarly , a company called red hot television is broadcasting pornographic 
material which can be received in britain .  . if they were broadcasting in 
britain , they would be committing a crime .  . but they are not , they are 
broadcasting from denmark , so the british government is powerless to do 
anything about it , in spite of the apparent law breaking .  . 

of course , i'm not a lawyer , so i could be wrong. more confusingly , i could 
be right in some countries but not in others .  .  .  . 


mathew 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re second law  ( was albert sabin ) 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 20 

joel hanes wrote 

mr connor 's assertion that more complex later in paleontology 
is simply incorrect .  . many lineages are known in which whole 
structures are lost for example , snakes have lost their legs. 
cave fish have lost their eyes. some species have almost completely 
lost their males .  . kiwis are descended from birds with functional 
wings. 

joel , 

the statements i made were illustrative of the inescapably 
quality of any desciption of an evolutionary process. 
there is no way evolution can be described or explained in terms other 
than teleological , that is my whole point. even those who have reason 
to believe they understand evolution  ( biologists for instance ) tend to 
personify nature and i ca n't help but wonder if it 's because of the 
limits of the language or the nature of nature. 

bill 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re ancient islamic rituals 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 21 

in bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 

in article 
 ( fred rice ) writes 

there has been some discussion on the pros and cons about sex outside of 
marriage. 

i personally think that part of the value of having lasting partnerships 
between men and women is that this helps to provide a stable and secure 
environment for children to grow up in. 
 ( deletion ) 

as an addition to chris faehl 's post , what about homosexuals 

well , from an islamic viewpoint , homosexuality is not the norm for 
society. i cannot really say much about the islamic viewpoint on homosexuality 
as it is not something i have done much research on. 

fred rice 


from  ( rob strom ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
distribution usa 
organization ibm research 
lines 15 

in article p . ida . org . , p . ida . org .  ( bob mcgwier ) writes 

1 however , i hate economic terrorism and political correctness 
worse than i hate this policy. 


2 a more effective approach is to stop donating 
to any that directly or indirectly supports gay rights issues 
until they end the boycott on funding of scouts .  . 

can somebody reconcile the apparent contradiction between 1 and 2 


rob strom , , (914) 784 7641 
ibm research , 30 saw mill river road , p.o. box 704 , yorktown heights , ny 10598 

from  ( simon clippingdale ) 
subject re islamic authority over women 
nntp posting host nin 
organization department of computer science , warwick university , england 
lines 49 

in article (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that say mom , 
because of the love of their mom. it makes for more virile men. 
compare that with how homos are raised .  . do a study and you will get my 
point. 

oh , bobby .  . you 're priceless. did i ever tell you that 

my policy with bobby 's posts , should anyone give a damn , is to flick 
through the thread at high speed , searching for posts of bobby 's which 
have generated a whole pile of followups , then go in and extract the 
hilarious quote inevitably present for  . sig . purposes. works for me. 

for the guy who said he 's just arrived , and asked whether bobby 's for real , 
you betcha .  . welcome to alt.atheism , and rest assured that it gets worse. 
i have a few pearls of wisdom from bobby which i reproduce below. is anyone 
 ( keith ) keeping a big file of such stuff 

in allah 's infinite wisdom , the universe was created from nothing , 
just by saying be , and it became .  . therefore allah exists. 
bobby mozumder proving the existence of allah , 1 

wait. you just said that humans are rarely reasonable .  . does n't that 
contradict atheism , where everything is explained through logic and 
reason this is the contradiction in atheism that proves it false .  . 
bobby mozumder proving the existence of allah , 2 

plus , to the believer , it would be contradictory 
to the quran for allah not to exist. 
bobby mozumder proving the existence of allah , 3 

and now 

one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that say mom , 
because of the love of their mom. it makes for more virile men. compare 
that with how homos are raised .  . do a study and you will get my point. 
bobby mozumder being islamically rigorous on alt.atheism 

mmmmm .  . quality and quantity from the new voice of islam (pbuh) .  . 

cheers 

simon 

simon clippingdale 
department of computer science tel ( 44 ) 203 
university of warwick fax ( 44 ) 203 
coventry , u.k. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re islamic authority over women 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 21 

in article , 
 ( fred rice ) wrote 
the problem with your argument is that you do not know who is a real 
believer and who may be faking it . this is something known only by 
the person him herself  ( and god) .  . your assumption that anyone who 
claims to be a believer is a believer is not necessarily true. 

so that still leaves the door totally open for khomeini , hussein 
et rest. they could still be considered true muslims , and you ca n't 
judge them , because this is something between god and the person. 

you have to apply your rule as well with atheists agnostics , you 
do n't know their belief , this is something between them and god. 

so why the hoopla about khomeini not being a real muslim , and the 
hoopla about atheists being not real human beings 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( peter walker ) 
subject re rawlins debunks creationism 
organization i did n't do it , nobody saw me , you ca n't prove a thing. 
lines 30 

in article , 
 ( bill rawlins ) wrote 

we are talking about origins , not merely science. science cannot 
explain origins .  . for a person to exclude anything but science from 
the issue of origins is to say that there is no higher truth 
than science. this is a false premise .  . 

says who other than a hear say god. 

by the way , i enjoy science. 

you sure do n't understand it. 

it is truly a wonder observing god 's creation. macroevolution is 
a mixture of 15 percent science and 85 percent religion guaranteed 
within three percent error ) 

bill , i hereby award you the golden shovel award for the biggist pile of 
bullshit i 've seen in a whils .  . i'm afraid there 's not a bit of religion in 
macroevolution , and you 've made a rather grand statement that science can 
not explain origins to a large extent , it already has ! 

bill rawlins 

peter w. walker yu , shall i tell you what knowledge is when 
dept. of space physics you know a thing , say that you know it. when 
and astronomy you do not know a thing , admit you do not know 
rice university it. this is knowledge. 
houston , tx k fu tzu 

from  ( petri pihko ) 
subject re is morality constant  ( was re biblical rape ) 
organization university of oulu , finland 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 187 

bill conner wrote 

there are a couple of things about your post and others in this thread 
that are a little confusing. an atheist is one for whom all things can 
be understood as processes of nature exclusively .  . 

this definition does not include all atheists  ( see the faq) .  . however , 
i  ( for one) do think there is no need to invoke any divine or 
spiritual explanations .  . 

it makes a big difference to claim that all things can be understood 
as natural processes , and to claim that our observations do not 
require us to postulate any divine intervention , or anything spiritual , 
for that matter. humans are not omnipotent , and neither is science. 
however , science has one advantage theology does n't it is self 
correcting , with nature as its judge. 

it is delightful to see how scientific inquiry is revealing a self 
consistent , simple picture of our universe. science is no longer 
a bunch of separate branches , it is one. from particle physics to 
psychology .  . and no aspect of our life , or our universe , is safe 
from its stern and stony eye. not even our consciousness .  . 

there is no need 
for any recourse to to describe or explain anything. there is 
no purpose or direction for any event beyond those required by 
physics , chemistry , biology , etc. everything is random , nothing is 
determnined .  . 

actually , determinism vs. indeterminism is a philosophical question , 
and science cannot say whether the whole thing is actually somehow 
or not. i think the question does not have 
any meaning , as far as individual human beings go. if their apparent 
free will is an illusion , it does not appear to be so from their 
perspective. bill , can you say for sure whether you have a free 
will or not 

this would also have to include human intelligence of course and all 
its products. there is nothing requiring that life evolve or that it 
acquire intelligence , it 's just a happy accident. 

maybe. who are we to tell it seems intelligence is useful when 
during the history of earth has one species been able to control 
one third of the whole biosphere this can still be a result of 
numerous happy accidents our genetic machinery blindly replicates 
and preserves .  . even that machinery can be result of the same 
principle only the systems that can start replicating will 
survive , those which do n't do n't make it.  ( recommended reading t . o) . 

for an atheist , no 
event can be preferred to another or be said to have more or less 
value than another in any naturalistic sense , and no thought about 
an event can have value. 

from whose perspective i value events and things subjectively , from 
my perspective. nature does not have values , because it does not have 
a perspective values arise from awareness .  . if i have a subjective 
perspective , it is easy to assume that other people also do , and if 
i think about what it would it be like in their position , i will 
eventually discover the golden rule. morality is not necessarily 
a gift from heavens , in fact , it may be a product of evolution .  . 
perhaps we are aware of ourselves because a sense of identity 
is helpful , allows us to play the roles of others and make us respect 
others who seem to have identity , too. 

bill , have you ever read aristotle try his ethica (sp . ) . 
for starters .  . 

how then can an atheist judge value what is the basis for criticizing 
the values in the bible or the purposes imputed to god on 
what grounds can the the behavior of the be condemned it 
seems that , in judging the values that motivate others to action , you 
have to have some standard against which conduct is measured , but what 
in nature can serve that purpose what law of nature can you invoke to 
establish your values .  . 

c.s. lewis tells us that this argument was the main reason why 
he abandoned his atheism and became christian .  . the argument is 
severely flawed .  . 

some values , such as the golden rule , can have a rational basis. some 
others , like the basic idea of wanting to live , has probably its 
roots in the way our brains are wired .  . lewis ignored the very real 
possiblity that natural selection could also favour altruistic 
behaviour , and morality as well. indeed , as humans evolved better 
and better in building and using tools , they also became better 
at killing each other. it is a logical necessity that evolution could 
only favour those who knew how to use tools , but not against one 's 
own people. 

the bible reveals quite nicely that the morality of the early jews 
was not beyond this. a simple set of rules to hold the people 
together , under one god. their god did not care much about people 
of other nations .  . 

at the time of the nt , things were quite different the jews 
were under rule of an empire , and could no longer simply ignore 
the gentiles .  . a new situation required a new morality , and along 
with it a new religion was born. (a mutation in a meme pool . ) . 

since every event is entirely and exclusively a physical event , what 
difference could it possibly make what anyone does , religious or 
otherwise , there can be no meaning or gradation of value. the only 
way an atheist can object to any behaviour is to admit that the 
objection is entirely subjective and that  ( he(she ) just does n't like it 
that 's it. any value judgement must be prefaced by the disclaimer 
that it is nothing more than a matter of personal opinion and carries 
no weight in any absolute sense. 

it looks like you have n't bothered to read philosophy .  . whenever there 
is an observer , there is a subjective point of view , which may 
value its existence and happiness  ( even if that were just a result 
of some physical event ) , and other 's happiness , too , if the observer 
comes to think about it. in an absolutely objective sense , that is , 
without any observers or subjects , moral judgments lose their 
meaning. 

it is not possible for a value to simply exist without a point of 
view. this includes gods , too , their values are only their 
personal judgments , not absolute truths , since such truths 
do not exist. 

the fact that most people do not deliberately want to hurt others 
is a manifestation of the way we have fought for our existence 
by becoming social beings who can think and value others  
existence .  . 

morality is not property of humans alone chimps , dolphins and 
many other species show great care for each other. dolphins have 
sometimes saved humans from drowning , a good deed indeed. 

that you do n't like what god told people to do says nothing about god 
or god 's commands , it says only that there was an electrical event in your 
nervous system that created an emotional state that your mind coupled 
with a pre existing thought set to form that reaction. that your 
objections seem well founded is due to the way you 've been 
conditioned there is no truth content. the whole of your 
intellectual landscape is an illusion , a virtual reality. 

the last statement does not logically follow. in fact , there is 
every reason to believe our thoughts can model reality very 
well , and our senses can convey reliable information. solipsism 
is still a logical possibility , but not a very likely one. 

you are continuously mixing two different views the subjective 
point of view  ( which we all share ) and an objective point of view , 
which does not exist . any observer or thinker , any personal being , 
has its own point of view. it does not matter whether this point 
of view is a result of some physical events or not , it does not 
cease to be subjective .  . 

from a non observers non point of view , values do not exist. neither 
does pain , or pleasure , or beauty , or love. such things are 
inherently subjective .  . 

once again , if god wants wives to submit to their husbands , or even 
to make a leap of faith into the unknown , or wants to punish us if 
we do n't , i disagree with his morals .  . i do not think my morals come 
from any supreme being to remove my morals means the same than 
to make me a zombie , a machine without a single thought. if god 
gave us morality to judge , but i disagree with him , it is not my 
fault. he is free to replace my morals .  . i cannot see what is the 
point of giving someone a moral system which disagrees with one 's 
own and then to get mad at this. 

god must be schizophrenic .  . 

all of this being so , you have excluded 
yourself from any discussion of values , right , wrong , goood , evil , 
etc. and cannot participate .  . your opinion about the bible can have no 
weight whatsoever. 

neither can the opinion of any god , for that matter. i cannot understand 
why a subjective opinion of a thing made of matter is in any way 
less credible than an opinion of a thing made of something else. 

bill , take note absolute values must be independent of any being , 
including gods .  . if god has a subjective viewpoint , it is his 
own point of view , and his morals are his own. 

petri 


.  . ' . '' .  . petri pihko kem mathematics is the truth. 
!  . ' . ' . ' . ' ' . 15 c finou . oulu . fi . physics is the rule of 
' ' . ' sf 90650 oulu the game. 
' . finland phoenix . oulu . fi . chemistry is the game. 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 14 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( kent sandvik ) writes 

so how do you then explain sudden violent behavior of human beings 
your theory would state that the more the human is detached from 
primitive behavior , the more violent and non moralistic the human 
becomes  ( please correct me if my understanding was wrong) .  . so 
you have this bifurcation point where a madman is killing people 
from the roof of a campus .  . could you explain how your  theory  
explains such a situation 

madmen are mad. do we try to explain the output from a broken computer 
i think not. 

keith 

uunet ! ! ! ! adagio . panasonic . com . ! nntp server . caltech . edu . ! keith 
subject re political atheists 
from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 
lines 15 

 ( robert beauchaine ) writes 

my personal objection is that i find capital punishment to be 
cruel and unusual punishment under all circumstances .  . 

it can be painless , so it is n't cruel .  . and , it has occurred frequently 
since the dawn of time , so it is hardly unusual .  . 

i do n't take issue with the numbers. a single innocent life taken 
is one too many. 

but , innocents die due to many causes .  . why have you singled out 
accidental or false execution as the one to take issue with 

keith 

from mathew 
subject re political atheists 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 19 

 ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
mathew writes 
as for rape , surely there the burden of guilt is solely on the rapist 

not so. if you are thrown into a cage with a tiger and get mauled , do you 
blame the tiger 

as far as i know , tigers are not sentient .  . if i were pushed into a pool with 
some dolphins and they attacked me , i might be inclined to blame the dolphins 
rather than the person doing the pushing , as  ( a ) dolphins are not usually 
aggressive and  ( b ) they seem to have well developed brains and a capacity for 
abstract thought. 

as a matter of fact , tigers rarely attack humans unless the human provokes 
them. of course , if they are in a cage which is far too small , that might 
count as provocation .  .  .  . 


mathew 

from  ( petri pihko ) 
subject re concerning god 's morality  ( long ) 
organization university of oulu , finland 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 215 

this kind of argument cries for a comment .  .  .  . 

wrote 
in article ,  ( scott compton ) writes 

jim , you originally wrote 

 .  .  . god . did not create 
disease nor is he responsible for the maladies of newborns .  . 

what god did create was life according to a protein code which is 
mutable and can evolve .  . without delving into a deep discussion of 
creationism vs evolutionism , god created the original genetic code 
perfect and without flaw .  . 


do you have any evidence for this if the code was once perfect , and 
has degraded ever since , we should have some evidence in favour 
of this statement , should n't we 

perhaps the biggest imperfection of the code is that it is full 
of non coding regions , introns , which are so called because they 
intervene with the coding regions (exons) .  . an impressive amount of 
evidence suggests that introns are of very ancient origin it is 
likely that early exons represented early protein domains .  . 

is the number of introns decreasing or increasing it appears that 
intron loss can occur , and species with common ancestry usually 
have quite similar exon intron structure in their genes .  . 

on the other hand , the possibility that introns have been inserted 
later , presents several logical difficulties .  . introns are removed 
by a splicing mechanism this would have to be present , but unused , 
if introns are inserted .  . moreover , intron insertion would have 
required precise targeting random insertion would not be tolerated , 
since sequences for intron removal  ( self splicing of mrna ) are 
conserved .  . besides , transposition of a sequence usually leaves a 
trace long terminal repeats and target site duplications , and 
these are not found in or near intron sequences .  . 

i seriously recommend reading textbooks on molecular biology and 
genetics before posting theological arguments like this. 
try watson 's molecular biology of the gene or darnell , 
baltimore 's molecular biology of the cell for starters .  . 

remember , the question was posed in a theological context  ( why does 
god cause disease in newborns ) , and my answer is likewise from a 
theological perspective my own. it is no less valid than a purely 
scientific perspective , just different. 

scientific perspective is supported by the evidence , whereas 
theological perspectives often fail to fulfil this criterion .  . 

i think you misread my meaning. i said god made the genetic code perfect , 
but that does n't mean it 's perfect now. it has certainly evolved since. 

for the worse would you please cite a few references that support 
your assertion your assertion is less valid than the scientific 
perspective , unless you support it by some evidence. 

in fact , it has been claimed that parasites and diseases are perhaps 
more important than we 've thought for instance , sex might 
have evolved as defence against parasites .  .  ( this view is supported by 
computer simulations of evolution , eg tierra . ) . 

perhaps. i thought it was higher energy rays like x rays , gamma 
rays , and cosmic rays that caused most of the damage. 

in fact , it is thermal energy that does most of the damage , although 
it is usually mild and easily fixed by enzymatic action. 

actually , neither of us knows what the atmosphere was like at the 
time when god created life. according to my recollection , most 
biologists do not claim that life began 4 billion years ago after 
all , that would only be a half billion years or so after the earth 
was created. it would still be too primitive to support life. i 
seem to remember a figure more like 2.5 to 3 billion years ago for 
the origination of life on earth. anyone with a better estimate 

i 'd replace created with formed , since there is no need to 
invoke any creator if the earth can be formed without one. 
most recent estimates of the age of the earth range between 4.6 4.8 
billion years , and earliest signs of life  ( not true fossils , but 
organic , stromatolite like layers ) date back to 3.5 billion years. 
this would leave more than billion years for the first cells to 
evolve .  . 

i'm sorry i ca n't give any references , this is based on the course 
on evolutionary biochemistry i attended here. 

dominion , it was no great feat for satan to genetically engineer 
diseases , both bacterial viral and genetic .  . although the forces of 
natural selection tend to improve the survivability of species , the 
degeneration of the genetic code tends to more than offset this. 

again , do you want this be true , or do you have any evidence for 
this supposed degeneration 

i can understand scott 's reaction 

excuse me , but this is so far fetched that i know you must be 
jesting .  . do you know what pathogens are do you know what 
point mutations are do you know that everything can come 
about spontaneously ! ! ! ! ! 

in response to your last statement , no , and neither do you. 
you may very well believe that and accept it as fact , but you 
cannot know that. 

i hope you do n't forget this we have evidence that suggests 
everything can come about spontaneously .  . do you have evidence against 
this conclusion in science , one does not have to believe in 
anything. it is a healthy sign to doubt and disbelieve .  . but the 
right path to walk is to take a look at the evidence if you do so , 
and not to present one 's own conclusions prior to this. 

theology does not use this method. therefore , i seriously doubt 
it could ever come to right conclusions .  . 

human dna , being more complex , tends to accumulate errors adversely 
affecting our well being and ability to fight off disease , while the 
simpler dna of bacteria and viruses tend to become more efficient in 
causing infection and disease. it is a bad combination. hence 
we have newborns that suffer from genetic , viral , and bacterial 
diseases disorders .  . 

you are supposing a purpose , not a valid move. bacteria and viruses 
do not exist to cause disease. they are just another manifests of 
a general principle of evolution only replication saves replicators 
from degradiation .  . we are just an efficient method for our dna to 
survive and replicate .  . the less efficient methods did n't make it 
to the present. 

and for the last time. please present some evidence for your claim that 
human dna is degrading through evolutionary processes .  . some people have 
claimed that the opposite is true we have suppressed our selection , 
and thus are bound to degrade .  . i have n't seen much evidence for either 
claim .  . 

but then i ask , so where is this relevant to my discussion in 
answering john 's question of why why are there genetic diseases , 
and why are there so many bacterial and viral diseases which require 
babies to develop antibodies .  . is it god 's fault  ( the original 
question) i say no , it is not. 

of course , nothing evil is god 's fault. but your explanation does 
not work , it fails miserably .  . 

you may be right. but the fact is that you do n't know that 
satan is not responsible , and neither do i. 

suppose that a powerful , evil being like satan exists. would it 
be inconceivable that he might be responsible for many of the ills 
that affect mankind i do n't think so. 

he could have done a much better job.  ( pun intended . ) . the problem is , 
it seems no satan is necessary to explain any diseases , they are 
just as inevitable as any product of evolution .  . 

did i say that where seems to me like another bad inference .  . 
actually what you 've done is to oversimplify what i said to the 
point that your summary of my words takes on a new context. i 
never said that people are meant  ( presumably by god) to be 
punished by getting diseases . why i did say is that free moral 
choices have attendent consequences .  . if mankind chooses to reject 
god , as people have done since the beginning , then they should not 
expect god to protect them from adverse events in an entropic 
universe. 

i am not expecting this. if god exists , i expect him to leave us alone. 
i would also like to hear why do you believe your choices are indeed 
free. this is an interesting philosophical question , and the answer 
is not as clear cut as it seems to be. 

what consequences would you expect from rejecting allah 

oh , i admit it 's not perfect (yet) .  . but i'm working on it. ) 

a good library or a bookstore is a good starting point. 

what does this have to do with the price of tea in china , or the 
question to which i provided an answer biology and genetics are 
fine subjects and important scientific endeavors .  . but they explain 
how god created and set up life processes .  . they do n't explain 
the why behind creation , life , or its subsequent evolution .  . 

why is there a why behind and your proposition was something 
that is not supported by the evidence. this is why we recommend 
these books. 

is there any need to invoke any why behind , a prime mover evidence 
for this if the whole universe can come into existence without 
any intervention , as recent cosmological theories  ( hawking et al ) 
suggest , why do people still insist on this 

thanks scotty , for your fine and sagely advice. but i am 
not highly motivated to learn all the nitty gritty details 
of biology and genetics , although i'm sure i 'd find it a 
fascinating subject. for i realize that the details do 
not change the big picture , that god created life in the 
beginning with the ability to change and adapt to its 
environment. 

i'm sorry , but they do. there is no evidence for your big picture , 
and no need to create anything that is capable of adaptation .  . 
it can come into existence without a supreme being. 

try reading p.w. atkins  creation revisited  ( freeman , 1992) .  . 

petri 

.  . ' . '' .  . petri pihko kem mathematics is the truth. 
!  . ' . ' . ' . ' ' . 15 c finou . oulu . fi . physics is the rule of 
' ' . ' sf 90650 oulu the game. 
' . finland phoenix . oulu . fi . chemistry is the game. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re free moral agency 
distribution na 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 20 

in article , 
 ( bill conner ) wrote 
as for your question of moral free agency , given the christian 
position above , the freedom we have is to acknowledge god. the 
morality we practice is a direct outgrowth of how we excercise that 
freedom .  . you are free to ignore god in the same way you are free to 
ignore gravity and the consequences are inevitable and well known 
in both cases. that an atheist ca n't accept the evidence means only 
that he prefers not to accept it , it says nothing about the evidence 
itself. 

i agree , i had a hard feeling not believing my grand grand mother 
who told me of elves dancing outside barns in the early mornings .  . 
i preferred not to accept it , even if her statement provided 
the truth itself. life is hard. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re koresh is god ! 
in reply to mathew 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 14 15 20 0100 
organization compaq computer corp 

lines 12 

on fri , 16 apr 1993 14 15 20 0100 , mathew said 

m the latest news seems to be that koresh will give himself up once he 's 
m finished writing a sequel to the bible .  . 

also , it 's the 16th now. can the feds get him on tax evasion i do n't 
remember hearing about him running to the post office last night. 


ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re free moral agency and jeff clark 
lines 47 
organization walla walla college 
lines 47 

in article bs . de . bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) writes 
from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re free moral agency and jeff clark 
date thu , 15 apr 1993 20 28 27 gmt 
in article 
 ( tammy r healy ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 
you also said , why did millions suffer for what adam and ee did seems a 
pretty sick way of going about creating a universe .  .  .  . 

i'm gonna respond by giving a small theology lesson forgive me , i used 
to be a theology major .  . 
first of all , i believe that this planet is involved in a cosmic struggle 
the great controversy christ and satan (i borrowed a book title) .  . 
god has to consider the interests of the entire universe when making 
decisions. 
 ( deletion ) 

an universe it has created. by the way , can you tell me why it is less 
tyrannic to let one of one 's own creatures do what it likes to others 
by your definitions , your god has created satan with full knowledge what 
would happen including every choice of satan .  . 

can you explain us what free will is , and how it goes along with omniscience 
did n't your god know everything that would happen even before it created the 
world why is it concerned about being a tyrant when noone would care if 
everything was fine for them that the whole idea comes from the possibility 
to abuse power , something your god introduced according to your description 


by the way , are you sure that you have read the faq especially the part 
about preaching 
benedikt 

i do n't feel that i'm preaching .  . i'm just trying to answer people 's 
questions and talking about my religion , my beliefs .  . 
when it comes to what i post , i do n't do it with the intent of converting 
anyone. i do n't expect for the atheists in this newsgroup to take what i 
say with a grain of salt if they so wish. 
i just state what i beleve , they ask me how i and why and we all 
go on. 
if that 's preaching , then i'm soory and i 'll get off the soapbox .  . 

tammy 



from  ( leonard newnham ) 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was 
organization university of bradford , uk 
lines 54 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

umar khan wrote 
i strongly suggest that you look up a book called the bible , the quran , and 
science by maurice , a french surgeon .  . it is not comprehensive , 

he was unable 
to find a wealth of scientific statements in the holy qur'an , but , 
what he did find made sense with modern understanding. so , he 
investigated the traditions  ( the hadith ) to see what they had to 
say about science. they were filled with science problems after 
all , they were contemporary narratives from a time which had , by 
pour standards , a primitive world view. his conclusion was that , 
while he was impressed that what little the holy qur'an had to 
say about science was accurate , he was far more impressed that the 
holy qur'an did not contain the same rampant errors evidenced in 
the traditions .  . how would a man of 7th century arabia have known 
what not to include in the holy qur'an  ( assuming he had authored 
it) 

this book is worth a read to get a sensible view of this issue. 


the book is in two sections .  . section 1 contains a fairly reasonable 
analysis of the bible , showing many inconsistencies between the bible 
and modern science. well we all know that , no surprises .  . 

section 2 analyses the koran 's version of the old testament stories , 
and seems , on the face of it , to present a good case showing the koran 
is consistent with modern science. however , it was plain to me , that 
this consistency was only possible by the vague phraseology of the 
koran .  . take the flood , for example , the bible is full of detail , 
( forty days and forty nights , pair of every animal , etc . ) . , we all 
know this is nonsense. the koran 's description of the same event is 
so obscure as to make possible an interpretation such as a big river 
flooded for a few days and caused much damage . yes , no contradiction 
but also not much fact. 

the koran might be consistent with modern science , but being 
consistent due to its vagueness compared with other books of that 
time , does not seem much of an achievement .  . 

the book concludes by saying something like , the koran must have had 
divine inspiration because at the time it was written there were a lot 
of  ( to us now ) ridiculous ideas about the universe , and none of them 
can be found in the koran ! arguing for the greatness of a book by 
talking about what it does not contain seems absurd in the extreme .  . 

the above is , of course , from memory so i may have missed some points. 





leonard e mail 

from  ( the one and only ) 
subject re where are they now 
organization salvation army draft board 
lines 31 

in article pepper . east . sun . com . writes 
your posting provoked me into checking my save file for memorable 
posts. the first i captured was by ken arromdee on 19 feb 1990 , on the 
subject re atheist too . that was article 473 here your question 
was article , which is an average of about 48 articles a day for 
the last three years. as others have noted , the current posting rate is 
such that my kill file is depressing large .  .  .  .  .  .  . among the posting i 
saved in the early days were articles from the following notables 

from  ( loren petrich ) 
from  ( jesus christ of nazareth ) 
from cho . cac . washington . edu .  ( mark crispin ) 
from  ( jim perry ) 
from  ( james j. lippard ) 
from  ( marvin minsky ) 

an interesting bunch .  .  .  .  . i wonder where 2 is 

did n't you hear his address has changed. he can be reached at the 
following address 



i think he was last seen posting to alt . messianic .  . 

jim 

if god is dead and the actor plays his part sting , 
his words of fear will find their way to a place in your heart history 
without the voice of reason every faith is its own curse will teach us 
without freedom from the past things can only get worse nothing 

from  ( frank o'dwyer ) 
subject re societally acceptable behavior 
organization siemens ag 
lines 87 
nntp posting host d012s658 . ap . mchp . sni . de . 

in article  ( mike cobb ) writes 
in  ( frank o'dwyer ) 
writes 

in article  ( mike 
cobb ) writes 

am i making a wrong assumption for the basis of morals where do they come 
from the question came from the idea that i heard that morals come from 
whatever is societally mandated .  . 

it 's only one aspect of morality .  . societal morality is necessarily 
very crude and broad brush stuff which attempts to deal with what 
is necessary to keep that society going and often it 's a little 
over enthusiastic about doing so. individual morality is a different 
thing , it often includes societal mores  ( or society is in trouble ) , 
but is stronger .  . for example , some people are vegetarian , though eating 
meat may be perfectly legal .  . 


merely a question for the basis of morality 

moral ethical behavior societally acceptable behavior . 

1)who ) is society 

depends on the society. 

does n't help. is the point irrelevant 

no. often the answer is we are . but if society is those who make 
the rules , that 's a different question. if society is who should 
make the rules , that 's yet another. i do n't claim to have the answers , either , 
but i do n't think we do it very well in ireland , and i like some things 
about the us system , at least in principle .  . 


2)how ) do they define what is acceptable 

depends .  . 
on .  .  .  .  . again , this comes from a certain question  ( see above) .  . 

well , ideally they do n't , but if they must they should do it by consensus , imo. 

3)how ) do we keep from a whatever is legal is what is moral position 

by adopting a default position that people 's moral decisions 
are none of society 's business , 

so how can we put people in jail how can we condemn other societies 

because sometimes that 's necessary. the hard trick is to recognise when 
it is , and equally importantly , when it is n't .  . 

and only interfering when it 's truly 
necessary. 

why would it be necessary what right do we have to interfere 

imo , it is n't often that interference (i . e .  . jail , and force of various 
kinds and degrees ) is both necessary and effective. where you derive 
the right to interfere is a difficult question it 's a sort of 
liar 's paradox force is necessary for freedom . one possible justification 
is that people who wish to take away freedom should n't object if 
their own freedom is taken away the paradox does n't arise if 
we do n't actively wish to take way anyone 's freedom .  . 

the introduction of permissible interference causes the problem 
that it can be either too much or too little but most people seem 
to agree that some level of interference is necessary. 

they see the need for a justice system. how can we even define that term 

only by consensus , i guess. 

thus you 
get a situation where the law often allows what honour forbids , which i 've 
come to believe is as it should be. 

i admit i do n't understand that statement. 

what i mean is that , while thus and such may be legal , thus and such may 
also be seen as immoral .  . the law lets you do it , but you do n't let yourself 
do it. eating meat , for example. 

frank o'dwyer  i m not hatching that  
from hens , by evelyn conlon 

from  ( fred rice ) 
subject re why is sex only allowed in marriage rationality  ( was islamic marriage ) 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 115 

in  ( lucio de re ) writes 

 ( fred rice ) writes 

my point of view is that the argument all sexism is bad just simply 
does not hold .  . let me give you an example. how about permitting a 
woman to temporarily leave her job due to pregnancy should that be 
allowed it happens to be sexist , as it gives a particular right only 
to women. nevertheless , despite the fact that it is sexist , i completely 
support such a law , because i think it is just .  . 

fred , you 're exasperating .  .  .  . sexism , like racialism , is a form of 
discrimination , using obvious physical or cultural differences to deny 
one portion of the population the same rights as another. 

in this context , your example above holds no water whatsoever 
there 's no discrimination in denying men maternity leave , in fact 
i'm quite convinced that , were anyone to experiment with male 
pregnancy , it would be possible for such a future father to take 
leave on medical grounds .  . 

okay .  .  .  . i argued this thoroughly about 3 4 weeks ago. men and women are 
different ... physically , physiologically , and psychologically .  . much 
recent evidence for this statement is present in the book by 
anne moir and david jessel .  . i recommend you find a copy and read it. 
their book is an overview of recent scientific research on this topic 
and is well referenced .  . 

now , if women and men are different in some ways , the law can only 
adequately take into account their needs in these areas where they are 
different by also taking into account the ways in which men and women 
are different. maternity leave is an example of this it takes into 
account that women get pregnant. it does not give women the same rules 
it would give to men , because to treat women like it treats men in this 
instance would be unjust .  . this is just simply an obvious example of 
where men and women are intrinsically different ! ! ! ! ! 

now , people make the naive argument that sexism oppression .  . 
however , maternity leave is sexist because men do not get pregnant. 
men do not have the same access to leave that women do  ( not to the same 
extent or degree ) , and therefore it is sexist .  . no matter however much a 
man wants to get pregnant and have maternity leave , he never can. and 
therefore the law is sexist .  . no man can have access to maternity leave , 
no matter how hard he tries to get pregnant. i hope this is clear. 

maternity leave is an example where a sexist law is just , because the 
sexism here just reflects the sexism of nature in making men and women 
different. there are many other differences between men and women which 
are far more subtle than pregnancy , and to find out more of these i 
recommend you have a look at the book . 

your point that perhaps some day men can also be pregnant is fallacious .  . 
if men can one day become pregnant it will be by having biologically 
become women ! to have a womb and the other factors required for 
pregnancy is usually wrapped up in the definition of what a woman is 
so your argument , when it is examined , is seen to be fallacious .  . you 
are saying that men can have the sexist maternity leave privilege that 
women can have if they also become women which actually just supports 
my statement that maternity leave is sexist .  . 

the discrimination comes in when a woman is denied opportunities 
because of her  ( legally determined ) sexual inferiorities .  . as i 
understand most religious sexual discrimination , and i doubt that 
islam is exceptional , the female is not allowed into the priestly 
caste and in general is subjugated so that she has no aspirations to 
rights which , as an equal human , she ought to be entitled to. 

there is no official priesthood in islam much of this function is 
taken by islamic scholars .  . there are female islamic scholars and 
female islamic scholars have always existed in islam .  . an example from 
early islamic history is the prophet 's widow , aisha , who was recognized 
in her time and is recognized in our time as an islamic scholar .  . 

no matter how sweetly you coat it , part of the role of religions 
seems , historically , to have served the function of oppressing the 
female , whether by forcing her to procreate to the extent where 
there is no opportunity for self improvement , or by denying her 
access to the same facilities the males are offered .  . 

you have no evidence for your blanket statement about all religions , and 
i dispute it. i could go on and on about women in islam , etc. , but i 
recently reposted something here under the heading islam and women 
if it is still at your news site i suggest you read it. it is reposted 
from soc . religion . islam . , so if it has disappeared from alt.atheism it 
still might be in soc . religion . islam . (i forgot what its original title 
was though) .  . i will email it to you if you like. 

the roman catholic church is the most blatant of the culprit , 
because they actually a celibate clergy , but the 
other religious are no different let a woman attempt to escape her 
role as child bearer and the wrath of god descends on her. 

your statement that other religions are no different is , i think , a 
statement based simply on lack of knowledge about religions other than 
christianity and perhaps judaism .  . 

i 'll accept your affirmation that islam grants women the same rights 
as men when you can show me that any muslim woman can aspire to the 
same position as  ( say ) khomeini and there are no artificial religious 
or social obstacles on her path to achieve this. 

aisha , who i mentioned earlier , was not only an islamic scholar but also 
was , at one stage , a military leader. 

show me the equivalent of hillary clinton within islam , and i 
may consider discussing the issue with you. 

the prophet 's first wife , who died just before the hijra  ( the 
prophet 's journey from mecca to medina ) was a successful businesswoman .  . 

lucio , you cannot make a strong case for your viewpoint when your 
viewpoint is based on ignorance about world religions .  . 

fred rice 


from mathew 
subject re a visit from the jehovah 's witnesses 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 37 

writes 
on 5 apr 93 11 24 30 mst , said 
god is eternal .  . a b 
jesus is god. c a 
therefore , jesus is eternal .  . c b 

this works both logically and mathematically .  . god is of the set of 
things which are eternal .  . jesus is a subset of god. therefore 
jesus belongs to the set of things which are eternal .  . 

everything is n't always so logical .  .  .  .  . 

mercedes is a car. 
that girl is mercedes .  . 
therefore , that girl is a car 

unfortunately your phrasing is ambiguous .  . re writing more carefully , we have 
 ( at least ) two possibilities .  . the first 

things called mercedes are cars 
that girl is called mercedes 
therefore that girl is a car 

that is entirely valid as a piece of logical deduction .  . it is not sound , 
because the first statement is false .  . similarly , i would hold that jim 's 
example is valid but not sound. 

another possible interpretation of what you wrote is 

there exists at least one car called mercedes 
that girl is called mercedes 
therefore that girl is a car 

which is n't valid .  . 


mathew 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
article i.d. po . kmr4 . 1447 . 734101641 . 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 28 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( stan krieger ) writes 

the point has been raised and has been answered. roger and i have 
clearly stated our support of the bsa position on the issue 
specifically , that homosexual behavior constitutes a violation of 
the scout oath  ( specifically , the promise to live morally straight ) .  . 

please define morally straight . 



and , do n't even try saying that straight , as it is used here , 
implies only hetersexual behavior. eg straight as in the slang word 
opposite to gay 


this is alot like family values . everyone is talking about them , 
but misteriously , no one knows what they are. 


one thing that relates is among navy men that get tatoos that 
say mom , because of the love of their mom. it makes for more 
virile men. 

bobby mozumder ( ) 
april 4 , 1993 

the one true muslim left in the world. 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re keith schneider stealth poster 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 25 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( ken arromdee ) writes 

but , if you were to discuss the merits of racism , or its 
benefits , you would do well to have experienced it personally. 
when you speak of experiencing religion you mean someone should believe in 
a religion. 

that 's right , and this is pretty impossible , right it would be ideal if 
we could believe for a while , just to try out religion , and only then 
determine which course of thought suits us best. but again , this is not 
possible. not that religion warrants belief , but the belief carries with 
it some psychological benefits. there are also some psychological 
burdens , too. 

when you speak of experiencing racism , do you mean that someone should 
believe in racism , or that they should have racist things done to them for 
parallelism , the former must be what you meant , but it seems to be an odd 
usage of the phrase .  . 

well , if there were some psychological or other benefits gained from racism , 
they could only be fully understood or judged by persons actually believing 
in racism .  . of course , the parallel happens to be a poor one , but you 
originated it. 

keith 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization sgi 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( keith m. ryan ) writes 

but chimps are almost human .  .  .  . 
does this mean that chimps have a moral will 

well , chimps must have some system. they live in social groups 
as we do , so they must have some laws dictating undesired behavior. 

ah , the verb to must . i was warned about that one back 
in kindergarten .  . 

so , why must they have such laws 

jon .  . 

from  ( steve lang ) 
subject re objective values  v  scientific accuracy  ( was re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is) 
organization nottingham university 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( tommy kelly ) wrote 
in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

science ( the real world ) has its basis in values , not the other way round , 
as you would wish it. 

you must be using  values  to mean something different from the way i 
see it used normally .  . 

and you are certainly using  science  like that if you equate it to 
the real world . 

science is the recognition of patterns in our perceptions of the universe 
and the making of qualitative and quantitative predictions concerning 
those perceptions .  . 

science is the process of modeling the real world based on commonly agreed 
interpretations of our observations (perceptions) .  . 

it has nothing to do with values as far as i can see. 
values are ... well they are what i value. 
they are what i would have rather than not have what i would experience 
rather than not , and so on. 

values can also refer to meaning. for example in computer science the 
value of 1 is true , and 0 is false .  . science is based on commonly agreed 
values  ( interpretation of observations ) , although science can result in a 
reinterpretation of these values .  . 

objective values are a set of values which the proposer believes are 
applicable to everyone. 

the values underlaying science are not objective since they have never been 
fully agreed , and the change with time. the values of newtonian physic are 
certainly different to those of quantum mechanics .  . 

steve lang 
slang sling slink slick slack shack shank thank think thick 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re objective morality  ( was re political atheists ) 
organization sgi 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( keith allan schneider ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 

i want to know how this omniscient being is going to perform 
the feat of definitely terming actions right or wrong. 

if you were omniscient , you 'd know who exactly did what , and with what 
purpose in mind. then , with a particular goal in mind , you sould be 
able to methodically judge whether or not this action was in accordance 
with the general goal. 

but now you are contradicting yourself in a pretty massive way , 
and i do n't think you 've even noticed. 

in another part of this thread , you 've been telling us that the 
goal of a natural morality is what animals do to survive. 

but suppose that your omniscient being told you that the long 
term survival of humanity requires us to exterminate some 
other species , either terrestrial or alien .  . 

does that make it moral to do so 

jon .  . 

from  ( tammy r healy ) 
subject re free moral agency 
lines 34 
organization walla walla college 
distribution na 
lines 34 

in article  ( robert beauchaine ) writes 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
subject re free moral agency 
date 14 apr 93 21 41 31 gmt 
in article  ( tammy r healy ) writes 

in the old testement , satan is rarely mentioned , if at all. 


huh does n't the sda bible contain the book of job 

this is why there is suffering in the world , we are caught inthe crossfire .  . 
and sometimes , innocents as well as teh guilty get hurt. 
that 's my opinion and i hope i cleared up a few things. 


seems like your omnipotent and omniscient god has got some 
  to do then. or did he just create satan for shits and 
giggles 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 


i did n't say it never mentioned satan , i said it rarely , if at all. please 
excuse me for my lack of perfect memory or omnipotence .  . 

tammy 
p.s i'm soory if i sound cranky .  . i now before anyone 's feelings 
get hurt. 

subject re islamic authority over women 
from  ( robert beauchaine ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 17 

in article (s . n .  . mozumder ) writes 

peace , 

bobby 

get this the hell out of your  . sig . until you 1 ) learn what it 
stands for and 2 ) really mean it. 



bob beauchaine 

they said that queens could stay , they blew the bronx away , 
and sank manhattan out at sea. 



from  ( dewey henize ) 
subject re yet more rushdie re islamic law 
organization motorola , inc. austin , tx 
lines 48 
nntp posting host rtfm . sps . mot . com . 

in article  ( rashid ) writes 
deletions 

the fatwa was levelled at the person of rushdie any actions of 
rushdie that feed the situation contribute to the legitimization of 
the ruling .  . the book remains in circulation not by some independant 
will of its own but by the will of the author and the publishers .  . the fatwa 
against the person of rushdie encompasses his actions as well. the 
crime was certainly a crime in progress  ( at many levels ) and was being 
played out  ( and played up ) in the the full view of the media. 

p.s. i'm not sure about this but i think the charge of also 
applies to rushdie and may be encompassed under the umbrella 
of the ruling .  . 

if this is grounded firmly in islam , as you claim , then you have just 
exposed islam as the grounds for terrorism , plain and simple. 

whether you like it or not , whether rushdie acted like a total jerk or 
not , there is no acceptable civilized basis for putting someone in fear 
of their life for words. 

it simply does not matter whether his underlying motive was to find the 
worst possible way he could to insult muslims and their beliefs , got that 
you do not threaten the life of someone for words when you do , you 
quite simply admit the of your position. if you support 
threatening the life of someone for words , you are not yet civilized .  . 

this is exactly where i , and many of the people i know , have to depart 
from respecting the religions of others. when those beliefs allow and 
encourage  ( by interpretation ) the killing of non physical opposition .  . 

you , or i or anyone , are more than privledged to believe that someone , 
whether it be rushdie or bush or hussien or whover , is beyond the pale 
of civilized society and you can condemn his her soul , refuse to allow 
any members of your association to interact with him her , peacably 
demonstrate to try to convince others to disassociate themselves from 
the miscreants , or whatever , short of physical force. 

but once you physically threaten , or support physical threats , you get 
much closer to your earlier comparison of rape with you as the rapist 
who whines she asked for it , look how she was dressed . 

blaming the victim when you are unable to be civilized does n't fly. 

dew 

dewey henize sys net admin risc hardware (512) 891 8637 pager 928 7447 x 9637 

from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re some thoughts. 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 02 51 29 gmt 
organization compaq computer corp 

lines 47 

on fri , 16 apr 1993 02 51 29 gmt ,  ( tammy r healy ) said 
trh i hope you 're not going to flame him. please give him the same coutesy you  
trh ve given me. 

but you have been courteous and therefore received courtesy in return. this 
person instead has posted one of the worst arguments i have ever seen 
made from the pro christian people. i 've known several jesuits who would 
laugh in his face if he presented such an argument to them. 

let 's ignore the fact that it 's not a true trilemma for the moment  ( nice 
word maddi , original or is it a real word ) and concentrate on the 
liar , lunatic part. 

the argument claims that no one would follow a liar , let alone thousands 
of people. look at l. ron hubbard .  . now , he was probably not all there , 
but i think he was mostly a liar and a con artist. but look at how many 
thousands of people follow dianetics and scientology .  . i think the 
baker 's and along with several other televangelists lie all 
the time , but look at the number of follower they have. 

as for lunatics , the best example is hitler .  . he was obviously insane , 
his advisors certainly thought so. yet he had a whole country entralled 
and came close to ruling all of europe .  . how many germans gave their lives 
for him to this day he has his followers. 

i'm just amazed that people still try to use this argument. it 's just 
so obviously wrong . 

















ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re soc . motss . , et al. princeton axes matching funds for boy scouts 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 162 

c . wainwright . wrote 
i 
jim , 

i always thought that homophobe was only a word used at act up 
rallies , i did n't beleive real people used it. let 's see if we agree 
on the term 's definition .  . a homophobe is one who actively and 
militantly attacks homosexuals because he is actually a latent 
homosexual who uses his hostility to conceal his true orientation .  . 
since everyone who disapproves of or condemns homosexuality is a 
homophobe  ( your implication is clear ) , it must necessarily follow that 
all men are latent homosexuals or bisexual at the very least. 


crap crap crap crap crap. a definition of any type of  comes from 
phobia an irrational fear of. hence a homophobe  ( not only in act up meetings , 
the word is apparently in general use now. or perhaps it is n't in the bible 
wouldst thou prefer if i were to communicate with thou in ) 

does an arachnophobe have an irrational fear of being a spider does an 
have an irrational fear of being a wide open space do you 
understand english 

obviously someone who has phobia will react to it. they will do their best 
to avoid it and if that is not possible they will either strike out or 
run away. or do occur because of natural processes people 
who definately have homophobia will either run away from gay people or 
cause them  ( or themselves ) violence .  . 


is n't that what i said ... 
what are you taking issue with here , your remarks are merely 
parenthetical to mine and add nothing useful. 

... 

it would seem odd if homosexuality had any evolutionary function 
 ( other than limiting population growth ) since evolution only occurs 
when the members of one generation pass along their traits to 
subsequent generations .  . homosexuality is an evolutionary deadend .  . if i 
take your usage of the term , homophobe , in the sense you seem to 
intend , then all men are really homosexual and evolution of our 
species at least , is going nowhere .  . 


so every time a man has sex with a woman they intend to produce children 
hmm .  .  . no . wonder the world is overpopulated .  . obviously you keep to the 
monty python song every sperm is sacred . and if , as you say , it has 
a purpose as a means to limit population growth then it is , by your own 
arguement , natural. 

consider the context , i'm talking about an evolutionary function. one 
of the most basic requirements of evolution is that members of a 
species procreate , those who do n't have no purpose in that context. 


another point is that if the offspring of each generation is to 
survive , the participation of both parents is necessary a family must 
exist , since homosexuals do not reproduce , they cannot constitute a 
family. since the majority of humankind is part of a family , 
homosexuality is an evolutionary abberation , contrary to nature if you 
will. 


well if that is true , by your own arguements homosexuals would have 
vanished years ago due to non procreation .  . also the parent from single 
parent families should put the babies out in the cold now , cos they must , 
by your arguement , die. 

by your argument , homosexuality is genetically determined .  . as to your 
second point , you prove again that you have no idea what context 
means. i am talking about evolution , the preservation of the species , 
the fundamental premise of the whole process. 

but it gets worse. since the overwhelming majority of people actually 
prefer a heterosexual relationship , homosexuality is a social 
abberation as well. the homosexual eschews the biological imperative 
to reproduce and then the social imperative to form and participate in 
the most fundamental social element , the family. but wait , there 's 
more. 


read the above. i expect you to have at least ten children by now , with 
the family growing .  . these days sex is less to do with procreation  ( admittedly 
without it there would be no one) but more to do with pleasure. in pre pill 
and pre condom days , if you had sex there was the chance of producing children. 
these days is just ai n't true ! people can decide whether or not to have 
children and when. soon they will be able to choose it 's sex c  ( but that 's 
another arguement .  .  . ) . so it 's more of a lifestyle decision. again by 
your arguement , since homosexuals can not  ( or choose not ) to reproduce they must 
be akin to people who decide to have sex but not children. both are 
as unnatural as each other. 

yet another non sequitur .  . sex is an evolutionary function that exists 
for procreation , that it is also recreation is incidental .  . that 
homosexuals do n't procreate means that sex is only recreation and 
nothing more they serve no evolutionary purpose. 


since homosexuals have come out the closet and have convinced some 
policy makers that they have civil rights , they are now claiming that 
their sexuality is a preference , a life style , an orientation , a 
choice that should be protected by law. now if homosexuality is a mere 
choice and if it is both contrary to nature and anti social , then it 
is a perverse choice they have even less credibility than before they 
became prominent .  . 


people are people are people. who are you to tell anyone else how to live 
their life are you  ( god(tm ) if so , fancy a date 

here 's pretty obvious dodge , do you really think you 've said anything 
or do you just feel obligated to respond to every statement i am not 
telling anyone anything , i am demonstrating that there are arguments 
against the practice of homosexuality  ( providing it 's a merely an 
alternate lifestlye ) that are not homophobic , that one can reasonably 
call it perverse in a context even a atheist can understand. i realize 
of course that this comes dangerously close to establishing a value , 
and that atheists are compelled to object on that basis , but if you 
are to be consistent , you have no case in this regard .  . 

to characterize any opposition to homosexuality as homophobic is to 
ignore some very compelling arguments against the legitimization of 
the homosexual life style . but since the charge is only intended to 
intimidate , it 's really just and not to be taken 
seriously. fact is , jim , there are far more persuasive arguments for 
suppressing homosexuality than those given , but consider this a start. 


again crap. all your arguments are based on outdated ideals .  . likewise the 
bible .  . would any honest christian condemn the ten generations spawned by 
a bastard to eternal damnation or someone who crushes his penis  ( either 
accidently or not .  .  . ! ) .  . both are in deuteronomy .  . 

i'm sure your comment pertains to something , but you 've disguised it 
so well i ca n't see what. where did i mention ideals , out dated or 
otherwise your arguments are very reactionary do you have anything 
at all to contribute 


as to why homosexuals should be excluded from participation in 
scouting , the reasons are the same as those used to restrict them from 
teaching by their own logic , homosexuals are deviates , social and 
biological .  . since any adult is a role model for a child , it is 
incumbent on the parent to ensure that the child be isolated from 
those who would do the child harm .  . in this case , harm means primarily 
social , though that could be extended easily enough. 



you show me anyone who has sex in a way that everyone would describe as 
normal , and will take of my hat  ( puma baseball cap ) to you. one man 's meat 
is another man 's poison ! 


what has this got to do with anything would you pick a single point 
that you find offensive and explain your objections , i would really 
like to believe that you can discuss this issue intelligibly .  . 

bill 



from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re pompous ass 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 14 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

 ( jon livesey ) writes 

how long does it the motto have to stay around before it becomes the 
default ... where 's the cutoff point 
i do n't know where the exact cutoff is , but it is at least after a few 
years , and surely after 40 years. 
why does the notion of default not take into account changes 
in population makeup 

specifically , which changes are you talking about are you arguing 
that the motto is interpreted as offensive by a larger portion of the 
population now than 40 years ago 

keith 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re islam and scientific predictions  ( was re genocide is caused by atheism) 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 14 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( fred rice ) writes 

the positive aspect of this verse noted by dr. maurice is that 
while geocentrism was the commonly accepted notion at the time  ( and for 
a long time afterwards ) , there is no notion of geocentrism in this verse 
 ( or anywhere in the qur'an) .  . 

there is no notion of heliocentric , or even either. 





my sole intention was learning to fly. 

from  ( keith allan schneider ) 
subject re political atheists 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 17 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( michael wang ) writes 

well , i have typed in the oed definitions .  . as you will note upon reading 
them , a punishment , being an inanimate object , is incapable of showing 
mercy .  . so , you can not say that a merciless punishment is a cruel one. 
sorry , you must have missed the stuff in parens when you read the 
definition  ( where transf .  . transferred sense and fig. 
figurative , ly) .  . things can be cruel .  . samples of text from the first 
definition include , because i would not see thy cruell 
out his poore old eyes , and the of man in the centre of a 
cruel and frowning universe. 

sure nails can be cruel .  . i 'd imagine nails in your eyes would be 
very painful. but , this does not imply that a painless death is 
cruel , which is what you are supposed to be trying to show. 

keith 
