from  ( tom haapanen ) 
subject re 
organization software inc. 
lines 56 

 ( tom haapanen ) writes 
has anyone used a it looks good on paper , and 
steve gibson gave it a very good review in  . i 'd love to get a 
real world impression , though how is the speed drivers support 

 ( iskandar taib ) writes 
the pc world found out that the people had hard 
text into the  . clever , no in any case , the 
results are pretty much  . 

two things that me about the pc magazine review 

1. their is seriously flawed , as was clearly shown 
by the and 's . ca n't they just admit that 
their is to easy to for and or cheat on 
is much harder to  .  .  . 

2. the big cheat that iit used was and 
, and sent them a new which did n't 
do this but produced almost identical scores .  . yet , the only thing 
pc magazine says is that scores are not legitimate could n't they 
at least make some comment about its real world 

i'm not so much going by for , but , rather , by steve 
gibson 's results , which are more real world based  ( like using 
draw to  . if you believe gibson , that is ... ) he writes 

despite these documented , i have to say that in real world 
applications the actually than 
any other display in the industry .  . ... even though it 's 
just a card , it every local i 
have , including the stealth 24 , the , the 
and even the based  . 

this kind of praise is enough for me to be interested in it , bogus 
or not ! ) 

when and if you get one send me mail .  .  . i might buy that gu off 
you .  .  . 9 ) 

i already returned the gu . my had sold eight of them , and 
seven were returned to him. i'm now  ( temporarily ) back to running an 
original gu , until i get my  . and , yes , the gu is in 
my 16 system than the gu , especially in handling  ( that 's where 
you use  . 

has a available for and software you 
can buy one or for 50 off list to try it out. at 
just for or for the version i decided it was worth 
trying  ( i'm supposed to get the board within two  . i 'll post 
my when i get it .  .  .  . 


tom software , 
stick your index fingers into both of your mouth. now pull 
up. that 's how the makes you feel .  . car ,  93 

subject roman . 04 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 


from  . richard timmer ) 
subject approach for 
organization university , , 
lines 21 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 

article from 
author was dr. richard 
posted on 24 apr 93 23 11 16 gmt 




i have seen a great deal of discussion on the relative merits of 
access and paradox win .  . however , are there any users out there 
with experience with the called approach . it has gotten 
a number of very good from the various  . and it seems like it 
would require less hardware than paradox .  . i have ruled out access 
because some aspects of it are extremely non intuitive , e.g. requiring a 
field to always have a value. i like what i 've seen of paradox , but it 
seems like the resource requirements are greater than what i have  ( 386 25 , 
6  . 

so , please provide me with your thoughts are approach , good and bad. thanks. 


richard 

from  ( sadun anik ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
organization center for reliable and high computing 
lines 45 

nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 93 21 34 28 gmt 

in article  ( scott p. reimert ) writes 

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that nt  ( tm ) is a 
user , as well as , etc. i certainly have n't 
seen this to be the case. there are accounts for each person , 
and even if that is desired .  . i do n't see an 
of use though. 

scott 

it certainly is user .  . what i have seen from the march is 
that it does n't yet come with the stuff which user 
features .  . i remember somebody from stating that it does n't allow 
two users share one  . my interpretation of this was that one user 
per but all the and based stuff you want. 

i believe ftp and for nt systems will come from third 
party. somebody already has a version of an on the 
net. there is no reason why one cannot write a based shell like 
on unix for remote  . 

in general i liked nt when i checked it out. it slow compared to 
1 .  ( just like any other real  . the version , although being 
slow , up much than my sun workstation .  . 
also start up a lot than x  . i believe bill was 
right when he stated that nt was not for everybody .  . after playing 
around with it for a while i was convinced .  . if i owned a using 
a business computer from ibm or some other established , i 
would consider moving to nt because it would provide a much 
solution  ( if you are running etc . ) .  . it provides 
the such an application requires .  . 

on the other hand if you like your dos games , more or less forget 
about nt .  . you can always to dos but in general that 
the purpose of using nt .  . most of nt 's features are in a 
networked environment and in such an environment you ca n't your 
machine at will. for personal use , i would rather wait for the 
based release  ( whatever you name it) than jump to nt  . 
i expect most applications will keep on using until 
becomes widely available. 


, u of illinois at urbana champaign 
center for reliable and high computing 
e mail 

from  ( michael schaap ) 
subject re speaker sound 
organization inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 

tony s wrote 
in article  ( alec lee ) writes 
is there an ftp site where i can get the speaker sound there 's 
a sound . file that claims to be the but i'm suspicious since 
it 's not a  . file. 

the file .  .  .  . 
it 's a self archive .  .  ( run it and it a  . file . ) . 

michael 


o michael 
o t p 
() inc. 
dept. damn good coffee ! and hot ! 

from 
subject need help with for  .  .  . 
distribution usa 
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa 
lines 19 

i have two questions 

1 ) i have been having with my for  . 
when i try to select and change , etc. some of the text 
 . i tried to center two lines once , and the second 
line disappeared .  . i can not find the error , and i do not 
know how to correct it. 

2 ) is this the right newsgroup where should i go 

e mail  .  .  . 

who else is still waiting for gun part  ( pi ) 

'' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' 
' ''    '' '' ' '' '' '' ' 
''  ( '(enforcer'burp)' ) '' ''   or  ' ' '' '' 
'' '' , wi '' ' n the official team .  .  .  . '' '' 
' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' ' 

from  ( svein pedersen ) 
subject re utility for win . and system . 
organization university of , norway 
lines 11 

sorry , i tell exactly what i need. 

i need a utility for automatic  ( deleting , adding , changing ) of  . files for  . 
the program should run from dos or the program run a under  . 

i will use the utility for the win .  ( and other files ) on  . 

do i find it on any ftp host 




from  ( constantinos malamas ) 
subject re how do i quickly switch between 
distribution na 
organization institute of technology 
lines 18 

in article  ( the cynic ) writes 
can someone out there tell me how to switch 's resolution 
quickly and easily i know that i can go back into to do it , 

l. 


take a look at ftp . edu . at pub pc  ( util misc ) 
for a program zip . it . 's as close to want you want as you can 
get in 1 . ... 
hope it helps .  .  .  . 




institute of technology 
opinions expressed are not necessarily 's .  .  .  . 
internet 

from  ( wildstrom ) 
subject re 4 . 0 . file 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 12 
nntp posting host access . net . 

the edu .  ( gregg walters ) writes 

i have of memory on my  . i have been running 
without a file for several months. will 4 . 0 . be 
happy with this , or insist on a file 

, you mean without a permanent file. if needs a 
file , it will and create one if a permanent one does n't exist. 
permanent is generally though. i do n't know why would n't 
be happy with either type  . 3 . 0 . is and so should any program conforming 
to the win  . 


subject what about double 
from 
organization miami university academic computer service 
lines 9 

i am curious what does the double in actually do 
for me i seem to have less problems in when i leave it out. 

using a ps 2 with an drive , but also a ps 2 with a  . 

any response is welcome. 

peter 


from  ( warren e. iii ) 
subject re program two questions 
reply to 
organization private 
lines 17 

in  ( gerry swetsky ) writes 

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program 
i know , will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i 
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt . 

you might try the and make a  . i done that to do certain 
in a that did n't have the ability to use a  . it should be in the 
 . the only problem is that it has to be for it to work. 
but , good luck. 



warren e. iii 
250  . street north 
st. , internet 
 ( 813)384 ) uucp  .  .  . ! ! ! 

from  ( stephen thomas ) 
subject solved ! 
nntp posting host eng . com . 
reply to 
organization at t 
lines 24 

ca n't that it 'll work for everyone , but i finally fixed my 
problems i a  .  ( sorry , i did n't say the solution 
was free . ) . in the past i 'd tried everything with my serial  . 
 ( cleaning it , all kinds of , turning off write 
, changing com ,  .  .  . ) . nothing worked .  . yesterday i finally broke 
down and bought a systems  . the improvement is even better 
than i had imagined ! so much so that my old must have been 
all the time (i just thought it was sometimes ) , and i had gotten so 
used to it i did n't notice. my wife , who uses the computer about once a 
month , noticed the improvement literally within a second ! 

i ca n't say anything about other , but with the systems 
one you 'll have to give up either or to an  . also , if you 
do n't know , systems have three  . the includes 
a utility that lets you assign to the middle  . 

hope this helps someone else. if you 're anywhere near as as i 
was , it 's well worth the 80 .  . 



stephen thomas at t  ( 404 3522 ) 
email , ! ! sat 


from  ( scott p. reimert ) 
subject re win nt file systems 
organization inc. , beach , ca 
lines 26 

in article  ( keith smith ) writes 
ok will some one out there tell me why how dos 5 
can read (i hav n't tried writing in case it breaks something ) 
the win nt file system. 
i thought was supposed to be better than the fat system 

keith 

dos 5 . 0 . 6 . 0 . cannot read the file system , although the file system 
can read the fat file system of dos .  . i have on a 
partition on my machine at home , and i can read my dos from nt , 
but not vice  . 

as far as the of the file system , it seems to be very fast , and 
i have yet to have a single problem with it. that does n't prove it 's better 
than the fat system though. read the book  inside nt , ' it will give 
you all the info you 're looking for. 

scott 




scott standard disclaimer 
beach , ca blah blah blah ... 
always beer in a cool dark place 

subject display software 
from 
organization systems corporation 
nntp posting host gov . ca . 
lines 4 

does any one know of any software which lets one display 
files on a pc with dos and or 
your reply would be much appreciated. thanks. 
adam , 

from 
subject re document of  . 
organization university college , , 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( yu taijung ) writes 
does anybody have document of  . file or know where i can get it 

thanks in advance. ) 

i got one from tech support .  . 


g. , or 
university college , , , canada  ( 403 ) 

from  ( dave laudicina ) 
subject more 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization unc office of information technology 
lines 11 

has anyone experienced a at all using this 
card .  . is only in  . i have replaced card and am waiting on 
latest drivers .  . also have experienced general protection fault errors 
in on tools option and in setup .  . 
i had a but was getting genral protection fault errors 
in an application .  . these card must have terrible 
quality control to let products on the market with so many  . 
what a  . running on gateway 2000 50 .  . 
dave l 



from  ( ron albury ) 
subject re plus for problems .  .  .  .  . 
organization 
lines 14 

you have a lot more problems keeping up with hardware in than 
in dos regardless of what software you are using .  . 

try the following 
1 ) turn off write for the you are to. the 
will save up so much that when it grabs control of the machine 
it takes too long to write to and you loose characters. 

2 ) use a different for your serial line. the old 's  ( 8250 or 16450 ) 
can only one character internally .  . the new 's  ( 16550 ) can 
16 , which should be plenty for most situations .  . you can run 
to find out what is on the machine .  . 

ron 

from  ( craig silver ) 
subject format a s under win .  . 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
distribution na 
lines 13 

has anyone experienced problems a system in the file 
under dos 6 i get a but when i with it , 
my hard drive is n't recognized .  . i did  . also , i 
was able to make a good working system from the dos 6 command 
shell  ( no  . 

let me know if you 've had this problem too and if you 've heard what 's 
going on. 



craig silver computer science at simon fraser university 
 ( internet ) burnaby , b.c. , canada 

from  ( robertson ) 
subject pro drivers 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 4 

does anybody know the ftp site with the latest drivers for the 

thanks 


from  ( mario veraart ) 
subject re help  . files into word 2.0 
organization physics and 
lines 32 

 ( jburke ) writes 

i was wondering if anyone knew how to view a  . in word 2 .  .  . 
here are the first couple of lines if it helps .  .  .  . 
! ps 3 . 0 . 
creator 
title 
orientation 
pages 12 

can any one help 


james burke by reading this you agree not to hold 
the writer responsible for any evil 
happening that may you at any time. 


we had a similar problem in converting a  . file. the solution was simple. 
we changed the first line from ! ps 3 . 0 . to 

! ps 2.0 

this the , the  . file only contained very simple 
move and draw statements .  . 



physics and 
email the the 
if all else fails , show pretty pictures and , 
and do n't talk about , david 

from  ( brian c. anderson ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
originator 
lines 11 
reply to  ( brian c. anderson ) 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
distribution cmu 


in article ,  ( wildstrom ) writes 
from  ( wildstrom ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
date 16 apr 1993 09 27 10 
much stuff deleted 

what is i to 4 . 0 . and it a directory for 
under system . during the it told me that was 
required. 


from  ( nicholas masika ) 
subject strange sizes in summary line 
lines 25 
reply to 
organization bell northern research 

i have just noticed my doing something strange recently. 
usually , the line at the bottom of the  ( the status bar , i 
guess) the total space and the total number of for 
the current selection .  . if i select a whole bunch of files , i will get 
an exact count. 

recently , i notice it incorrectly this count it 's ! 
if i select a file that is , say , , it correctly   . 
if i select select a file that is 23 , , it  23  , 
not 23 , just 23 ! if i select , it will report only 
in the selection .  . if i select over a worth of files , say 
3 , , 345 it reports 3 ! it 's as if it 's got a problem with 
more than 3 characters ! 

my system 33 , memory , 3 . 0 . , dos 5 , win 3 . 1 .  . i 've run 
the latest virus  ( scan102 , f prot ) and they did n't report anything. 
could i have altered something that the 
of the status bar in the 

, 
bell northern research , ottawa 
 ( 613 ) fax 

development 


from  ( randy ellingson ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
keywords 
organization university 
lines 43 


in article stanford . edu . d 3 . stanford . edu .  ( robert kayman ) writes 

fellow  . 

i am asking for your wisdom to help me decide which i 
should , the  ( bubblejet ) vs. the  . i 
thought , rather than trust the , i would benefit more from 
relying on those who use these daily and use them to their 
potential. and , i figure all of you will know their benefits and pitfalls 
better than any  . 

now , i would greatly appreciate any information you could render on the 
of the vs. the  ( 300  . 
which is is there a print quality difference , 
particularly in which will handle large documents better  ( 75 
pages or more ) any personal experience on either will be 
here which works better under 3 . 1 .  ( any problems , etc ) 
cost of memory , , , etc basically , your 
personal experiences with either of these machines is highly desirable , 
both good and bad. 

advance and thanks for all your input. e mail or news posting is 
readily acceptable , but e mail is encouraged  ( limits  . 


sincerely , 

robert or 

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not. 
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision 
revised ! ! 


sorry for the followup , but i y get email through on your addresses .  . 
i , too , am trying to decide between these two , and i would like to 
hear what users of these have to say about the questions above. 

thank you. 




from  ( david clarke ) 
subject dos 6 3 . 1 . prob 
reply to  ( david clarke ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 22 


has anyone else experienced problems with hanging 
after the of dos 6 i have the 
problem down to  . 

if if remove  ( or disable ) , is ok. if 
is active , with ,  . if i use with 
, the system on  . 

dave .  . 




david  .  .  . the . well is deep .  .  . wish . me well .  .  .  . 
david 


from  ( richard warner ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization san jose state university math cs dept. 
lines 12 

writes 

nt is a giant operating system. 1 . , it does not 
run on top of dos .  . it is its own , with  ( billy us ) true 
, security , will run 1 . 
programs as well as dos programs , has processor support , and is 
primarily a server program .  . it 's is too high for it to be 
economical for most users. 

correction all is promising is that it will run  most  3 . 1 . 
programs and the  major  dos programs. do not expect everything you 
have to run under nt unless all you have are current  . 

from  ( stephen l wyatt ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 12 

ok , so if everyone is  .  . is there any that run some 
macro  ( to load a huge drawing , etc .  .  . ) . on the same machine that might 
then tell us what the real world results are 

i mean , run the on the same machine with different video cards 
running word , , or something like that to see how fast the cards are 



! ! ! no disclaimer .  .  . i . blame everything on someone else 



from  ( ashok aiyar ) 
subject re net 4 . 
article i.d. 0 . 
distribution usa 
organization cwru school of medicine 
lines 19 
nntp posting host slip . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( dave fuess ) writes 

an earlier article in this newsgroup made reference to 
net version 3 . 4 .  . where i tried 
with no luck. it 's probably just a  . 

not a  . it was to ftp . edu . a couple days back .  . 

but i sure would like to get one if it 's real as i too 
have a problem in  . 

version 3 . 4 . uses standard drivers .  . 




mail 
department of biochemistry tel  ( 216 ) 
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax  ( 216 ) 

from r .  . volz ) 
subject re for 2.2 
organization oil field research company 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( james 66515 ) writes 
hi , 
i wonder if anyone has had a chance try out for 
version 2.2 yet. i understand the cost from 2.0 to 2.2 is about 
20 . 00 . but i have no idea what the new version has .  . 

i got the offer to this weekend. it 's 19 8 . 50 . and 
handling .  . the s h seem way too for just a couple of  . sounds 
like city. can this purchased at 




bill 
technology co .  . 
earth model interpretation analysis division .  . 
p.o. box , la , ca 
phone  ( 310 ) fax  ( 310 ) 

from  ( diego a. aranda ) 
subject monthly  ( information ) 
article i.d. 
organization texas a m university , college station 
lines 100 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 


monthly  ( wsm ) is an on line forum for information about the 
and best 3 . x . and nt software .  . 

is a compilation of from authors in a single 
 .  ( help system ) file. all types of software may be for 
entry in , applications , games , programming tools , etc. 

benefits authors by allowing them to 
their software , users of updated versions , and to increase 
their base of users. those searching for specific software 
will benefit by having a complete list of available software available at their 
complete with feature lists , current , and any other 
relevant information. 

software authors may submit to monthly in the 
following manner 

1. a short summary of the function of the software .  . include all 
special features which are unique to your product and which set it apart 
from other programs in the  . be sure to include specific details 
such as the current release version , where the software is available , 
how much the fee costs , how much space is required , any 
special requirements (e . g .  . sound card , or , etc . ) . , how the 
author may be , etc. because text is highly , the 
summary may be as long as is necessary , however , it is best to keep it 
short .  . a good is a single of 12 point text at 
resolution .  . order forms and other such addendum may be included if desired .  . 
all be in plain text  ( ascii ) format .  . will 
be exactly as it is i will simply cut and paste text files 
into a help system. if you require special 
conventions such as text or italics , or a larger size , 
indicate so clearly within the text file. for best results , use 
to create the  . txt . file. 

2. include up to of format  .  ( bitmap ) shots which 
display the workings or special features of each program .  . special cases 
 ( rendering applications for example) which require 256 color may 
submit up to of  . files all other should observe the limit 
and use 16 color format .  . for with the software which 
will be used to create the  . file  ( stefan 's help writer 's 
assistant for windows ) , please save the with or 
 . 

3. include a 16 color  . of the program 's ( .  . many programs 
are available to convert  . to  . format , or may be 
used. the  . will be embedded in the summary text. 

4. double check for errors , corrections , etc. 

5. the  . txt . file , the  . of the program , and any additional 
 . into a single file using  ( any  . 

6. submit the entry by the  . , and e mailing it to 



if via the internet or compuserve .  . if via america 
, send a brief message indicating submission , and the  . zip . 
file , then e mail to 



7. if any changes are required , or a new version is released , complete 
the above again. send all to the address , 
and any comments , suggestions , , to 

all received before the will be included in the subsequent 
edition of  . the editor will not be held responsible for any errors , and 
we reserve the right to make changes to the  . 

is not limited to software .  . a special area will be 
devoted to available 3 . x . and nt software .  . 
software authors should follow the same steps above , with the exception of 
the on size the  . txt . file and  . may be as large as required 
 ( and as large as is practical for over phone  . there 
is no charge for the publishing of either or 
product  . 

for computer hardware , software , , etc. may 
be as well. again , the same apply , with the exception of 
the size  . there is no charge for space .  . the first 
ten each month will be included subsequent 
will not be included due to size  . 

is currently looking for persons willing to the time to author 
within  . a c c section , a basic section , and 
two specific opinion advice are  . all work will 
be on a voluntary basis. if you wish to aid and author a monthly 
on one of the above , please send us mail at or 
on america  . 

the first edition of will be may 1st via america , 
compuserve , and the internet .  . the for is april  . 
the first edition will be 1 . zip . , with each subsequent monthly 
release continuing in the series  ( wsm 2 . zip . , etc . ) .  . each 
edition will be released on the first of each month , and the for 
submission will be at least three days before release .  . 



from  ( ashok aiyar ) 
subject re required for version of 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 19 
reply to  ( ashok aiyar ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( peter r. tattam ) says 

contact me for details. 



peter 

this is posted on behalf of peter  . there is a north american 
with the test version of for  . please 
contact me or peter for details. 



department of biochemistry , cwru 
for internet access  ( telnet ftp ) in cleveland , contact 
to org . and as bbs 
 ( 216 ) or  ( 216 )  ( 2400 bps ) 

from  ( mike mccollister ) 
subject oak drivers 
nntp posting host harris . com . 
reply to 
organization harris corporation , government systems division 
lines 21 

i'm using an oak based card on my computer  . i 've 
the from ftp . edu . and i 've had good luck 
with it. however , does anyone know if a is available for 
this card 

thanks , 

mike 





michael j. phone  ( 407 ) 
harris corporation email 
p.o. box 
100 
bay , florida i'm not going to say anything 
stupid today. not ! 



from  ( olcay boz ) 
subject re how do i make work 
organization university 
lines 40 


you need zip . and 24  . zip . , and 25  . zip . files. you can get these 
from edu .  . i also advice you to get 
zip . from  . it is a nice interface for  . is 
very user  . this interface makes it user friendly .  . for using this 
interface you have to get  ( from risc . edu . pub network misc) 
copy this to your directory .  . copy and other files to 
your directory .  . and the line below to your  . 

set c your and directory 

now you are ready to use it. enjoy it. 



in article , 
e . edu .  ( steve w brewer ) writes 
what files do i need to for 2 . 5 . 2 . i have never used 
before , so i do n't have any files for it. what i do have is 
zip . , which i from  . unfortunately , it does n't seem to 
work on it 's own , but needs some more files that i do n't have. i want to run 
both in 3 . 1 . and in dos on a pc (i understand there 's 
versions for both  . what are all the files i need to and 
where can i get them any info would be  . 



steve w w 








m 
0 



from  ( ron apland ) 
subject re 
organization college 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( nick , pc software , , , nz ) writes 
in article ,  ( thomas j 
bilan ) writes 

if i put z in my sys . , will run but i ca n't access 
drive f to log in to  . 
if i do n't put z in my sys . i ca n't access other 
drives from the file  . 

it seems that there should be a way to make work with the 
statement in my sys .  . 

first off , i have n't used  ( but i think that 's about to change ! ) .  . 

the problem is the command and the way in general  ( and 
in this case in particular ) drives to the device  . 
setting z means there are no  ( as opposed to 
unused ) drive letters for to use , as it its drive 
onto the end of the existing list of drives .  . obviously 
its network drives to existing , unused drive letters. 

i 'd guess the next thing i 'd try is something like m , which on 
most machines will leave a fair of drives for and still 
allow up to 13 drive as well. 

requires dos drives .  . i use j which makes my first drive 
k and leaves me drives g , h , i and j for  . my local dos drives use a f. 

ron 

from  ( ginny mcbride ) 
subject re for other news readers 
article i.d. 
organization health sciences university 
lines 31 
nntp posting host 53 . 60 . 24 . 

in article  ( ashok aiyar ) writes 

in article  ( wim van holder ) writes 

what the status of for will it use the 

stuff deleted 

currently is in very late  . it looks like an excellent 
product , with several features beyond the dos version. 

supports the , , and there is also a direct to 
packet version that some people are using with the  . 




mail 
department of biochemistry tel  ( 216 ) 
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax  ( 216 ) 

what 's it gonna cost 

health sciences university 
technical services 


the purpose of writing is to weak ideas , obscure poor reasoning , 
and clarity .  . with a little practice , writing can be an intimidating 
and fog .  .  ( academia , here i come ) 


from  ( scott p. reimert ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
organization inc. , beach , ca 
lines 14 

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that nt  ( tm ) is a 
user , as well as , etc. i certainly have n't 
seen this to be the case. there are accounts for each person , 
and even if that is desired .  . i do n't see an 
of use though. 

scott 




scott standard disclaimer 
beach , ca blah blah blah ... 
always beer in a cool dark place 

from  ( arglebargle iv ) 
subject re how can i use the in non 
organization dept. of chemical engineering , texas a m university 
lines 34 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 

in article ,  ( kenneth kasajian ) writes 
de .  ( oliver kretzschmar ) writes 



hey , 

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the 
in a non application , which runs in an  . we use 
3 . 1 . and have clipper applications .  . exists there any 
routines or something else please mail me your  . 

thanks for your efforts , 



name o . university 
phone 49 31 
fax 49 80 
email de . 

very simple. you have to have the com . or sys . loaded in dos 
before you run  . note that you do n't need to have these files loaded 
to use the in  . 


... and you need a video which is completely 3 . 1 . compatible , and 
your has to be completely compatible as well. not quite so simple. 
(i never could get my to work 100 in a dos with my 
old paradise card now i have a and the 6 . 2 . drivers , and 
everything works  . 

m. 


from  ( howard feldman ) 
subject re need longer 
organization mind 's eye , inc. 
lines 18 
x mailer version 1 . 13 . 

in ,  ( larry paul highley ) wrote 


is there a utility out there that will let me use longer than 
the standard 8 . 3 . format .  . if so please email me. 

please e mail me too , 

thanks 

 .  .  . 





mind 's eye , inc. 

from  ( nathan moore ) 
subject re drives  .  .  . 
organization jhu applied physics 
lines 22 

 ( nilay patel ) writes 

i am looking for for the 20 20 drive .  .  . 

do n't laugh ... i am serious .  .  .  . 

if you have any 20 lying around that you would like to get rid of , 
please mail me ... 




you do mean , do n't you , not you forgot to say whether you 
were looking for the old 8 or the newer 5 . 25 . . 

sorry , just use them at work and do n't think they would appreciate it. 


c. 
the johns hopkins university applied physics 
cis , 
please note above address for email replies .  . 

from  ( brian c. anderson ) 
subject files from terminal to unix 
originator 
keywords terminal , , unix 
lines 15 
reply to  ( brian c. anderson ) 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
distribution cmu 


i'm attempting to files from my home computer running 
3 . 1 . terminal to a workstation at school. the file 
at home is for files. i'm running on the workstation at school and 
setting the file to  . i am unable to files 
to school but can files from school to home. during , 
terminal message several times then the message ' 
verify you 're using the correct  . 
anyone have any ideas on how to fix either e mail or post to this 
group. 

thanks , in advance , 

brian go make it 14 in a row 


from  ( dale erickson ) 
subject problem 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
lines 9 

when i use  ( or kermit ) in win 3 . 1 . , or use after 
to dos , can not find the serial  . if you have some ideas on how 
to solve this problem or where i can find further information , send me email 
or send it to the news group. thanks. 






from (j .  . atherton ) 
subject serial printing 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . ac . uk . 
summary output to serial with  . (e . g .  . works ) 
keywords works serial 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

hi , 
we 've been having problems on a few when printing to a 
serial  ( dmp or  . i have used works and write .  . the 
output is ok from dos and if i send plain text output , but anything 
fancy or just does n't output .  . the exception is to a 
4 which  appears  to be fast enough receiving data , not to 
bother about messages. i'm sure i'm not alone in this. i 've 
tried most of the print network options i can think of. anyone 
had similar problems they 've cured and would like to tell me  it 
thanks 

john 





from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject re in 3 . 1 . 
organization george washington university 
lines 22 

in article  ( nathan charles crowell ) writes 
hi there , 

is there any utility available that will make 
randomly select one of your directory 's  . 
files as the file 


's sig 

there are a couple. i am personally using , which is a 
saver which will also select your from a 
directory  ( not necessarily the ) .  . let me know if you want 
info .  . i 've been pretty happy with , and the latest version 
 ( 3 ) is not at , but oak , something . 



michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 

organization university of central florida computer services 
from mark 
subject many people on one machine 
lines 9 

i have several people my machine and would like to set up separate 
under for each of them. is there some way of setting 
things up separate for each of them ideally , 
i 'd like totally separate virtual machines .  . i 'd be willing to for 
less , and may end up having files that copy  . files around 
depending on who wants to use the machine .  . 

mark 
, setup n does n't work if you do n't have a network. 

from  ( edward j kalenda ) 
subject re without a title bar 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

from article , by  ( manu das ) 

i have a  ( window(say v ) which has few child (a , b , c , etc ) 
the shows up with all it 's children fine. now , i create another 
 ( child(t ) with a style and placed on top of one or more of 
it 's  . style is used so that i can it. how do 
i make sure that the child  t  will always be at the top of it 's  . 
i used  ( setwindowpos( ) and  ( bringwindowtotop( ) without success. what 's happening 
is that while i am  t  it shows up but as soon as i let go , it goes 
it 's  . 

the is on top but the lower are drawing over it. 
try using to keep the lower from drawing on the 
top 's space .  . 


ed 


from  ( mark whalley ) 
subject 
reply to  ( mark whalley ) 
organization research centre , great , 
lines 21 

help , i'm bored with the current we have here and am 
looking for some pictures to use instead. i 've seen from previous posts 
that many sites exist that pictures available through anonymous ftp .  . 
except that i ca n't ftp to remote sites from my machine , what i can do is use 
  mail a list of commands to a server and receive a mail of files , 
and or data back .  . 
does anyone know of sites , with compatible pictures , that can be 
in such a way 
if you do would you please post them. 

mark. 

ps .  . maybe this would make a useful faq 


co . uk .  only in silence the word , 
phone 44  . only in light , 
the views expressed here are mine , only in dying life , 
all mine , and nothing whatsoever to bright the 's on the 
do with  . empty sky  k. 


from  ( carl fink ) 
subject re panasonic 
organization public access unix , 
lines 13 

in  ( mike ) writes 

does anyone out there know if there are print drivers for for the 
panasonic 9 pin 

i 've been told that panasonic has some to , but i 
do n't have a cis account. i just use the 80 myself , 
and it comes out very pretty  ( if very slowly ) on my  . 

, c . , or 
facts are things and whatever may be our wishes , our 
, or the of our , they cannot alter 
the state of facts and evidence john adams 

from  ( richard krehbiel ) 
subject re , , risc 
in reply to 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 06 28 02 gmt 
lines 22 
organization , inc. 

in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

risc used to mean reduced set computer , true. they 
still use the same acronym , but only to be familiar. what risc really 
means is a recently designed  . ) 

in general , most risc are like this 

a large number  ( 32 or more ) of general purpose 
a fixed size , usually 32 bits 
an may make only one memory reference 
memory references must be 
there are branches  ( branch after the next instruction ) or 
a target prediction bit  ( probably will wo n't branch ) 
instructions may complete out of order relative to the 


richard 
2 2.0 will do for me until for the comes along .  .  .  . 

from  ( mattias hembruch ) 
subject re problem 
article i.d. 
organization stock exchange 
lines 20 

 ( dale erickson ) writes 

when i use  ( or kermit ) in win 3 . 1 . , or use after 
to dos , can not find the serial  . if you have some ideas on how 
to solve this problem or where i can find further information , send me email 
or send it to the news group. thanks. 

you may have to define your serial under (i think it 's the 
control , options .  . ) . 









my views do not necessarily reflect those of the  . 
e mail 

from  ( jeff meyers ) 
subject re plus for problems .  .  .  .  . 
organization california state university , 
lines 20 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( kent p. iler ) writes 
. 
. 
i have a friend who to the and unix machines here 
using it , but the seems to have a problem keeping up with the 
 .  .  . he . has a 14 , 400 on a 50 machine .  . 

tell him he probably needs to to a video card ! my 
was one of the reasons i sought out the  . i get 
about 7 million on my 25 and it just about keeps up with the 
speed  ( using plus for , too) .  . he should get over 
10 million on his machine with the same card .  . anything 10 should 
acceptable speed .  .  .  . 




jeff n w 
, ca ca . usa . na . 


from  ( lamont downs ) 
subject re 3 . 1 . keeps please help 
lines 18 
nntp posting host cat . edu . 
organization 

in article  ( eric bosco ) writes 
from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject 3 . 1 . keeps please help 
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 56 37 gmt 

as the subjects says , 3 . 1 . keeps  ( givinh me gpf ) on me of 
late. it was never a very stable , but now it seems to crash every 
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash ie i 

have you tried setting files in your sys . file to a fairly high 
number (i 've got mine set to 100 i 've seen numbers from 40 to 100 
 . also check your statement , 9 , 256 is a good 
starting point. try increasing it if it 's already set there  ( such as 
to 12 , 256 , etc . ) .  . both and files have been identified as 
one cause of frequent 1 .  . 




from  ( lance gay ) 
subject out of environment space running files from 
article i.d. 
organization systems engineering development division , carson , ca 
lines 17 

i have a  . file that i run under a  . i have set up a 
file to run the file in exclusive mode and to use the entire screen. 
the first line of the file sets an environment  . 

my problem is that on some of our machines  ( running dos 5 . 0 . and 
3 . 1 . in enhanced mode ) , the set command in the file fails with the 
out of environment space error. i have raised the amount of environment 
space to using the shell command in sys . so i know that 
i am nowhere near to running out. if i just click on the dos , 
i can create a bunch of environment from the dos shell .  . the problem 
is that on some machines , setting the value of an environment in 
a file fails .  . has anyone seen such behavior before i see no place in the 
fail to environment space .  . 

j. gay internet 
systems engineering development  . phone 310 
carson , ca 

from  ( kuo  ( kasey ) chang ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
organization san francisco state university 
lines 29 

in article  ( bob taylor ) writes 
 ( ma90jjw wrote 
in article  ( ed moore ) writes 

wrote 

i think the ink now used in the family is water fast .  . 

i 've had pictures by a few drops of rain .  . these were pictures 
from a  . mind you , it could have been acid rain ) 

the black ink is , but the color is n't 


i use a  . ink fast , but it really does n't like getting wet .  . 



at where no man has gone before .  .  . 
after august mail 
disclaimer my opinions count for nothing , except when the office is empty .  . 
i'm a student intelligence 0. 


bob 
vancouver 




from  ( ted matsumura ) 
subject re  .  .  . 
organization bbs and public access unix , 1 
lines 37 

in article  ( nathan charles crowell ) writes 

hi there , 

there 's one thing about that really me. 
i have of in my system. i use a 
under windows ) , and a permanent file. 

while i can never fill the memory up , i still have problems 
sometimes because i run out of resources .  . what gives 
i think could these resources a little better. 

does anyone have any on how to these resources 
so that i can avoid this problem 



c. , dept. of engineering 

polytechnic institute e mail 

costing the net hundreds if not thousands of dollars 

, 
has a fixed limit of memory , regardless of physical 
, this is twice that of , but not nearly enough for 
many and power users. 

using launch as your shell , you can reduce memory usage by as 
much as 15 over , 2 , , and other type 
based and other  . also , , and full hot key support 
is offered , something no other have at this time. 

, president 
software , inc. 



from  ( elizabeth harris tape ) 
subject re with on 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 0 


from  ( steve x4662 ) 
subject re more 
reply to 
organization technology , inc. 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( dale pischke ) writes 
in article  ( dave laudicina ) writes 
has anyone experienced a at all using this 
card .  . is only in  . i have replaced card and am waiting on 
latest drivers .  . also have experienced general protection fault errors 
in on tools option and in setup .  . 

i had the exact same failure with the and word for  . 
a quick call to indicated it was problem with the 
drivers .  . you need to call and get the new drivers , 
i think version 2 . 03 . the above problem , there may be later 
versions that i'm of .  .  .  . 


version 2 . 03 . drivers are current .  . 

steve 
technology inc.  ( voice ) 
north avenue  ( fax ) 
, mn 

from  ( john bruno ) 
subject access for the blind 
organization computer , inc. , rochester , ny 

we are developing an based product that uses a full 
to display 24 of textual data .  . is there any product for 
that will blind individuals to access the data  ( quickly ) 

please email responses and i will post a summary to this group. 

thanks for any help 
john bruno 


from  ( gregory c franklin ) 
subject re on or in 
organization university of arizona , tucson 
lines 23 

in article  ( robert isbell ) writes 
 ( joseph paparella ) writes 

i am having a problem the in to use 
with  . 

and are being used to support two 24 hour bbs lines , 

there you go. and use the same , therefore you ca n't use 
a on and a on , or vice  . it 's a 
of dos .  . 

and in fact will not see a on anything other than 
or  . accept this fact , and either get a , or get a new 
computer .  . 

i would also like to know if it is possible to use the on other 
than or  . 

no. the advice above applies .  .  .  .  . 

greg franklin 


from berlin . de .  . kerkhoff ) 
subject re using foundation classes with c 3 . 1 . 
organization technical university of berlin , germany 
lines 17 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host troll . cs . tu . berlin . de . 
version 1.0 
content type text plain 1 
content 

hi all , 

has anybody tried to from the samples directory , 
after the with 

seems to me , that is n't able to distinguish to 
functions .  . 
for example , imagine the following 2  ( overloaded ) functions 
same name ( ) 
same name ( ) 

after trying the whole day , i think , with its impossible to take the 
of one of the above two functions and assign it to a properly defined 
function pointer .  . 
am i right has anybody else had this problem 

thanx 

from  ( mau napoleon ) 
subject access . 
organization uunet communications 
lines 25 
nntp posting host net . 
edu . 

this is an official for the creation of a new newsgroup for the 
general discussion of the access  . 

name access . 

 . at this time , no need for a has been 
 . future evaluation will determine if one is needed .  . 

purpose 
access is a new for the operating system. it includes 
design tools for easy creation of , reports , forms and and a 
programming language called access basic .  . 
the purpose of the group will be to provide help to people who use access 's 
design tools to create simple as well as to people who use 
access basic to create complex  . 

rationale 
access is a new , it is very popular because of its 
development and its initial low price .  . 
been a version 1.0 product means that all access users are  . 
for that reason a newsgroup is needed where access users can discuss 
their experiences with the product and answer each other 's questions. 

napoleon 


organization arizona state university 
from james 
subject vs. 's 
lines 22 

i just purchased the for , and i also have 
 . when i , it wanted to out the line 
that  ( ep on ) and the command to invoke the image utility .  . 
it replaced the image command with a new image command that the 
version of image that came with  . this makes sense , as presumably the 
image version with is newer than the one with  . it did not , however , 
in the  . now two questions 
1 will use the image data saved by the newer version of image invoked .  . 
i.e. are the two version of image 
2 will protect use the info from , and vice 
i use both dos and , and i want to make sure that when i 
files in either environment , they are going to be protected .  . 

from the experiments i have run , the two programs  ( erase protect and 
smart erase ) do n't use each others info .  . 
i currently have both and within my , and 
i do n't see any conflicts 

for version 2.2 
's version 6 

thanks for any help. 

from  ( phil trodwell ) 
subject 
lines 10 
organization university of 


is there a ftp . edu . that is n't so ! @ @ busy 

thanks 



this space i 'd be happy to a 
for  . into that with you right now , but not 
 ( cheap ) this radio ! s. 

from  ( stephen kearney ) 
subject re is a 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 10 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

why is it that i find the mac incredibly 
whenever i use it 

because you are 

many computer literate people see in each system. 

you act like a mac your cat .  . 

up ! 

from de .  ( richard spitz ) 
subject re for and 
reply to de .  ( richard spitz ) 
organization  . f. der ,  ( germany ) 
lines 33 

 ( flint waters ) writes 

now does anyone know if it is possible to use and 
for dos at the same time. 

yup .  . we 're using both and they work just fine. , someday 
will communicate over  . right now we have to load  . 

i use with and all works well. 

hey , sounds great .  . does that mean that works with i thought it 
uses  . 

my problem is that with all its drivers uses up most of my 
, so i 'd hate to have to load many more drivers to make work 
along. 

i read in a german computer magazine that support for is just 
around the corner .  . anybody have any news about this 

regards , richard 

ps i possibly caused a with this message. if this message was spread 
twice outside of , please send me a short note. it would help 
me my news application .  . 



dr. richard internet de . 
tel 49 89 
fax 49 89 
, germany 


from  ( kent p. iler ) 
subject plus for problems .  .  .  .  . 
organization kansas state university 
lines 10 
nntp posting host matt . ksu . ksu . edu . 

hi , 
i have normal plus for dos , but i 've been considering buying 
the version .  .  .  . it . got really great in computer  . 
i have a friend who to the and unix machines here 
using it , but the seems to have a problem keeping up with the 
 .  .  . he . has a 14 , 400 on a 50 machine .  . i ca n't 
see it having trouble keeping up. his for dos works great , 
but the just seems to always up .  .  .  . is . this common 
and is there a fix or is something just with his machine 
kent 

subject roman . 09 14 part 9 of 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 


keywords 



from  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) 
subject re , win 3 . 1 . , 
organization national library of medicine 
lines 21 

in article  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) writes 

anybody seen running the 
sorry , do n't know the version of the  ( no indication in the menus ) but it 's a recently 
gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from bbs but wondered 
if anyone else had seen this. 


as a followup , this is a co 's machine .  . he has the latest 2 . 03 . drivers .  . 
it only happens using the  . sometimes it takes a minute 
or so for the to out , but it eventually does in this mode .  . i 
something is on memory the video card wants. i excluded 
in the line and in system . the problem  . 
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components .  . 
it is a 2 with an  ( 24xx )  . ah well , 
i was this was some kind of  known problem  or somebody had seen it 
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here 
usually are far more in the know. 




from  ( ross barclay ) 
subject drivers for 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization computing and telecommunications department 
lines 11 

hi , 
i was wondering if anyone knew whether or not had 
drivers for the  . if so , are the drivers on the 
net somewhere my is the model one down from the 256 .  . 

thanks in advance. 




, ontario 

from  ( bron d. d . ) . 
subject re why is my so  ( ms mouse ) 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization unc school of medicine 
lines 33 

in article  ( russell lister ) writes 
 ( sean eckton ) writes 

i have a serial and am using com . 8 . 00 .  ( was using 8 . 20 . 
i think , but switched to 8 . 00 . to see if it was any  . motion 
is nice and , but motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click 
on something because my around. i can be moving the to 
the right with relatively uniform motion and the will move 
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move for a bit then jump 
again  ( maybe this time to the left about  . 5 . ! ) .  . this is crazy ! i have 
never had so much trouble with a before. anyone have any solutions 

does think they are what everyone should be just steam ! 

i had the same problem. at first , i thought it was the video and 
made sure i had the most current drivers , because the problem was most 
evident at resolution modes .  . it did n't help and after a bit of 
, determined that the problem existed in standard 
resolution mode .  . it was just much less  . 

my was an older serial version i bought second hand in 1990. it 
worked just fine in dos and dos based applications .  . on the 
guess that the problem was with the resolution of the , i borrowed 
a new (a model ) and tried it. that solved the problem. 
so , if your is old , you may want to try replacing it for a newer 
one. 


another alternative is to clean the you 've got .  . sometimes the 
inside the pick up a ball of or other  . open the 
bottom of the , take out the ball and use some on a q to 
clean it out. the inside for any or  . i have had my 
get real and cleared up the problem with this procedure .  . 

from k . 
subject re moving 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 15 

in article ! ! writes 
i remember reading about a program that made run away 
from the as it moved near them. does anyone know the name 
of this program and the ftp  ( probably at cica ) 

there 's a program called included with the book stupid 
by bob and ed  ( addison , 1992) .  . it 's 
 . if it 's not on the net anywhere , i 'll happily email a copy to 
someone who 's willing to it (i ca n't through our internet 
 . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject fall  93 
lines 8 

does anyone out there have any info on the up and coming fall  93 i was 
asked by one of my peers to get any info that might be available. or , could 
anyone point me in the right direction any help would be appreciated. 


dave 
training and services 
penn state university 

from 
subject last 
distribution usa 
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa 
lines 20 

i have two questions 

1 ) i have been having with my for  . 
when i try to select and change , etc. some of the text 
 . i tried to center two lines once , and the second 
line disappeared .  . i can not find the error , and i do not 
know how to correct it. 

2 ) is this the right newsgroup where should i go 

e mail  .  .  . 


who else is still waiting for gun part  ( pi ) 

'' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' 
' ''    '' '' ' '' '' '' ' 
''  ( '(enforcer'burp)' ) '' ''   or  ' ' '' '' 
'' '' , wi '' ' n the official team .  .  .  . '' '' 
' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' ' 

from  ( jun cui ) 
subject how to hold the control to a object 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university , , ontario .  . 
lines 28 

hope i am in the right group ! i'm using 's  ( version 3 . , 
trying to get some date in a object. however , when 
the object , the calling program gives up the control to the 
object , and keeps executing the next statement. the source code may look 
like the following 

class public 

... 


 .  . ) . could the calling program be a c function 
... 

new  .  . ) . 
 ( getapplication( )  ( makewindow(mywinobj ) 
 ( show(sw shownormal ) 

next statement i want the program to wait here until is closed 
... so that i can get some data back from  . 
... i the style to be , did n't 
... help. is there any other way to execute the object 
... so that the calling program wo n't give up the control 
any help would be appreciated. thanks ! 
to talk to the lord with ps 2 through 




subject roman . 12 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 

from  ( joseph look ) 
subject bar code 
organization tektronix , inc. 
lines 3 

i am looking for some bar code especially code 3 of 9. did anybody 
know any ftp sites or bbs that i can these types of 
please email to me if you have any info .  . thanks ! 

from  ( peter r. tattam ) 
subject required for version of 
organization psychology department , university of 
lines 11 

contact me for details. 



peter 


p . international phone 61 02 
programmer , psychology department australia phone 
university of , , , australia 


from  ( kevin marshall ) 
subject re grey scale while in 
organization motorola ltd .  . , european division 
lines 6 
distribution world 
reply to  ( kevin marshall ) 
nntp posting host mot . com . 



kevin marshall , support , motorola , , uk .  . 
e mail 
phone 44  ( international )  ( 0793 )  ( domestic ) 


from  ( mau napoleon ) 
subject 2nd access 
article i.d. 
organization cs . edu . 
lines 31 
nntp posting host net . 

this is the 2nd for discussion ( ) for the creation of 
access 

the discussion period started on april 6 and it will last until april 28 , 
( 22 days ) .  . 

this is an official for the creation of a new newsgroup for the 
general discussion of the access  . 

name access 

 . at this time , no need for a has been 
 . future evaluation will determine if one is needed .  . 

purpose 
access is a new for the operating system. it includes 
design tools for easy creation of , reports , forms and and a 
programming language called access basic .  . 
the purpose of the group will be to provide help to people who use access 's 
design tools to create simple as well as to people who use 
access basic to create complex  . 

rationale 
access is a new , it is very popular because of its 
development and its initial low price .  . 
been a version 1.0 product means that all access users are  . 
for that reason a newsgroup is needed where access users can discuss 
their experiences with the product and answer each other 's questions. 

napoleon 


from () 
subject re 6 vs.  managing your money 
organization university 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( michael wiesenberg ) 
wrote 

i just got a copy of  managing your money 0 .  . i have 6 , 
and it 's wonderful for some things , but seems to have some features 
that does n't .  . for example , does n't seem to be able to handle 
monthly automatic from a checking account  ( you know , a 
monthly that gets every month from 
my checking  . or is there something that i'm not doing right , 
and can actually do that 


hi 
i have never used so i can not help you with the comparison of the 
two products. i am , however , a devoted user , and i can tell you 
how to set up the weekly , monthly , quarterly ,  . first 
use the feature  ( ctrl m ) to record the  . 
next , define a group which uses these 
and the that it should be used (i . e .  .  . 
will can not automatically make the for you , but now all you 
do is recall the group and all of the individual will be 
entered at once. if you are using the bill , it will 
you when each group is due .  . for example , you could have 
three groups. one for at the beginning of the month , 
middle of the month , and one for quarterly  . i hope this helps .  . 

mike 

from  ( harry pierson ) 
subject embedded 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 16 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

ok .  .  . i . 've heard about this .  .  . i . might have even seen it in a few places. 
and i 'd like some info .  .  . is . it possible to in a document  ( like 
write , word , or pro ) so the file can be printed on another machine that 
does n't have the if possible , how is it done 

i'm sorry if this is a faq .  .  . i . could n't find a faq list .  .  . i . would also 
knowing where that is .  .  . if . a faq  . 

thanks in advance 




come and be with me , live my twisted dream 
the pro devoted pledge , time for concrete 


from  ( shane a holland ) 
subject comments on for 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
lines 15 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 


i am looking for comments on  ( pro ) for  . i am 
thinking of buying the product but i have not even seen it yet. 

thank you .  .  .  . 

holland 









from  ( tom haapanen ) 
subject 
organization software inc. 
lines 11 


has anyone used a it looks good on paper , and 
steve gibson gave it a very good review in  . i 'd love to get a 
real world impression , though how is the speed drivers support 

 ( looking for something to replace this with .  .  . ) . 


tom software , 
stick your index fingers into both of your mouth. now pull 
up. that 's how the makes you feel .  . car ,  93 

from  ( lee brian ) 
subject re , , risc 
organization university of , engineering computing 
lines 33 

in article writes 
in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember 
reading that the set on risc is rather large .  . 
the difference is in addressing modes risc sets are not 
as is  . 



some people say it 's fun , but i think it 's very serious. 



theoretically supposed to be reduced .  .  .  .  . not any longer .  . that 's why everyone 
is arguing about risc v . s .  .  . personally , i think will win out. 
just take a look at the !  ( not that i like either , 
but that 's another story .  .  . ) . 

bye ! 



brian hey , excuse me miss , could i have a  . of you 

 ( try  .  .  . the best and free un x ! ) 


from  ( terry henning ) 
subject help with a machine ! 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 21 

, 

i'm trying to get a program to work that i from 
ftp . edu . in the pub pc sounds directory .  . it 's called 
zip .  . 

i have an stereo card with the latest drivers  . 
when i try to run the program , it reports that a device is not 
, however the drivers utility in the control reports that it 
is  . 

anyone have any idea how to set up the device so that the program 
will work with my setup what i'm trying to do is use my computer as a 
 . someone suggested that i try one of the machines that are 
around out there. any help would be appreciated. 

thanks , 





from  ( peter tapscott ) 
subject for sale for 
keywords , sale 
organization 
distribution us 
lines 17 


for sale 
brand new , 

for 

list price 
in computer  ( mail order ) 
my price 250 

this is really a slick , but i won it in a race so i 
ca n't return it for credit .  . my dilemma is your fire sale .  . 


peter , research center 
internet net 


from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject 3 . 1 . keeps please help 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
reply to 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 41 


as the subjects says , 3 . 1 . keeps  ( givinh me gpf ) on me of 
late. it was never a very stable , but now it seems to crash every 
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash ie i 
ca n't reproduce , and they are not always 's in the same 
application .  . sometimes i can by simply the application 
that caused an error , but other times , acts very strange , and i 
need to re boot. 

some background i have a with phoenix  . when i 
first got it it had of memory. it fine  ( not too many 
 . then , a couple of weekends ago , i 123 for 
 ( with atm ) , a game card and an additional 4  . the 
machine is kind of strange , in that it has the built into 
the , the is actually on a board that into 
the and the it uses are ! apparently i 
was told that the had the bit built into the mother 
board. the original where of the 2 chip variety from 
, and the ones i are 8 chip  . they are recognized 
fine by the check .  . the game card is a generic 20  . 

the reason why i mention the hardware like this is that sometimes 
the machine using the or alt del still leaves 
the machine kind of , but turning it on and off does n't .  . 

i have n't tried taking out the or the game card , because as i said 
these are not at will. i have gone through and entire 
day using the computer with no problems and then i might get 5 or so 's 
in the of 20 

what can i do. this situation is most  .  .  . are there any good 
tools for hardware do you think that this might be a software 
problem  ( ie etc . ) . if it helps , i have to get 's on after 
dark , , pro .  . a lot of them have been in user . or 
 . 

any help is truly  .  .  .  .  . 

eric 



from  ( mike mpu ) 
subject re 
organization electric research laboratories , inc. 
lines 27 

in article  ( anthony v. dean ) writes 

i 've been reading , with much confusion , about whether or not to use 
 . lately , all the i 've been buying have all 
included as a 

has been doing this for years. 

i do some publishing using and  . 
comes with a laser that contains over 200 
types .  . add that to the that come with and you have a 
decent amount of  . i print my creations out on an 
, at 600 resolution with the resolution 
technology and  .  .  . well ... i get some good copies .  . 
so good that there is n't any whether or not is turned 
on or not. is it worth it to run at all especially with these 
better ... and 

there are some that are only available as ps  . if you 
have a ps that you want to use , use  . otherwise , it is 
a waste of system resources .  . 

personally , i use both. 


mike  ( work ) 
electronic research  ( home ) 

from 
subject wanted for 3 . 1 . 
keywords 
reply to 
organization university of , , the 
lines 14 

, 

i am looking for a which runs under 3 . 1 .  . 

please reply via e mail .  . 

thanks. 



h . g .  . e mail 
of applied physics voice 
university of fax 
the 

from  ( lei shao ) 
subject re that display but do not print .  . 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( lei shao ) 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 31 

in article  ( avinash chopde ) writes 
i just a new under 3 . 1 . 
but though all the applications display the correctly on the 
, quite a few of them fail to print out the document correctly 
 ( on a 4 non  . 

when i use the in , the document correctly , so i assume 
knows that the has to be to the  . 

but when i use the write , the square 
boxes in place of the characters of the new  . yet , write does 
display the correctly on the screen. 

i looked through all the and , but got nowhere .  . 
all of them just make the statement that will print 
exactly as you see them on the so i assume knows that a 
has to be automatically but , how to make it do that 

appreciate any help .  .  .  .  . 

i assume you 're using the available from  ( hp4  . 
bring up the setup of the through control  . click on the 
options brings up another of choices. change the 
mode from 2 to and check the box print as 
 ( this is only available when you choose ) .  . now you should be able to 
print all your correctly. good luck. 






from 
subject enhanced mode 
reply to () 
lines 17 
nntp posting host 7 . 


hi , 

i have a sys based pc with and a problem. 

what is the best way to high memory with 
i have a video card and use 
software .  . the problem is running 3 . 1 . in enhanced mode and 
having any high memory to load stuff high 

note 
i tried , as recommended to exclude the but 
insists on starting in standard mode .  . 

any suggestions 

dan 

from  ( tony g. wu ) 
subject re need video drivers for true color 
organization national university  ( hsinchu ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 26 

tony g. wrote 

hello. 

i purchased a video card called et true color card which 
can provide about  . but the question is i ca n't find 
the drivers for 3 . 1 . , i am now using 
for  . it works fine , but i think it will be 
better if i use  . so , please tell me whether such a 
is available ! 

thanks in advance. 


i am sorry. my card can display about not  . 

i hope some one could answer my question ! 

thanks. 



( forever 23 , michael ) . 
tony g. 
lab .  .  . 


from 
subject re need logo 
lines 19 
organization company 

in article ,  ( brian holland ) writes 
(s de) . wrote 
hi , 

well i'm searching for the logo , u know the picture when u 
start , in some suitable format , like or , ... 

c system  . if my memory serves me correctly , 
 . is a  . format .  . 

an is by , pro , , and god knows how 
many other programs. 


mike 
group of 
p.o. box 
, la 
internet address 

from ( 's ) 
subject virus 
organization cis , univ of at 
lines 15 


is anyone familiar with a virus that the file 

i have recently noticed some unusual system behavior and 
for  . it indicated a possible unknown 
virus in the file in both the and 
 . neither file changed since i my 2 
system in as far as i know. 

any information about this possible virus and suggestions on 
would be greatly appreciated. 





organization penn state university 
from 
subject re 8900 
lines 18 

in article it . com . , 
 ( david feldman ) says 

please excuse if faq but .  .  .  . 
new based card claims to have support .  . 
drivers with card indicate several drivers on diskette .  . 
3 . 1 . does not make all drivers on diskette available to 
box .  . any suggestion 
thanx please e mail .  . 



since we are in the subject , i have one more question. i have a 
video card .  . i want to know what is the latest video for it. 
so far , all i can find is that an old dated  . in fi . 
anyone have any info please e mail me at 

az .  . 

from  ( lee brian ) 
subject re , , risc 
organization university of , engineering computing 
lines 67 

in article  ( claude angers ) writes 
in article  ( lee brian ) writes 
in article writes 
in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember 
reading that the set on risc is rather large .  . 
the difference is in addressing modes risc sets are not 
as is  . 



theoretically supposed to be reduced .  .  .  .  . not any longer .  . that 's why everyone 
is arguing about risc v . s .  .  . personally , i think will win out. 
just take a look at the !  ( not that i like either , 
but that 's another story .  .  . ) . 

bye ! 


do you mean that the is better than a risc or that it will 
them all if the first , you have to remember that  ( like the 
pentium ) are a always a generation away from the best  .  .  . also 
are more because they are not sold in the same  ( not 
even on the same  .  .  . but i remember reading about 3 years  ( maybe 2 ) 
about a  ( t800 ) from that did a 100 , was and 
its itself so 

i'm not 100 sure , but i think the was a so tie 
a of them together to get  .  ( the is the 
which kicks anyone 's butt ) .  .  .  . have n't seen them used much though) .  . 

anyway , to respond , i think the  ( cisc ) is better than the more advanced 
risc (e . g .  . , like the , etc. the has approximately the 
same as the here , is the 
that everyone refers to this is what i heard the 
still kicks in the 's butt in again , this is what i heard ) .  . 
and in the computing world , if you sell lots of  ( like intel ) , and 
make it  ( like intel ) , you are the winner  ( like intel ) , even though 
you have a from over 10 years ago  ( like  . 

if you can make a chip  ( superscalar , , superfast ) 
with the ideas behind the risc ideology , you got a chip .  . and then 
i admit i ca n't see the of risc over  .  .  . 

if the latest technology is a generation behind , then it  ( relatively 
 . 

now i may sound like i like , but i 'll have to say that the is some 
real kick butt pile of and  .  .  . 

but i hope that motorola really up with the line .  .  .  . or i'm gonna 
start  .  .  . 

brian 


brian hey , excuse me miss , could i have a  . of you 

 ( try  .  .  . the best and free un x ! ) 


from  ( leon ) 
subject frustrations can you help 
summary need help to get to work 
keywords 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 24 

i am starting to work on a project using to data .  . the 
application came with an macro which can the data .  . 
i need to   it to 1 2  . 1 2 uses a very different setup 
for  . 

does anyone have any suggestions as to good references i have 
exchange  ( dde ) the 
application note . any books worth getting 

the are 

server application ai data system 
application 1 2 3 for v1 . 1 . 

except for the macro , did not provide any documentation 
for  . also , i am having problems because i am trying to develop 
the application on my pc , but to actually get data , you need to be 
connect to the instrument .  . any help here would be , too. 

thanks , 


m. nothing is worse than having an you can 
internet never  . 

from  ( hayes james michael jr ) 
subject drive test 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 28 




is their a hard drive utility that can handle 
a drive without it up 

need to document occasional failures in reading writing , 
check overall of 's hardware and  . 

i believe that all of my problems with dos can 
be isolated to my drive .  . getting occasional corrupted 
files , even with , 32 bit access turned off. 
had these problems under dos 5. only with drive c. 
drive d may have had one failure , but that file was 
under the control of win on drive c. 

all available to me report no problems. 
dos ,  . another , took forever 
on c , and kicked me out with a till run 
6 to 8 times. 

thanks. 


mike knowledge is good. college motto 
www knowledge and motto 
tech , no , thank you ! ,  a day at the races  
driven to my head against engineering physics for 4 years. 

from  ( charles choong ) 
subject 33 1 . 
lines 12 
organization of engineering , monash university 

help , problem in extended mode trying to 
access drives a or b , sometimes it will do , sometimes will 
on access sometimes will when a text file. 

hardware 
american 
91 
conner hard drive 
1 

please help ! ! ! 
its ok in standard mode ! ! ! 

from  ( frode kvam ) 
subject ftp site for  . files 
organization for , i , 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 27 

everybody .  .  .  . 

are there any ftp sites with files available 
) 










 ( c ) 

name 
univ university of , dept of 
e mail 
mail 8 

voice 47 7 50 45 06 


beware of who carry  . 



from  ( lee rothstein ) 
subject re is a 
keywords 
organization communications , inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 24 

to get groups in use for  . 

in not  . it 's lousy .  . but its supposed to be lousy .  . it 's 
goal is to be ubiquitous not good. is the 
course for the masses in it 102 .  .  ( dos 102 , m ) . 

unix was the course for the in it  . together 
they prove that there is good effect of good it , and there is good effect 
of ubiquitous it. what we need , now is both at a higher 
level of function. see the problem 

nt may be it 103 , but it will also be it monopoly 102 .  .  ( 101 
was ibm . ) . 

we have a ,  . what are we going to do about it 

dubious 




d. 7 drive 
, nh fax 
information technology leadership 

subject re view for dos or 
from  ( harvey j. stein ) 
distribution world 
organization home  . organization . 
nntp posting host ac . il . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 8 apr 1993 21 40 44 gmt 
lines 6 

i 've been using version 2 . 5 . 2 . of , and i'm quite satisfied 
with it. there are , actually , 3 versions a plain dos version , a 
version , and a version. 

stein 



from 
subject help w 4 . 0 . 
organization corporation , s. , vt 
lines 8 

has anyone had experience with the new 4 . 0 . i ca n't even 
get their to run at without dropping characters. 

, steve 


steve  ( w1ggn ) systems corp .  . boston , 
@ com . 

from  ( fromut fritze ) 
subject re need help writing macro 
organization , germany 
lines 20 

for each student do 
begin 
lowest score found possible value 
for i 1 to number of do 
begin 
if score i lowest score found then 
lowest score found score i 
end 
total score  ( sum(all scores ) lowest score found 
end 

could n't you simply use  ( min( ) as you use  ( sum( ) and than subtract it 
from  ( sum( ) 


internet 
phone germany 
address , analytic division r d , 
, d 2 , germany 


from  ( joseph d. barrus ) 
subject utility to expand dos file descriptions in directory listing 
organization systems center , san diego , ca 
lines 16 


i am looking for a utility that would give me a listing of files 
in a directory , but also display a description of the file. this utility 
would allow me to enter and edit file descriptions of , , any 
length  ( maybe a small with a scroll bar ) .  . i would then be able 
to my and be able to see what is in a file without 
having to open or execute it. any such out there if not , anyone 
want to write one 

joe 







from r . 
subject re 6 vs.  managing your money 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
keywords 
lines 19 

i 've never had but i did use in it 's early days. i have money 
for now and a financial planning called by 
reality and money magazine .  . p.s. i also do my taxes with 
tax .  . all of these are good in their own way but none of them 
really support me in doing what i really need to do my  . 

the first company that comes along with a based that 
manages and accounts 
manages loans 
taxes 
uses all of the above and knowledge about my investing philosophy to 
help me in the right investment , and 
it all together 

will have my business for life. 

ken 



from  ( simon bernstein ) 
subject 
organization university of  ( durban ) , south africa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host und . ac . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

hi. i am having some interesting problems with my card , which 
is based on the logic (i am not sure exactly which one) .  . the 
problem is as follows 

if i use any at except for the  ( ie 
16 or 256 colour ) , the image on becomes too no amount of 
on the will make it fit. and if i use with the 
, it as soon as it loads .  . anyone out there used this 
card experienced anything similar. 

please reply by mail , and i will post any solutions here. 

regards 

simon 






simon man is condemned to be free  ( sartre ) 
university of , 
on irc 


from  ( lamont downs ) 
subject re 
lines 15 
nntp posting host cat . edu . 
organization 

so good that there is n't any whether or not is turned 
on or not. is it worth it to run at all especially with these 
better ... and 

there are some that are only available as ps  . if you 
have a ps that you want to use , use  . otherwise , it is 
a waste of system resources .  . 

or , if you need to use a service bureau and they 're only set up to use 
type 1  . from what i 've heard  ( pure hearsay ) the results of 
as type 1 is not as good as using high quality type 1 in 
the first place. 




from er  ( ekkehard rohwedder ) 
subject re help ! groups ! ! ! 
nntp posting host kurt . cs . cmu . edu . 
cc 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 11 

in article  ( emile woo ) writes 
program but it seems that i something new that 
makes a new group , it after i turn of ! 

(1) did you check that a new  . file was actually created in your 
directory 
(2) are you turning off your computer when is running rather than 
program 




from 
subject for citizen drivers 
summary 
keywords citizen 
organization corporation 
lines 38 

i have been experiencing several end user problems with various 
software  ( wordperfect 5 . 2 . win , publish it ! win 3 . and printing 
landscape mode on a citizen  ( the little guy ) or the citizen . 

in a nutshell the problem is that i lose the first 0 . of 
information from my left margin , be it white space or 
output , and are not preserved on subsequent pages past the 
first. 

had a consisting of using the default 
for the instead of or manual . they have also filed 
this as a bug and are continuing to investigate it. 

write , of course , has no problem with these drivers , proving that 
knows something the rest of us do n't ! are you surprised i'm 
not. 

publish it ! win is still investigating this problem , and while i was consider 
my options  ( rejecting the one about buying an , for surely 
they would n't have this problem , right ) i onto a  . 



go into the 3 . 1 . control , select , select your citizen 
, select setup , and select a size of x  . like 
magic , all of your problems will go away. 

ask me no questions and i 'll tell you no lies ! 

mike 



disclaimer my opinions do not necessarily reflect those of my employer .  . 





from  ( jamie scuglia ) 
subject for win 3 . 1 . a small review 
organization public access unix , australia 
lines 56 
nntp posting host org . au . 

thanks to all those people who recommended for 
3 . 1 .  . i found 3 , from australia 's 
archive cc . monash . edu . , which some 
sites in the u.s. the three i found were 

1. 1 . 10 . 
this was the smallest and simplest 
of the that i found. it is very easy to use. 
it a small , containing 6 , plus an extra 
for purposes. one feature was the 
title that is first presented when it is run you must press 
a key  ( not a ! ) for the thing to go away. also , it would 
have been nice if there was an always on top setting for the little 
containing the  . maybe some user 
on the instead of the numbers one to might be 
a nice feature .  . the and of use of this 
makes it an attractive  . 

2. 1 . 6 . 
while this offered a 
few features that 1 . 10 . , it was quite time 
to set things up. with 1 . 10 . , all but the first 
is initially empty .  . with 1 . 6 . , you need to take 
of how you want each of your to look like i.e. what 
applications they contain .  . also , the main is quite large , 
but this does allow you to have a small view of what is in each  . 
with 1 . 10 . , there was no for what was in 
a without switching to it. 1 . 6 . provides this 
which is quite useful. 

3. 2 . 30 . and 
this is an interesting , which contains 
a few other as well as a  . other 
include , which provides a pop up root when you 
press a certain just like in x  . the 
is totally , offering unlimited depth of , 
which is provides quite access to applications .  . you could 
say it is a based alternative to the program  . also 
in zip . is a program called , which allows 
you to run applications from a dos shell under 
instead of using the file to run applications .  . 
the actual is called 2 . 30 .  . works quite 
differently to the other two in that it 
does n't provide a certain number of and separate  . 
in fact , it basically your by a amount , 
and you choose which of the you want your to 
focus in on. this means you can have between different 
regions , unlike the first two in which 
each was isolated from the other one. the control 
allows to to move around your  . basically 
the control provides a small scale view of your area 
while your actual computer provides a large scale or blow up 
of a particular section .  . 

try each of them out for yourself. i was impressed with all of them , 
so find out which one suits your needs the best. 

from  ( alex colburn ) 
subject re application for 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of iowa , image analysis 
lines 38 

in article  ( brett harper ) writes 
, 

i'm investigating the of an object oriented application  . i have 
come across a few that look good 


has a independent resource strategy .  .  ( not too important for me right now ) 





just a thought on resources , it is very important if you do use a 
to check on how it uses resources .  . i have 
used under and  . i wrote a resource 
from to , but it really was n't too easy , especially 
the scheme .  . in you cannot  . 
with you can call the ok id ok in every instance , 
this does n't work for , you 'd have to call it ok , 
and expects a text string rather than a number .  . so 
your should know how to convert a define into the 
proper resource  . 
i 'd check on how the expects names , and that if it does 
use resources , that is uses resources for all you intend to 
to. ( by the way , i would never use or 
for anything ) 



 . 




image analysis 
university of iowa 


from  ( james begole ) 
subject trouble with string 
organization su computer science department , blacksburg , va 
lines 19 

has anyone else been playing with that utility from pc magazine 
if so , i am having trouble string together and 
need your help. for example 
path 
file . 

say output  ' 

say output  h file . 

so , it seems to be dropping the first few characters with each 
 . is it that i am out of memory i only have maybe 20 
total the article did n't mention memory limits .  . 

email me if you have an idea or would like to see the actual source and 
output .  . thanks for your help. 


james 

from  ( charles u. farley ) 
subject help with changing logo 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 21 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host access . net . 
summary help with changing logo 


i know this is probably a faq , but .  .  .  . 

i the s w for my card , and it my 
logo files. when i start now , it has the 3 . 0 . logo instead of 
the 3 . 1 . logo .  . 

i thought the files that controlled this were 

system 
system 

i these files , but it did n't change the logo .  . anyone know what 
the correct files are 

thanks. 



charles u. 
average of board of ed .  . 65 

from  ( ralf rutherford ) 
subject re questions  . and licensing ) 
organization 
lines 59 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host melb . com . au . 

in article ,  ( alan walford ) writes 
i would be very if someone would answer a few 
questions about for  . 

i currently have which does not work with 
very well and is a conventional memory  . 1 .  . 
i am considering moving all our machines to  . 

how much conventional does use over and above the 
for the network card 

about 2 . without 3 . 11 . support .  . 

if i have a card , are the and drivers 
still needed 

no. 

does do a license check over the network to ensure each 
machine is running its own copy of  ( note i do 
not want to break the license agreement and i will buy a copy 
of for each of our machines , it is just that i would like 
to try it out first to see if it our needs. returning one 
opened copy is much easier than returning n opened copies . ) . 

no. 
if you buy the to 3 . 1 . for does it replace 
all of win 3 . 1 . as you it or does it depend on current 
win 3 . 1 . files 

nearly all. 

if i nt on my server when it comes out , will i have 
any with the machines 

we run and , no problem apart from  ( sharing problem ) 

when i started this message , i was going to ask only 2 questions but i got carried 
away. i 'll stop now ) .  . 

we had problems with drivers using where 3 . 1 . did n't , seems to be 
more critical about it. it was a problem with the network card running on , we changed it to , now everything is , i think it has to do with the as well. 

i look forward to your replies .  . 

al 


systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 
or  .  .  . uunet . ! ca . ! ! 




melb . com . au . 
network services 700 , clayton 
software solutions australia 
center phone 61 3 fax 61 3 


from  ( greg cook ) 
subject re word 2.0 help ! 
organization michigan state university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 

from article , by 
can anyone tell me if and how they have printed spanish characters i know 5 . 1 . has this built in , but i do not recall ever seeing this option on  . help ! 

try using the extended character set  ( alt sequences ) . . 
look in character map in the group and see the alt sequence 
for the you want ! 


r. internet 
department of chemistry 
michigan state university 
east , mi bitnet 

from  ( alan walford ) 
subject summary questions etc 
reply to 
organization systems , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 


to those interested in the new cards 

i had posted some questions regarding the new pro cards and 
had asked of some opinions. 

this message is a summary of the responses. thanks to all of you that 
replied .  . 


1 ) the card does not work in a system with  . 

a ) the higher memory limits apply to cards only , as far as i know. the 
and version should have no problems. 

b ) i'm pretty sure from my experience that the version does n't 
work in systems with over  . there is supposed to be way 
of switching the memory feature off to prevent this , 
but apparently it does n't work. i posted some help me messages 
on the net and people indicated that the card did n't have this 
problem. 

c ) false 

d ) the card , which i have , allows you to set memory over 
by using their software .  . no with necessary. 

the problem is probably valid only for cards. 


2 ) the card works in a system with some 
set but it is much  . 

a ) again , the memory need only be if you have more than 
 ( eisa and vlb ) or 12 m  . should not be a problem for you. 

b )  . 

c ) depends on the bus. yes if , no if or 


3) the card is in its  ( true colour ) modes .  . 

a ) nope .  . i can use at , 24 bit and at , 24 bit , all 
non  . 

b ) yes according to pc magazine , they 've tested a local version 
that does in 24 bit which may or may not be  . 

c ) not for the pro .  . sometimes for the plus .  . 

some modes may run only on certain  . this has nothing to 
do with 24 bits ... only with size. note that for 24 bit color 
and you must have 2 , memory size calculations  . 


4 ) the latest build 59 drivers still do not work in many 
cases. 

a ) they are n't perfect , but are much improved .  . i do n't recall the last time which 
i had to leave 32 mode  ( ati mode ) and switch to or mode due 
to software  . 

b ) true. many people recommended going back to build 55 or 54 .  . 

c ) they appear to be excellent , but have a few  . for example , certain 
with lines in 3 . 1 . do not print correctly , though they 
do display ok on the screen. they are about par for fancy cards  .  .  . 
other cards also have  . 

d ) overall , i like the card , even if is somewhat less than 
 . i am running the 16 color mode as that is all my 
nt for october nt version seems to allow .  . 

i will say this that color is not quite as nice as a 
stealth , but i have not been able to try out a lot of the options on 
the old  . 


5 ) this card is the full card for the money. 

a ) it 's quite fast , but whether or not its the is open to debate. 

b ) yes i 'll admit it was very very fast in 16 bit mode , which is what 
i wanted to use it for. too bad it  ( in many different ways ) 
every 20 or so .  .  .  . 

c ) depends on many many things. 


6 ) this card is the greatest thing since bread .  . ) 

a ) i like it. 

b ) well pc magazine seems to think it is. 

c ) yes , this appears to be true ) 

d ) as to greatest thing since bread , i doubt it. better cards are 
coming out. who knows , maybe will come out with something yet. 
several i read rated one card as a superior 
at a price except for of drivers , which was 
developing at that time.  ( pc magazine , about two months or so back ) 

overall , the card has a lot of potential , but you have to be able to use it. 



that is the end of the questions. these were the most discussed items in this 
group so i thought they needed  . for those of you not familiar 
with the card i have included a summary here  ( from an ad since i do n't have 
an yet . ) . 

plus 
at 
true at 
video  ( for video , and video 1 compressed ) 
stretch full motion video to full size 
fast 
includes 3  ( isa versions only ) 
anti  . avail in 16 mode only , i think) 
real time and across large virtual 
around a 1 2 length card size 
from 400 u.s. 

pro 
everything in plus 
with 
at 256 non 
available in , and 
from 600 u.s. 


 ( 416 ) 

i hope this summary can be of use to you. 

al 

p.s. i am not associated with in any way other 
than having used their previous card for a few 
years  ( which i generally  . 



systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 
or  .  .  . uunet . ! ca . ! ! 

from 
subject re win nt what is it 
organization clark university 
lines 52 

in a previous article ,  ( alan scott olson ) wrote 
two part question 

1 ) what is nt a  real  

2 ) this past , a local  hacker  radio show a new product 
from called  chicago  if i recall .  . anyone know what this is 

that is it 

thanks a  . 



nt is a giant operating system. 1 . , it does not 
run on top of dos .  . it is its own , with  ( billy us ) true 
, security , will run 1 . 
programs as well as dos programs , has processor support , and is 
primarily a server program .  . it 's is too high for it to be 
economical for most users. 
speaking of , it requires at least a with 16 of  . 
it run with 12 , but that 's like running 2 2.0 with 4  . and that 's 
just to run it. also , i have heard that the system files take up 30 50 , 
and it is recommended that your drive be a half ! the is 
on  . 

is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true with 
and , but has much smaller hardware requirements , 
and does not meet security  ( but that 's okay since it will probably 
be more of a  . there are a few differences , but those are the 
main ones. there was an article about in pc week last august .  . 
the and nt development groups at oft are in intense 
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will 
arise nt will be the server ( n t echonology ) , will be the 
machine .  . it is entirely possible for different 's to work together , 
partly because is just a small nt  ( think of it that way ,  . 
 ( novell creates an on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't 
scorn the concept . ) . 
anyway , do n't expect it soon. 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be 
released next year  ( read see it in 95 ) , so i expect that wo n't be out 
 . 
with luck , i 'll be proven wrong ! ) 

rob 




rob 

annoy rush  . think for yourself. 


from  ( reiner suikat ) 
subject mix up times 
organization of 
lines 13 
nntp posting host bs . de . 

hi 
i'm having a problem with in 3 . 1 .  . i have 
the i found on and now a strange thing happens 
sometimes uses when its supposed to use times roman .  . 
examples the pc tools  ( version 7 . has one line of text 
in its banner , the next to last line. a word for 
text written in times into wp5 . 2 . also results in  . 
does anyone have an idea where to look for the problem 
thanks 

institute for 
german research  ( dlr ) 


from  ( constantinos malamas ) 
subject re is a 
keywords 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 46 

in article writes 
hi , 
have you used mac system 6 . x . or 7 . x . if the answer is positive , you would 
know if is a  . 

days ago people that is not a real  . i can see why 
they have such question. many people. 

common about deleted .  .  .  . 


e mail 

hmmmm , why do i get the feeling that this is gonna start one of 
those endless threads  mac vs win and might even end up as 2 vs win . 
well , i dont know if is a , if i have seen one  ( in which 
case that has to be x ) ) , but dont be so quick to judge .  .  .  . 
first of all to try to use plain is as as to try 
to use plain dos .  . there are lots of very nice and 
that will boost up past what itself 
thought possible ) .  .  .  . for example , for 2.0 (a replace 
for progman ) will give you group within a group capability and will 
even change group , it will launch by association  ( well , 
does that too) or by the file in the  ( now mac do 
that , huh ) ) .  .  .  . and the list goes on and on .  .  .  . now , is kinda 
hard to , boost and , but price to pay for not 
paying to get a mac or an 2 capable machine  ( an entirely 
story  .  .  . ) .  .  .  . on the other hand if you dont like the idea of 's 
not to the files themselves , well they are not supposed to ) .  .  . 
is a program utility not a file  .  .  . your 
to have as your shell and not , or get a couple of 
from that supposedly give you a  mac  .  .  . i dont get in the 
discussion which is a better system mac 's are good in their own way they 
are different not better or worse than win  ( actually i am writing 
this from a mac lab as a user assistant so dont think i am to win ) ) 
by all means check out the stuff in  ( ftp to ftp . edu . under 
the pub pc user anonymous ) , or wait for startrek  ( mac 's on 
a pc ! ! ! the threads we are gonna have then ! ! ! ) ) .  .  .  . 
just trying to avoid another mac win war .  .  .  . 




institute of technology 
opinions expressed are not necessarily 's .  .  .  . 
internet 

from  ( hudepohl pmj ) 
subject re searching for a phonetic 
organization  . , , 
lines 23 

uni . de .  ( weidlich ) writes 
i'm searching for a phonetic for 3 . 1 .  . if 
anybody knows one , please mail me ! 

thanks. 





 .  . ,  . 67 
uni . de . d 50 
phone 49 250 dr. b. 
fax 49 

yes , i'm looking for phonetic  ( font(s ) too ! so if you know one , 
please mail me too ! 

thanks in advance 
patrick 

the 


from  ( daniel m. coleman ) 
subject re 4 . 0 . file 
lines 28 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
organization the university of texas at austin 
lines 28 

in article , the edu .  ( gregg walters ) writes 
i have of memory on my  . i have been running 
without a file for several months. will 4 . 0 . be 
happy with this , or insist on a file 

i just got 4 . 0 . , and the manual is not clear on the matter. on page 8 




at least 4 of memory. all memory about should be 
as  . 



at least 8 of virtual memory .  .  .  .  . 

common sense suggests that you should be able to run it  ( 4 8 12 16 ) but the 
new is kinda , and thus is not subject to the laws of common 
sense .  .  .  . 

dan 


daniel matthew internet 

the university of texas at austin 
electrical computer engineering bitnet  . bitnet . 

from  ( keith w. johnson ) 
subject re 17 experience sought  ( vs 17 vs. 5fg ) 
organization tektronix , info services 
lines 42 
distribution world 
nntp posting host tek . com . 

i 'd appreciate if you can email or post you positive 
or negative experience with this , especially 
compared to to  . 
i 'd summarize if i got multiple responses. 

i bought a 17 for use at home but after a week i took it back .  . i 
felt for the money my that i use at work was a much better  . 
the is , , less , and more stable .  . i have heard 
from people about the series having some quality control 
problems but mine has been in use for about a year with no problems at all. 

there was nothing really broken with the but overall it did not 
match up. i used my in setup mode to push the 
to their limits and the some problems that 
the did not. i personally like the non with the filter 
and the on the 17 was not as nice. the 17 had some 
and problems. also , it would change 
when i switched modes and i was constantly having to with the 
 . and the yoke was and i had no way to for the 
that  . on the side , although not as 
as the , the 17 had a smaller and was not as heavy .  . 

i have heard that panasonic owns and the model 17 is being sold 
through with a panasonic label on it. if it 's available that 
way at a lower cost i could get more serious about it. for now the has 
my vote but i'm searching for one of the new , , 's to see if 
it 's just as good as its older brother the before i decide which one to 
buy .  . 

i have no experience with the  . i can never keep the models 
straight and do n't have any place i can walk in to get a good comparison of 
all models .  . 



standard employer disclaimers apply 




keith w. johnson tektronix , info services , , or , usa 
internet voice fax 

from (j .  . atherton ) 
subject serial printing in 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . ac . uk . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

i am getting output when serial printing thru works 
etc. this has occurred on several systems and goes if a 4 is 
used. i suspect that there is no need for in this case due 
to the capacity  ( memory speed ) of it. there is no problem printing from 
dos .  . are there any obvious i'm missing .  . i'm sure its not just 
me with this problem. thanks for reading .  .  .  .  . john 







subject designs video sound card 
from  ( srini seetharam ) 
reply to  ( srini seetharam ) 
distribution world 
organization  .  . eng .  . , univ .  . of kansas 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 
lines 10 


does anyone out there use a designs video sound card 
the model is called win storm pc . 
they also have one model the legend 

any info on these like and , 
or even problems encountered will be appreciated. 

thanks 
w . 

from  ( mike goo ) 
subject re c 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cup . com . 
organization , , ca 
lines 30 

in article gov . david a. writes 

it is correct that is not considered an for  . is 
basically a dos product , is a product .  . as is not 
an for dos , it is a separate operating system product line , its 
cannot be for dos  . however , i have also 
been told that it is not an for , which it should be ! 

you can 7 . 0 . and to the c products as follows 

standard edition 
list price 
from 


edition 
list price 
from 7 . 0 . 


includes from other language products like 


michael 
i never try to cover my ass .  .  .  . 
information division but i certainly support your right to do so ! 
road 
, ca 



nntp posting host edu . 
lines 24 
from  ( sean eckton ) 
subject why is my so  ( ms mouse ) 
organization fine arts and communications young university 

i have a serial and am using com . 8 . 00 .  ( was using 8 . 20 . 
i think , but switched to 8 . 00 . to see if it was any  . motion 
is nice and , but motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click 
on something because my around. i can be moving the to 
the right with relatively uniform motion and the will move 
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move for a bit then jump 
again  ( maybe this time to the left about  . 5 . ! ) .  . this is crazy ! i have 
never had so much trouble with a before. anyone have any solutions 

does think they are what everyone should be just steam ! 




computer support representative 
college of fine arts and communications 

d 
young university 
, 
 ( 801)378 ) 




from 
subject 
organization university of utah computer center 
lines 16 


i have an for which i would like to have a  . 
has anyone seen such a thing there is not one on the bbs .  . 
i can print to it from but i have no available and with 
paradox for i ca n't print on it unless there is a proper 
defined .  . 


thanks , 

bryan k. ward 
survey research center 
university of utah 

i mail 


from  ( svein pedersen ) 
subject utility for win . and system . 
organization university of , norway 
lines 6 

i a utility for  ( deleting , adding , changing )  . files for  . 

do i find it on any ftp host 




from  ( alan scott olson ) 
subject win nt what is it 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 18 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

two part question 

1 ) what is nt a  real  

2 ) this past , a local  hacker  radio show a new product 
from called  chicago  if i recall .  . anyone know what this is 

that is it 

thanks a  . 




s. environmental , inc. 
e mail to or 
want some good music check out milwaukee 's own 


from  ( tim osburn ) 
subject 3 . 11 . win 3 . 1 . 
organization inc. 
lines 12 
nntp posting host com . 


is there a update or something that will allow a person when 
using 3 . 11 . and 3 . 1 . file to view the files with 
the name of the person who created it or changed it like the 
command 

tim 




tim , washington 

from (j .  . jonas ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
summary there are so many now ... 
organization jeff 's house of computer pieces 
lines 18 

wrote 

the key issue that i bought my 200 on was ink speed .  . 

i was at the computer and there were many sources of 
ink for the and , so if you do n't like the ink you 're using , 
you have a choice. there is a frequently asked question  ( faq ) list 
that 's reposted that reports how to the 
yourself with that are available from the stationery 
instead of a ink with the price .  . 

i'm not sure , but i think i found another legal source of cheap 
for ink into the  . 
more on that when my mail order  . 

jeffrey 



from  ( stephen kearney ) 
subject re is really and operating system 
article i.d. 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 19 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

well , you may think that , but you are wrong. 

ah .  .  .  . the of  . i just hope that you forgot the 

if you do n't like the file , t use it ! 

i do n't .  . i use  . 

i like the more nature of  . 

if you like things to be , i think you would love system 7. 
instead of adding a line to your , you just drop the 
into the  . 

just because one has had ignorance sold to one by the evil 
fruit empire , one is not forbidden to learn about one 's file 
system below the level of the  . 

i'm still working on that one 

from ( chris almy ) 
subject re ( ) card win .  . drivers 
reply to 
keywords drivers video card 
lines 6 


these drivers  ( updated ) are available directly from  . 
they will even them to you at no charge . least they 
did for me . ) . 



from  ( carol suelzle ) 
subject re 3 . 1 . keeps please help 
article i.d. 
organization health sciences university 
lines 23 
nntp posting host 53 . 130 . 7 . 


in article  ( wildstrom ) writes 


in article  ( eric bosco ) writes 
from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject 3 . 1 . keeps please help 
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 56 37 gmt 

as the subjects says , 3 . 1 . keeps  ( givinh me gpf ) on me of 
late. it was never a very stable , but now it seems to crash every 
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash ie i 

there is a way in sys . to turn off checking  ( unfortunately , 
my good references are at home , but any standard win reference 
will tell you how to do it. if not , email back to me . ) . that memory 
may be producing errors. danger is , if you turn off , 
you run the slight risk of data corruption due to a missed real error. 

i had this very same problem , and did  work around  by turning checking off , but that only 
worked while i was in , and the error would occur immediately after 
, however , the problem turned out to be 3 chip vs 9 chip  . i ca n't use 3 chip in my 
computer , and when i replaced them , the problem vanished , forever. 

from  ( thomas g schlatter ) 
subject re drives  .  .  . 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 30 

in article  ( nilay rc38 ) writes 
in article  ( nathan moore ) writes 
 ( nilay patel ) writes 

i am looking for for the 20 20 drive .  .  . 
do n't laugh ... i am serious .  .  .  . 
if you have any 20 lying around that you would like to get rid of , 
please mail me ... 




you do mean , do n't you , not you forgot to say whether you 
were looking for the old 8 or the newer 5 . 25 . . 

well .  .  . i . need the old 8 ... you are right , is a better word , 
but they are so big and calling them is kind of funny ... but the 
appropriate word is ... 

gee , i remember the old 8 we used on an s 100 m system 
back in high school. not to mention those old 24 
that held about that went in the big machine 
drives at the local college i took some programming classes at. 
and this was even in the early  80 's .  .  .  .  . 

tom 


a is a , no matter how great or how small .  .  .  . 
's 

from  ( peter vestman ) 
subject wanted ! 
keywords 
organization  . of info . , univ .  . , 
lines 12 

is there a for  . 
this mode is supported by the drivers 2 but i have 
not been able to find it for  . 

 ( 768x1024 means wide and high as opposed to 1024x768 ) 

any help is appreciated. 


peter 
of computing science 
university of , 

from  ( kelly j. grant ) 
subject strange enhanced behavior .  .  .  . 
keywords enhanced , paradox 
organization computer sciences corporation 
lines 45 



we have been having a real problem with an 16 machine with 
of  . we paradox for ,  ( but i do n't think 
paradox is the real problem here ) , and the went ok 
 ( windows is on a local drive , paradox on a 
network  ( netware 26 . or greater ) , dos 5 , win 3 . but the program 
will not load in mode .  . the bar goes to 60 
and we then either get a  invalid command . or a 
talking about an illegal  . i 've checked out the command . com . 
thing , but as a long time c programmer , i 've my share of machines 
with pointer problems and this is a standard behavior ) 

anyway , paradox will run in standard mode , but not enhanced .  . we also have 
pro , exhibiting the same behavior. spent about 2 hours 
with 's tech people , with no avail. the guy i talked to a 
did n't want to really dig in and help , as he gave up pretty quickly .  . 
somewhat , really. i expected more from  . you 'd think 
with all the millions of that they would have seen all 
the possible problems , but i guess not .  .  .  . 

had sent us a 13 page fax on fixing and general 
protection  ( sorry , i ca n't fax anything out of here so please 
do n't ask , try microsoft ) , which we tried. we did everything they 
said , and still no luck. 

so. if you can help , please mail me. this problem is driving us nuts .  . 
i will greatly appreciate any information anyone can pass on. 

thanks 

kelly 

this is the real signature .  .  . please . ignore the following demon signature .  .  . 

kelly j. grant 
 ( 619 ) the next time someone asks you if you 
san diego , ca are a god , you say yes ! ) 



kelly grant  ( 619 ) 
computer sciences corp important uucp . wo n't get to me 
street if you are given  .  .  .  . see . if you can trade for 
san diego , ca me 

from  ( rodger wagner ) 
subject running c under 3 . 1 . 
reply to 
organization the great west life company .  . 
x disclaimer the views expressed in this message are those of an 
individual at the great west life company and do 
not necessarily reflect those of the company .  . 
lines 17 

i am a user at best to the environment. 

i am trying to execute a c 7 . 0 . program which a 
to build an ascii file. 

when i execute it under the goes and my pc up. the only 
way for me to return is to the machine .  . 

does anyone have any insight on what i may have to do in order for the program to 
correctly under  ( by the way it runs fine in dos 5 . 

system gateway 
card 

any help would be greatly appreciated. 



from phoenix . princeton . edu . !  ( carlos g. niederstrasser ) 
subject when i start  . 
originator 
nntp posting host week . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 21 

recently the following problem has  . the first time i turn on my 
computer when starts  ( from my autoexec ) after the title 
the computer on its own. usually the second time  ( after reboot ) or 
from the dos everything works fine. 

s far as i remember i have not changed my sys . or or 
win .  . i ca n't remember whether this problem occured before i 
my and created a larger file  ( thank you 
4 ( ) 

system , , 2.0 , , dos 5 



g. only two things are infinite , 
princeton society the universe and human 
stupidity , and i'm not sure 
about the former .  . einstein 

ad per 


from  . j. hong ) 
subject ftp tool for 
organization national university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 8 

is there any one know 

what is the ftp tool for and where to get the tool 

thanks for any help ! ! 

h . j .  . 1993 , 4 , 19 


from  ( tom gillman ) 
subject re please on internet access to compuserve 
organization state university 
lines 22 

 ( scstech admin ) writes 

hi , 

sometime ago there are some discussions on compuserve access thru 
the internet .  . but i seem to those articles .  . can someone please 
me where  ( which site ) i can to to gain access. 

i can files as well. 

this should be in the faq , it only get asked about twenty times a month 

there is no , that 's right , no access to compuserve , no ftp access , 
no access .  .  .  . no . internet services except e mail .  . 

you can to merit . edu . , but that you through , 
which is expensive .  . 

tom , systems programmer 
computer center  . state univ .  . any classic star security 
 ( 404 ) sometime during the show 
does n't care what i say on the internet , why should you 

subject re for and 
from  ( flint waters ) 
distribution , misc . , world 
organization university of 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 18 

hey , sounds great .  . does that mean that works with i thought it 
uses  . 

does use but it well with the for  . 
(i 've heard that it is as fast as direct ) 


my problem is that with all its drivers uses up most of my 
, so i 'd hate to have to load many more drivers to make work 
along. 

the additional load is minimal .  . i think i eat another total .  . 
this is worth it to me since it allows me to get to my nt 
box .  . has n't released a decent nt yet so i share 
through my box .  . 

this solution is very  . 


from  ( daniel m silevitch ) 
subject re utility for win . and system . 
organization institute of technology 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 72 . mit . edu . 

in article ,  ( andrew c. stoffel ) writes 
in article writes 

unless i am completely misunderstanding you , try using either or 
 ( found in your system subdirectory ) to edit you  . files. 
you can add ( regedit ) to a program group .  .  .  . they are 
programs. 
the program is cool because it automatically you win . , 
system . , and sys . files to be edited .  . 

is it possible to get it to load other  . files 


no. when the program is run , it loads 4 files , 
sys . , win . , and system .  . there is no open entry on the file 
 . you can only edit these four files. if you need to edit some other 
program 's  . file , use or some other ascii editor .  . 

i wonder whether intended for to be used , or if it was 
just a from the period and they forgot to take it out. the 
reason i think this is because there is absolutely no mention in the 
about this program , and there is no help for it  ( just an about entry 
under the file  . the program looks like something that was intended for 
internal use only .  . it 's kind of a , though. it would have made a nice 
file replacement for  . 

daniel 
institute of technology 

from  ( david white ) 
subject re how do i quickly switch between 
organization industrial research ltd , , new 
lines 16 
distribution na 
nntp posting host 

in  ( constantinos malamas ) writes 

in article  ( the cynic ) writes 
can someone out there tell me how to switch 's resolution 
quickly and easily i know that i can go back into to do it , 

take a look at ftp . edu . at pub pc  ( util misc ) 
for a program zip . it . 's as close to want you want as you can 
get in 1 . ... 

i think george is referring to switch . zip . in the ftp pub pc drivers video 
directory .  . description reads video mode  . 


david white  ( engineer , fan son of my dad ) 
internet fax 64 9 

from  ( clive mitchell ) 
subject not printing correctly 
organization regional network systems group , 
lines 9 

just an apology in advance for posting a to this newsgroup .  . 
i 've had several attempts to mail it to the original poster but 
it 's not getting through  . 


clive 61 9 
regional network systems 
. . , western australia 
v 

from (s .  . beckhaus ) 
subject re , , risc 
nntp posting host 
organization computing , u of upon , uk  . 
lines 47 


in article , writes 
in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember 
reading that the set on risc is rather large .  . 
the difference is in addressing modes risc sets are not 
as is  . 


i hope this will clear it up 

 ( taken from one of my lecture notes ) 

... the alternative approach  ( to cisc ) , 
which has been by many in 
recent years , has come to be known as risc the reduced 
set computer .  . this can be simply as 
simpler is by the design (e . g .  . by reducing 
the variety of instructions addressing modes ) , the hardware can be 
designed to run  . even at the cost of more 
instructions , the same task can be done more quickly by the simpler , 
design. 

a typical risc processor will 

o provide a large number of (e . g .  . 32 ) 

o perform all data on 

o provide few addressing modes (e . g .  . immediate or  offset' ) 

o only allow load to access memory 

o only use a few 

o only support a few data types (e . g .  . integer , ,  . 

janet 
if the odds are a million to one against something , chances 
are 50 50 it will. 

from k . 
subject re simple question 
organization at t 
lines 15 

in article  ( diamond ) writes 
when running dos 5 . 0 . under 3 . 0 . , i lose the ability to do a 
print screen. 
i have no problem with this when i'm running dos not under  . 
... 

open up the  . file with the editor , click on the advanced , 
and then reserve the key for the application .  . any that you 
select in this section will be passed along to the application rather than 
being by  . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject help object appears ! 
summary after editing win .  .  . , and leaving only 1 entry 
organization george washington university 
lines 40 


hey all .  .  . i . got an equation editor , and since it did n't 
appear in my object box (i . e .  . insert object equation ) , i 
decided to place it there. so i went into win .  ( is there 
another way to do this ) , the section , and added 

equation equation , equation , path , picture .  . 

did n't work. 
quit , go back .  . aha mistake. correct it. it looks fine. 
start  .  . does . n't work. play with it for a while , at one point 
having two to see if one works and other do n't , and finally i 
get it to work. the only thing i can see that 's different now is that 
it 's now the first item on the list , and it used to be the last .  . but 
now i end up with three equation , and all of them working .  . 
 ( and only one entry in win .  . 

so does any know what 's wrong or rather , how to correct this 
(i . e .  . make equation appear but once ) .  . 

also , all the in the appear as above. 
it 's obvious that path is the , or whatever , and 
picture has something to do way it appears 
 ( picture description ) 

but what are the others 
i.e. , in 

sound , sound , 
's the difference between the 1st sound and the 2nd 
and what is (i do n't think it 's the name of the , 
as other (e . g .  .  .  .  . ) . are n't ) 

thanks , i . a .  . 


michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 

from  ( mike mpu ) 
subject re permanent file 
organization electric research laboratories , inc. 
lines 26 

in article  ( martin linsenbigler ) writes 

when i first setup using the self load mode it about 
20 of file space , my 120 was nearly empty at that time. 
i deleted for a time and recently , now my is nearly full 
and just took 4  . 

one of the rules for a permanent file is that it must be 
 ( non fragmented ) space .  . i suspect that is more responsible for the 
difference than the amount of free , in your case. 

i have read somewhere that the best rule of is have your 
permanent file the same size as your regular size. i have 4 
of and took 4 file. works very well. 
in fact with my available space , about 20 it wo n't let me make 
the file any bigger .  . 
you should change your virtual file to 8 i think 
that is what you said your was. 

it depends on what you are running .  . we had to increase our 
file (i think it is now 20mb ) when some applications could n't 
run without everything else closed. 


mike  ( work ) 
electronic research  ( home ) 

from 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
organization university computer services 
lines 12 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 


ok , then where is the info for the kept which file in the 
organization box i put my address , and when i moved , i wanted to change it , but 
could n't find it. i could find my name , but not the organization .  . 


robert s. include , , sir , mr. , and i 

university math computer science double major 

internet address vms . edu . milwaukee , wi 


from the edu .  ( gregg walters ) 
subject 4 . 0 . file 
organization scientific computing boulder , co 
lines 3 

i have of memory on my  . i have been running 
without a file for several months. will 4 . 0 . be 
happy with this , or insist on a file 

from  ( brian k servis ) 
subject re how print to file 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 33 

( by ) writes 

who can tell me which program  ( pd or shareware ) can 3 . 1 . 's 
output of to file 

i want to capture laser iii 's print output .  . 

though can setup print to file , but ca n't .  . 

i use dos 's program , but they ca n't work in  . 

for any help .  .  .  . 

internet address 

english name wang 
chinese name wang 

national university , taiwan , r . o . c .  . 

try setting up another but when choosing what to connect it 
to choose file instead of like  . this will you for a file name 
you print with that on file  . good luck. 


brian 

it happened this way 
actual quotes from claims 
what i say may not be what i 
think. what i say may not be the had no idea which 
what thinks .  . way to go , so i him over. 


from  ( ngo nguyen ) 
subject re speeding up 
keywords speed 
organization university of , campus 
lines 25 

in article  ( reincarnation of elvis ) writes 
i have a 33 with 8 of memory 

i have noticed that lately when i use programs like or draw 
my computer down and becomes really ! 

what can i do to increase what should i turn on or off 

will not or stuff like that help when it comes to 
the running speed of and the programs that run under it 

thanx in advance 




you can try your more often. it definitely will 
help speed things up. a 2 is also a good idea with 
the amount of memory you have , and use  ( 32bit access ) if 
you not already. hope that help .  .  . 

n .  . 




from  ( thomas g schlatter ) 
subject looking for tom 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 11 

i'm trying to find tom , 
who was the keeper of the faq for this newsgroup .  . 
he was working at engineering software , 
but ca n't even find that  ( but it may have 
been a uucp  . if anyone knows how to 
contact tom , please let me know. 

thanks , 
tom 



from de . 
subject re color or 
organization university of germany 
lines 14 
nntp posting host ibm . rz . uni . de . 

, 
i 'd have a look at the resolution the combination of the video card 
and would have without  . i 'd only suggest using the color 
if it does 600 without  . if this is not too small for 
your at a 14 .... 
personally i 'd prefer the as i always have quite a few 
open. if you only run one program at a time or rarely switch maybe the 
color   is worth trading in the smaller size. if you want to 
develop programs you will always have to check the  . i used a 
14  ( worst of both worlds ) and was surprised how the looked 
i choose on a color screen. 

regards , 


from  ( stephen guerke ) 
subject re how can i use the in non applications under 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 22 

in article  ( lgv mc ) writes 


one addition to this .  .  .  . i do n't know if it applies to everybody .  . for my 
 ( microsoft 400dpi ) to work with dos , i had to use the 
that came with  ( version 8 .  . 8.1 did n't allow me to do 
it for some reason. 


for use the that comes with  .  .  .  . 
also you need to be using a video that supports use of the , 
both the and that come with 3 . 1 . will support it. 
both of these are 16 color drivers , if you 're lucky the of 
your video card might have a that is and will support a 
 . 

steve 


stephen ,  . computer resources 
university of parallel program 
, de 

from  ( richard warner ) 
subject re or which to choose  ( tt for true effects for windows ) 
organization san jose state university math cs dept. 
lines 41 

writes 

in article ,  ( william y .  . lai ) writes 
in article (c . m .  . yearsley ) writes 
i 've just bought a pc which came with a of stuff , including 
type version 1 . 15 .  . as a to , i'm 
confused about which i should be using , or  . 

... 

there is a program called true effects for , that allows you to define 
for true type , and have them look like new  . it will 
give your different , or , or reverse , etc .  .  .  . 

it only works with  . 

yes , and the idea was ripped off from , which has had a program 
called for a few years now. does the same thing 
for type 1 and has said that the next version 
will work with both type 1 and  . 

and does some things that does not including 
some things you apparently want ... 

if you want to use it , you best not want to use it with an type  . 

 ( oh , yeah .  .  .  . lest you think this is a really cool program , none of the 
effects are  ( like the background pattern is the same size 
whether your is 10 point of 100 point . ) . , and it is not , 
i.e. you can not add pattern of your own. 
and you ca n't the background pattern .  .  .  . 
and you ca n't make the pattern extend beyond one character 
 ( every character in that new has the entire pattern in it , 
as opposed to having the same pattern run through 
a couple of characters ) 

it is however cheap .  . 
maybe i will buy a copy when the next version comes out , if they fix some of 
these  .  .  . 

john .  . 

nntp posting host 14 . 
from  ( wim van holder ) 
distribution world 
organization k . u . applied economic sciences department 
subject with on 
lines 13 

is it possible to use net on a machine that uses to connect to a 
i tried it with older versions ( 3 . but got an invalid packet 
class error or something the like .  .  .  . 

regards , 

van 
tel 32  ( 0)16 ) 28 . 57 . 16 . 
t . e . w .  . fax 32  ( 0)16 ) 28 . 57 . 
2 
b 3000 e mail 



from  ( kiseok ) 
subject re does 
article i.d. cs . 1993apr6 . 
organization brown university center for fluid mechanics 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( richard ) writes 
s. writes 

yes , and it is the i 've ever watched .  . it did a 
hard in 20 minutes. 

i found the looks very much like  . 
is it just a strip down version of the later 

i have both and , so i was wondering 
if i need to 

richard 


yes , is come from  . 
if you have utility , do n't bother .  . 

from  ( dave laudicina ) 
subject more 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization unc office of information technology 
lines 9 

has anyone experienced a at all using this 
card .  . is only in  . i have replaced card and am waiting on 
latest drivers .  . also have experienced general protection fault errors 
in on tools option and in setup .  . 
i had a but was getting genral protection fault errors 
in an application .  . these card must have terrible 
quality control to let products on the market with so many  . 
what a  . running on gateway 2000 50 .  . 
dave l 

from  ( hao zhang ) 
subject re x 
organization university of 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 

a posting in another news group i read a while ago said that 
pc and pc allow you to use  . 
call @ for more info .  . 

hope it helps , 




, dept. of stat .  . , school , univ .  . of penn .  . 



from  ( alan walford ) 
subject questions  . and licensing ) 
reply to 
organization systems , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 37 

i would be very if someone would answer a few 
questions about for  . 

i currently have which does not work with 
very well and is a conventional memory  . 1 .  . 
i am considering moving all our machines to  . 

how much conventional does use over and above the 
for the network card 

if i have a card , are the and drivers 
still needed 

does do a license check over the network to ensure each 
machine is running its own copy of  ( note i do 
not want to break the license agreement and i will buy a copy 
of for each of our machines , it is just that i would like 
to try it out first to see if it our needs. returning one 
opened copy is much easier than returning n opened copies . ) . 

if you buy the to 3 . 1 . for does it replace 
all of win 3 . 1 . as you it or does it depend on current 
win 3 . 1 . files 

if i nt on my server when it comes out , will i have 
any with the machines 

when i started this message , i was going to ask only 2 questions but i got carried 
away. i 'll stop now ) .  . 

i look forward to your replies .  . 

al 


systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 
or  .  .  . uunet . ! ca . ! ! 

from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject ctrl alt del the computer 
reply to 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
lines 9 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 



whenever i , i ca n't use control alt del to my 
computer , because the system when i do this. i can still 
using the key , but i would like to know why this happens .  .  . 

eric 



from  ( gene toye ) 
subject re for citizen drivers 
keywords citizen 
organization systems , , tx 
lines 8 

for 3 . 1 . , i have had the best luck using the drivers 
with my citizen . be sure to the updated version from 
that allows margin  . 

gene , software engineer 
systems , , , tx 

disclaimer my employer had no idea i was going to say that. 

from ( the ) 
subject re more cool files 
organization university of virginia 
distribution usa 
lines 4 

has anybody gotten this to work i try to it , but 
i get file error and no picture .  . anybody 



from  ( eugene y .  . kuo ) 
subject any updated 200 
organization 
lines 7 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 

hi ... can anyone tell me where i can get a copy of updated 200 
for 3 . 1 . , if any i have 1.0 which comes with 
my 200 , i just wonder if there is any newer version. 

thanks very much , please email. 



from main . de .  ( hein roehrig ) 
subject nt und x 
lines 15 
organization free software association of germany 


i am not sure whether i am here in the right area , but does 
anybody here know whether nt does will include a x 
server so that it can run x applications 
remotely this is because we are considering at our university 
to use pc 's for word and program development , 
whereas the bigger jobs are to be run either on sun 
workstations or on super computers. 

thank you very much in advance , 
 . 

free unix bbs home of the 
main , germany data 49 

from doug ward 
subject drivers for stealth 24 
reply to 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 7 

i recently purchased a stealth 24 video card and received 
the wrong drivers .  . does anyone know where i can ftp the proper 
drivers the file at does not work with 
this video card .  . please respond to 

thank you 
doug ward 

from aaron 
subject for sale c w application 3 . 1 . 
reply to 
organization allegheny college 

please excuse me if this is inappropriate to post here , but i do not read 
these groups normally and i did not see any pc related 
newsgroups 

for sale c with application 3 . 1 .  ( full 
kit ) 

c programming including software , 
, and card .  . 

software includes 
1. still plastic wrapped high 5 . 25 . for c 
total of 18 in 2 individually wrapped , each 
has c and  . 3 . 1 . on label 
2. system for  ( one 5 . 25 . high disk ) 
launch 
for 
3. 's dos version 2.5  ( one 5 . 25 . disk ) 

include 
1. still plastic wrapped include (i . e .  . unopened ) 
a. volumes 
i reference guide 
ii reference guide 
iii 3 . 1 . reference guide 
b. 3 . 0 . user 's guide 
c. 3 . 0 . user 's guide 
d. assembler 3 . 0 . users guide 
e. c 3 . 1 . user 's guide 
integrated environment 

command line 

f. c 3 . 1 . programmer 's guide 
language structure , class , advanced 
techniques , c 
g. c 3 . 1 . library reference 
library , , cross reference 
h. c 3 . 1 . tools and guide 
error messages , make , help resource compilers , 

i. object for c user 's guide 
, class reference 

2. opened  ( no plastic , but unread ) include 
a. assembler 3 . 0 . quick reference guide 
b. vision for c user 's guide 
c. resource user 's guide 

this was purchased by a former of my father 's and my 
father has asked me to try and sell it since neither of us have any use 
for it. 

for , most software houses have it for  .  . i am 
asking 400 .  . 

if you are interested , please e mail me directly because i do not normally 
read this newsgroup .  . 


aaron 
allegheny college , , 

from  ( anthony v. dean ) 
subject 
organization university of california at san diego 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 


i 've been reading , with much confusion , about whether or not to use 
 . lately , all the i 've been buying have all 
included as a 
i do some publishing using and  . 
comes with a laser that contains over 200 
types .  . add that to the that come with and you have a 
decent amount of  . i print my creations out on an 
, at 600 resolution with the resolution 
technology and  .  .  . well ... i get some good copies .  . 
so good that there is n't any whether or not is turned 
on or not. is it worth it to run at all especially with these 
better ... and 



from  ( keith smith ) 
subject win nt file systems 
organization spider systems limited , , uk .  . 
lines 6 
nntp posting host spider . co . uk . 

ok will some one out there tell me why how dos 5 
can read (i hav n't tried writing in case it breaks something ) 
the win nt file system. 
i thought was supposed to be better than the fat system 

keith 

from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject realizing win . setting changes to y automatically 
organization george washington university 
lines 32 

 all. i was  .  .  .  .  . 
i got  ( the , which i think is very 
good ) , and i got a problem with it .  .  .  . 
there is an option there , realize table , and if it 's 
switched on , some  will get up with 
some (e . g .  . the one) .  . if i turn it off , 
however , it works well , and it 's , so i have it off. all 's 
nice and well. however , if i turn it off , then it will be on 
again next time i start  . all the setting are set in the 
win . file , and i do have save on  . 

also , i tried changing the setting in the win . file 
to n  ( for no realize table ) , and started  . it 
will be fine for that , but the next will again 
turn the option on. 

i tried adding a r  ( read only ) attribute to my win . file , and 
it worked , but my  ( wallpaper ) saver did n't work then. 
actually , it 's the same application .  . , it did n't work , 
since it must change the setting at the win . file. 

so anyone out there got any answers comments for me 

thanks , i . a .  . 


aka 

michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 

subject re application for 
from  ( stefan olson ) 
lines 32 

in  ( brett harper ) writes 
, 

i'm investigating the of an object oriented application  . i have 
come across a few that look good 

1.1 from 
3.5 from software 
c views from 
win from 

some i'm using 

being new to programming  ( i'm from the unix x world ) , the quality and 
of the that these class provide is very 
important. however , since i'm not adverse to learning the of 
programming , the new programming should be closely with 
the native one. i do n't believe arbitrary levels of , just for the 
sake of changing the , are valuable .  . 

the classes  ( afx ) that come with c c 7 . 0 .  ( and 
c ) are very good , they already have a version for nt , 
it comes with source code , and is very close to the  . 
it also as some classes to data structures .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . 



mail 
kindness in giving creates love. 


from  ( tony g. wu ) 
subject need video drivers for true color 
organization national university  ( hsinchu ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 18 


hello. 

i purchased a video card called et true color card which 
can provide about  . but the question is i ca n't find 
the drivers for 3 . 1 . , i am now using 
for  . it works fine , but i think it will be 
better if i use  . so , please tell me whether such a 
is available ! 

thanks in advance. 



( forever 23 , michael ) . 
tony g. 
lab .  .  . 


from  ( brett harper ) 
subject application for 
organization , inc. engineering 
lines 63 

, 

i'm investigating the of an object oriented application  . i have 
come across a few that look good 

1.1 from 
3.5 from software 
c views from 
win from 

some i'm using 

being new to programming  ( i'm from the unix x world ) , the quality and 
of the that these class provide is very 
important. however , since i'm not adverse to learning the of 
programming , the new programming should be closely with 
the native one. i do n't believe arbitrary levels of , just for the 
sake of changing the , are valuable .  . 

since we will be developing for the nt system the 
memory issues and issues particular to the 3 . 1 . are less 
important. 

we will probably buy another c class library  ( something like tools . h . or 
components from rational ) to handle data structures and other stuff 
 ( allocators etc .  .  . ) .  . so those features are not that important for this to have. 

the two that i have it down to are and , they seem to be the two 
that have received the most attention from the media. i was wondering if 
anyone had any first hand experience with any of these  ( especially and  . 

a couple of observations about these that seem particularly noteworthy are 



seems to have the most extensive of and 
also includes some other useful classes .  . 
has new fancy 3d style available , and support for  . 
has a nt version  ( essential ) 
display output  ( useful for printing ) 
class for automatically managing control after  . 
seems to be the , this could be an advantage in a better system. 



has a independent resource strategy .  .  ( not too important for me right now ) 
comes with a interface tool 
has a nt version  ( essential ) 
seems to have been around longer  ( more mature ) , but grew up out of a dos version. 
had a better ) 

both have source code options 
both are lacking ole support 
neither seem to have any particular support for type stuff 


any thoughts anyone has on this would be much , 

thanks , 
brett 




from  ( constantinos malamas ) 
subject re dos size in 
organization institute of technology 
lines 25 

in article (s .  . alavi ) writes 
 ( normal a , not  . in the enhanced mode 
the dos is too small for my 14  . is there a 
way to the size for the dos you 'll have to 
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to 
world. 
thanks. 
s.  ( 919)467 )  ( h ) 

first of all , without wanting to sound and , yes it is 
a trivial answer and that 's perfectly fine ( otherwise how is one supposed 
to move up to the complicated and challenging questions , we net readers so 
much enjoy ) ) , and the massive of your article was not 
justified .  .  .  . 
please refer to appropriate newsgroups next time  ( by the way c . o . misc . is 
ok ) ) .  . now as far as your problem is concerned try playing around with 
the in the  .  .  . box under the control  ( that 
little square at the top left corner of the  . ) .  . 




institute of technology 
opinions expressed are not necessarily 's .  .  .  . 
internet 

from  ( clive mitchell ) 
subject not printing correctly 
organization regional network systems group , 
lines 


clive 61 9 
regional network systems 
. . , western australia 
v 

from  ( leo lim ) 
subject fast dos and video card info needed .  . 
organization college of engineering , univ .  . of wisconsin madison 
lines 24 

ok , i have a  ( 486dx50(isa ) w stealth  . 
i was really satisfied w its in  . 
but now more and more games needs higher frame in dos  , 
especially this new strike  . ) 
this stealth can only give me 17 . 5 .  . ( (i use  . 
my was 6 . 35 . million , i think. 

so right now i'm considering to replace it w a new card , which 
can perform same w my current in and also 
can perform dos   . 

i also saw the list from someone who compiled it 
in and it looked that and s 
the for non local  . 
both can give in dos  w 66 .  . 
does anyone have a for both of those cards above with the processor 
type which one is the  ( worthiest(not necessarily fastest ) 
any other card is too. 

also , if possible , where can i get  this  card for the ) 

thanks in advance , folks ! 

martin 

from  ( brad smalling ) 
subject re help with changing logo 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 24 

in article  ( charles u. farley ) writes 
i the s w for my card , and it my 
logo files. when i start now , it has the 3 . 0 . logo instead of 
the 3 . 1 . logo .  . 
i thought the files that controlled this were 
system 
system 
i these files , but it did n't change the logo .  . anyone know what 
the correct files are 

for a card these are the correct files but you ca n't just copy them 
back and expect it to work. you have to create a new win . com . file. try 
the command  ( you will have to worry about what each file is in 
since i do n't know your setup ) 

copy b win . win . com . 

(i this from by robbins great book ) 
this is also how you can put your own logo into the screen. 
an file is just a file. 

hope this helps 

brad jr . ee . tech , 

from  ( russ sharp ) 
subject character missing in 
organization university , , australia 
lines 22 
nntp posting host eng . au . 

word 2 . does n't show the period character to indicate 
if i use the from  . our need to 
be able to see how many are in text but the character 
is a large box .  . they each other and 
characters on each side , which is useless. 

i believe the character used by is the period  . 
this character shows up with the display as the 
box which tends to this. i have edited the 
with and changing the for the 
character makes no difference to the output in or  . 
altering the paragraph  ( 0182 ) or  ( 0184 ) does alter their 
however ! ! 

is the character used to indicate the period 
character has anyone been able to get this character 
from a 



 ( 052)27 ) fax  ( 052)27 ) 
university , school of engineering technology , , australia 

from  ( william jeremiah ) 
subject re looking for 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
organization university of , canada 
lines 12 

 ( william jeremiah ) writes 
i'm looking for a c . for 3 . 1 .  . does anybody 
happen to know where i could find such a 
uh .  .  .  . slight clarification that should be a for the 
c . laser  . 
thanks again 

thanks in advance , 
jerry 


look ma ! no  . signature . ! 

from  ( guy dawson ) 
subject re 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 38 


in article ,  ( iskandar taib ) writes 
in article  ( tom haapanen ) writes 

has anyone used a it looks good on paper , and 
steve gibson gave it a very good review in  . i 'd love to get a 
real world impression , though how is the speed drivers support 

the pc world found out that the people had hard 


i think it was the iit people who make the chip the card is based on who hard 
the string .  . 

one of the looked into this an came to the conclusion that the iit chip 
was still pretty fast .  . 

text into the  . clever , no in any case , the 
results are pretty much  . 

when and if you get one send me mail .  .  . i might buy that gu off 
you .  .  . 9 ) 





the only thing worse than 
internet is 
bitnet ! 


guy 


guy group  . 
tel uk 
tel ibm austin usa 

from  ( tony s annese ) 
subject re speaker sound 
nntp posting host 
organization portal communications company 408  ( voice ) 408  ( data ) 
lines 11 

in article  ( alec lee ) writes 
is there an ftp site where i can get the speaker sound there 's 
a sound . file that claims to be the but i'm suspicious since 
it 's not a  . file. 

the file .  .  .  . 


tony 
or 


from  ( carol suelzle ) 
subject re help with 
article i.d. 
organization health sciences university 
lines 17 
nntp posting host 53 . 130 . 7 . 



this is the rc . file. 
5 . 2 . 
50 . 




the host file requires the names that you 'll be using in addition to the address 

as 

100 . 0 . 0 . 1 . name . server . name . 
100 . 2 . 2 . 1 . name . name . 



from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject codes  ( dos sorry for wrong group ( 
organization george washington university 
lines 19 


hey now. first of all , sorry to post this dos question in a 
group , but i'm in kinda a , so i ca n't to find the dos 
groups  names. 

anyway , anyone know where i find the codes to dos commands 
the manual does n't seem to have all of them. i'm particularly looking 
for copy , in order to make a move file , such that if the file 
was n't properly , it wo n't be deleted. 


please e mail 
thanks , i . a . , 


michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 

from  ( cindy moore ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
keywords 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( cindy moore ) 
organization dept. , 
lines 22 
nntp posting host edu . 

i edited a few newsgroup from that line  ( do n't like to that 
 . i ca n't compare the two , but i recently got an  . 

i'm very pleased with the output  ( remember that i'm used to , 
laser and at school looks very good. you have 
to be careful to let it before it , as it will  . 

the is slow .  . this is in comparison to the other i 
mentioned. i have no idea how the compares .  . 

the interface between 1 . and the is just , i 've not 
had any problems with it. 

hope that helps some. 

cindy 


cindy 

internet bitnet 
uucp ... ! ! ! po box , ca , 

from (c .  . patrick woodcock ) 
subject page problem with 
organization university of western ontario 
nntp posting host business . ca . 
lines 11 

i am using 2 . with a  . the is that 
which comes with 3 . 1 .  . , i am having a problem with 
printing page numbers on the bottom of the page .  . i can print page number 
on the top of the page , but not on the bottom .  . has anybody had a similar 
problem and or does anybody have a solution for such a problem. 

thanks 


(c .  . patrick woodcock ) 
western business school london , ontario 

from  ( mahesh s. khot ) 
subject pro file format 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 12 
reply to  ( mahesh s. khot ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 




we are trying to write a program which can read files created by 
pro 3 . 0 . and above. would anyone know where to find information regarding 
the format in which pro stores its files. 

thanks in advance 


famous 's  . 
still at case 

from  ( morgan j bullard ) 
subject hard drive ie , etc. 
summary looking for between the various hard drive 
keywords 
article i.d. news . 
distribution 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 6 


i was wondering if any one knew how the various hard drive work. my hard 
drive is getting full and i do n't want to have to buy a new one. what i'm in is speed 
, of use , amount of , and any other aspect you think might be important as i 've never 
use one of these things before. thanks 
or 

from  ( thomas g schlatter ) 
subject re more cool files 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in article  ( michael panayiotakis ) writes 


begin cut here 
begin 
8 h ( , @ ! @ 
m ! ! ( @ ! a ! f , 56 d. ! d 
l , 1 u ) n ( ! @ ! , j . 0 . b h 0 
m , , ! ) uh  . i ! @ ! i ! ! ! bv ) 

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
how do you convert this to a bit map 

you 're supposed to delete everything above the cut here mark , and 
below the lower cut here mark , and it. but 
i was not able to end of file encountered at the last line. 

could you please re post it , or tell be what i'm doing wrong 

sounds like the original poster of the the file 
on a dos machine , and you tried to it on a un x machine , and your 
program at the returns .  . 

from  ( frank calloway ) 
subject re 3 . 1 . using dos 6 
organization co .  . , , co 
lines 3 

not on my system. 

frank 

from 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
organization university computer services 
lines 19 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , () writes 
have you tried re the software otherwise i would be dubious about 
simple ways to change that screen. is it not designed to be an to 
would be 


, yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is on the 
, that is it , it is  . not even a editor will find it. you can 
write over the to , but you ca n't change the name it. i 
think if you wish to change this you would have to be a , and we 're not 
going to promote that here. 


robert s. include , , sir , mr. , and i 

university math computer science double major 

internet address vms . edu . milwaukee , wi 


from  ( greg bishop ) 
subject re 
organization physics department , 
news software vax vms 
reply to 
lines 25 

has anyone experienced a at all using this 
card .  . is only in  . i have replaced card and am waiting on 
latest drivers .  . also have experienced general protection fault errors 
in on tools option and in setup .  . 
i had a but was getting genral protection fault errors 
in an application .  . these card must have terrible 
quality control to let products on the market with so many  . 
what a  . running on gateway 2000 50 .  . 
dave l 

i have used both version 1 . 17 . drivers for win 3 . 1 . and the new 2 . 03 . drivers .  . 
i have had none of these problems. no 's at all. i have a feeling that 
your problems are not with the card or drivers .  . the drivers are 
considered some of the most reliable on the market , and the ones 
seem quite good as well. maybe you should check problems in your 
gateway .  . i know a few people with gateway 's , and all of them have 
found some problem or other with especially with  . 

the only 's i have ever had can be directly to using 
applications .  . i even got the drivers from when 
people started complaining .  . i still only have one small problem with 
them , and it is that the hardware is slightly during writes 
reads to the file. 

greg  . 

from  ( olcay boz ) 
subject re view for dos or 
organization university 
lines 21 


where can i find the version of thanks .  .  . 


in article , 
l  ( harvey j. stein ) writes 
i 've been using version 2 . 5 . 2 . of , and i'm quite satisfied 
with it. there are , actually , 3 versions a plain dos version , a 
version , and a version. 

stein 






m 
0 



from de .  ( andreas gloege ) 
subject ... where can i get it 
originator de . 
organization , germany 
lines 22 



i 've heard about which should be a good 
on 3 . 0 . 3 . 1 . . 
can anybody tell me where i can get it 
it should be on in pub pc but it is not. 

it is also not an , and a great number of other 
sites .  . 

just post it or mail me. 



48 .  ( bei klarmann ) 
2 

email de . 





from  ( kris gupta ) 
subject re for 
reply to 
organization research center 
lines 20 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( matt jacobson ) writes 
... 

i have taken it out of win . , but it still pops up running with  . 
i did a big search and found reference to it in , system . and 
 . removing it here causes a failure when starting up 
has a group 7  .  .  .  .  .  . which ca n't be deleted . ) . 

is there anyone familiar with who can tell me how to turn it off 


one of the items in the group  ( typically called applications ) 
is . need i say more ! 


b. research center 
dept hospital of u of 
internet 



from  ( alejandro cifuentes ) 
subject q change forever 
nntp posting host 
organization de chile 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 8 

hi ! 
anyone knows how can i change an forever and ever 
i mean , not only in the program  .  .  . 

thanks in advance ! 

h. 


from  ( lamont downs ) 
subject re  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
organization 
lines 19 
nntp posting host cat . edu . 

there 's one thing about that really me. 
i have of in my system. i use a 
under windows ) , and a permanent file. 

while i can never fill the memory up , i still have problems 
sometimes because i run out of resources .  . what gives 
i think could these resources a little better. 

are you using 3 . 0 . or 3 . 1 . if you 're still on 3 . 0 . , 3 . 1 . about 
twice as much memory to these and runs out much less frequently .  . if 3 . 1 . , 
you might use one of the resource  ( such as the one that comes with 
the 3 . 1 . resource or one of the many ones available ) 
to see which programs are the resources  ( every , internal 
brush , etc. in every program running uses a certain amount of 
this limited memory area. also , some do n't give it back when they 're 
 . 




from  ( david feldman ) 
subject 8900 
nntp posting host 
organization u s west information 
lines 8 

please excuse if faq but .  .  .  . 
new based card claims to have support .  . 
drivers with card indicate several drivers on diskette .  . 
3 . 1 . does not make all drivers on diskette available to 
box .  . any suggestion 
thanx please e mail .  . 



from  ( daniel m. coleman ) 
subject re pro 
lines 41 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
organization the university of texas at austin 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( alan walford ) writes 
i have heard many things about the pro card .  . some have 
been positive but most are negative .  . could people please 
these (i am interested in the version in  . 

1 ) the card does not work in a system with  . 

the higher memory limits apply to cards only , as far as i know. the 
and version should have no problems. 

2 ) the card works in a system with some 
set but it is much  . 

again , the memory need only be if you have more than 
 ( eisa and vlb ) or 12 m  . should not be a problem for you. 

3) the card is in its  ( true colour ) modes .  . 

nope .  . i can use at , 24 bit and at , 24 bit , all 
non  . 

4 ) the latest build 59 drivers still do not work in many 
cases. 

they are n't perfect , but are much improved .  . i do n't recall the last time which 
i had to leave 32 mode  ( ati mode ) and switch to or mode due 
to software  . 

5 ) this card is the full card for the money. 

it 's quite fast , but whether or not its the is open to debate. 

6 ) this card is the greatest thing since bread .  . ) 

i like it. 


daniel matthew internet 

the university of texas at austin 
electrical computer engineering bitnet  . bitnet . 

from d 3 . stanford . edu .  ( robert kayman ) 
subject  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
originator d 3 . stanford . edu . 
keywords 
organization computer science department , stanford university 
lines 35 


fellow  . 

i am asking for your wisdom to help me decide which i 
should , the  ( bubblejet ) vs. the  . i 
thought , rather than trust the , i would benefit more from 
relying on those who use these daily and use them to their 
potential. and , i figure all of you will know their benefits and pitfalls 
better than any  . 

now , i would greatly appreciate any information you could render on the 
of the vs. the  ( 300  . 
which is is there a print quality difference , 
particularly in which will handle large documents better  ( 75 
pages or more ) any personal experience on either will be 
here which works better under 3 . 1 .  ( any problems , etc ) 
cost of memory , , , etc basically , your 
personal experiences with either of these machines is highly desirable , 
both good and bad. 

advance and thanks for all your input. e mail or news posting is 
readily acceptable , but e mail is encouraged  ( limits  . 


sincerely , 

robert or 

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not. 
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision 
revised ! ! 





from  ( iskandar taib ) 
subject re is a 
keywords 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
distribution usa 
lines 66 

in article writes 
hi , 

have you used mac system 6 . x . or 7 . x . if the answer is positive , you would 
know if is a  . 

this is silly. is unix a depends on who you ask , and how 
you define  . system 7 is , if anything , less than 3 . 1 .  . 

days ago people that is not a real  . i can see why 
they have such question. many people. 
mac , but it did a lousy job. for example 

(1) you can not create groups. there is no way to create a group 
in a group.  ( if you know how , please tell me . ) . 

so why do you need something like to create groups under 
the apple everyone knows that apple items are a of 
the program  . if you want a program there 
are lots available. 

 ( 3 ) documentation .  . it 's not easy to find the reason why causes 
an error. 

and this is easy on a mac give me a break .  . having spent hours moving 
system around and the mac to see why a certain 
all the time , i find this laughable .  . 

 ( 4 ) group file 
after a group , users have to use file to delete files. 
but if users forget to delete some related files , the will be full 
of nonsense files. 

oh great .  . ever hear of wonder why apple implemented them. 

 ( 5 ) share problem 
once you create two doing compilation and editing in some 
language  ( w o good editor ) , there will be a problem. you just 
can not open or save the program if it is loaded .  . it makes sense to 
prevent from saving , but not  . 

eh i do n't follow. 

it 's by no means easy to everybody , but if want to 
keep their , they should the user interface more 
carefully before products distribute .  . 

why is it that i find the mac incredibly whenever i 
use it 

no flame , please. 

yeah right. you post flame , yet ask for no flames .  . 










the only thing worse than 
internet is 
bitnet ! 

from  ( raymond w. foster ) 
subject re speaker sound 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 14 

in article  ( tony s annese ) writes 
in article  ( alec lee ) writes 
is there an ftp site where i can get the speaker sound there 's 
a sound . file that claims to be the but i'm suspicious since 
it 's not a  . file. 

the file .  .  .  . 


to clarify a little more sound . is a self expanding archive which 
contains the  ( which is actually called speaker . , i think) .  . 

ray 


from  ( gerry swetsky ) 
subject program two questions 
organization public access 
lines 16 


(1) is it possible to change the in the program groups i 'd like 
to give them some individuality .  . 

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program 
i know , will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i 
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt . 

any and all help is  . 



help stamp out stupid  . signature . files ! 
public access unix and usenet 
home  ( 708)833 )  ( 708)833 ) 


subject roman . 01 response to the requests for cool i am posting one. 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 


due to the resolution and size it is in 14 parts. 

this is a  . 256  . 
the picture is a on a desert with blue sky background .  . 
the size is just right for on a display 
because it leaves a border at the bottom just big enough for 
to fit in without being on top of the picture .  . image 
quality and resolution i have not seen much better. 

for those of you who have n't worked with image files , here 
is how to put it back together. 
1. save the 14 parts to 14 individual files 
2. use a text editor to remove the and 
in each file. 
3. all the parts into a single file 
4. the file 
there are tools available to do this without the such as 
 ( unix ) and  . if i could post 
these tools or where to get them by ftp let me know. 

keywords , 



from  ( bradley t banko ) 
subject save my hard !  ( allocation error , cross linked ) 
reply to b 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 150 

hi. 

while running the quick c in a dos under 3 . 1 . 
this evening , i got a program has violated system  .  .  . close all 
applications , and your computer error. 

i started to do this when i immediately got a serious error message 
from  . hit return to . i did that about 5 times and then 
to find that quite a few files have been corrupted somehow. 
(i am including the output below . ) . 

questions 

1 ) is there an easy way to everything to working order 
what might be some better approaches 

2 ) what might have caused this does the make me more 
vulnerable  ( i'm suspicious of hard drive especially when they 
data writing . ) . 

the straightforward approach would be to run with the f option to 
fix the and then it looks like i would probably have to 
and a few other things. 

thanks for your comments and suggestions .  . 

brad 

ps this is a machine with a hard drive and 2 of  . 


output 

volume serial number is 
errors found , f not 
corrections will not be written to 

c 
error , size 
c txt . 
error , size 
c 
error , size 
c 
error , size 
c 
error , size 
c game goose x . 
error , size 
c 
error , size 

316 lost units found in chains .  . 
space would be freed 

c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c doc . 
is cross linked on 
c txt . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c oak . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c doc . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c wait . com . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c wait . doc . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 1st . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c game goose x . 
is cross linked on 
c system sound . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 11 . 
is cross linked on 
c 2a . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c 2 2 . 
is cross linked on 
c games 
is cross linked on 
c games txt . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c key . 
is cross linked on 
c rec . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 
c par . 
is cross linked on 
c 
is cross linked on 

total space 
in 4 hidden files 
in 67 
in user files 
available on 

in each 
total units on 
available units on 

total memory 
free 

brad dept of physics u of illinois b 

see one. do one. teach one. 73 de @ il . 

from  ( nilay rc38 ) 
subject re drives  .  .  . 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 20 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article  ( nathan moore ) writes 
 ( nilay patel ) writes 

i am looking for for the 20 20 drive .  .  . 
do n't laugh ... i am serious .  .  .  . 
if you have any 20 lying around that you would like to get rid of , 
please mail me ... 




you do mean , do n't you , not you forgot to say whether you 
were looking for the old 8 or the newer 5 . 25 . . 

well .  .  . i . need the old 8 ... you are right , is a better word , 
but they are so big and calling them is kind of funny ... but the 
appropriate word is ... 




subject after dark 
from  ( andrew bennett ) 
organization  . 
lines 17 

hey folks ! 

just ago , i the after dark that 
was widely talked about on here some time ago. 

it 's at ftp . edu . , in pub pc , titled simply 
zip .  . 

be sure to set your ftp connection to mode before  . 
if you have any other after dark , please 
them too. the more the  . 


andrew 


andrew bennett what planet are you from 

from  ( jon thorvaldsson ) 
subject can i only insert 16 color in 0 . 
lines 9 
nntp posting host hi . is . 


well , the subject says just about all i intended to ask 

is there no way to insert a 256 color into 2.0 

when i try it , the picture turns into a 16 color  . 


 . 

from  ( stephen herrod ) 
subject dos 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 6 

does anyone know a program that will record keyboard sequences that i 
do in a dos box i would like to have something that starts a 
program and then me into my accounts. does n't 
seem to be able to record the key sequences .  . 

thanks , steve 

nntp posting host 14 . 
from  ( wim van holder ) 
distribution world 
organization k . u . applied economic sciences department 
subject for other news readers 
lines 18 

i'm looking for a decent news reader .  . i 've given up on 0 . 76 . 
since it does n't work very well with the of the ibm for 
dos 2 . 1 .  . 

what the status of for will it use the 
i liked it in dos but had to it since i started using to access 
our  ( results in invalid class error ( 


bye ! 

van 
tel 32  ( 0)16 ) 28 . 57 . 16 . 
t . e . w .  . fax 32  ( 0)16 ) 28 . 57 . 
2 
b 3000 e mail 



from david a. 
subject re c 
organization 
lines 29 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host gov . 

it is correct that is not considered an for  . is 
basically a dos product , is a product .  . as is not 
an for dos , it is a separate operating system product line , its 
cannot be for dos  . however , i have also 
been told that it is not an for , which it should be ! 

in article  ( don hancock ) writes 
my understanding is that c is 0 .  . is it not what i mean is , 
it is intended as a logical to  ( which i  . i am very 
interested in , but i ca n't find anything about it. tell me more. 
how 's the editor is it a true  ( msc7 which i love is  . 
how are times  . sizes how smart is the how well does it 
do dos i would like to be one of the few still out 
stuff for the dos users out there even though i run 1 . (i like the 
and i could n't afford  . will it link 3rd party 
easily i use lots of 3rd party in my dos programs  ( too lazy to do my 
own  . how is the i make lots of mistakes ( ) 
thanx .  .  .  .  .  . 

.... if it was n't for c , we would be using , and ! 
blue wave 10 . 


david a. 
, center for 
phone  ( 510)423 ) 
fax  ( 510)422 ) 
lawrence national 


from  ( berthold k . p .  . horn ) 
subject re or which to choose 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 50 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 06 apr 93 02 37 30 gmt 


article  ( david glenn ) writes 

... 

again , not true. the characters in a or type 1 depend on the 
 . if someone converts a type 1 to they 'll only get the 
characters in the of  . allows for much more flexibility 
in this area as well. you can have thousands of in a 
file  ( mac ps set ) and use the characters 
appropriate for the particular you are running the on. 

well , yes , both type 1 and can contain lots of characters. 
and in both cases plain text will be to 
in , and to mac standard roman on the mac .  . 
no difference there between and ! 

and as for with thousands of , right know these are a 
rather than a great new thing. reason is that a with 3000 characters 
is very large , and if you can only access of them you are paying a heavy 
price in time and  .  ( and at the moment there 
is only one program of that uses downloading' ) 

for instance , all or our 2 have the mac 
set in them. the of the are such that if the 
is brought over to the mac the user will have access to the full mac 
set .  . 

yes and text all have the  character set , which is 
a of and standard roman  . 

the question is whether you can get at the  . in , for example , 
you cannot get at the    ( both and tt)even ) though a 
may very well have them. 

and , while it is somewhat painful to a type 1 and to create a 
new file  ( pfm ) for it , there are out there to allow 
you do this. how do i a how can i get at the 
 and  in  ( or on the mac ) are there 
that make it possible to the hard wired 


regards , a east harmony road 
bob 
internet co 
compuserve ,  ( 303 ) 


k . p .  . 
cambridge , , usa 

from  ( stephen kearney ) 
subject re is really and 
article i.d. 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 9 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

all in program are  . is that explicit 
enough 

apparently not. many people complain about the confusion that 
results from the split .  . it 's just a basic 
flaw .  . 

besides , what about the control where are all those 
little files 

from  ( russell lister ) 
subject re why is my so  ( ms mouse ) 
organization comprehensive  . , inc. 
lines 49 

 ( sean eckton ) writes 

i have a serial and am using com . 8 . 00 .  ( was using 8 . 20 . 
i think , but switched to 8 . 00 . to see if it was any  . motion 
is nice and , but motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click 
on something because my around. i can be moving the to 
the right with relatively uniform motion and the will move 
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move for a bit then jump 
again  ( maybe this time to the left about  . 5 . ! ) .  . this is crazy ! i have 
never had so much trouble with a before. anyone have any solutions 

does think they are what everyone should be just steam ! 

i had the same problem. at first , i thought it was the video and 
made sure i had the most current drivers , because the problem was most 
evident at resolution modes .  . it did n't help and after a bit of 
, determined that the problem existed in standard 
resolution mode .  . it was just much less  . 

my was an older serial version i bought second hand in 1990. it 
worked just fine in dos and dos based applications .  . on the 
guess that the problem was with the resolution of the , i borrowed 
a new (a model ) and tried it. that solved the problem. 
so , if your is old , you may want to try replacing it for a newer 
one. 



computer support representative 
college of fine arts and communications 

d 
young university 
, 
 ( 801)378 ) 






or well connected ! uunet ! ! 
comprehensive l inc. , arlington , va 


from  ( mr news ) 
subject re i hate to make a decision ! 
organization , stanford university 
lines 30 


in article  ( tony g. wu ) writes 

hi. 

well , i really hate to make a decision , but recently , i have to choose 
whether 3 . 0 . or dos 6 . 0 . with double space for my poor  . 
i am using 3 . 1 . and i hope what i choose will live with  . 

any help will be appreciated. 




( forever 23 , michael ) . 
tony g. 
lab .  .  . 


better ratio than , yet the 
latter comes with virus , memory , and multiple 
 . each of them are not so good as the , or 
in my opinion , but with a of only 45 , it 's nice if 
have n't yet all of those  . 

both certainly work with  . 





from 
subject nt , help ! please help ! 
distribution world 
organization univ of academic it services 
lines 26 

nt 


i need some information on the new nt .  . 
anything you have would be appreciated. i know nothing about it. 
 ( well , except that it exists . ) . 
some questions .  .  .  . 

memory requirements , hard drive space , release date is it out 
how is ibm 
can it replace other 's 

anything else like , speed , etc .  .  . 

thanks in advance ! 

luke 

email me at internet address 
bitnet address 







from  ( ming t. lin ) 
subject word 
reply to 
organization computing division , , 
lines 15 


i just moved from c 3 . 0 . to c today. when i tried 
to my c program , it a function problem. 
it turned out that the word in c is a , not  . 

could anyone some light on this subject why a word is a 


t. 




(503) 


from  ( jon sweet ) 
subject re x for 
organization nasa 
lines 11 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

pc from , from software ! 


all opinions expressed are 
my own because nobody else 
wants them ! 

jon l. 




from  ( david l caldwell ) 
subject re 's paradox offer 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
distribution usa 
lines 19 

i am considering buying 's paradox for since i 
would like to use a with (i do n't have use 
one yet ) for both work home use. i would like to advantage 
of 's 129 . until april 30 offer if this 
is everything that claims it to be. so , i was 
wondering ... has anybody used this and or have any opinions 

tom 

i 've been using access  ( still available from some stores for 
and i am quite pleased with it. it 's relatively easy to learn , very easy 
to use and somewhat easy to program .  . i highly it , particularly 
at 00 . ! i have not used paradox for , but i do n't expect it to 
be 30 . 00 . better than access  . 


dave 



from  ( ghhwang ) 
subject re , , risc 
organization computer sci .  . information eng .  . , u , taiwan , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 7 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

form r . o . c . taiwan 

from  ( jim moore ) 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
organization systems station 
lines 27 


in article writes 
this is in relation to a question concerning changing the to 
information of  .  .  . 

in a previous article , wrote 

, yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is on the 
, that is it , it is  . not even a editor will find it. you can 
write over the to , but you ca n't change the name it. i 

i can find it with a editor , although i have not tried to it. 
are you sure it ca n't be you may be mistaken about this. ( ) 

you can change it. as part of a continuously government 
organization , my code  ( branch ) changes about once a year .  . i just 
finished changing the information using  . 
i sent the original the offset into user . containing 
the information , and his reply indicated he got several similar answers. 

and it 's not in any way. as for the , there 's nothing 
that keeps me from changing the information it certainly does n't reach 
out and alter the serial number printed on the inside of my manual .  . 


jim 
panama city , 

from  ( iskandar taib ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 20 

in article  ( tom haapanen ) writes 

has anyone used a it looks good on paper , and 
steve gibson gave it a very good review in  . i 'd love to get a 
real world impression , though how is the speed drivers support 

the pc world found out that the people had hard 
text into the  . clever , no in any case , the 
results are pretty much  . 

when and if you get one send me mail .  .  . i might buy that gu off 
you .  .  . 9 ) 





the only thing worse than 
internet is 
bitnet ! 

from 
subject re device for 1 . 
organization university computing services 
lines 1 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 



from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject re speaker sound 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
reply to 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 15 

in article 
 ( alec lee ) writes 
is there an ftp site where i can get the speaker sound 
there 's 
a sound . file that claims to be the but i'm suspicious since 
it 's not a  . file. 

thanks 



the sound . is actually a self which includes the  . 
file. works great ! 

eric 

from  ( jerry w. johnson ) 
subject how to to video 
organization california state university , 
lines 11 
nntp posting host edu . 

hi all , 
i'm asking for info on behalf of a friend. is there , what would 
be , the best way to copy the output of a on to video 
any ideas please additional hardware and or 
software  ( i'm just assuming an  . 
thanks in advance. jerry 

help support 
jerry w. johnson csci student 
 ( is there any other kind ) 
against 

from  ( tony darugar ) 
subject problems , help ! 
organization dept. , u . c .  . san diego 
lines 37 
nntp posting host edu . 


hi , 

i recently bought an . it 's a real nice card , 
but i'm having very big problems with it. 

the basic problem is that lines are missing from the display 
in  . something like every other line or so. 
also , when i use a dos , namely 6 . , in 
mode , lines are  . it 's very strange looking .  . 
if it uses standards , however , it works great ! only it thinks there 's 
only on the card .  .  ( there 's on  . 

i have support , and they tried to be helpful , but did n't 
have the answer. i do n't think the card is the problem , since it works great 
on my friend 's computer .  . 

here is my setup 
, , 1.1 
25 , , 1990 ,  . 
,  ( slave ) 
 ( master ) 
panasonic , 
version 4.6 drivers .  . 
3 . 1 . 
i tried taking all memory , etc off , and took all other cards 
 ( besides controller ) off. 

my friend 's setup is 16 ,  . 

if anyone has seen anything like this , or can otherwise help , i will be very 
 . 

please send e mail to or 


tony .  . 

from  ( rob de winter ) 
subject wanted address 
originator 
organization philips research laboratories , , the 
lines 17 

i am looking for the exact address of the , which 
and other software .  . 

the information i am looking for is 

mail address 
phone number 
fax number 
e mail address 

thanks in advance. 


nothing beats , if you want to have real fun during  . 
rob de philips research , ist it , building 1 
p.o. box ,  . the 
tel 31 40 e mail 

from  ( jerome schneider ) 
reply to 
distribution world 
subject re out of environment space running files from 
organization technology group 
x mailer 2 . 1 . modified 
lines 42 


i have a  . file that i run under a  . i have set up a 
file to run the file in exclusive mode and to use the entire screen. 
the first line of the file sets an environment  . 

my problem is that on some of our machines  ( running dos 5 . 0 . and 
3 . 1 . in enhanced mode ) , the set command in the file fails with the 
out of environment space error. i have raised the amount of environment 
space to using the shell command in sys . so i know that 
i am nowhere near to running out. 

 ( from the resource  ( for win4workgroups ) , add an entry to 
your system . file under the section 



this sets the command . com . size , where must either be 0 or 
between and  . a value of 0 the setting .  . if this 
value is too small or too big , it is rounded up to or down to  . 
if the value is less than the current size of the actual environment , 
this setting is , as if it were 0. if you the 
environment size in a file for command . com . , the setting 
overrides this setting .  . the default is 0 with versions earlier 
than 3 . 2 .  . otherwise , the default value is the e option in the 
shell command in sys .  . to set this value , you must edit your 
system . and . 


i have used this entry , as well as relied on the default e from 
the sys . shell line , and both give larger  . if 
you do n't use one of these , then the environment passed by 
to each new dos box is just a little bit bigger than the environment 
present when was started .  .  ( no matter how big 
the dos was , when starts , it all unused space 
except for a few ) . this should allow your file to run , 
but your mileage may vary .  . 


 ( jerry ) schneider domain 
technology group uucp uunet ! ! ! 
po box ,  . , co voice  ( 303 ) 


from  ( tony s annese ) 
subject re utility for win . and system . 
nntp posting host 
organization portal communications company 408  ( voice ) 408  ( data ) 
lines 10 

in article  ( adrian d . writes 
in 3 . 0 . there is a built in called that is just what you 
need. 3 . 1 . i do n't know .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

it 's there .  .  .  .  .  . 


tony 
or 


from  ( stan brown ) 
subject re program two questions 
organization oak road systems , cleveland ohio usa 
lines 25 

in article  ( gerry swetsky ) writes 

(1) is it possible to change the in the program groups i 'd like 
to give them some individuality .  . 

do you mean the of the program groups , or the of the 
individual programs in the program groups i assume you mean the 
latter , and the answer is sure you can. just click once  ( not double ) 
on the application , then alt f p  ( file  . click on the 
change box and tell it the  . or use the 
sub selection .  . 

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program 
i know , will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i 
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt . 

i use alt tab .  . hold the alt key and repeatedly press tab until you see 
program up. then release the alt key .  . 



stan brown , oak road systems 
english is my native language and i love it. but do n't try to tell me 
that it 's easy to learn or that it makes sense. if it were , 
would with . 

from  ( justin whitton ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
in reply to 's message of sat , 24 apr 1993 22 31 30 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization ,  . , uk 
lines 24 

in article  ( ed moore ) writes 

wrote 

the key issue that i bought my 200 on was ink speed .  . you really 
have to try awful hard to get the 200 ink to smear .  . the need 
10 15 seconds to completely  . in both cases , however , do not get your 
pages wet .  . unlike laser , the material on your pages is ink , not 
 . but that should go without saying. 

i think the ink now used in the family is water fast .  . 

i 've had pictures by a few drops of rain .  . these were pictures 
from a  . mind you , it could have been acid rain ) 

i use a  . ink fast , but it really does n't like getting wet .  . 



at where no man has gone before .  .  . 
after august mail 
disclaimer my opinions count for nothing , except when the office is empty .  . 
i'm a student intelligence 0. 


from (c . m .  . yearsley ) 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . ac . uk . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

write over the to , but you ca n't change the name it. i 
think if you wish to change this you would have to be a , and we 're not 
going to promote that here. 


not so ! my computer was with my name in an  interesting  
mix of and lower case , and my mis typed .  . i'm 
getting fed up with being   at   ! 
it took me 20 ( ! ) phone calls to the to get the computer 
working at all. i really ca n't face them again .  .  .  .  . 


chris 

subject re more cool files 
from 
distribution usa 
organization and company 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( thomas g 
schlatter ) says 

in article  ( michael 
panayiotakis ) writes 


begin cut here 
begin 
8 h ( , @ ! @ 
m ! ! ( @ ! a ! f , 56 d. ! d 
l , 1 u ) n ( ! @ ! , j . 0 . b h 0 
m , , ! ) uh  . i ! @ ! i ! ! ! bv ) 

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
how do you convert this to a bit map 

you 're supposed to delete everything above the cut here mark , and 
below the lower cut here mark , and it. but 
i was not able to end of file encountered at the last line. 

could you please re post it , or tell be what i'm doing wrong 

sounds like the original poster of the the file 
on a dos machine , and you tried to it on a un x machine , and your 
program at the returns .  . 
well , my newsreader shows the file as having lots of , which 
means it 's broken before i even try to it. did anyone get it 
to successfully 




 ( who used to be 
how about some of that famous dublin wit , 
certainly , sir .  . would that be or 

from  ( robert mee ) 
subject for 1 . 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 16 


i am looking for a  ( or set ) for my 
video card .  . does anybody know of an archive 
site that has these i looked at and it had drivers for 
the stealth card and for generic cards but not one 
specifically for the  . is there one or has 
dropped the out of the development loop. 

thanks for any info , 

rob 


robert boston university information technology  ( rem@bu it . 



from  ( duncan smith ) 
subject question about on dos system 
summary how do i make pc run properly under or 2 
originator 
keywords , 2 , pc , 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 13 

is anyone out there running a dos system with a board i am on an 
network , up with a digital 
interface board , running on a ps 2 model 70 .  . i'm using the pc 
software for file server and network access. it works fine under dos or the 
or 2 dos box .  . but when i try to load it before , so that 
every application i run could get access to it , the machine hard as 
soon as i start up an application .  . and of course , things look pretty hopeless 
for 2  ( but who  . 

so , does anyone have experience with this bizarre and setup 




from  ( chris syphers ) 
subject re dos size in 
organization kansas state university 
lines 20 
nntp posting host edu . 

(s .  . alavi ) writes 


i have an a card , and i am using in mode 
 ( normal a , not  . in the enhanced mode 
the dos is too small for my 14  . is there a 
way to the size for the dos you 'll have to 
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to 
world. 

thanks. 

 ( please include this message for reference ) 
s.  ( 919)467 )  ( h ) 
 ( 919)515 )  ( w ) 
the control box of the itself  ( upper left corner of the , single 
click , am i being too simplistic ) has a option. the 8 x 12 is about the 
biggest one i can use without the characters turning  . 

this helps .  . 

from  ( ville v walveranta ) 
subject re fall  93 
nntp posting host 
organization portal communications company 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 20 

wrote 
does anyone out there have any info on the up and coming fall  93 i was 
asked by one of my peers to get any info that might be available. or , could 
anyone point me in the right direction any help would be appreciated. 

it 's in  ( as always ) between 16th and 20th .  . 

for more information contact the interface group 
first avenue 
, ma 

sorry , no phone number available. consult directory service 
in for the number  ( 617 , or  . 



v. tel .  . fax .  .  .  .  .  ( 510 ) 
 . ,  . 5 from finland 1 
, ca  ( faxes automatically recognized ) 
usa email .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from 
subject re for citizen drivers 
keywords citizen 
organization corporation 
lines 43 

in article writes 
i have been experiencing several end user problems with various 
software  ( wordperfect 5 . 2 . win , publish it ! win 3 . and printing 
landscape mode on a citizen  ( the little guy ) or the citizen . 

in a nutshell the problem is that i lose the first 0 . of 
information from my left margin , be it white space or 
output , and are not preserved on subsequent pages past the 
first. 

had a consisting of using the default 
for the instead of or manual . they have also filed 
this as a bug and are continuing to investigate it. 

write , of course , has no problem with these drivers , proving that 
knows something the rest of us do n't ! are you surprised i'm 
not. 

publish it ! win is still investigating this problem , and while i was consider 
my options  ( rejecting the one about buying an , for surely 
they would n't have this problem , right ) i onto a  . 



go into the 3 . 1 . control , select , select your citizen 
, select setup , and select a size of x  . like 
magic , all of your problems will go away. 

ask me no questions and i 'll tell you no lies ! 

mike 


excuse me , that 's x  . 

mike 


disclaimer my opinions do not necessarily reflect those of my employer .  . 





from  ( bryan dunne ) 
subject re program two questions 
organization rice university 
lines 4 

actually , with several , you change both. my is 
plug in. 

bryan 

subject roman . 10 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 

from () 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
nntp posting host 
organization services company , white , ny 
lines 11 

have you tried re the software otherwise i would be dubious about 
simple ways to change that screen. is it not designed to be an to 
would be 

charles 


charles these opinions are 
services co .  . charles mine alone , unless 
white ny voice you would like to 
id fax share them. 

subject black of death , , 
from 
organization miami university academic computer service 
lines 23 

hi there , 

we are running a 120 node with 3 . 1 . and 3 . 11 .  . 

every once in a while , we run into the black of death , a phrase 
coined by robert x. in a recent  . 

basically , sometimes when you quit , the goes black and 
you get a nice little in the top left corner of your 
screen. also , sometimes when you to dos , the same effect occurs .  . 
hints that and or has a patch for  
virtual interrupt that may solve this. neither company 
seems to know what i am talking about when i call them. 

has anyone else noticed this phenomenon 

is there a fix for it 

any response is welcome. 

peter 



from  ( anton de ruiter ) 
subject top 30 applications 
organization digital equipment , , the  . 
lines 36 


everybody , 

i am searching for  ( business ) information of application , to create a 
top 30 of most used , , drawing programs , 
and fax programs , etc .  .  . 

please mail me all your information or references .  . i will the 
results on this media. 


thank you in advance , 

de  . 


digital equipment corporation 
) . products  ( wgp ) 
( ( ) ( ( ' ( ( ( '  ( obw ) 
 . de 
software product 
post office box 
' , the 
( ) ( (  (  ) ) 41 45 
, the 

) mail a 
(  (  ) ( ( ( 


internet 
) ) . uucp  .  .  . ! ! ! 
( ) (  ( ' ( ( ) phone 31 55  ( business ) 
phone 31  ( private ) 
fax 31 55 


from  ( greg williams ) 
subject re many people on one machine 
distribution 
organization institute of technology 
lines 23 

in  ( mark woodruff ) writes 

i have several people my machine and would like to set up separate 
under for each of them. is there some way of setting 
things up separate for each of them ideally , 
i 'd like totally separate virtual machines .  . i 'd be willing to for 
less , and may end up having files that copy  . files around 
depending on who wants to use the machine .  . 

you could use dos 6 to do this partly .  . you can set up different sys . 
and commands for each user , and they just have to select their 
option on  . then you can have the copy the win . 
and system . files and change for them. when they , 
it can copy back generic  . files if you want. 

this is the only way i can think of. there may be some programs somewhere 
that allow you to do this better , though using dos 6 allows each person to 
have a sys . and  . 

greg 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( gordon hlavenka ) 
subject re save my hard !  ( allocation error , cross linked ) 
organization public access 
lines 



brad writes 
while running the quick c in a dos under 3 . 1 . 
this evening , i got a program has violated system  .  .  . close all 
applications , and your computer error. 

, i love ) 

1 ) is there an easy way to everything to working order 
what might be some better approaches 

you 'll probably want to delete any and them 
 . data files should be examined and  . 

2 ) what might have caused this does the make me more 
vulnerable  ( i'm suspicious of hard drive especially when they 
data writing . ) . 

you 're not stupid. things , and also runs a 
file which may contain data also. all of this is pretty 
stuff in a pc environment. 

the straightforward approach would be to run with the f option to 
fix the and then it looks like i would probably have to 
and a few other things. 

a reasonably accurate prediction .  .  .  . 


here 's a brief description of how dos stores files 

there are three pieces to a file. the directory entry , the fat , 
and the data area. you can think of these as a of 
paper , a of paper , and a stack of cards. 

the directory entry  ( notebook paper ) holds the file name , actual size , 
and first number .  . it also holds some other information that 's not 
important right now. 

the file table  ( fat )  ( graph paper ) tells where to find 
the actual data .  . each square of paper holds a number .  . if the 
number is zero , the associated with this box is available. if it 
holds a magic number , it is either the last piece of a file or a bad 
 ( unuseable ) on the  . any other number tells which 
contains the next section of the file. 

the data area  ( 3x5 cards ) is where the actual information is  . 
the data area is organized as of a fixed size is 
out in of one each .  .  ( in your case , one 
is ) . as a is filled , another is  . 

to read a file , you first look at the directory entry to get the 
starting number .  . now you read the data from that  . 
next , look at the fat entry for the you just read. this will 
tell you the number for the next of the file. 
naturally , these numbers are usually , but they can jump 
around and even go backwards. continue reading , one at a 
time , as you walk this through the fat , until you hit the 
which says it 's the last in the file. 

is the dos utility that the and coherence of 
the and the fat and can most flaws into 
submission .  . it does n't have any intelligence , so you have to 
double check anything it . 

now let 's do a bit of a post 

c 
c txt . 
c 
c 
c 
c game goose x . 
c 
error , size 

all of these files have sizes  ( according to the fat ) which do n't match 
the size reported in their directory  . f will alter 
the directory to match the fat size.  ( in other words , the 
directory entry for may say the file is 64 , long .  . 
but found a fat of 43 attached to it.  ( my numbers , 
obviously , are made up . 

316 lost units found in chains .  . 
space would be freed 

space was found which is in the fat , but is not attached 
to any directory entry .  . f gives you the option of converting these 
lost chains to files. you can then examine the files 
through and or discard them. or , if you tell 
not to convert them to files , then those will simply 
be available in the fat .  . 


c 
is cross linked on 

... 

c par . 
is cross linked on 

these files are both referencing the same data  . obviously , 
one of them  ( at least ) must be wrong. it 's interesting to note that 
c par . is your file .  .  .  . 

to fix this , you should copy each cross linked file to a new name. 
this will fix the cross link by giving the files unique data  . 
now delete the cross linked files. examine the copies and try to 
them properly. good luck.  ( hint missing pieces are 
likely to be found in those lost chains at the top .  .  . ) . 

total space 
in 4 hidden files 
in 67 
in user files 
available on 

your is pretty close to full .  . this may be the actual cause of 
the problem perhaps needed to expand its by an 
amount which available space .  .  .  . 

in any case , the short summary is that something trashed your fat .  . 
there are that can your fat and help damage 
after something like this , but you have to run them before the 
problem occurs .  . sorry. 




gordon s. 
vote straight party dec .  . 3rd ! 


gordon s. 
vote straight party dec .  . 3rd ! 

from 
subject re win nt what is it 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 50 


in article ,  ( iskandar taib ) writes 
in article  ( scott p. reimert ) writes 

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that nt  ( tm ) is a 
user , as well as , etc. i certainly have n't 
seen this to be the case. there are accounts for each person , 
and even if that is desired .  . i do n't see an 
of use though. 

since running any over a network is going to slow it down by a 
fair amount , i expect nt will be only in the sense 
of  . someone will likely write a for it so 
one could run character based , but based will have 
to be shared by running the on the local  . this is how 
things are up everywhere server are 
taking over from the old terminal  . 

note that the next does this you can always into a next and 
run character based but you ca n't run the  .  ( yeah , i know 
about x , just have n't been too impressed by it .  .  . ) .  .  . 








the only thing worse than 
internet is 
bitnet ! 



i read this in an electronic magazine about nt 

and for all the hoopla about nt , one would 
think the thing would be user but it 's not. it supports 
only one user at a time. it can support multiple but 
only one actual user .  . 


your mileage may vary ! 


this posting does not represent the opinions of my  . 

i'm afraid i 'll have to ask you to leave the , , 


from the edu .  ( gregg walters ) 
subject 4 . 0 . file 
organization scientific computing boulder , co 
lines 119 

and summarizing , for your information or additional comment. 

this is long 

i have of memory on my  ( 25 mhz ) , an math , and 
a hard drive with free  ( no  . i have been running 
3 . 1 . , under 3 . 1 . in enhanced mode , with a drive , 
smart drive , and no file  ( permanent or temporary ) for 
several months. 

i am interested in the 4 . 0 . , but i am concerned about reported 
file requirements and the legitimacy of 's claim about increased 
speed .  . 

to users 

will 4 . 0 . run without a file , or insist that i use a file 

so far , in response to a less detailed description of my setup , or in 
unrelated postings , the more informed answers , on the net or by e mail , 
appear to be 

1 ) by  ( david a. fuess ) 

according to , no. uses the file so as 
not to the physical resources .  . they say this is actually a 
feature .  . a figure of was indicated to me as a minimum. but 
you might try anyway ! 

2 ) by  ( bert tyler ) 

i'm not all that certain that is the culprit here. 

i have a with of main memory  ( less for a and 
a bit for a dos that is opened as part of the process) , 
which i have been running without any  . when i the 
from the march of the nt , the 
itself demanded the presence of a  . the only program 
i 've run to date is the 32 bit version of that came with that 
 . 

i gave a small temporary  ( i'm of files that must 
remain in fixed on my hard disk ) , and all seems well. 

3) by  ( brian c. anderson ) 

what is i to 4 . 0 . and it a directory for 
under system . during the it told me that 
was required. 

4 ) by  ( steven v case 1 ) 

4 . 0 . makes use of the  . you 've probably 
heard about , it is a 32 bit library that provides 
much of the nt  ( no support for threads and 
and such ) but can be run under 3 . 1 .  . 

5 ) by  ( thomas c. rhyne ) 

i also have 16 of , and indeed 4 . 0 . insisted on a permanent 
it would not run otherwise. 

6 ) by  ( greg bishop ) 

3) absolutely requires  ( with file ) or 
 ( with  . it will give you a not enough memory error if the 
file is less than  . it is a major resource  . if you do not 
load the processor or the smart math , it takes about of 
 ( real or virtual ) just to load  ( again , due to the  . 



so it seems that in addition to the system requirements shown on 's 
for 4 . 0 . , that you need a file , possibly as big as  . 
looks like i would just need an file , and would need to choose  ( or 
can i ) between a permanent file , or a temporary file 

apparently a with 4 . 0 . how much space 
does this require 



i also received these answers 

1 ) by  ( dale hample ) 

if you 've got 16 of , why not as a for 
dos 6 different  . 



can 4 . 0 . be to use such a drive instead of a 
file if not , i do n't see how using dos 6 . 0 . for an alternate 
would provide with this file. some time back i remember a 
discussion about the issues of using a drive to support a file , 
but i thought this involved , systems. 

i have dos 6 . 0 . but for various reasons have not yet done a full  . 

by the way , is a full of dos 6 . 0 . required to avail oneself of 
the alternate feature which files from the are 
required 



2 ) by  ( wildstrom ) 

, you mean without a permanent file. if needs a 
file , it will and create one if a permanent one does n't exist. 
permanent is generally though. i do n't know why would n't 
be happy with either type  . 3 . 0 . is and so should any program conforming 
to the win  . 



so far , has been enough to avoid the of running any 
file i have been running 3 . 1 . under 3 . 1 . without one. 



from steve 
subject is available for 3 . 0 . 3 . 1 . 
summary looking for  . 
keywords 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization systems , , ontario , canada 
lines 16 
content type text plain us ascii 

all 

i was wondering , is the  ( the actual , not a 
different program with file transfers ) available for 
3 . 0 . 3 . 1 . 

any information would be greatly appreciated. please e mail or post. 

thanks in advance ! 

ranks fan ! 
steve steve 
i ! if you send me one from a st. 
your area , i 'll send one in return. send to , ontario 
 ( do n't forget both email and mailing address ) canada 


from  ( linda d. cornell ) 
subject any video feel like attacking this  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 37 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

hi there , 
i'm having a bizarre video problem within 3 . 1 .  . i have a with 
a 16 video board. i 've been using the standard 
with other similarly computers. 

i am thinking that my problem is with the way it 's screen. 

the problem is that once has been , the start 
changing themselves. at first i thought it was hardware , but if you open 
a full dos program from within the , you do n't have 
any problems until you get back to however , when you initially 
return to , the original get properly. 

also , it is not a uniform color change so if you are in , the 
design on the back of the card it 's original color scheme , but 
the white of the cards will turn grey , then blue , etc. 

the color changes keep getting until finally everything is a dark 
ish black .  . if you pop out to dos and back to the 
gets again. 

if i do n't log into and just do dos things from the 
network , everything is fine. 

i originally loaded the software by it down to the net from the 
other machine i had just finished , then from the net to this 
machine .  . when i into problems , i deleted everything on this machine 
and the net , and tried it again. when that did n't work , i tried 
to no avail. 

any thoughts on things to check out i am totally baffled ! 

thanks in advance for any assistance and ! 



office of research 

subject roman . 06 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 


from  ( mike tipton ) 
subject character codes problems 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
organization power systems control , a division of siemens 
lines 15 

help ! 
i am working on a project that involves using text with foreign language 
characters  ( in this case  . i have been the data 
with 4 . 0 . and then the data as 
files to an workstation .  . the characters show up fine 
under , but appear as funny characters on the workstation .  . the 
workstation is setup for national language support and we have problem 
entering the characters from the workstation keyboard .  . 
on further investigation i found that the character codes used by 
are different  ( for these characters ) than those by the 
code page .  . the codes seem to be the same as the 
workstation .  . what gives , and how can get around it. 
please reply by e mail as i will be out of the office the next few days 
and will not be reading the news. 
thanks. 

from  ( deryk barker ) 
subject re , , risc 
organization college , b . c . , canada 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 47 

 ( lee brian ) writes 
in article writes 
in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember 
reading that the set on risc is rather large .  . 
the difference is in addressing modes risc sets are not 
as is  . 

the original had small sets , and simple ones. the 
idea was that a ) every should be in a single 
cycle and b ) to have no and c ) extensive  . 

a few comparisons  ( from reduced set computers. 
 . 1 , 1985 ) 

year instructions 

ibm 208 
dec vax 11 
ibm 120 0 
risc 1 39 0 
stanford 55 0 

while researching for the vax , dec discovered that 60 of the vax 
is there to support 20 of the set which 
accounted for a mere 0 . 2 . of all instructions executed .  . the 32 
the onto a single chip and used a software 
for these very complex instructions , the full 
included the entire set , was 5 10 times more but 
only 20  . 



32 2 
9 


real , computer science dept. , college , b.c. 
email 
phone 1 

from 
subject 
organization defence science and technology organisation 
lines 19 
reply to 
nntp posting host cis . gov . au . 


request for information 

i have been reading about an organisation called 's relations 
group . i believe they have produced called software 
development  ( or sdk ) and  the of the 
 tools conference ,  assembled by steve  . 

would you be able to help me with a contact name and address for this 
organisation or these  . 

thank you 



pitt systems administrator 
information systems  ( melbourne ) 
street , , australia 
phone  ( 03 ) fax  ( 03 ) 646 email 

from  ( oliver p weatherbee ) 
subject new drivers for cards ! 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of 
lines 42 
nntp posting host edu . 


i have the most recent drivers for the 
chip based display cards to the directory at ftp . edu . 
 ( file is  . they 're very recent , i them from the 
bbs  ( 570 226 2365 ) last night. if you are unable to get them there , 
email me and maybe i can them to some other sites as well. 
i have a local based card  ( vl24 from micron ) but i think 
the drivers work with cards  ( or at least includes drivers for them) .  . 

i found the new drivers to be a significant improvement over the 1.2 version , 
improving my by about 2 million to 9 . 
although this could be the result of intentional on 
's part but i do n't think so. 

from steve gibson 's  ( columnist for info world ) card comparisons 
 ( also found at the ftp site under the name i extracted the 
following for the sake of comparison 


11 . word overall 
steve 's system 
33 
pro 9 . 33 . 10.34 20 . 78 . 8 . 28 . 14 . 90 . 13 . 

my system 
33 
9 . 88 . 8 . 65 . 11 . 18 . 15 . 40 . 13 . 65 . 


its no , but i think its a hell of a deal at about a third of the cost of 
the card and when compared to the other cards included in gibson 's review .  . 

system owner 's , i would be interested to hear your opinions on the 
local  . my system came with a 
drive  ( 120 mb ) and at first was only giving me of about 16 s , 
i am now at 22 s. is this about as good as it gets i ca n't get a 's 
reading because the the calls , at 
least that was what the program said. 





from wo . navy .  ( donald pugsley ) 
subject link segment problem  ( calling run time functions ) 
summary need help with incorrect of run time functions 
keywords link segment 
organization surface warfare center 
lines 40 

i have a small program which i can not get to work 
the program looks like this 


80 

 .  .  . 

 ( lpstr)f1 ) , ) 
... 


long far pascal  .  .  . 

 ( lpstr)f1 ) , ) 
... 



i am using large model under 3 . 1 . after without 
errors , the rc program said 

and resources into fast load section 
copying segment 1  ( 53679 bytes ) 
rc fatal error segment 1 and its 
information is too large for load 
 . make the segment or 
rc using the k switch if the segment must 
be  . 

using the k switch seems to interfere with the proper function of 
the second call .  .  .  . can anybody explain what is going on and or 
how to fix it 


thanks .  .  .  . 
 ( dpugsle@nswc wo . navy . 




from  ( stephen thomas ) 
subject re how can i use the in non applications under 
nntp posting host eng . com . 
reply to 
organization at t 
lines 42 

in article ,  ( lgv mc ) writes 
 ( kenneth kasajian ) writes 

de .  ( oliver kretzschmar ) writes 



hey , 

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the 
in a non application , which runs in an  . we use 
3 . 1 . and have clipper applications .  . exists there any 
routines or something else please mail me your  . 

thanks for your efforts , 



name o . university 
phone 49 31 
fax 49 80 
email de . 

very simple. you have to have the com . or sys . loaded in dos 
before you run  . note that you do n't need to have these files loaded 
to use the in  . 

one addition to this .  .  .  . i do n't know if it applies to everybody .  . for my 
 ( microsoft 400dpi ) to work with dos , i had to use the 
that came with  ( version 8 .  . 8.1 did n't allow me to do 
it for some reason. 


i could never find the on my 3 . 1 . 
, but dos 6 . 0 . also has version 8 . 20 . of com .  . 




stephen thomas at t  ( 404 3522 ) 
email , ! ! sat 


from  ( andrew l. roberts ) 
subject what does the  . format mean 
nntp posting host ie . 
organization trinity college , dublin 
lines 7 

what exactly does the format look like i mean , how is 
the data , , no. of , data i could n't 
find anything in user manual , is there any other reference material 
which would give me this information 

thanks , 
andrew 

from  ( stephen herrod ) 
subject help 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 9 

i posted this to the group and did n't get any response , so 
i 'll try here. i am trying to use the help feature 
available in for and read that you need a separate 
zip . file along with a zip . file to convert this 
to help. has anyone found these files or gotten this 
command help to work 

thanks , steve 


from  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
subject re permanent file 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 39 
reply to  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( mike mpu ) says 

in article  ( cliff ) writes 

your file is every time you  . if you shut off your 
computer without your file remains .  . 20 is on the large 
side , are you running more applications than you really need to at the same time 

this is , of course , not true. the temporary file is 
every time you  . the permanent file is permanent and 
can only be changed by the virtual memory. 

i suspect that either the original poster was and 
the file to  ( and then forgot about it) or 
somebody helped him. 


mike  ( work ) 
electronic research  ( home ) 

when i first setup using the self load mode it about 
20 of file space , my 120 was nearly empty at that time. 
i deleted for a time and recently , now my is nearly full 
and just took 4  . 
i have read somewhere that the best rule of is have your 
permanent file the same size as your regular size. i have 4 
of and took 4 file. works very well. 
in fact with my available space , about 20 it wo n't let me make 
the file any bigger .  . 
you should change your virtual file to 8 i think 
that is what you said your was. 

c  .  .  .  .  . 

this is sent by university of arizona tucson 


death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings 

from  ( tom ) 
subject re net 4 . 
organization michigan state university , chemistry department , e. , mi 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 


in article  ( ashok aiyar ) writes 
in article  ( dave fuess ) writes 

an earlier article in this newsgroup made reference to 
net version 3 . 4 .  . where i tried 
with no luck. it 's probably just a  . 

not a  . it was to ftp . edu . a couple days back .  . 

but i sure would like to get one if it 's real as i too 
have a problem in  . 

version 3 . 4 . uses standard drivers .  . 




it 's still in the pub pc directory as zip .  . 


note new email address ! 

tom 
michigan state university 
chemistry department 



from  ( brendan newman ) 
subject drivers 
organization university , montreal , canada 
lines 8 


hi , i have a 8900 video card and need the updated 
drivers for 1 . where can i get them from an ftp site. 


thanks 

 . 

from  ( david shanks ) 
subject re for 1 . 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 10 

in article  ( robert mee ) writes 
i am looking for a  ( or set ) for my 
video card .  . 

the bbs has these. their bbs phone number is  ( 408 ) 
 . their bbs phone number is  ( 408 )  . sorry , 
i do n't know of any ftp site that has these  ( though i 'd be surprised if 
there was n't one) .  . 



from  ( mike ) 
subject panasonic 
organization university ,  . pa .  . 
lines 2 

does anyone out there know if there are print drivers for for the 
panasonic 9 pin 

from  ( yeo chong ) 
subject re is available for 3 . 0 . 3 . 1 . 
organization state university 
lines 7 

from article , by steve 
i was wondering , is the  ( the actual , not a 

yes ! in the usual ftp sites .  . 




from  ( david ransier ) 
subject problem 
nntp posting host com . 
organization mentor 
keywords 
lines 20 


i am running 3 . 1 . , for work groups and just loaded dos 6. 

happening appears as a problem with file  . i 've 
added some but there appears to be a gray 
that covers the top 2 3 of the row .  . 

these are in a row below the  . the 
look fine , and the label looks fine , but you only see the bottom 
few of the task  . 

anyone else experience this 

thanks. 


david these comments are my own. i paid for 
office (503) them. i own them. they 're not my 
fax (503) , and you ca n't have them. 


from  ( john martin ) 
subject setting up three user accounting system with 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 30 

i am a  ( at best ) in working with pc , and am in the 
process of planning a small accounting system for a small business. 

the particular need in this case is for three machines , each in a 
different office of the same building , each having access to a 
based accounting system. 

my first thought is to set up for on each of the 
machines  ( likely a and two 's ) along with the appropriate 
cards and that come with the for  ( one 
additional user will be necessary) .  . it then seems logical to 
a simple user accounting system , along the lines of or 
m . y . o . b .  . , and fire it all up ! the will more or less act as server with 
a report check attached to it. 
runs of 30 40 feet will be necessary for this setup .  . 

well , this all seems too easy to me. would any of you network out 
there tell me if i am out of my mind here any and all suggestions , however 
trivial , will be appreciated. my apologies if this has been 
brought up before. 

thanks ! 

john 

john e. martin university of sound  
kent ,  ( formerly 

john e. martin university of sound  
kent ,  ( formerly 

from  ( rene magritte ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington 
lines 30 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

 ( wildstrom ) writes 

writes 

is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true with 
and , but has much smaller hardware requirements , 
and does not meet security  ( but that 's okay since it will probably 
be more of a  . there are a few differences , but those are the 
main ones. there was an article about in pc week last august .  . 
the and nt development groups at oft are in intense 
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will 
arise nt will be the server ( n t echonology ) , will be the 
machine .  . it is entirely possible for different 's to work together , 
partly because is just a small nt  ( think of it that way ,  . 
 ( novell creates an on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't 
scorn the concept . ) . 
anyway , do n't expect it soon. 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be 
released next year  ( read see it in 95 ) , so i expect that wo n't be out 
 . 
how does chicago differ from the  ( sort of ) 4. my understand 
, at least from the of 4 is that it 's sort 
of nt a full operating system but lacking server and security 
features that make nt such a bear. is not true 


can anyone tell me how chicago 4 would differ from 
2 2 . x . believe it or not , i'm not trying to start a flame war , 
here. i'm simply curious if there is going to be any feature 
advantage in either of these products (i do not consider the fact that 
it has of approval much of a feature .  .  . ) . 

from  ( ian d. gay ) 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 10 

 ( robert kudla ) writes 

stuff about changing 

the damned thing anyway. this should work with just about 
any obnoxious product that tries to write to the original 
when you in some extreme cases you may not be able 

huh my copy of win 3 . 1 . came on write protected 
 .  ( no  . 

from  ( john grohol ) 
subject re 2 
organization university , , 
lines 35 

k . writes 


1. files are at least 1 3 larger than their type 1 
 . if you are using a , though , be aware 
that will , whereas type 1 will not 
 ( they are  . 

this is n't entirely true. it is true that are 
larger than their , but do get minimal 
 . running 3 . 0 . report , i get 

file type ratio 

 .  ( truetype ) 1.4 1.0 
 .  ( atm ) 1.1 1.0 
 .  ( atm metric ) 11 . 8 . 1.0 

although the files are small , they quite largely .  . 
and , as you can see , even the regular  . files have some  . 

so , doing the math on one such file 

times 1.4  ( compressed ) 
times 1.1  ( compressed ) 

you still win out , even if the times is n't  . 

your mileage may vary depending on program .  . 


when heroes go down , they go down fast john m. , m.s. 
so do n't expect any time to center for psychological studies 
the past. univ ,  . , 


from 
subject is a 
originator 
keywords 
organization computer science dept. of 
distribution usa 
lines 39 

hi , 
have you used mac system 6 . x . or 7 . x . if the answer is positive , you would 
know if is a  . 

days ago people that is not a real  . i can see why 
they have such question. many people. 
mac , but it did a lousy job. for example 

(1) you can not create groups. there is no way to create a group 
in a group.  ( if you know how , please tell me . ) . 
(2) too many system to take care of. 
 ( 3 ) documentation .  . it 's not easy to find the reason why causes 
an error. 
 ( 4 ) group file 
after a group , users have to use file to delete files. 
but if users forget to delete some related files , the will be full 
of nonsense files. 
 ( 5 ) share problem 
once you create two doing compilation and editing in some 
language  ( w o good editor ) , there will be a problem. you just 
can not open or save the program if it is loaded .  . it makes sense to 
prevent from saving , but not  . 

try to compromise between dos and , but they just make 
a dos with capacity doing dos jobs 
the worst thing is they the environment. the purpose 
of should be to simplify the environment , and make pc easier 
to use. 

it 's by no means easy to everybody , but if want to 
keep their , they should the user interface more 
carefully before products distribute .  . 

no flame , please. 


e mail 



subject sound system , text to 
from 
organization systems corporation 
nntp posting host gov . ca . 
lines 4 

hi all news group users 
does anyone know whether there is some software which will let one do 
text to like the sound does 
adam , 

from  ( barry smith ) 
subject program kills my group files ! 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 3 
nntp posting host access . net . 

any clue some times when i enter win 3 . 1 . says that i need to 
a group ! it 's quite ! 


from hannover . de .  ( stefan , swl ) 
subject re nt questions 
reply to hannover . de . 
organization , hannover , germany 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( adriene nazaretian ) writes 
in article ,  ( thomas b. clark ) says 

... 

2. is the support as as program support 
e.g. , will my , , , 
continue to work even if there are no specific nt drivers 

there is a hardware guide to answer these questions. 
there are many drivers for and there are and other 

sound drivers , i dont do a lot with sound on this 
, but recall seeing items for their in the control 
 . there is built in support for systems as well. 

... 

my problem i was n't aware of the fact that i would need an for 
nt when the  . so my question is there any 
available that will allow me to use my  ( non scsi ) for 
if there is one , from which place  ( ftp site ) can i get it 

many thanks in advance 





k 

hannover . de . 
hannover . de .  ( neu  . 17 . 04 . 

die ist private und die 
des , des der uh institution .  . 



from 
subject re utility for win . and system . 
reply to  ( adrian d . 
organization university , uk .  . 
lines 11 

in article  ( svein pedersen ) writes 
i a utility for  ( deleting , adding , changing )  . files for  . 

do i find it on any ftp host 





in 3 . 0 . there is a built in called that is just what you 
need. 3 . 1 . i do n't know .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( kirk membry ) 
subject 
reply to ! ! 
organization private system 
lines 9 

i'm looking for a that looks like off of a 
 ( not the kind of though) 
does anyone know where i can get one 



our age is the age of industry 
! ! 


from  ( brian k servis ) 
subject books for writing thesis in 
keywords , thesis 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 23 

hi , i was wondering if anyone out there knows of any books that give helpful 
hints and on writing thesis papers in  . i know about the 
that comes with word but i want more. i would like to have on 
how to use all the ... , ... , index ... , chapter ... , 
fields that are available in word. i have looked through the help files , etc. 
but they really do n't explain a whole lot. i will post the  ( results(that means 
email me first ) if i get a lot of different suggestions since i think this 
might be of help to lots of crazy students such as myself. thanks. 


brian 

p.s. how do you change the that help uses when printing a topic the 
default is so and hard to read. 


it happened this way 
actual quotes from claims 
what i say may not be what i 
think. what i say may not be the had no idea which 
what thinks .  . way to go , so i him over. 



from  ( clive mitchell ) 
subject not printing correctly 
organization regional network systems group , 
lines 


clive 61 9 
regional network systems 
. . , western australia 

from  ( steven d marcotte ) 
subject data corruption 
organization kansas state university 
lines 31 
nntp posting host matt . ksu . ksu . edu . 


i quit normally to run a special dos , got done with it 
and tried to start  . ok got the title , 
background , dos with an error about  . , yep 
is still there. must be bad , ok pull off 
from a , start , get the title , 
background , dos with the same error. ! fire up the 
good ol' doctor , test , lost ! ok , fix them , 
and look through them , does n't look important. remove the 
directory , and from  . fire up , title , 
background , program , success ! 

i have a 50  ( amy ) with 4 of , 120 , , running under 
dos 5 . 0 . , no special memory or stuff , just the basic 3 . 1 . 
a 12 permanent file using 32 bit access. i mainly use 
to run more that one dos at a time.  ( ie with 
with a dos open , and possibly running in the background . ) . 

i 've noticed that since i started using a few months ago , lost 
have gotten more and more common .  . although i do n't like 
having data just disappear , it really have n't been a problem except 
for today. has anyone else had any problems with lost while 
running and what could i do to fix the problem , i 'd sleep 
better knowing was n't her marbles .  . ) 








from  ( tony debari ) 
subject re strange sizes in summary line 
organization lost in space 
lines 32 

in  ( nicholas masika ) writes 
i have just noticed my doing something strange recently. 
usually , the line at the bottom of the  ( the status bar , i 
guess) the total space and the total number of for 
the current selection .  . if i select a whole bunch of files , i will get 
an exact count. 

recently , i notice it incorrectly this count it 's ! 
if i select a file that is , say , , it correctly   . 
if i select select a file that is 23 , , it  23  , 
not 23 , just 23 ! if i select , it will report only 
in the selection .  . if i select over a worth of files , say 
3 , , 345 it reports 3 ! it 's as if it 's got a problem with 
more than 3 characters ! 

my system 33 , memory , 3 . 0 . , dos 5 , win 3 . 1 .  . i 've run 
the latest virus  ( scan102 , f prot ) and they did n't report anything. 
could i have altered something that the 
of the status bar in the 

it sounds like something one may have set the 1000 's to . in 
 ( under  . this makes 23 , look like 23 . 
and file is chopping off what it thinks is the part of 
the file size. 3 , , 345 becomes 3 . 345 . , and again , file is 
confused by the points where there should be , chopping 
off everything to the right of the first period. 


tony , 
uucp ... ! uunet ! ! p 

a.k.a. , of usenet fantasy league team 9. 

from berlin . de .  ( wolfgang jung ) 
subject logic card 
organization technical university of berlin , germany 
lines 23 
nntp posting host cs . tu . berlin . de . 
version 1.0 
content type text plain 1 
content 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

after setting up for using my logic 
it moved a normal from one place to another. 
my where just the following 33 
the card is with 1  ( not , there are 8 for vram ) 
and the moving of the just looked like it looked at a friends 
25  ( 387dx ) and an normal 

what i was wondering why is it not using the engine which 
is to be on the chip .  . 

how are the experiences here .  .  . 
have i done something wrong 
(i the 3 . 1 . drivers which where 
with the card ! ) 
would be nice if somebody could tell about his experience with this card 
also if there are  ( new(hopefully faster ) around i would love to 
how to get hold of them )  ( ftp or whatsoever ) ) 







from  ( dwayne u ) 
subject sound 1 . 5 . under 3 . 1 . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization university 
lines 35 

article from speech . , sys . ibm . pc . , 
author was 
posted on mon , 5 apr 1993 21 44 24 gmt 

i have a sound 1 . 5 . 

when i try to 1 . 5 .  ( driver that comes with 3 . 
it tell me to my card first ! ! ! 

now , i have found new drivers from creative labs .  . 

but i have problems it 

after removing the  ( old version that come in windows ) 
after creative sound 

i try to creative sound 1 . 5 . wave .  .  .  . 

but when i am in the add or updated 
and double click on this , i have this error 

error 

cannot load creative sound 1 . 5 . wave and  . the file 
may be missing .  . try the again , or contact your system 
administrator .  . 

yes , yes , yes , i have read the 1st . and try every thing ! 

can somebody help me 




internet 

from  ( chak aw ) 
subject is there any documentation for 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 10 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

hi , 

i found what i believe is an feature in my directory , 
, 2 . 00 .  . i am specifically interested in a more 
in depth explanation of the legends in the memory mapping report. 

thanks. 




from  ( ardie mack ) 
subject re does 
article i.d. 272 . 
organization department of plant 
lines 30 

in article  ( kiseok ) writes 
from  ( kiseok ) 
subject re does 
date tue , 6 apr 1993 04 02 54 gmt 
in article ,  ( richard ) writes 
s. writes 

yes , and it is the i 've ever watched .  . it did a 
hard in 20 minutes. 

i found the looks very much like  . 
is it just a strip down version of the later 

i have both and , so i was wondering 
if i need to 

richard 


yes , is come from  . 
if you have utility , do n't bother .  . 


do n't bother if you have or  . they all offer options 
not available in the down version  ( from ! ) .  . examples no 
format  ( to save space ) , probably no direct access , and no 
drive ! 

you need if you use to work on the 
volume .  . 

from david a. 
subject 4 . 0 . vs 2.2 
organization 
lines 23 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host gov . 


i just got off the phone with technical service .  . they 
are now admitting a problem of unknown nature with and 
for  . they have no clue at this time 
and are information on the systems 
which exhibit the problem. anyone having problems the 
in 4 . 0 . under shoud call technical 
support at  . they made no , 
but are actively working on the problem. 

in the meantime , the is to provide a 
selection in to use  ( yuk , pew ) whenever 
you plan to use the and otherwise. i am using 
be to place a little on the with a 5 second 
to  . 


david a. 
, center for 
phone  ( 510)423 ) 
fax  ( 510)422 ) 
lawrence national 


from  ( bret mogilefsky ) 
subject re any good sound conversion program out there 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 34 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article  . li ) writes 
hi all , 

does anyone know if there is a good sound conversion program out 

there  ( like for picture conversion ) 

please send me a copy of your reply ! ! ! 

thanks a lot 




hi .  .  .  . 

the best sound conversion program i 've ever seen is , which 
is from germany .  . i found a copy somewhere in edu . 
a long time ago , but i do n't know what directory it was under .  . it 's 
great at converting files of all types , including mac , next , sun , and 
various pc  .  .  . it 's also a great and editor , with various 
special effects that put  sound to  . it requires a 
for various sound cards .  .  .  . the only one is for the pc speaker 
 ( and even that sounds pretty good ) , but if you 're just using it to convert 
things , you can convert them in and then play them in sound 
 . 

give it a try ! 



why , that 's the second 
biggest head i 've 
ever seen ! 

from  ( drewster ) 
subject re utility for win . and system . 
reply to 
organization university of chicago computing organizations 
lines 16 

in article  ( svein pedersen ) writes 
i a utility for  ( deleting , adding , changing )  . files for  . 

do i find it on any ftp host 




unless i am completely misunderstanding you , try using either or 
 ( found in your system subdirectory ) to edit you  . files. 

the program is cool because it automatically you win . , 
system . , and sys . files to be edited .  . 




from 
subject re does 
reply to 
organization com . 
lines 14 

in article  ( michael panayiotakis ) writes 

well , the subject all does dos 6 do 

yes , both and non drives can be  . i believe 
they use 's  . 




brian t. lift your , friend , with mine 
corp .  . and raise your hand with me 
i'm england stole , i'm ireland spent 
, oh i'm an outlawed 

from  ( jon gough ) 
subject and multiple apart 
organization , national uni .  . 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 150 . 203 . 15 . 

hi , 
i am working on data on the way that users use 
computers. this involves getting subjects to type and use a 
 . i want to be able to watch what they are doing without 
being in the same room. it would be ideal if i could watch 
the on another without the subjects knowledge. 
i believe that the will only work for 
short , ie  . i will need to be away , as 
the  . 
the pc 's are connected to a network and run 3 . 1 .  . 
is there any software that will allow me to watch what is 
happening on another pc 
thanks 
regards 
jon 
trust project 

from  ( kurt nagel ) 
subject re pro 3 . 0 . and equation mode 
nntp posting host fido . edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 37 

 ( kurt nagel ) writes 

hi , 

i'm having a problem with when writing  . if the 
equation past a certain point on a line , the whole thing  . 
if i then try to delete the equation or beyond the equation , 
goes nuts .  . the line counter at the bottom of the 
repeatedly and the only way out is to ctrl del .  . if i have been 
unfortunate enough to save a document with one of these up 
, the document is basically trashed .  .  ( although i have been 
able to fix them by going into an ascii editor and large 
of the document ) 

has anyone else experienced this does know about it 
and or have a patch . 

thanks in advance , 

kurt 


i about this problem today. it has been reported previously 
and there is a fix .  . the problem only occurs when tab characters 
are used immediately the equation frame .  . the work around when 
are expected to touch the right margin is to delete at least one 
tab and use space to the frame  ( or use set frame where 
placed w no text  . , once the page run on has 
occured you are  . so the moral of the story is use only space characters 
to equation  . 

hope this helps the rest of you who have already me with this 
problem. 

kurt 



from  ( xudong liu) 
subject file 
originator 
nntp posting host 
organization university school of engineering , , , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 9 

as a , i just wonder how to files from the sun 
system  ( which is on the network ) to my pc at home  ( not connected 
to the  . i tried to use   to do so , but it was very 
slow and it seemed that getting multiple files at the same time 
was impossible. could anybody give me some hints 

thank you in advance. 



subject re logic card 
from  ( andy gardner ) 
reply to 
organization city council  ( public access ) , , 
nntp posting host govt . 
lines 37 

in article berlin . de . , berlin . de .  ( wolfgang jung ) writes 
after setting up for using my logic 
it moved a normal from one place to another .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . what . i was wondering why is it not using the engine which 
is to be on the chip .  . 

how are the experiences here .  .  . 
have i done something wrong 

the has its own set of drivers .  . you may be using the 
drivers intended for the or by mistake. 

be sure you have the version 1.2 

(i the 3 . 1 . drivers which where 
with the card ! ) 

do n't quote me on this one , but i 'd clear of the 
resolution that allows you to change resolution 
without  . i think it 's  . 

also if there are  ( new(hopefully faster ) around i would love to 
how to get hold of them )  ( ftp or whatsoever ) ) 

version 1 . 3 . drivers are due to be release by soon. 
unfortunately , their not available via ftp , you have to 
up their bbs in the usa .  . i do this from using a 14 . 
to cut down on phone  . it took me around 7 to 
the v1 . 2 .  . 


good luck , 

andy , 
, new 
a , 

from  ( gregory s king ) 
subject questions 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
distribution usa 
lines 17 

just got a based on its good , but am a little 
under impressed .  . first , is it 's in 16 . 7 . mill .  . supposed 
to be comparable to a 8900  ( or other vga ) i 
came up with only ok on  . in 256 , it was between 
good and great .  . second , does anyone know where to get that 
for the . i saw it on or something. does it work better. 

thanks for any help. 

greg 



i i 
i s. king i the quality of life is i 
i engineering i directly proportional to i 
i cal i how fast you drive i 

from 
subject re up after removing an ole server 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( chris wooff ) writes 
a while ago i for as part of an evaluation .  . once 
the evaluation was complete i deleted the software from my pc .  . 

unfortunately there is still a ghost of left when i run 
something like write and go to an object then 
appears on the list of objects i'm offered .  . i looked around all 
the obvious files without success. the next thing i tried 
was looking for the string in every file in the 
directory .  . it turned up in a file called  ( or 
 . unfortunately the file was and so i did n't feel 
inclined to edit it. 

i 'd welcome a solution for removing from the list of ole  . 

chris 


you can edit that file with a utility that comes with 3 . 1 . called 
 ( registration info editor ) 


bob 
i'm going  . you got worms yeah , but i'm going anyway ! 


from  ( r craig stevenson ) 
subject printing on  ( not ! ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 19 

i 've got a with printing on my from word 
for  . 

history when i had a , i had to the macro so that 
it would reverse printing since there seemed to be a bug that 
with printing  . that bug is still present , however .  .  .  . 

now the problem i have is that my print  ( came with 
the i bought in december ) still wants to print the in 
mode .  . however , the the from the 
narrow end (i . e .  . landscape  . how do i get the to print 
the in the correct orientation 

please please please do not post this to the net since 
 ( a ) due to end of the , i ca n't keep up on these groups , 
and  ( b ) i will summarize the best  ( answer(s ) to the net anyhow ! 

thanks in advance , 
craig 

from 
subject re for 1 . 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
reply to 
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park 
lines 21 

in article  ( robert mee ) writes 

i am looking for a  ( or set ) for my 
video card .  . does anybody know of an archive 
site that has these i looked at and it had drivers for 
the stealth card and for generic cards but not one 
specifically for the  . is there one or has 
dropped the out of the development loop. 


i just looked at yesterday and noticed that they did n't have 
anything , but i seem to remember seeing something at in the 
directory .  . i think i got my 3 . 1 . drivers from 
america though. 


is 


president of the 
our job is to play games. our is to consult .  . 

from com .  ( chris claborne ) 
subject anyone use number 9 video card 
summary anyone use number 9 video card 
keywords video hardware 
distribution world 
organization corp .  . , network products san diego 
lines 5 

has anyone used the number ( 9 ) video with 
or nt what do you think 

2 
c 

from  ( tim taylor ) 
subject re 
nntp software pc nntp 
lines 12 
organization data systems 

in article  ( kenneth palmertree ) writes 

hey , 

does anyone know of an ftp site where i can get from. 
i tried using with no such luck. this version of is suppose 
to correct some when using within  . thanks in 
advance ! ) 


you can get  .  .  .  . from ftp . edu . 



from  ( charles emmons ) 
subject version control for mac and pc 
organization services co .  . 
lines 28 

we have a where we are doing development on product for multiple  . 
for the moment we are only working on mac and dos  . the department has 
always used net to transport files to the mac , since it requires a 
filter to strip out the characters. 

until recently no one using any version control to , and as 
a result , the 5 spent a great deal of time files together 
at the end of each week so that a new system could be build .  . we are now trying 
to this process , but are by the lack of software that will 
allow us to share files across pc and mac  . 

i understand that used to do this , but that they no longer support the mac 
product  ( anyone know why ) .  . 

i have seen people ask about development in multiple , so i assume that 
ours is not a new problem. who has had to deal with it what solutions have 
you come up with 

thanks in advance for any and all suggestions via posting or email. if there are 
enough email responses then i will post a of the knowledge. 

charles 


charles these opinions are 
services co .  . charles mine alone , unless 
white ny voice you would like to 
id fax share them. 

from  ( hudepohl pmj ) 
subject re on 
organization  . , , 
lines 49 

 ( liefting w ) writes 
all you out there. 

i bought 3 . 1 .  ( dutch version ) some time ago , and run it on a 
 . i recently my computer to a , , memory , 
 . works real fine , but not with  . 

when playing patience  ( sol ) or , suddenly the system 
i just ca n't move my anymore. 
or 
goes , nothing further 
or 
goes , computer seems to , but stops before 
the end of the memory test. 

once  ( or maybe even twice ) i got a message about some illegal call 
or something  ( accompanied by a adress ) and a close  . when 
it , the application would n't close , though. 

i have n't experienced this problem with other programs than these , but that 's 
mainly because i have n't really used other programs. i suspect them to 
too. 

anything known about this problem.  ( or , better , any available ) 


oh , forgot to tell , if , in , i make the computer  ( higher 
speed , less wait states , both etc ) , the crash comes 
 ( after 10  . or  . if i deliberately slow the system down 
 ( slow speed , wait states , internal external , no 
shadowing ) the crash comes later , but comes .  . 

hope anyone can help. 

 . 



hi , 

i got a problem too , with a 66 , 4 ,  . 
sometimes , when i switch on the computer , it starts (3 . 1 . dutch ) 
to , back to text mode and 
to dos .  . after one or two , the system works fine .  .  .  . 

thanks 
patrick 



from  ( peter p. lei ) 
subject dos 6 and sys . 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
lines 11 


does anyone know what the device is used for in 3 . 1 . 
it 's under the section as 
device c dos 

after to dos 6 on several machines  ( different types ) , some include 
it , some do n't .  . 

any ideas 



from  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
subject re and and 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 37 
reply to  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( rudi maelbrancke ) says 

in i created a permanent file of as 1 . 
recommended me to do that  ( 32bit  . 
if i use , after 1 . i have of memory 
free , if i leave out of my sys . i have 
of memory free , and me a file of  . 


i think you need the 
this will let the expanded be active but not use any , therefore 
this will give you more extended for yet have all the 
bases covered .  . 


i use , with , have of internal memory and a , 


i do not use so i am not familiar with this. 

does anybody knows why this is happening  ( possibly win needs 
some 's to virtual memory , if true , which 's , those 
that can find without including suspicious parts ) 

i need an dos environment , because i develop applications for 
dos using a programming environment. 




c  .  .  .  .  . 

this is sent by university of arizona tucson 


death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings 

from  ( mattias hembruch ) 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
organization stock exchange 
lines 35 

writes 

this is in relation to a question concerning changing the to 
information of  .  .  . 

in a previous article , wrote 

, yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is on the 
, that is it , it is  . not even a editor will find it. you can 
write over the to , but you ca n't change the name it. i 

i can find it with a editor , although i have not tried to it. 
are you sure it ca n't be you may be mistaken about this. ( ) 

rob 



on a similar note , has anyone found out a way to do this with for 
my setup . file was modified on 1  ( all  .  . well , 
of course i forgot about 's stupid arrangement when i got the 
software , and used my name  ( it was paid for by the company i'm doing 
for. when my job is done , it 's their  .  . any ideas before 
i start doing things to a copy of that file 


ps no i do n't want to this software .  . i just want to avoid having 
to buy a new copy in order to change the information and then 
having a copy lying around i do n't use .  .  .  . 

maybe i can get a new 1 .  .  .  . 


my views do not necessarily reflect those of the  . 
e mail 

from  ( scstech admin ) 
subject please on internet access to compuserve 
nntp posting host solomon . 
organization , singapore 
lines 15 

hi , 

sometime ago there are some discussions on compuserve access thru 
the internet .  . but i seem to those articles .  . can someone please 
me where  ( which site ) i can to to gain access. 

i can files as well. 


thanks , 



email 


from  ( derek a. piasecki ) 
subject pro 3 . 0 . and ! does n't like being moved 
keywords pro 3 . 0 . 
organization college , , ca 
lines 24 



has anyone had problems with pro 3 . 0 . after running 
i have not corrupted data due to having other than 
pc running , so that is not it. the first time i try to run 
pro after , it loads , but causes (i think it was a ) 
fault in right before it , with all times 
after that only managing to get to the logo box that first pops up when 
it begins , and then causes a general protection fault in 
at  . i have not been able to fix this problem except 
by pro .  . this has happened twice , with both times being 
after having on my hard drive .  . btw , i am not running 
or any other programs , and if you do n't already know , 
is actually a , despite it 's name. my system is 
a , with of and a  ( oem ) hard drive , etc , but that 
should n't make a difference. 

please email me as i ca n't keep up with the newsgroup , and it will cut down 
on net traffic anyways .  . thanks. 






from de .  ( richard spitz ) 
subject re for and 
reply to de .  ( richard spitz ) 
organization  . f. der ,  ( germany ) 
distribution , misc . , , world 
lines 30 

 ( flint waters ) writes 


now does anyone know if it is possible to use and 
for dos at the same time. 

yup .  . we 're using both and they work just fine. , someday 
will communicate over  . right now we have to load  . 

i use with and all works well. 

hey , sounds great .  . does that mean that works with i thought it 
uses  . 

my problem is that with all its drivers uses up most of my 
, so i 'd hate to have to load many more drivers to make work 
along. 

i read in a german computer magazine that support for is just 
around the corner .  . anybody have any news about this 

regards , richard 



dr. richard internet de . 
tel 49 89 
fax 49 89 
, germany 


subject re 3 . 11 . help comparison ! 
from  ( gregory c franklin ) 
organization university of arizona , tucson 
lines 32 

in article writes 


in article  ( stephen l wyatt ) writes 
i have a question about  ( pc labs thing ) 3 . 11 .  .  . 

i have a 33 and a ahead b  ( 512k ) card and got these results 

2 . 44 . million 
ahead b  ( 640 256 ) , 000 
 ( 800 600 16 ) 1 . million  .  .  . 

i was thinking about to a card .  .  . i read it had about 
8 million  .  . 

on my 
2.5 
02 . 16 . 1 , , 274 
03 . 16 . 1 , , 
03 . 16 4 , , 428 
03 . 256 7 , , 

be very careful with these results ! as i recall , numbers from 
2.5 are calculated differently from 3 . 1 . , and so these are not 
comparable .  . 

however , to answer stephen 's question , replacing the ahead b card with 
a will a cost effective , speed increase for 
 . that or the plus .  .  .  .  . 

greg franklin 


from  ( adriene nazaretian ) 
subject re win nt 
nntp posting host cis . yale . edu . 
organization yale university new haven , usa 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( mark raymaker ) says 

is anyone aware of existing software for or 
is to a future release 
please respond to internet mail 
thanks 


i believe the version of the service is available via ftp on 
ftp . edu . 
in pub pc nt called something like zip . 

there is an index ascii file there , which lists the programs in that directory 
and what they do. 

unfortunately this will also and over your 
primary , so if you really want to run it , get yourself an extra and 
bind it to that. 

otherwise wait for next release , like i am .  . 



from  ( iskandar taib ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 30 

in article  ( scott p. reimert ) writes 

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that nt  ( tm ) is a 
user , as well as , etc. i certainly have n't 
seen this to be the case. there are accounts for each person , 
and even if that is desired .  . i do n't see an 
of use though. 

since running any over a network is going to slow it down by a 
fair amount , i expect nt will be only in the sense 
of  . someone will likely write a for it so 
one could run character based , but based will have 
to be shared by running the on the local  . this is how 
things are up everywhere server are 
taking over from the old terminal  . 

note that the next does this you can always into a next and 
run character based but you ca n't run the  .  ( yeah , i know 
about x , just have n't been too impressed by it .  .  . ) .  .  . 








the only thing worse than 
internet is 
bitnet ! 

from  ( joel aycock ) 
subject re page setup in 
in reply to 's message of tue , 13 apr 1993 20 05 08 gmt 
organization uk , astronomy centre , hawaii 
x news reader vms news 1 . 20 . 
lines 22 

in writes 
i often use to view and print read . me . type files. i often find 
myself to get to print to stop the and delete 
the file from the print because i 've forgotten to the print 
from  . 75 .  ( left and right ) to 0  . the resulting printed 
text looks all up because of the hard returns in the source file. 

... 

i with the margin problem for ages as well , until i 
finally got hold of the editor , and into 
 ( there is no setup to force to default to 
0 . 0 . it 's into code ! ! ! ) .  . 

do a search for  . 75 . , then change the offending to  . 00 . , 
et  . who are the guys who these options anyway 

i'm interested in whether the problem only it 's head for 
certain i'm using an old  ( or is that ex never can 
 . 

 . 

from  ( steve w brewer ) 
subject how do i make work 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

what files do i need to for 2 . 5 . 2 . i have never used 
before , so i do n't have any files for it. what i do have is 
zip . , which i from  . unfortunately , it does n't seem to 
work on it 's own , but needs some more files that i do n't have. i want to run 
both in 3 . 1 . and in dos on a pc (i understand there 's 
versions for both  . what are all the files i need to and 
where can i get them any info would be  . 


steve w w 



subject dos 6 . ) . 
from  ( darren lavallee ) 
distribution world 
organization c 9  .  ( cloudnine bbs ) 
lines 11 


i have a 120 hard drive .  . what should i set the ratio at 
using dos s double do i have to format everything to double 
the full 120 to 240 can i just make a of my hard drive thanx 
4 the help ! 




08 . 
origin 256 35 , 000 files , 6 lines , internet usenet ,  ( 1(1 

from  ( clinton a pierce ) 
subject need help setting for games 
summary ca n't seem to get the right for a few things 
keywords 
organization incorporated , ma 
lines 29 

hi there ! i have a few games that i 'd like to run under 3 . 1 . and ca n't 
get the right. for example  . in my dos , i 
have more than available for programs. this is enough to run  . 
so i build a giving a couple of of extended memory etc .  .  . and run 
it.  .  .  . and then a message about 
using extended memory .  .  .  . etc .  .  .  . and then my goes black  ( just before 
the the would have appeared . ) . 

i also have a pool game that does almost the same thing. it up and 
me for what kind of video i have.  ( cga , , etc .  .  . ) . i 
respond and the goes black .  . 

on both of these a ctrl alt del me back to  . 

has anyone run under or has had the problems i 
describe and fixed them here 's the rest of my setup 

free 
memory 5 free during win 
25 

respond here or on e mail .  . if anyone else needs this info , send me mail in 
a couple of days , and i 'll forward the replies to you. 



clinton a. pierce bear bear after coordinate 



from  ( rudi maelbrancke ) 
subject and and 
nntp posting host cs . ac . be . 
organization dept. 
lines 17 

in i created a permanent file of as 1 . 
recommended me to do that  ( 32bit  . 
if i use , after 1 . i have of memory 
free , if i leave out of my sys . i have 
of memory free , and me a file of  . 

i use , with , have of internal memory and a , 

does anybody knows why this is happening  ( possibly win needs 
some 's to virtual memory , if true , which 's , those 
that can find without including suspicious parts ) 

i need an dos environment , because i develop applications for 
dos using a programming environment. 




from  ( diamond ) 
subject simple question 
organization state university of new york at 
lines 15 

ok , here 's a nice easy question for all you out there. 

when running dos 5 . 0 . under 3 . 0 . , i lose the ability to do a 
print screen. 
i have no problem with this when i'm running dos not under  . 
if it 's , i'm using  6 . expanded memory for 
my  . 
please e mail any responses , since i do n't get to read the news too often. 
thanks in advance. 





go heavy or go home 

subject library for 
from  ( guan chua ) 
organization information exchange 
lines 13 


hi ! i will like to know if there is a library for out 
there. 

i have several lots of source code written by past a ps in , and 
recently have needed to them to  .  .  . i would like to avoid a 
major code rewrite if possible maybe a library is all i need 

please help reply by e mail to 


c  ( nz ) ltd , p o box 11 , ,  . 
tel .  . 64 4 fax .  . 64 4 

subject re need longer 
from  ( richard mayston ) 
distribution world 
organization industrial research ltd .  . , new  . 
nntp posting host 
lines 10 



in article  ( howard feldman ) writes 
in ,  ( larry paul highley ) wrote 


is there a utility out there that will let me use longer than 
the standard 8 . 3 . format .  . 

yep , it 's called ! 

from  ( jun cui ) 
subject how to hold the control to a object 
keywords , , 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization department of computer science , university 
distribution misc . 
lines 30 

i'm using 's  ( version 3 . and trying to get some data 
in a object. however , when the calling program 
the object , it gives up the control to the object , and keeps 
executing the next statement. i would like the calling program , after 
the object , to wait until the object is closed. 
can i do that my program may look like 

class public 

... 


 .  . ) . could the calling program be a c function 
... 

new  .  . ) . 
 ( getapplication( )  ( makewindow(mywinobj ) 
 ( show(sw shownormal ) 

next statement i want the program to wait here until 
... is closed so that i can get some data back from 
...  . i the style to be 
... , did n't help. is there any other way 
... to execute the object so that the calling 
... program wo n't give up the control any help would 
be appreciated. thanks. 
to talk to the lord with ps 2 through 




from  ( beng tay ) 
subject re logic card 
organization singapore notes server 
lines 17 

in misc . ,  ( andy gardner ) writes 

in article berlin . de . , berlin . de .  ( wolfgang jung ) writes 

version 1 . 3 . drivers are due to be release by soon. 
unfortunately , their not available via ftp , you have to 
up their bbs in the usa .  . i do this from using a 14 . 
to cut down on phone  . it took me around 7 to 
the v1 . 2 .  . 

could you please to any of the ftp sites  ( such as 
ftp . and announce it here this will benefit 
people does not have access to their bbs in usa  ( like me  ) 

thanks a lot. 



from  ( charles u. farley ) 
subject where to get card video drivers 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 8 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host access . net . 
summary where to get card video drivers 
keywords , 

does anyone know where i can ftp or somehow else acquire the latest 
video drivers for an the only i have 
is for 3 . 0 .  . does anyone know if is still in business 

thanks ! 

charles u. 
average of board of ed .  . 65 

from  ( thomas beagle ) 
subject re with on 
organization international ltd .  . 
lines 14 

in article  ( wim van holder ) writes 
is it possible to use net on a machine that uses to connect to a 
i tried it with older versions ( 3 . but got an invalid packet 
class error or something the like .  .  .  . 

how are you attempting to do that 

are you using the program this provides a packet on 
top of the  . 


thomas work 64 4 o 
technical writer home 64 4 , 
, for  . will work for dog  . ( ) ( ) 

from  ( yong t kim ) 
subject 
organization university of amherst 
lines 7 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 


i tried to a foreign language application 
that required a file named  . i checked all of my 
3 . 1 . for this file , but could not 
find it. does anybody have any idea what this file is for and 
where one could get it from 


from  ( david shanks ) 
subject re 6 vs.  managing your money 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
keywords 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 89 

in article  ( michael wiesenberg ) writes 
anyway , is anyone aware of a study of the two programs 
or can someone just give me their own personal maybe 

pc magazine , 12 , 1993 had a review of several personal 
, as did pc computing , 1993 .  . pc world , 
december 1992 also had articles about and managing your money. 
i can email you copies of these articles if you ca n't find them at your 
library. 

i 've been using managing your money for several years , and i have 
several friends who use , though i 've not used it myself. my 
overall impression is that is a financial accounts 
while managing your money will help you more completely your 
 . 

here are some features that i believe managing your money and share 

the ability to keep records for each of your financial accounts 
checking , savings , charge , cash , or  . you can reconcile 
your account statements with the records the program keeps .  . 

the ability to make a and track your spending against that 
 . 

a which will allow you to use the bill 
paying service to pay your via your  . 

the ability to print on your  . 

the ability to keep loan records and set up automatic loan  . 

the ability to import stock quotations to keep your accounts 
up to date. i know managing your money can do this automatically 
via  . probably can as well , but i'm not sure about it. 

the ability to tax information to popular tax 
programs. 


here are some features that i believe managing your money has that 
does not 

a tax prediction  . this looks at your accounts and to 
your tax for the coming year .  . it 's to fine 
tune your so does n't get his due too early .  . 

an and vital records  . this is a place to keep 
records of your policies as well as other vital records .  . 
it can also your life  . 

a financial analysis  . this compound interest , 
effects of inflation , loan term or interest , to 
for bonds , savings account , days between dates , and 
loan  . it also has functions to help you 
decide whether to your , whether you can afford 
a particular home , whether a particular property is a good 
investment , whether you should buy or , and whether 
a particular investment 's cash is adequate for your situation. 
this can also help you plan for and for helping 
your kids with their  . 

a net worth  . this is a place to record all your 
and  . your net worth can be from this 
information. any or recorded in other 
are automatically included here. 

a  . this includes a small word processor , a card file 
you can use to names , addresses , phone numbers and other vital 
information about friends and , a perpetual , a 
, a to do list , a list , an 
list , and a place to record your phone calls  ( for those who need to 
track such  . your , and to do list 
can be made to display automatically when you start the program .  . 

there are probably some things listed above that has , but i'm almost 
sure that does n't do everything i 've listed .  . if i'm wrong , i'm sure 
of will flame me to a  . 

one thing that has that managing your money does not yet have is a 
version. software is to be working on a version 
of managing your money for release late this year .  . 

i hope this information is of use to you. i 've found managing your money to 
be a very program for keeping my financial records .  . on the other hand 
i know many people who are equally as happy with  . if has all 
the features you need or want , i 'd go with it. if you find any of the managing 
your money features that does n't have to be useful , i think it 's well 
worth the price .  . 

from  ( dave fuess ) 
subject net 4 . 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 11 
nntp posting host gov . 

an earlier article in this newsgroup made reference to 
net version 3 . 4 .  . where i tried 
with no luck. it 's probably just a  . 
but i sure would like to get one if it 's real as i too 
have a problem in  . 


david a. 
, center for 
phone  ( 510)423 ) 
fax  ( 510)422 ) 

subject wanted 
from  ( tonis kelder ) 
nntp posting host ee . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 lines 13 
lines 13 




i am looking for a 3 . 1 . for 
 ( cornerstone technology , inc ) 
video card .  . does anybody know , that has these is there one 

thanks for any info , 

to 

to 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject re drivers 
lines 12 

in article ,  ( brendan newman ) says 

hi , i have a 8900 video card and need the updated 
drivers for 1 . where can i get them from an ftp site. 


i have the same card ,  . when i checked , the latest for 
3 . 1 . is dated  . in fi . in drivers video .  . 
if you find a better version  ( updated ) please let me know , thanks. 




from  ( berthold k . p .  . horn ) 
subject re 
article i.d. life . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 29 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 20 20 28 gmt 


in article  ( lamont downs ) writes 

so good that there is n't any whether or not is turned 
on or not. is it worth it to run at all especially with these 
better ... and 

there are some that are only available as ps  . if you 
have a ps that you want to use , use  . otherwise , it is 
a waste of system resources .  . 


or , if you need to use a service bureau and they 're only set up to use 
type 1  . from what i 've heard  ( pure hearsay ) the results of 
as type 1 is not as good as using high quality type 1 in 
the first place. 

unless you  to file with the correct resolution set for the 
final output device  ( image  . a problem with in 
is that they do get converted to format ok , and the is even used 
while this is done , but the resulting are not  . the result 
is that they will work fine on a device of the resolution assumed by the 
when the ps file is generated , but they will not look 
good when printed at a different resolution .  . 

so when you print to an attached ps , with the ps set up for 
this results , may be quite good. but if you take a ps file made for 
that and run it on a device of different resolution  ( such as an 
image setter ) , then the results may not be so good. 

from  ( hamish moffatt ) 
subject re on or in 
organization cloud bbs , , australia .  . 
lines 53 

 ( joseph paparella ) writes 

i am having a problem the in to use 
with  . 

i do n't believe is the problem. i tried a on ,  ( the 
usual place ) and it still did not like it. simply , seems to only 
support on or  . the funny part is , though , that 
's own was quite happy with my 
sitting on  . why ca n't use the , or at least 
support ) 

3 
5 
7 
4 

i 've tried this too. actually , i wanted to be able to use my second 
 ( com3 irq5 ) from  . it still will not talk to that  . i 
created two ,  ( for my on irq4 ) and 
 ( for my on  . it will not talk to the 
at all. 

 ( 1 , 5106830617 ) that their does not support and in  . 
their suggestion was that the  or ps 2  setting in 
setup would work. it does not. 

nor here.  ( windows 3 .  . 

i can not believe that it is not possible. at worst , you would need a special 
version of  a  that looked at and instead of 
and  . i know that and are normally , but i 

i 've seen nothing like that. i 've with 's 
too , with no  . 

have no attached .  . a side note is that i would really like to assign 
to some higher , because my board uses  ( right now , 
i'm not using com4 ) , but no that i know of allows other than 
2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 7. 

if you have a pro , it should support as well. 
finally , a board that supports 9. the only one i have  ( except my 
 . 




, the australian public 
cloud bbs , 3 access network association .  . 
australia mail 
software .  . voice 61 3 for information. 


from  ( simon rowe ) 
subject re codes  ( dos sorry for wrong group ( 
organization communications 
lines 13 

internal dos commands  ( certainly 3 . 3 . and before ) do not set the 
code. this is a pain if you want to do anything which for 
successful deletions etc. the best suggestion is to use which 
does return you codes .  . it also has move command , 

simon .  . 


simon , 
communications ltd , 
, condition brain raised at 
england .  .  ( 5412(0 ) 


from  ( john bongiovanni ) 
subject summary c 
organization orbital engine company 
lines 

well , i'm amazed at how successful this exercise was. i received 20 
responses and 4 requests for summary .  . thanks to everyone who made it 
possible. 

on my own i was able to find out about , , and q e. 
and are c without  . q e is a application 
that can be communicated through calls , where you send a 
string and receive the results. 

most people wrote to tell me about the paradox engine from  . other 
products mentioned were 's , , , , 
, and q e. only , , , and q e have  . 

for myself , i decided on , mostly because it has an c 
version that runs under dos , unix , etc , and includes the 
source code , and is important in my application .  . it works 
with , , or clipper files. 

however , i feel that 's looks very promising .  . 
it 's mostly a of building and , and 
results. as the responses say , it 's available via ftp , 
except it 's effectively without two 
the programmer 's reference and the guide . moreover , 
does n't actually interpret and with , that 's 
up to drivers that should be provided by  . also , 
it 's only  ( it 's actually an extension to the  . 
nevertheless , it 's a start at a interface standard , and should 
make life interesting in the future. 

here 's my original post , followed by the responses , separated by 
a line of ( ) .  . 

does anyone know if or have for 
their respective  ( paradox , foxpro ) from within c programs 
i 'd really like to be able to build a string and pass it 
to a function which returns the results in some format .  . failing 
that , any other access would still be better than nothing. 

i 'd also like to hear of third party for doing the same thing. 

if other people are interested , i 'll prepare a summary of what i'm 
told and post it. 

thanks to all. 



has a product called paradox engine that does just what you want. 
the current version is 3 . 0 . , which is fully compatible with  ( ack ) paradox 
4 . 0 .  .  ( why the versions are different , i do n't know. engine 2.0 was 
compatible with 3 . 0 . and 3 . 5 .  .  . ) .  . it consists of a rather broad 
library of functions for files from both pascal (i think 
pascal 5 . 5 . and up ) and c (i think either or  . 

now .  .  . reading the box .  .  .  . it 's paradox engine 
. works with any c c , c 6 . 01 . or later , 
c for , pascal 6 . 0 . or later , for 1.0 or 
later. for applications , 3 . 0 . or later or c c 7 . 0 .  . it 
does have support for object  .  .  . 

i have n't had a real chance to really use it myself .  .  .  . but it looks fairly 
complete .  .  .  . i'm planning to use it this summer .  . 




mail center cambridge , ma usa 




has a product which is called paradox engine. 
i do not know about  . 

the paradox engine i know very well , and it 
not a replacement for , but it will you to 
save and records , has locking , et al. supposedly 
the paradox for was on top of it. 




charles phone . 
technical support  ( 617 ) 
software , inc. fax . 



, do n't let children grow up to be ... 





i know has a library of routines for paradox from within 
a c program .  . they recently came out with version 3 . 0 .  . this works with both 
and 's c  . 


 ( 708 ) 
! ! 




has put their into the public domain it 's 
big (i believe 1 . 8 . mb ) , but worth over a 
fast link .  . look at ftp . net . in  . 

also some are starting to provide i 
just got one for , not exactly cheap at , but it 
allows programs in c or  ( under dos or windows ) to talk 
to data bases using functions in your code. 



walter 







check out the from  . it is available on 
ftp . net .  . this is the way that we 've 
chosen to access from all of our  . 



in and nt development 
ii call for information about our tool  . 
ii miller 
ii proficient solutions , inc. 
so. 5 , mn 





the paradox engine which is a c language interface to 
paradox , , , ans files. they also sell 
which includes the engine plus a collection  ( with source ) of c classes 
for using the engine. 








i have paradox engine. it is a library of functions  ( large model ) 
for the paradox 's  . it seems to be working fine , 
but i never did try it  . it costs 200 . 

hope it will help you .  .  .  . 


from david 



provides a called paradox engine which can access 
and use the files as many other things. 

 . 



bell 
department of and digital technology 
of computing , campus , monash university , australia 



paradox engine is the library for paradox . 







the paradox engine which has all the paradox calls in it. 
its hardly though. you can do searches on key fields and on 
fields , but no comparison operators like , .... 

so its pretty painful  ( in my opinion ) do do anything besides simple 
and  . 

i'm currently using it (i have an copy .  . ) . and i 've linked it in to 
some entry i 've written. 

the engine library about to the size of the program , but you can 
load it as an using 's  . 

now claims that later versions of the engine will have support 
but they do n't really expect it till late in the year .  .  .  . or even next year 
they are trying to get parties to help out .  .  . 

if you have any other questions let me know .  .  .  . 

mike 





yes , their paradox engine  . it has c , c , and 
pascal , although the underlying interface is in  . well at 
least for version 2.0 of the engine which i have  ( costed at  . 
they now have version 3 . 0 . of the engine , and a separate c class 
for it. 



michael d. 
, 

uunet ! ! 




i 've used for paradox  ( new version is almost ready for paradox 
4 . to access paradox files from c. its pretty good. not 
though. have heard of paradox engine or some such which is 
supposed to do likewise , but not sure of what it is exactly. 

hope this helps , good luck ! 
chris 

from  ( christopher fernandes ) 



their paradox engine (3 . . it 's a library of functions 
for paradox files. it comes with for 
c 7 . 0 . 
3 . 1 . 
pascal  ( v ) 
and i believe it comes with pascal win as well. 
the c come in both dos and flavors  ( the win stuff 
being  . 

when i got it , it also came with reports which 
is a report  . it allows you to create a generic 
form and use it within a compiled program using engine. i do n't 
know if they still offer it or what the current price is , i paid 
something like 50 60 for an from the earlier version though .  .  .  . 

hope this helps .  .  .  . 

david 

the it is easier to change the 
internet to fit the program 
also than vice  . 
and author unknown  ( but very wise ) 





if you want to do from within your programs , check out  . i do n't 
have their address oops yes i do ! 
systems , inc. 
dr 51 
, ca  ( usa ) 

phone 408  ( voice ) 408  ( fax ) 

ask for the win  . 

it looked good to me (i have a background in embedded in this 
looked real  . it 's a little expensive , but if you order the 
and then just wait they will probably send you a special offer that 'll 
probably run about us. good luck ! 

best , 
tom 

from  ( tom delosh ) 




has the paradox engine library. it has for 
both c and pascal to access paradox files under dos  . 
but for paradox , i believe you 'd have buy have the link 
since itself is n't  . i 've used the engine 
for over a year now and have been pretty satisfied with it. 
under dos , it 's a real  . it on about to the size of 
your programs. 

tim ma 
associate programmer 
university of utah 
email 



i do n't know about , but the paradox engine for c c 
pascal  ( in one  . and if you want compatible files there is a 
library called from software that works with c c . 

from  ( david j. ray ) 





we 're using q e to do what you describe .  . 
it 's a set of 's through a common to talk to most of the 
major  . we 're using it to build an application that 
several using  . all access using q e is 
done using  . the is available through in  . i 
believe it is produced by systems in the us. we have no 
association with or systems other than being satisfied 
 . feel free to mail me for further information. 

chris 
 ( programming for national parks and service ) 


chris box 
research programmer university of new england 

 ( 067 ) 




paradox engine 3 . 0 . provides a complete set of c for 
paradox  . however , it seems that it supports 
only c and c. when i tried to 
the engine 's applications with the c c 
 ( 32 bit ) , it complains that the library file 
is missing even though i am quite certain that the file is not 
part of c or the engine. anybody have any success with 
other c compilers 







i'm currently developing an  . with 's paradox engine 
for c  ( it also comes in pascal ) , which has recently gone to version 3 . 0 . 
(i . e .  . , engine 3 . 0 . is compatible with paradox 4 . 0 . , and  . 
w 3 .  . there are indeed c for fox access , but i ca n't think of the 
names i'm sure someone has already written you in that regard 
(i think i just saw an add for a fox in the c users journal , which 
is a good place to look for this type of in general , by the  . 
i 've been paying my to learn a lot of the of eng .  . over the 
past year would n't recommend it for a complex  . but i'm 
staying with it for now it 's like a bad marriage i 've got too much time 
in learning and work ! but if your interest is limited 
to a simple single user interface  ( you want to build your own engine , 
i take it) , engine will do the job easily it does n't sound like 
you 'll be into any of the  . if you do , write me i may 
be able to point you in the right direction .  . 

from ca . us .  ( raymond ) 



has a paradox engine and 3 . 0 . which gives you 
a c  ( and assembler ) to paradox  . this is part of 
's object component  . they have technical 
on , , and other products of theirs .  . 

from  ( james d. mcnamara ) 
james d. 
55 drive reading , ma 




john , systems , orbital engine company , , australia 
, 
opinions expressed are my own and not those of my organisation .  . 

from  ( robert lipman ) 
subject call for navy 
expires 30 apr 93 04 00 00 gmt 
reply to  ( robert lipman ) 
distribution usa 
organization division , , , md 
lines 66 


call for 

navy scientific and virtual reality 

tuesday , june 22 , 1993 

division , surface warfare center 
 ( formerly the david research center ) 
, maryland 

 ( navy engineering software system ) is a 
one day navy scientific and virtual reality  . 
the purpose of the is to present and exchange information for 
navy related scientific and virtual reality programs , 
research , developments , and applications .  . 

are on all aspects of 
navy related scientific and virtual reality. all 
current work , works in progress , and proposed work by navy 
organizations will be considered .  . four types of are 
available. 

1. regular 20 30 in length 
2. short 10 in length 
3. video a stand alone  ( author need not 
the seminar ) 
4. scientific or virtual reality  ( byoh ) 

accepted will not be published in any , 
however , and other materials will be for 
 . 

authors should submit a one page abstract and or to 

robert 
surface warfare center , division 
code 
, maryland 

voice  ( 301 ) fax  ( 301 ) 
e mail 

authors should include the type of , their , 
addresses , telephone and fax numbers , and addresses .  . author 
papers should designate one point of contact .  . 

the submission is april 30 , 1993 .  . 
of acceptance will be sent by may 14 , 1993 .  . 
materials for reproduction must be received by june 1 , 1993 .  . 

for further information , contact robert at the above address. 

please distribute as widely as possible , thanks. 




robert internet 
david model or 
and  ( 301 ) 
structures group , code  ( 301 ) 
, maryland 

the sixth sick 's sixth 's sick .  . 


from  ( dixon berry ) 
subject mail order sales , , program 
organization eastern illinois university 
lines 20 


surely some one of you is familiar with what a mail order company goes 
through. this company has only a few products , but thousands of  . 
i need a sales , , and program to handle the thing , 
but i need to be able to it myself , own the source , etc. anyone 
willing to sell me the basic stuff  ( in any development language ) i 'll 
be willing to pay about 1 , 000 to. 

it has to be ready now. i need this sort of solution immediately .  . with more 
time i 'll just develop one myself. if you can have me a in 
two weeks , you can make some quick cash .  . 


i see the light 
at the end of the , now , 
eastern illinois university thanks bill clinton 
library someone please tell me 
computer resource center it 's not a train 



subject roman . 07 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 


from 
subject re , win 3 . 1 . , 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) writes 
in article  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) writes 

anybody seen running the 
sorry , do n't know the version of the  ( no indication in the menus ) but it 's a recently 
gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from bbs but wondered 
if anyone else had seen this. 


as a followup , this is a co 's machine .  . he has the latest 2 . 03 . drivers .  . 
it only happens using the  . sometimes it takes a minute 
or so for the to out , but it eventually does in this mode .  . i 
something is on memory the video card wants. i excluded 
in the line and in system . the problem  . 
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components .  . 
it is a 2 with an  ( 24xx )  . ah well , 
i was this was some kind of  known problem  or somebody had seen it 
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here 
usually are far more in the know. 




i have n't seen this particular problem , but another place you might 
check is if your is doing video wants that 
turned off. that might cause a memory conflict as well. good 
luck. hope this helps , chris , u. 

from j de .  ( joerg meyer ) 
subject pc speaker 
keywords video speaker 
reply to j de .  ( joerg meyer ) 
organization university of  ( germany ) 
lines 28 


software that comes together with the 
is designed to work together with the 
 ( from the same  . 

since i do not own a is there a possibility 
to use the pc speaker to play files for 
the ( . video files ) 

i think what i should have is a device for 
the media that the pc speaker 
instead of the card  ( something like  . 

has anybody heard of such a 
or am i on the wrong track 

any information on this ! 

 ( please send e mail , since i do n't watch this group regularly . ) . 


v 
e mail j de . 
o o university of , germany 
u this space for ! 




from  ( sean eckton ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
keywords 
article i.d.  . c 
organization fine arts and communications young university 
lines 27 
nntp posting host edu . 

the is slow .  . this is in comparison to the other i 
mentioned. i have no idea how the compares .  . 

the interface between 1 . and the is just , i 've not 
had any problems with it. 

i just bought a 200 a couple of days ago. i compared it to the 
print of an and knew that the was n't for me. the 
200 is pretty fast and really with good quality .  . i can compare it 
with the and they look almost identical ( 
depending on the kind of  . i do n't have problems with the ink not 
being , it seems to very fast .  . probably within a second .  . since 
is giving a 50 until the end of may , it is really a good buy .  . 




computer support representative 
college of fine arts and communications 

d 
young university 
, 
 ( 801)378 ) 




subject re 3 . 11 . help comparison ! 
from 
distribution world 
organization industrial research ltd .  . , new  . 
nntp posting host 
lines 25 



in article  ( stephen l wyatt ) writes 
i have a question about  ( pc labs thing ) 3 . 11 .  .  . 

i have a 33 and a ahead b  ( 512k ) card and got these results 

2 . 44 . million 
ahead b  ( 640 256 ) , 000 
 ( 800 600 16 ) 1 . million  .  .  . 

i was thinking about to a card .  .  . i read it had about 
8 million  .  . 

obviously this is much much greater .  .  .  . but is this in 256 color mode or what 
is this a good card .  .  . street . price is about  .  .  . 

on my 
2.5 
02 . 16 . 1 , , 274 
03 . 16 . 1 , , 
03 . 16 4 , , 428 
03 . 256 7 , , 
richard 


from  ( clive mitchell ) 
subject not printing correctly 
organization regional network systems group , 
lines 


clive 61 9 
regional network systems 
. . , western australia 
v 

from k . 
subject re file with dos 6 . 0 . 
summary factor 
organization at t 
lines 50 

in article  ( james dean barwick ) writes 
... 
more on files .  .  .  . 

i'm sure everyone who has an part of their hard 
has seen the message you have a file greater than the suggested 
size .  .  . will only use the size suggested .  .  . do . you n't to create this 
file anyway or something like that. 

well , a friend of mine  ( robert ) called and asked them what and why. 
what they said is that the amount of free space and 
that number by 2. then it for the largest block 
of free space .  . then suggests the smaller of the two numbers. 

they also said that under absolutely no circumstances .  .  . none . !  .  .  . will . 
uses a file larger than the suggested size. well .  .  . that . 's what he 
said ! 

i call . if this is true why does report the memory is 
available to me if it 's not going to use it 

i think the support was and confused the space 
limit with the virtual address space limit .  . as far as the is 
concerned , you are limited only by the amount of free space .  . 
the limit that causes the message , will only use ... , is the 
amount of virtual address space that the virtual memory will 
create , and this is a function of the amount of free memory that you have 
when starts .  . 

in the section of system . , you can a 



the following description is from the resource 

this entry the what determines the amount of 
address space the will create for the system , which is 
by up the amount of available physical memory to 
the 4 and then that value by the value 
for . increasing this value increases the 
amount of available address space , causing the size of data 
structures to increase .  . this also increases activity 
proportionately and can slow down the system. you can a 
value between 1 and 20 .  . the default is 4. to change this entry , 
you must edit system .  . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject re help with changing logo 
reply to 
distribution usa 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
lines 32 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 

in article  ( charles 
u. farley ) writes 

i know this is probably a faq , but .  .  .  . 

i the s w for my card , and it my 
logo files. when i start now , it has the 3 . 0 . logo instead of 
the 3 . 1 . logo .  . 

i thought the files that controlled this were 

system 
system 

i these files , but it did n't change the logo .  . anyone know what 
the correct files are 

thanks. 


somewhere edu . or mirror ) there is a program 
called zip . that does the trick. it works great .  . i believe the 
reason why you ca n't change the files you mentioned is that the logo is 
actually into the  ( somebody please 
correct expand on this) 

eric 



charles u. 
average of board of ed .  . 65 

from  ( leo lim ) 
subject 3 . 0 . , is it okay 
article i.d. doug . 1993apr6 . 
organization college of engineering , univ .  . of wisconsin madison 
lines 7 

just as the title suggest , is it okay to do that 
i t got yet , but i heart is less than 3 . 0 .  . 
what are by doing that 

any comments will be appreciated. 

martin 

subject re utility for win . and system . 
from stephen gibson 
distribution world 
organization state university 
nntp posting host computer edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 32 



in article , 
writes 
sorry , i tell exactly what i need. 

i need a utility for automatic  ( deleting , adding , changing ) of 
 . 
files for  . 
the program should run from dos or the program run a 
under  . 

i will use the utility for the win .  ( and other files ) on 
 . 

do i find it on any ftp host 




if you are managing pc 's on a network , get the network 
tools provided by either software or design systems. 
among the many features , you 'll find that can help you to 
 . files on users  workstations or home  . 
this is software and well worth the money. to date , i have 
not found anything available via ftp that could compare .  . reply to the 
address in my  . sig . for more info .  . 

stephen gibson , system support 
state university 
email 


from 
subject up with green lines down the 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 18 

hi , i am using a memory to run a variety of 
programs , and have had problems off and on with lock up , 
but now i am trying to run an application that wants a lot of memory 
over a period of time  ( playmation 24 bit rendered ) and it is 
locking up  . i have an w which i have 
tried in each of the video modes , i have excluded the of 
video memory from from the use of , 
have tried the from large to  ( to 
prevent swapping ) and i have 'd all 's and in 
and , and even tried using the default program , 
my  . even with a minimal system , no , no , 
no 's , no and exclusion of video regions it still 
up completely  ( no control , no response to anything except 
, and even that does not stop by the standard 
, but simply does a full  . just about out 
of ideas , anyone out there have any thanks 
tom 


from  ( peter goudswaard ) 
subject re more 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 23 

 ( dave laudicina ) writes 

has anyone experienced a at all using this 
card .  . is only in  . i have replaced card and am waiting on 
latest drivers .  . also have experienced general protection fault errors 
in on tools option and in setup .  . 
i had a but was getting genral protection fault errors 
in an application .  . these card must have terrible 
quality control to let products on the market with so many  . 
what a  . running on gateway 2000 50 .  . 
dave l 

might the problem not be with the video instead many of our 
, as they age , develop on white and bright  . 


peter 
 ( preferred ) 



there 's no gift like the present 
's observation 

from  ( phil carmack ) 
subject re pro drivers bad 
organization computer 
lines 39 

in article ,  ( tom 5 4341 ) writes 
in article ,  ( robertson ) writes .  .  .  . 
does anybody know the ftp site with the latest drivers for the 

thanks 

the latest release is 59 and can be found at ftp . edu . 
in the pub pc ... directory structure as zip .  . i checked with 's 
bbs last and there were no past 59 .  . 

we have the local card and i noticed that i get garbage around the 
edges of a when i move it. has anybody else noticed this also 
i have the local card also , and do n't have any such problems with it 
now , but this is the second card i 've gotten the first card did n't work 
in mode correctly. maybe they still have some quality control problems. 
i would suggest checking with (i went through the i bought the 
card from since the problem showed up  . i never was able to 
get through to 's technical support number .  . 

i sure like the way the card performs though. i have the 
pro local , and it is fast even in mode .  . 


cheers , 


tom .  . 

thomas b. internet 
mayo clinic if you do n't know where voice  ( 507 ) 
200 first street sw you 're going you 'll never fax  ( 507 ) 
mail stop get there. 
rochester , mn 




philip  ( 408)987 ) 
computers , inc. 

from  ( mike palmer ) 
subject re on a help .  .  .  . 
organization computer corporation 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 31 

f writes 


... stuff del 'd for bandwidth 's sake. 

why sigh if you do n't have more than of memory using a 
with is a waste of memory. will access better 
as memory. as to why what you did did n't work , it is because 
and are inside the group files. all of the sudden things 
went from drive c to drive e ! however , if you wanted to copy an application 
up to the and re setup it up , that should work normally , but as 
previously stated , this will only hurt things unless you 've got more than 
of and are using above 16 as the  . 

i personally have 's of and run a with a great deal of 
success. however , if you are looking to speed up , the three things 
i 've noted that work the best are 
1 ) a card 
2 ) a co processor  ( even an helps ! ) 
3) some other besides (i 've tried several , 
and for and give me major 
as well . ) .  . 

i think the purpose the original poster was trying to serve is to avoid the 
significant amount of access that does on  . it 's like 
it 's trying to it 's bit in wearing the damn drive out. i estimate it 's only 
reading a of programs data , but from the the drive gives , it 
sounds like they are all over the drive  ( my drive is however 
 . what is it that takes so much fuss .  . perhaps if 
would take the trouble to this process , less people would 
be wanting to find a solution themselves. 

from  ( bruce steinke ) 
subject re program two questions 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 90 . 30 . 
reply to  ( bruce steinke ) 
organization evans computer corp .  . , salt city , 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( gerry swetsky ) writes 

(1) is it possible to change the in the program groups i 'd like 
to give them some individuality .  . 

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program 
i know , will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i 
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt . 

i use , an to program  . it allows (1) for sure , i 
do n't know on (2) .  . anyway , give it a try. i like it a lot and it 
right away it can be found at ftp . edu . 129 . 20 . in 
pub pc zip . 

bruce 

bruce f. never know when you 're going to 
need a good piece of  . 
software technical support engineer 
evans computer corp .  . my mail , my opinions 

from  ( andrew jacobs ) 
subject re using foundation classes with c 3 . 1 . 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 7 

thanks for the info .  . i assume that this is for 1 . 0 .  . does anyone 
know if this will work with 2.0 , or what else needs to be done 
thanks. 


andy 


from  ( jamie scuglia ) 
subject for win 3 . 1 . 
organization public access unix , australia 
lines 8 
nntp posting host org . au . 

are there any out there for 3 . 1 . 
by a , i mean something like the workstations 
have multiple under x. there is a at the bottom 
of the which allows you to select different  . 
it the problem of having of open on the one 
screen. instead , you can spread them amongst different 
which act like independent , and you can flick between them. 
thanks in advance. 

from  ( dale pischke ) 
subject re more 
organization , inc. , , ca 
lines 17 

in article  ( dave laudicina ) writes 
has anyone experienced a at all using this 
card .  . is only in  . i have replaced card and am waiting on 
latest drivers .  . also have experienced general protection fault errors 
in on tools option and in setup .  . 

i had the exact same failure with the and word for  . 
a quick call to indicated it was problem with the 
drivers .  . you need to call and get the new drivers , 
i think version 2 . 03 . the above problem , there may be later 
versions that i'm of .  .  .  . 



r. or uunet ! ! 
software engineer 
, division 

from 
subject re need logo 
organization clark university 
lines 46 

in a previous article , wrote 
in article ,  ( brian holland ) writes 
(s de) . wrote 
hi , 

well i'm searching for the logo , u know the picture when u 
start , in some suitable format , like or , ... 

c system  . if my memory serves me correctly , 
 . is a  . format .  . 

an is by , pro , , and god knows how 
many other programs. 

that is n't enough to change your logo .  . is not 
needed after you have  . it is incorporated as a part of 
win . com .  . 
to make a new win . com . , you have to three files together , 
using the b option for a  . i beleive it is 

copy b win . com . 

make sure you your win . com . file in directory before you do this 
i absent typed win . com . instead of com . and had to 
! 
anyway , whatever  . file you want. the win . has the 
info needed to start  ( think of it as a bootstrap ) and has 
video information. just make sure that the  . file does n't the whole 
com file size over the limit of a  . com . file ! 
so anyway , i use com . to  . now instead of that 
oft , i have the  ( yes , from batman ) taking 
picture from the , saying ! also a little bit of text 
oft the world 's first virus .  . i added 
that because of the of  . 

rob 


a post by 
rob 

i had no water , so vax . edu . 
i in sand .  . 




from edu .  ( michael r whitchurch ) 
subject file problem 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 8 

whenever i start file , the status bar is not , 
even though it is in the options  . if i it , 
then select it again , the bar appears .  . anyone have any ideas why 
this is happening 

thanks 

mike 

from  ( derek k. miller ) 
subject mail via 
organization university of british , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ca . 

our student association runs a small network which has a 
of for and mail .  . the director of , en 
electrical engineering student , would like to gateway this system , either 
via slip or not , into the university 's network and thus the internet , at 
the very least to exchange e mail , but possibly also to do ftp 's etc. for 
now , this would be done via a  . 

he would like to set it up so that it would periodically call in to check 
mail , but would otherwise connect whenever needed .  . 

what is the best way to do this software is available , but 
what works best 

please reply to me 
or the d of f 

with a cc to the other. i do n't read all of these groups regularly , so mail 
is best. if this is a common question , please pot me to a faq or ftp site. 

k. miller 
, society 
university of british , canada 
room sub  . , vancouver , b.c. 
campus mail 1 phone  ( 604 ) fax  ( 604 ) 


from  ( kenneth kasajian ) 
subject re how can i use the in non applications under 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 23 

de .  ( oliver kretzschmar ) writes 



hey , 

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the 
in a non application , which runs in an  . we use 
3 . 1 . and have clipper applications .  . exists there any 
routines or something else please mail me your  . 

thanks for your efforts , 



name o . university 
phone 49 31 
fax 49 80 
email de . 

very simple. you have to have the com . or sys . loaded in dos 
before you run  . note that you do n't need to have these files loaded 
to use the in  . 

from  ( james dean barwick ) 
subject re file with dos 6 . 0 . 
distribution 
organization institute of technology 
lines 

in misc . you write 

while reading through the dos 6 . 0 . book , it states that the file will not work correctly when placed on a drive .  . to make things , 
i removed my permanent file before starting the  . however , when all the , and i go into , it says that the temporary file is right where it always was , in the directory .  . my question is how come the temporary files works ok with a drive , and the permanent one does n't 

you might want to look in faq for this one , but here is my best 
explanation. but i ca n't that i'm not way off base .  .  .  . 

the file is read written to by by talking 
directly to the hard card .  . the card must 
use the set up by western digital  ( or something like  . 
creates a file called par . in your directory that 
points to that file. it then uses the physical information about your 
to index to information in that file. 

are actually logical  . these have different 
characteristics than the actual physical  . furthermore , the information 
on the must be before it is used. (i . e . it must 
go through the program that reads at the operating 
system level or the  . because of this program , 
cannot use direct methods to read from the logical  . 

a file is only there to reserve an area of the that 
can use and to block that space from dos .  . would theoretically 
not even have to access the file from dos to use that space .  . (i do n't 
know if it does or does n't .  .  . but . it for it somewhere you 
) . 

a temporary file is just a normal dos file that is by 
via dos and the  . if a program or other is loaded 
the file access must go through dos .  .  .  ( disk  .  . and . in 
order to be access. (i . e .  . never use a temporary file .  .  . 

more on files .  .  .  . 

i'm sure everyone who has an part of their hard 
has seen the message you have a file greater than the suggested 
size .  .  . will only use the size suggested .  .  . do . you n't to create this 
file anyway or something like that. 

well , a friend of mine  ( robert ) called and asked them what and why. 
what they said is that the amount of free space and 
that number by 2. then it for the largest block 
of free space .  . then suggests the smaller of the two numbers. 

they also said that under absolutely no circumstances .  .  . none . !  .  .  . will . 
uses a file larger than the suggested size. well .  .  . that . 's what he 
said ! 

i call . if this is true why does report the memory is 
available to me if it 's not going to use it 

any 

james 

 ( if this does n't get to the net , will someone post it for me thanks ) 


from  ( tom huot ) 
subject re plus for problems .  .  .  .  . 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 
organization research inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

robert j. wrote 


much text deleted 

i have heard from several people about less expensive m f i o cards 
with 

systems 
 ( 407 ) 
19 . for the card , plus 9 . per  . 

i can for this one. i ordered it and got it for 34 including 
s h. it took me to figure out how to get it working with my 
system , but since i did , i get results while 
using for  . i used to get errors if i started any other 
program while at high speed .  . not anymore. 

more text deleted 


tom 



from  ( peter goudswaard ) 
subject re why is my so  ( ms mouse ) 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 40 

 ( sean eckton ) writes 

i have a serial and am using com . 8 . 00 .  ( was using 8 . 20 . 
i think , but switched to 8 . 00 . to see if it was any  . motion 
is nice and , but motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click 
on something because my around. i can be moving the to 
the right with relatively uniform motion and the will move 
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move for a bit then jump 
again  ( maybe this time to the left about  . 5 . ! ) .  . this is crazy ! i have 
never had so much trouble with a before. anyone have any solutions 

try this flip your over , and open up the cover that holds the 
ball in place. remove the ball , and inside you should see 
 ( probably ) 3  . if any of the have a tiny of 
on , , or otherwise scum on them , carefully 
it off with a small knife  ( xacto works  . be careful 
you do not want to the , just clean off the  . 
put the ball back in , put the cover on , and there you are. 

i clean a couple of dozen of these every month here. another 
is that when you move the , it seems to click along. if this 
does n't solve your problem , at least you have a clean  . i highly 
recommend using a proper soft , and if you are a clean , 
place it in your every night or when you do n't use it to keep 
the off. 

personally i prefer track  . oh , which brings me to another point 
if your or , and the sunlight is 
through the onto your , you may notice 
that it will stop working .  . if this happens to you , close the 
or , or simply your pointing device , and see if that helps .  . 


peter 
 ( preferred ) 



there 's no gift like the present 
's observation 

from  ( chris waters ) 
subject re pc , , 2 , and unix 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

in  ( babak sehari ) writes 



with my limited about the pc , i came out with following 
comparison 

pc 2 unix 


2. can run win 
programs 

is at least 

running under  . 


5. can run unix i have not 
heard of it 

try  . 
others , esp. 


note here the  ( for dos 2 ) gives you a good 
of standard unix  . there are other similar systems from 
other as well. the system for 2 gives you most of the 
standard unix system calls for your unix programs under 
2. not quite the same thing as actually running unix programs 
directly in either case , but makes 2 almost as compatible with 
unix systems as many unix systems are with each other. and , best of 
all , is free. ) 

there is a similar system  ( go32 ) for dos , but it does n't work with 
, as far as i know. 

7. price 120 70 120 free 
a good one 
costs 400 700 
on  . 
card too. 

should add in the cost for dos with both and , neither of 
which is a at this point. neither 2 nor unix requires 
dos .  . 

btw , two of the best i 've seen for the are ( 
for the personal edition ) and  . so i do n't agree that a 
good one costs 400 700 .  . ) 

and , if you really want to check out the various options available to 
you , you should also look into and x. 

cheers 

chris the insane do n't 's in the , 
need disclaimers situations .  . d. 

nntp posting host 14 . 
from  ( wim van holder ) 
distribution world 
organization k . u . applied economic sciences department 
subject re with on 
lines 28 

in article , writes 
in article  ( wim van holder ) writes 
is it possible to use net on a machine that uses to connect to a 
i tried it with older versions ( 3 . but got an invalid packet 
class error or something the like .  .  .  . 

how are you attempting to do that 

are you using the program this provides a packet on 
top of the  . 


i tried to do so , but people told me that even if i used , the 
would still be incompatible .  . is this true 



thomas work 64 4 o 
technical writer home 64 4 , 
, for  . will work for dog  . ( ) ( ) 

van 
tel 32  ( 0)16 ) 28 . 57 . 16 . 
t . e . w .  . fax 32  ( 0)16 ) 28 . 57 . 
2 
b 3000 e mail 



from  ( dave laudicina ) 
subject re re win nt what is it 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization unc office of information technology 
lines 20 


i have little info on chicago so i make a comparison .  . is it in is 
there anyone out there who has tested both and cares to make a comparison 
just my 0 . 02 . 


chicago from what i have read is to run in on and higher. 
it is definitely aimed at the  . 
it is to offer preemptive , 
but will not offer  . is 32 bit and no 
on dos .  . it is to have an integrated file and program  . 
dos 7 is to be similar to chicago but without the  . is also 
a step towards  ( the next generation os ) which is to be 
object oriented .  . 
i wonder where 4 . 0 . fits here is it a to chicago 
hope this helps .  . 
dave l 




from  ( brent casavant ) 
subject 
summary want information 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
keywords any problems 
lines 16 

hi folks , 

at the end of the summer i'm planning on getting a new computer  ( 486dx50 or 
66 ) and have been around in computer  . anyway i saw 
the for the  ( local , memory , 50 million winmarks ) 
and was wondering if anyone has had any experience with it  ( good bad not worth 
the money etc . ) . any information at all would be nice. 

also , a few other questions. anyone know of a good cheap 15 ni 
and what is a good drive that standards and is 
controlled via how about a drive on 

thanks for your time , 




subject roman 02 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
keywords , 
lines 

from  ( peter goudswaard ) 
subject what is 
keywords 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 15 

through my 3 . 1 . directory , i came across a file 
called  . i assume this is part of the 
, but neither my manual , win resource , nor 
pc 's description of files in the directory had a 
reference to it. at least not one that i could find .  . does 
use it or am i way off base 


peter 
 ( preferred ) 



there 's no gift like the present 
's observation 

from  ( gordon edwards ) 
subject re protection fault 
keywords fault 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
distribution na 
lines 40 

in  ( yong thia ) writes 
hi ! i was wondering if anyone out there could help me. 
i have an error message that goes 



what does it mean 

i am running 3 . 1 .  . 

 .  . i think you left the message out .  .  .  . 

i get these protection all the time on my machine at work , a 
with , 3 . 1 . , with dos 5 . 0 .  . 

at home  ( on a , , 3 . 1 . and dos 5 . i never get 
these. 

any idea what could be wrong someone already suggested i check for 
files in the directory , there are none there. 

the message i get is 

this application has violated system due to an invalid 
general protection fault and will be  . 

i only have this problem with applications running in dos boxes  ( with or 
without  . files setup for them) .  . 

any hints help greatly appreciated. please post since at least one other 
person is also having problems. 

thanks , 
gordon 



gordon , nothing exists 
engineering manufacturing 
tha 's first law of metaphysics 

from  ( ed moore ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 9 

wrote 

the key issue that i bought my 200 on was ink speed .  . you really 
have to try awful hard to get the 200 ink to smear .  . the need 
10 15 seconds to completely  . in both cases , however , do not get your 
pages wet .  . unlike laser , the material on your pages is ink , not 
 . but that should go without saying. 

i think the ink now used in the family is water fast .  . 

from  ( rob de winter ) 
subject wanted info on 
originator 
organization philips research laboratories , , the 
lines 17 

does anyone know the phone and fax number of the 
corporation .  . i am also interested in their e mail address. 

i would also like to know what the current status of their product 
is. i received the last update 1 . 5 . about 1 . 5 . year ago. are their any new 
developments or is dying 

regards , 

rob de  . 



nothing beats , if you want to have real fun during  . 
rob de philips research , ist it , building 1 
p.o. box ,  . the 
tel 31 40 e mail 

from  ( thomas g schlatter ) 
subject re up after removing an ole server 
keywords ole , 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 22 

in article  ( chris wooff ) writes 
a while ago i for as part of an evaluation .  . once 
the evaluation was complete i deleted the software from my pc .  . 

unfortunately there is still a ghost of left when i run 
something like write and go to an object then 
appears on the list of objects i'm offered .  . i looked around all 
the obvious files without success. the next thing i tried 
was looking for the string in every file in the 
directory .  . it turned up in a file called  ( or 
 . unfortunately the file was and so i did n't feel 
inclined to edit it. 

i 'd welcome a solution for removing from the list of ole  . 
i think you can do this with , which can make changes 
to the ole  . from program  ( or 
file manager ) choose run and type  . you do have it 
its included with , but not well documented .  . 

tom 



from  ( al devilbiss ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization division 
lines 18 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( jorge sun bos hardware ) writes 
is there any ftp site that carries results for different 
cards in  ( xls ) format what is the latest version of and 
how do they differ is the source available , and has anybody try to it to 
x , at least in a way that will make comparisons possible 

on ftp . edu . in pub pc misc zip . is a by 
steve gibson of with 3 . 11 . and a number of other 
results for and four video cards. this is a 
very current and is likely to have any card you 're currently 
giving serious consideration .  . not in format .  . latest version of 
that i know of is 3 . 11 .  . i believe they try to maintain 
the same scale between versions , and new versions are released 
to defeat the coding put in by to 
the  . do n't know on the last one. 

al 


from  ( bendtsen ) 
subject re utility for win . and system . 
organization michigan university 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 37 

 ( svein pedersen ) writes 
sorry , i tell exactly what i need. 

i need a utility for automatic  ( deleting , adding , changing ) of  . files for  . 
the program should run from dos or the program run a under  . 

i will use the utility for the win .  ( and other files ) on  . 

do i find it on any ftp host 



well , in the latest magazine , there is an for a program 
that will help you from your  ( uninstaller ) 
but it can be used to update a network , but only for , not adding 
or changing their  . files.  ( uninstaller , by inc. 
1 3383 ) 

i am also looking for an  . for my pc network , and so far without 
any luck. so for the time being i have been pushing dos and it 's 
language to its limit .  .  . look . into dos 5 . 0 . 's (i am that dos 6 . 0 . 
has the same command , maybe even more .  . or . less .  . replace command. 
i use this to update our users personal files with a master set in a 
file that is run they invoke  . this basically 
their color , but does what i need it to do. not neat , but does 
the job .  .  . i'm . looking for a better solution though. 

mike 

just what i know .  .  . a . not for profit service .  . 




mike  ( msbendts @ 
740 st. 4 technical 
, mi michigan university 

from  ( marc trottier ) 
subject re access for the blind 
lines 23 
nntp posting host mps . ca . 
organization mps , energy , resources , canada 

in article  ( john bruno ) writes 
from  ( john bruno ) 
subject access for the blind 
date thu , 22 apr 1993 17 25 14 gmt 
we are developing an based product that uses a full 
to display 24 of textual data .  . is there any product for 
that will blind individuals to access the data  ( quickly ) 

please email responses and i will post a summary to this group. 

thanks for any help 
john bruno 


apparently , came out with a new product it is suppose 
to be . ) 

no offense .  . 






from  ( ralph brendler ) 
subject re using foundation classes with c 3 . 1 . 
organization , inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 53 

in article berlin . de . , berlin . de .  . kerkhoff ) writes 
hi all , 

has anybody tried to from the samples directory , 
after the with 

seems to me , that is n't able to distinguish to 
functions .  . 
for example , imagine the following 2  ( overloaded ) functions 
same name ( ) 
same name ( ) 

after trying the whole day , i think , with its impossible to take the 
of one of the above two functions and assign it to a properly defined 
function pointer .  . 
am i right has anybody else had this problem 

thanx 

i think you may be the wrong problem. i do n't think it is the 
function at all i do that sort of thing all of the time 
in without a  . the big problems i have encountered in 
to is that fact that depends on a couple of 
invalid c assumptions .  . 

i have never gotten the entire to run under , but 
the reason is that makes some bad assumptions about the order in 
which objects are (i . e .  . some objects are 
getting before they are  . the problem is in the 
owner draw code somewhere if you comment out that section , all 
other pieces of work fine. 

two other major i have found using under 

the uses hard numbers for the open mode , 
rather than the defined in h .  ( which differ 
between and  . 

all of the collection classes depend on another bad c 
assumption that a reference to a base object can used be in place 
of a reference to a derived object  ( true for , not for 
 . 

i am sure there are other problems along the same lines , but i have 
not encountered them (yet) .  . i have not seen 2.0 yet , but i hope 
that some of these will be addressed .  . if they are not , all of 's 
about to other 's compilers will be just that. 


if these were my employer 's opinions , i would n't be posting them. 

whoever said nothing forever was obviously r. 
not a fan .  .  .  . mike , inc. chicago il 

from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject re access for the blind 
organization george washington university 
lines 36 

in article  ( marc trottier ) writes 
in article  ( john bruno ) writes 
from  ( john bruno ) 
subject access for the blind 
date thu , 22 apr 1993 17 25 14 gmt 
we are developing an based product that uses a full 
to display 24 of textual data .  . is there any product for 
that will blind individuals to access the data  ( quickly ) 

please email responses and i will post a summary to this group. 

thanks for any help 
john bruno 


apparently , came out with a new product it is suppose 
to be . ) 

no offense .  . 







at the oft display at , there were a few computers running 
, and win .  . for the blind , i think. did n't pay much 
attention to it , but it was there. 



michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 

from  ( andrew c. stoffel ) 
subject re utility for win . and system . 
organization state college , nh .  . 
lines 19 

in article writes 

unless i am completely misunderstanding you , try using either or 
 ( found in your system subdirectory ) to edit you  . files. 
you can add ( regedit ) to a program group .  .  .  . they are 
programs. 
the program is cool because it automatically you win . , 
system . , and sys . files to be edited .  . 

is it possible to get it to load other  . files 






e mail un x vms 
disclaimer any end user software that provides no avenue for user 
of the week or is not user friendly .  . 

from 
subject files for 2  ( was re x 2 !  ( extra modes  ) 
news software ibm 2  ( nr 2 ) by o .  . and r. 
lines 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm t . j .  . watson research 

 ( note the followups are set to misc .  . files describe 
and valid modes to be used by the 2 under both and 
2 . ) . 

these files are ! ibm has nothing to do with these files or 
this post. it 's personal this time  ( and every time i post see the 
 . 

due to demand and requests , here are some additional files i 've 
for the 2. these files function with the latest revision 
of the drivers for the 2. not all these files will work under 
with the drivers available to the general public at this time. all files 
will function under the most recent 2 2 . 1 . and those i 've tried have 
worked under 2 2.0 sp .  . not all files have been fully tested .  . 

these files are ! they represent a personal collection , not 
anything an supported set .  . 

as a standard disclaimer i would like to point out the following facts 
1 ) some of these files may run your out of  . doing so can 
the on the card and may result in incorrect operation or in 
life  ( how short depends on how much out of ! ) .  . 
2 ) some of these files may run your in a that is out of 
for your , resulting in damage to your  . 
3) you should be knowledgable about your and 's ability 
to use the mode you select .  . using these files represents 
in a very true sense , so practice safe computing and do n't play 
around too much if you do n't like the risks and are n't knowledgable 
about what you 're doing. 
4 ) if you feel uncomfortable with all the warnings , use the files 
you have or wait until ibm official , tested files. 
although you should be aware of warning 2 ) even with the ibm files. 

these files are ! by using them you may your 
 . not all have been fully tested i do n't have that many 
 . 

in your environment , usually 
c  . then use the methods described in your 2 
diskette to change your or  . 

these files have been with the latest utility .  . 
you will need 2 . x . if you do n't have the  . 

feel free to send me versions of your favorite 
files for your favorite  . i'm always interested in more. 

archive these files have been to ftp edu . in 
pub zip .  . 

dick my opinions only , not official ibm positions , , 
ibm data , or anything else if i were to speak for ibm 
, they 'd make me wear a suit .  . 
beware of carrying  . 

from  ( jason manger ) 
subject wo n't my dos run in a ! 
distribution world 
organization press 
reply to 
x mailer simple news 1 . 90 .  ( ka9q 1 . 
lines 8 

can somebody help me out there i have just purchased win 3 . 1 . and i just 
ca n't get dos  ( text mode apps ) to run in a on their own. i 've 
tried around with the etc , but to no avail. what am 
i doing wrong (i did n't get this problem under  . 

thanks in advance ... 

jason .  . 

from  ( dominic drohan ) 
subject re re win nt what is it 
organization 
lines 16 
nntp posting host com . 

anyway , do n't expect it soon. 4 and dos 7 are supposed to 

my understanding was that chicago was dos 7. 

be released next year  ( read see it in 95 ) , so i expect that wo n't 
be out  . 

email 
electronic data systems phone  ( 313 ) 

if you 'd like to talk for hours . . just go ahead now 
the spin doctors 

note the views and opinions expressed are mine , 
and do not reflect those of electronic data systems corp .  . 


from (s .  . alavi ) 
subject dos size in 
organization nc state university 
lines 13 


i have an a card , and i am using in mode 
 ( normal a , not  . in the enhanced mode 
the dos is too small for my 14  . is there a 
way to the size for the dos you 'll have to 
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to 
world. 

thanks. 

 ( please include this message for reference ) 
s.  ( 919)467 )  ( h ) 
 ( 919)515 )  ( w ) 

from 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
organization clark university 
lines 15 

this is in relation to a question concerning changing the to 
information of  .  .  . 

in a previous article , wrote 

, yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is on the 
, that is it , it is  . not even a editor will find it. you can 
write over the to , but you ca n't change the name it. i 

i can find it with a editor , although i have not tried to it. 
are you sure it ca n't be you may be mistaken about this. ( ) 

rob 



from  ( chad toelle ) 
subject fax software for 
organization university of 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

i would like to know about the current fax software available for 
 . does it take a fax or 14 . please 
respond with info .  . 

thank you very much 


s. st. philip or 
mt. , in uunet ! edu . ! 
 ( 812 ) 

from  ( steve x4662 ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization technology , inc. 
lines 23 

in article , writes 
! 

i 've had a bunch of problems with the  . a dos on the 
can result in the blowing up into a set of 
lines , the entire  . nothing can this 
except to completely from  . the other problem is 
that that scroll often lines rather than actually 

i posted a similar and got these replies which i am  ( so far so 
 .  . 

turn hardware off before going into  ( 24xmode scrolloff ) 

in the file for dos , set emulate text mode 

get the latest drivers from the bbs  ( or cica ) dates are 1 20 9. 


steve 
technology inc.  ( voice ) 
north avenue  ( fax ) 
, mn 

from  ( dave campbell wynapse ) 
subject re  . to  . 
distribution usa 
organization internet direct inc. (602) 274 0100 
lines 28 

 ( scott zabolotzky ) writes 


does anybody have any idea where i could find a program that can 
convert a  . image into a  . image suitable for a 
(i . e .  . 256  . there 's something out there 
i can get from an ftp site somewhere .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance .  .  .  . 

scott 

scott 

look on ftp . edu . for  .  .  .  . zip .  . they the release 
number in the name , and i'm not sure what the is. it is 
 . there is a dos and a version. both work great .  . i even 
had someone bring me some images from the , and converted them to 
great looking as 256 color  . files 

if you ca n't find it , repost , or let me know , and i 'll dig up the archive .  . 

dave 


dave campbell 

the control source 

from  ( robert kayman ) 
subject re why is my so  ( ms mouse ) 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 42 

in article  ( liefting w ) writes 
 ( sean eckton ) writes 

i have a serial and am using com . 8 . 00 .  ( was using 8 . 20 . 
i think , but switched to 8 . 00 . to see if it was any  . motion 
is nice and , but motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click 
on something because my around. i can be moving the to 
the right with relatively uniform motion and the will move 
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move for a bit then jump 
again  ( maybe this time to the left about  . 5 . ! ) .  . this is crazy ! i have 
never had so much trouble with a before. anyone have any solutions 

does think they are what everyone should be just steam ! 

i think i have the same problem. i think it is caused by the ball 
in the , which does n't roll so  . the in the 
notice this and , i hit a mine  ( using ) ) .  . 

i think the solution will be buying a new , and or using a  . 

 . 


and or taking the ball out of the  ( should be 
in the manual or on the bottom of the mouse ) and cleaning it with 
 ( isopropyl , i believe the same as used for cleaning 
your  . this is good to do every so often , even if you 
have a  . still gets caught in the and on the 
ball .  . as well , and other garbage may find it 's way onto 
the ball and get into the damaging the and 
 . 

hope this helps .  . good luck. 


sincerely , 

robert or 

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not. 
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision 
revised ! ! 

subject roman . 05 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 




from  ( mark ) 
subject security 
keywords , security 

we are being attacked by , users , who up 
if there are any that allow multiple for access to the 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 8 


@ @ @ @ 
mark a . i .  . programs 
university of 
, 
@ @ @ @ 



from  ( peter a. schwenk ) 
subject does 1 . use a math co processor 
nntp posting host fred . cis . edu . 
organization university of , 
lines 6 

if a pc has one , does 3 . 1 . use a math co processor i'm not talking 
about specific , but the  ( if you want to call it that ) itself 

please respond by email. 

peter 

from k . 
subject re 
organization at t 
lines 39 

in article  ( anthony v. dean ) writes 

i 've been reading , with much confusion , about whether or not to use 
 . lately , all the i 've been buying have all 
included as a 
i do some publishing using and  . 
comes with a laser that contains over 200 
types .  . add that to the that come with and you have a 
decent amount of  . i print my creations out on an 
, at 600 resolution with the resolution 
technology and  .  .  . well ... i get some good copies .  . 
so good that there is n't any whether or not is turned 
on or not. is it worth it to run at all especially with these 
better ... and 

will do nothing for your  . if your are 
sufficient for your needs , do n't run  . i have a lot of that i can 
either as type 1  ( under atm ) or as  . i have 
noticed that 

1. files are at least 1 3 larger than their type 1 
 . if you are using a , though , be aware 
that will , whereas type 1 will not 
 ( they are  . 

2. with a laser , the artificial bold version of a 
is from the original , forcing me to 
the actual bold  ( and bold , etc . ) . variants if i want 
to use them. type 1 under generate a 
distinct bold variant from the base  . i realize that the 
artificial bold that is inferior 
to the hand generated bold variant , but it is sufficient 
for my needs , and not having to bold variants saves me 50 
on space  . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


from  ( ismo k inen ) 
subject re in 3 . 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 23 

 ( michael panayiotakis ) writes 
is there any utility available that will make 
randomly select one of your directory 's  . 
files as the file 

there are a couple. i am personally using , which is a 

if you need just to change the , then i 've written a short 
program in that does this by using function. 
the bad news is that you need to run it , and the is 
some  ( the program is about  . the order of pictures depends 
on the system date and the number of files in the directory , so 
the picture remains the same if you execute the program multiple times 
during the same day and the number of has not changed. 

if you feel this is what you need then i could it and email 
it to you.  ( it is via ftp . ) . 



k 
r ! 


from  ( michael wiesenberg ) 
subject 6 vs.  managing your money 
summary any comparisons of and  
keywords 
organization the group , , ca 
lines 19 

i just got a copy of  managing your money 0 .  . i have 6 , 
and it 's wonderful for some things , but seems to have some features 
that does n't .  . for example , does n't seem to be able to handle 
monthly automatic from a checking account  ( you know , a 
monthly that gets every month from 
my checking  . or is there something that i'm not doing right , 
and can actually do that anyway , seems to be able to handle 
monthly  . in fact , it can apparently do better than that. 
that is , you can monthly , , quarterly , even  . 
anyway , is anyone aware of a study of the two programs 
or can someone just give me their own personal maybe 
someone who has used both. or maybe someone who is familiar with 
each could give me a review anything would be greatly 
appreciated. if i keep , i have to pay for it , and i do n't know 
whether it 's worth doing. if is better than , of course i 
will keep it. but if can do everything can do  ( maybe even 
better ) , i wo n't .  . thanks all ! 

if you post a reply , please also cc me. thanks. 

from  ( steve w brewer ) 
subject how do i make work 
organization university of 
apparently to 
distribution world 
lines 14 

what files do i need to for 2 . 5 . 2 . i have never used 
before , so i do n't have any files for it. what i do have is 
zip . , which i from  . unfortunately , it does n't seem to 
work on it 's own , but needs some more files that i do n't have. i want to run 
both in 3 . 1 . and in dos on a pc (i understand there 's 
versions for both  . what are all the files i need to and 
where can i get them any info would be  . 


steve w w 





from 
subject re need help with for 
lines 26 
organization university of north texas 
distribution usa 

in article , writes 
i have two questions 

1 ) i have been having with my for  . 
when i try to select and change , etc. some of the text 
 . i tried to center two lines once , and the second 
line disappeared .  . i can not find the error , and i do not 
know how to correct it. 

2 ) is this the right newsgroup where should i go 

e mail  .  .  . 

' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' ' 

i know you said e mail preferred but because this is a common problem 
with i 'll post it here. 

the only looks like the text is gone. usually you can just 
page up then page down and when it does a complete the 
text  . i have had on rare to completely 
 ( save first ) the program .  . when i the file , all chaos 
had been  . i do n't know why it does this , but it is annoying. 
the problems have now made me a word for user ! ! 



from  ( robert f. weber ) 
subject re more cool files 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization computer services 
lines 30 

 ( james cummings ) writes 

in article  ( john wang ) writes 
hi , everybody 
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting 
looking at those same old files that came with  . so , 
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful file 
i can share .  . or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for 
some files , like some files , some animals files , 
etc .  .  .  .  . i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all. 

anyway could me give me some help , please 


in response to a different kinda , here 's what i 
use. i think the original whatever was called not real . the 
name and logo is in the lower right corner .  . you will need 
i think , and i have this for 256 color  . use 
this in your directory and do not it. hope you enjoy .  . 


begin cut here 
begin 
8 h ( , @ ! @ 
m ! ! ( @ ! a ! f , 56 d. ! d 
l , 1 u ) n ( ! @ ! , j . 0 . b h 0 
m , , ! ) uh  . i ! @ ! i ! ! ! bv ) 

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
how do you convert this to a bit map 

from  ( tony g. wu ) 
subject is it possible 
organization national university  ( hsinchu ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 13 


hello. 

is it possible to know minimize program when starting an 
application and to it when the application is ended 
if possible , please tell me how to do it ! 



( forever 23 , michael ) . 
tony g. 
lab .  .  . 


from (a . b .  . wuysang ) 
subject re 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 22 

in article  ( iskandar taib ) writes 
in article  ( tom haapanen ) writes 

has anyone used a it looks good on paper , and 
steve gibson gave it a very good review in  . i 'd love to get a 
real world impression , though how is the speed drivers support 

the pc world found out that the people had hard 
text into the  . clever , no in any case , the 
results are pretty much  . 

but the impressive of the was 
not its , it was its result (esp .  . the 
 . judging from the , i can hardly 
imagine that there is a cheat for it. 



student 
monash university  ( clayton ) 
, australia 


from david a. 
subject re 3 . 1 . using dos 6 
organization 
lines 15 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host gov . 


in article  ( frank calloway ) writes 
not on my system. 

frank 

nor mine , either of them ! 


david a. 
, center for 
phone  ( 510)423 ) 
fax  ( 510)422 ) 
lawrence national 


from  ( james cummings ) 
subject re 's paradox offer 
organization development 
distribution usa 
lines 13 

in article  ( tom x4858 ) writes 
i am considering buying 's paradox for since i 
would like to use a with (i do n't have use 
one yet ) for both work home use. i would like to advantage 
of 's 129 . until april 30 offer if this 
is everything that claims it to be. so , i was 
wondering ... has anybody used this and or have any opinions 

yes , and it 's pretty much what they claim .  . i have n't had time to 
try all of it. considering the price , even if you decide you do n't like it , 
it should be over the next 2 3 months for what you have in it  ( once 
the price goes  . all in all it 's very and in my humble 
opinion , more powerful than access. 

from  ( tony g. wu ) 
subject i hate to make a decision ! 
organization national university  ( hsinchu ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 


hi. 

well , i really hate to make a decision , but recently , i have to choose 
whether 3 . 0 . or dos 6 . 0 . with double space for my poor  . 
i am using 3 . 1 . and i hope what i choose will live with  . 

any help will be appreciated. 




( forever 23 , michael ) . 
tony g. 
lab .  .  . 


from  ( stan brown ) 
subject dictionaries for non us english 
organization oak road systems , cleveland ohio usa 
lines 17 

word for lets me designate text as being in a language other 
than us english.  ( alt f l , format language , as i recall . ) . so i mark 
it for english  ( uk ) , but it still accepts and at 
. as far as i can see , did n't include the english 
 ( uk ) dictionary on my  . (i do n't mean to imply that i was singled 
out i assume that nobody in the u . s . got them . ) . i the 
bbs , but nothing in the word for section looked helpful .  . 

can anyone tell me where or how to obtain the uk dictionary for 
2.0 the file name would be uk . lex . or something similar. 

email please i 'll post a summary .  . 

stan brown , oak road systems 
english is my native language and i love it. but do n't try to tell me 
that it 's easy to learn or that it makes sense. if it were , 
would with . 

from  ( roderick campbell ) 
subject re pc , , 2 , and unix 
reply to 
organization dept. of physics , memorial university 
lines 61 

in article ,  ( babak sehari ) writes 




with my limited about the pc , i came out with following 
comparison 

pc 2 unix 


1. can run dos 
programs yes yes yes  ( yes(needed add . ) . 


lines deleted 


7. price 120 70 120 free 
a good one 
costs 400 700 
on  . 
card too. 

8. c do n't think so 

9. c no 

10. no 

11. 

12. to run dos hard 

you guys and add to this list , so we do not our many down the 
 . 

with highest regards , 
 . 


this list appears to imply , that that has a cost listed 
above at 70 , comes with a c , c and  . it does not , of 
course. these are expensive add that drive the price way beyond 70 .  . 
( i do n't know if the same applies to 2 ) 

as far as unix is concerned 
there is a free unix , , that has cc , c , ( ) , 
and many other features besides , with a large number of 
that can be added .  . and there is also a free i believe. 
both these unix 's are quite  . you can check out 

if you do n't want to our many down the , you 've got to break 
that list down a little more. 


campbell 
department of physics 
memorial university of 
st. john 's , , canada 
internet 

from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject re more cool files 
organization george washington university 
lines 15 


i the compuserve of the month .  . a image of 
a ball next to a hole .  . very nice , , easily 
converted to a  . if anyone wants , i could a copy 
on  .  .  . 


please do .  .  . and . let us know  .  ( lest i'm the only one on this) .  . 



michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 

from  ( international syste ) 
subject list of favorite 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 9 

is anyone maintaining a list of favorite and public domain 
software 

i have several such lists for , but they are really light on 
stuff. 

david 
international systems 


from 
subject re is a 
keywords 
reply to 
organization division , 
lines 12 


in article writes 
(1) you can not create groups. there is no way to create a group 
in a group.  ( if you know how , please tell me . ) . 

get  . put groups within groups , groups on the , 
on the , etc. 


chris this  . sig . brought to you by 
structures , code your local  . 
division , 

from  ( rajiev gupta ) 
subject re nt faq 
nntp posting host 
organization central 
lines 26 

in article  ( gene lavergne ) writes 
i really gives me to ask this 

when i first heard of nt i was surprised by the name because 
it immediately occurred to me that it sounds like a northern 
product .  . did anyone else notice that 

by the way , bnr  ( see address below) is an r d of nt .  . see 
what i mean 

 ( gene a. lavergne ) in all of , i most identify 
 ( 214 ) with the character of  . 
po box , , tx that often me. 
usa 1986 opinions expressed here are mine and not bnr 's .  . 

nt or can also be derived by the next letter in the 
of vms same as and ibm .  . you might recall that the chief architect 
of vms is also chief designer of  . 




disclaimer 
de la 72 these are my views , 
tel 32 2 33 12 b not my  . 
fax 32 2 32 16 

from  ( bob taylor ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 26 

 ( ma90jjw wrote 
in article  ( ed moore ) writes 

wrote 

i think the ink now used in the family is water fast .  . 

i 've had pictures by a few drops of rain .  . these were pictures 
from a  . mind you , it could have been acid rain ) 

the black ink is , but the color is n't 


i use a  . ink fast , but it really does n't like getting wet .  . 



at where no man has gone before .  .  . 
after august mail 
disclaimer my opinions count for nothing , except when the office is empty .  . 
i'm a student intelligence 0. 


bob 
vancouver 


from  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) 
subject , win 3 . 1 . , 
organization national library of medicine 
lines 10 


anybody seen running the 
sorry , do n't know the version of the  ( no indication in the menus ) but it 's a recently 
gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from bbs but wondered 
if anyone else had seen this. 

post or email 




from  ( mark waschkowski ) 
subject re file problem 
reply to  ( mark waschkowski ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 29 


in a previous article , edu .  ( michael r whitchurch ) says 

whenever i start file , the status bar is not , 
even though it is in the options  . if i it , 
then select it again , the bar appears .  . anyone have any ideas why 
this is happening 

no , not really. it may be that your has gotten corrupted for 
some unknown reason. have you tried re creating it by either 
1 . with the save setting option on when the status bar 
is , 
or 
2 . double . on the control  ( menu(the one with minimize and 
in in ) when everything looks proper 

if you have , and it still does n't work , you may want to delete your 
and try one of these two saving again to totally 
the file from  . 

good luck ! 

mark 


from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject re more cool files 
organization george washington university 
distribution usa 
lines 27 



begin cut here 
begin 
8 h ( , @ ! @ 
m ! ! ( @ ! a ! f , 56 d. ! d 
l , 1 u ) n ( ! @ ! , j . 0 . b h 0 
m , , ! ) uh  . i ! @ ! i ! ! ! bv ) 

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
how do you convert this to a bit map 

you 're supposed to delete everything above the cut here mark , and 
below the lower cut here mark , and it. but 
i was not able to end of file encountered at the last line. 

could you please re post it , or tell be what i'm doing wrong 

thanks , i . a .  . , 




michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 

subject re 
from  ( nick , pc software , , , nz ) 
reply to 
organization university of , , new 
nntp posting host ac . 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( thomas j 
bilan ) writes 

if i put z in my sys . , will run but i ca n't access 
drive f to log in to  . 
if i do n't put z in my sys . i ca n't access other 
drives from the file  . 

it seems that there should be a way to make work with the 
statement in my sys .  . 

first off , i have n't used  ( but i think that 's about to change ! ) .  . 

the problem is the command and the way in general  ( and 
in this case in particular ) drives to the device  . 
setting z means there are no  ( as opposed to 
unused ) drive letters for to use , as it its drive 
onto the end of the existing list of drives .  . obviously 
its network drives to existing , unused drive letters. 

i 'd guess the next thing i 'd try is something like m , which on 
most machines will leave a fair of drives for and still 
allow up to 13 drive as well. 


, pc applications , , uni of , n . z .  . 
tel  ( 64(3)364 ) , fax  ( 64(3)364 ) 

from  ( stephen kearney ) 
subject re for 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 7 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

 ( ndw ) 
i would like to know how to stop or this program ! ! 

if an does n't exist in the 
group 

run 's program with u. 

from  ( malcolm sharp ) 
subject re for other news readers 
article i.d. 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 5 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

where 's an ftp site for  ( other than , umich ,  .  .  . 
something off the path ) 

thanks. 


subject roman 03 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
keywords , 
lines 

reply to  ( kevin donoghue ) 
from  ( kevin donoghue ) 
subject off line mail 
lines 13 

i am looking for a program called  . it is an off line mail 
reader for using mail  . or if anyone knows of 
any good mail readers please let me know. 

thanks 

kevin 


kevin c. internet 
international few love to hear the sins they love to act 
grand  . 273 william 
ca 

from  ( matt jacobson ) 
subject for 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 19 


i have an ibm and run 3 . 1 .  . a friend for 
on top of this. it loads automatically when i type win , and 
surely to the  ( already slow ) process of starting up. 

i would like to know how to stop or this program ! ! 

i have taken it out of win . , but it still pops up running with  . 
i did a big search and found reference to it in , system . and 
 . removing it here causes a failure when starting up 
has a group 7  .  .  .  .  .  . which ca n't be deleted . ) . 

is there anyone familiar with who can tell me how to turn it off 

thanks ! 

please email responses i ca n't read news from my home account 



from  ( claude angers ) 
subject re , , risc 
x mail news available email for details. 
organization radio free public usenet in montreal (514) 
lines 32 

in article  ( lee brian ) writes 
in article writes 
in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember 
reading that the set on risc is rather large .  . 
the difference is in addressing modes risc sets are not 
as is  . 



theoretically supposed to be reduced .  .  .  .  . not any longer .  . that 's why everyone 
is arguing about risc v . s .  .  . personally , i think will win out. 
just take a look at the !  ( not that i like either , 
but that 's another story .  .  . ) . 

bye ! 


do you mean that the is better than a risc or that it will 
them all if the first , you have to remember that  ( like the 
pentium ) are a always a generation away from the best  .  .  . also 
are more because they are not sold in the same  ( not 
even on the same  .  .  . but i remember reading about 3 years  ( maybe 2 ) 
about a  ( t800 ) from that did a 100 , was and 
its itself so 

from ( by ) 
subject how print to file 
organization national university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 20 

, 

who can tell me where can i find the or 
which can capture 3 . 1 . 's output of 

i want to capture the output of laser iii .  . 

though the can setup to print to file , but ca n't .  . 

i try dos 's program , but they ca n't work in 3 . 1 . 

for any help .  .  .  .  . 


internet address 

english name wang 
chinese name wang 

national university , taiwan , r . o . c .  . 

from  ( jeroen gremmen ) 
subject re dos 6 and sys . 
organization stack , university of technology , the  . 
lines 16 
nntp posting host stack . tue . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

peter p. wrote 

does anyone know what the device is used for in 3 . 1 . 
it 's under the section as 
device c dos 

i know for includes this file and its help file 
mentioned something about access. 





j . c . a .  . email 
34 phone  ( no or fax ! ) 


from () 
subject re multiple 
nntp posting host 
organization services company , white , ny 
lines 16 

in article  ( don mcgee ) writes 

is there a free  ( share ware ) that will allow multiple 
in 3 . 1 .  . what is desired is to have a top 
for several people that each can by name and choice 
of programs etc. 

has one included in their  . they were here on the 
net a couple of weeks ago with a  ( that is in a good way , ! ) 
low price .  . does anyone remember what it was 


charles these opinions are 
services co .  . charles mine alone , unless 
white ny voice you would like to 
id fax share them. 

from  ( brown , william j . ) . 
subject re questions about nt .  . help ! 
keywords nt , unix , sun 
organization university of houston 
lines 42 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( rajiev gupta ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( minghua shan ) writes 

 .  .  . stuff . deleted 

1. does nt run on sun server 490 
2. if the answer to question 1 is yes , does it run unix applications 
 ( such as sas for  . 
3. is nt a 
4. when will nt be released 
5. is there any telephone number that i can call and get more 
info on win nt 

thank you. 



as far as i have read win nt will be supported on , dec and the 
series of only .  . i do remember though reading a about support 
sometime in the future. i am not sure what you mean by running unix applications . 
you would have to have sas for win nt  ( or maybe sas for  . i have read 
that will of win nt by end of may 93  ( comdex  . hope 
this helps .  . 




disclaimer 
de la 72 these are my views , 
tel 32 2 33 12 b not my  . 
fax 32 2 32 16 


according to the april issue of pc magazine  . 139 ) , and i quote , 

eventually , nt is likely to be to every successful risc 
 . and 's pa risc are the two most likely , 
with somewhat less likely because of sun 's relatively strong unix 
software base .  . 

later 
bill 

from  ( constantinos malamas ) 
subject re more cool files 
organization institute of technology 
lines 31 

in article writes 
hi , everybody 
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting 
looking at those same old files that came with  . so , 
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful file 
i can share .  . or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for 
some files , like some files , some animals files , 
etc .  .  .  .  . i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all. 
eric 

hmmm , let 's see i could some  . files (i have around 15 
b w and color ones ) , but i 'd rather give you the instead of the 
fish here it goes 
guide to the 
step 1 ftp to edu . user anonymous guest ) 
to pub pc  ( util ) and get one of these zip . , 
 . zip .  . zip . . they will scale , and convert to  . 
get the index file from the too for future reference .  .  .  . 
step 2 ftp to edu . or edu . au . or archive . edu . 
and to get the index file .  .  .  . now of pictures 
are waiting to become your  .  .  . 
advice if you have a slow computer ( w ram ) , make your b w 
by b w in any of the  .  . 
hope it helps .  .  .  . 




institute of technology 
opinions expressed are not necessarily 's .  .  .  . 
internet 

from  ( daniel y . h .  . wong ) 
subject video card drivers for 
keywords 
organization dept. of electrical engineering , university of , canada 
lines 20 

i am looking for the latest drivers for the card .  . 
the i am currently using is version 1.21 and does n't support more 
than 256 in mode even you have memory. 

the bbs support for is ! they are still using 
! it will take you hours to the drivers , it when you 
are calling long distance .  . is there any ftp site that has a collection 
of video drivers for 

btw , anyone using this card , and how do you like it so far 

thanks. 





daniel y . h .  .  ( 416)978 ) 
electrical engineering 


from  ( chin thang ) 
subject win 3 . 1 . to win 3 . 0 . ! ! ! ! ! 
organization university of houston 
lines 20 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 

! 

i a 256 color for my last week. 
this was from ftp . edu . specifically for 
paradise card .  . however , after i it and when i run , 
the in the beginning becomes the old 3 . 0 . 
! ! ! ! 

everything works fine except the screen. i know the 
must have been changed in the system . file  ( or is it ) 
but i could n't figure out what to alter ! can some one help me with this 
please e mail to my address 

or 

in addition , can anyone know where can i get a paradise 
 ( 256 color ) this is a used computer and i do not have anything 
 ( drivers , etc ) regarding the  .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . o) 

from  ( mike mills ) 
subject video cards with 
organization university of 
lines 14 

, 

i just recently bought a  . in order to get the highest possible quality 
and , i 'd like to know if there are any cards with 
 ( as opposed to the usual d sub connector ) 


thanks for any information , 



mike e mail , , uunet ! ! 
uk math sciences dept. 
 ( 606 )  ( work )  ( home ) 

from  ( stan kucera ) 
subject 
organization storm international , ,  . , canada 
lines 10 

does anyone know where the program is available  .  .  . i have 
checked my system and is there but not the 
other one .  .  . thanks .  .  . 

stan 




 ( stan kucera ) 

from  ( ashok aiyar ) 
subject re for other news readers 
organization cwru school of medicine 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host slip . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( wim van holder ) writes 

what the status of for will it use the 
i liked it in dos but had to it since i started using to access 
our  ( results in invalid class error ( 

while i do not speak for peter , i am fairly sure he is planning a 
version. while this will definitely not make the initial 
public release of , it will follow on shortly thereafter .  . 

currently is in very late  . it looks like an excellent 
product , with several features beyond the dos version. 

supports the , , and there is also a direct to 
packet version that some people are using with the  . 




mail 
department of biochemistry tel  ( 216 ) 
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax  ( 216 ) 

from  ( joseph paparella ) 
subject re is anyone using video for 
keywords video 
organization computer science 
distribution na 
lines 4 

my suggestion would be to contact about the  . 
you would need to call services at  ( 800)227 ) extension 
from 6 to 5 time. 


from  ( manu das ) 
subject without a title bar 
organization ca , usa 
lines 31 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 


hi , 

i have a simple question. is it possible to create a 
without a title bar ie 

 ( ws thickframe ) 


i do n't seem to be able to get rid off the title bar .  . 

i have another question 

i have a  ( window(say v ) which has few child (a , b , c , etc ) 
the shows up with all it 's children fine. now , i create another 
 ( child(t ) with a style and placed on top of one or more of 
it 's  . style is used so that i can it. how do 
i make sure that the child  t  will always be at the top of it 's  . 
i used  ( setwindowpos( ) and  ( bringwindowtotop( ) without success. what 's happening 
is that while i am  t  it shows up but as soon as i let go , it goes 
it 's  . 

any help would be greatly appreciated. 



please mail me at 





from  ( nathan charles crowell ) 
subject in 3 . 1 . 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 14 
nntp posting host edu . 

hi there , 

is there any utility available that will make 
randomly select one of your directory 's  . 
files as the file 



c. , dept. of materials science 

polytechnic institute e mail 

a genesis 's ready 


from  ( greg bishop ) 
subject re 's paradox offer 
organization physics department , 
news software vax vms 
reply to 
lines 31 


i am considering buying 's paradox for since i 
would like to use a with (i do n't have use 
one yet ) for both work home use. i would like to advantage 
of 's 129 . until april 30 offer if this 
is everything that claims it to be. so , i was 
wondering ... has anybody used this and or have any opinions 

tom 

if you are interested in a program which is very easy to use , i strongly 
suggest approach 2 . 0 .  . it is extremely easy to use , make reports , etc. i 
own both it and paradox , and i almost never use paradox .  . if you need to 
build up a complicated application , then paradox is the way to go. i have 
heard stories about the access programming being extremely  . 
since you seem like you will probably be doing fairly small stuff  ( work 
home use and you have not used a before ) , i recommend approach. i 
have found only one small thing which i would like it to do more easily 
i have one where the order in which the records are entered must 
be different than what is the logical  . to  ( to 
use the old iii command ) the records requires the records 
 ( no problem , since i almost always use them in this order ) 
the to another  ( which can still be an approach 
database ) , and then copying the files back to the original 
 . this is a small weakness , considering the other items i really 
like about approach. it is also a little than paradox  ( other than 
the , paradox takes forever and a minute to  . paradox also 
takes a lot of memory  ( both hard  ( around 12mb ) and  . 

greg  . 


from phoenix . princeton . edu . !  ( carlos g. niederstrasser ) 
subject 8 . 2 . 
originator 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 15 

does anyone have the documentation for the 8 . 2 . i got it when 
i got 3 . 1 . , but my manual does not come with the documentation .  . 
in particular i need to know how to turn it off , and how to speed it up 
outside  . the greater is needed so i can play various 
games , esp x ) 



g. only two things are infinite , 
princeton society the universe and human 
stupidity , and i'm not sure 
about the former .  . einstein 

ad per 


from  ( john wang ) 
subject more cool files 
distribution usa 
organization george university , , virginia , usa 
lines 13 

hi , everybody 
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting 
looking at those same old files that came with  . so , 
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful file 
i can share .  . or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for 
some files , like some files , some animals files , 
etc .  .  .  .  . i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all. 

anyway could me give me some help , please 

thanks a lot ! 

john 

subject roman . 11 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 



from  ( d'arc angel ) 
subject re printing from dos 
organization the houses of the holy 
lines 11 


i also had a problem with by , it went away when i turned 
on the print directly to parallel option in the setup 
 . 




und 



from  ( bob cowles ) 
subject re 
organization info .  . tech .  . 
lines 2 

try edu . in the directory .  . 


subject re fast dos and video card info needed .  . 
from 
organization university of missouri kansas city 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( leo lim ) writes 
ok , i have a  ( 486dx50(isa ) w stealth  . 
i was really satisfied w its in  . 
but now more and more games needs higher frame in dos  , 
especially this new strike  . ) 
this stealth can only give me 17 . 5 .  . ( (i use  . 
my was 6 . 35 . million , i think. 

so right now i'm considering to replace it w a new card , which 
can perform same w my current in and also 
can perform dos   . 


i am the plus .  . it is the same price 
as the stealth card .  . plus it is also based on 928 chip the and 
chip from  . 
everyone , if you are looking for a card , see the april issue of pc magazine 
for their review .  . 
they noted this person 's problem with dos .  . the stealth card is not a very good 
dos  . the card is rated the best in this chip class  ( non local 
 . it got glowing reports from the magazine  ( was a best buy ) and i called 
them directly and they just updated their drivers last week ! they have 
a board to get the latest drivers .  . 
though somone posted that this bbs was at  . 

at any rate , the engine all the other cards 
in the 928 class  ( based on the  . 

if you are looking for the all around best dos check out 
the card .  . their 1 number is  . 

p.s. the article in pc magazine noted that if you are a regular dos user  ( ie 
games ) then you should also check out the chip from  . it apparently 
scores just as well and in many cases slightly better in dos than the 928 chip 
 ( ie stealth and cards . ) . they have comparable and 
are to buy .  . 

eric 

from  ( thomas j bilan ) 
subject 
organization dept. of computer science , michigan state university 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 

i for on my network and i'm having problems 
mapping drives in the file  . 

situation 
if i put z in my sys . , will run but i ca n't access 
drive f to log in to  . 
if i do n't put z in my sys . i ca n't access other 
drives from the file  . 

it seems that there should be a way to make work with the 
statement in my sys .  . 

i would appreciate any help. it 's probably an easy problem that all you 
's solved many many ago .  .  .  . 

thanks , 
tom 



department of death by engineering surgeon general 's warning 
michigan state university graduate school may cause brain 
damage and loss of hair 

from  ( wildstrom ) 
subject re plus for problems .  .  .  .  . 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host access . net . 

 ( kent p. iler ) writes 

hi , 
i have normal plus for dos , but i 've been considering buying 
the version .  .  .  . it . got really great in computer  . 
i have a friend who to the and unix machines here 
using it , but the seems to have a problem keeping up with the 
 .  .  . he . has a 14 , 400 on a 50 machine .  . i ca n't 
see it having trouble keeping up. his for dos works great , 
but the just seems to always up .  .  .  . is . this common 
and is there a fix or is something just with his machine 
kent 

i have no trouble running for at 14 . 4 . v . 42 . on a 
 . could be a video problem but only if he has incredibly slow 
video .  . 

from  ( timothy j. reczek ) 
subject wanted box to select  ( file(s ) for dos 
article i.d. 
organization 
lines 31 
originator 
nntp posting host buffalo . edu . 



i'm looking for a program that will let me use a 
common box to select a file to use when running a dos  . 

basically , i have several dos that i use now and then 
with different files. they all accept a file as a command line 
, but the only way  ( at least that i know of ) to do this 
easily when running them from is to set up the file so 
that it me for additional  ( at which point i type 
in the file name) .  . 

problems are 

1 ) sometimes i ca n't remember where the file is exactly and it 
would be nice to my for it without having to use the 
file  . 

and 2 ) i'm lazy and hate to type long for files 
several directory levels deep .  . 

if anyone can point me to such a program or let me know of some 
other way to handle this , i 'd appreciate it. 

thanks , 

tim 

the net is n't organized enough to be considered an anarchy 



from  ( rob de winter ) 
subject wanted address 
originator 
organization philips research laboratories , , the 
lines 5 


nothing beats , if you want to have real fun during  . 
rob de philips research , ist it , building 1 
p.o. box ,  . the 
tel 31 40 e mail 

from  ( lgv mc ) 
subject re how can i use the in non applications under 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 31 

 ( kenneth kasajian ) writes 

de .  ( oliver kretzschmar ) writes 



hey , 

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the 
in a non application , which runs in an  . we use 
3 . 1 . and have clipper applications .  . exists there any 
routines or something else please mail me your  . 

thanks for your efforts , 



name o . university 
phone 49 31 
fax 49 80 
email de . 

very simple. you have to have the com . or sys . loaded in dos 
before you run  . note that you do n't need to have these files loaded 
to use the in  . 

one addition to this .  .  .  . i do n't know if it applies to everybody .  . for my 
 ( microsoft 400dpi ) to work with dos , i had to use the 
that came with  ( version 8 .  . 8.1 did n't allow me to do 
it for some reason. 


from  ( adam benson ) 
subject 3 . 1 . using dos 6 
summary according to computer is in a lot 
keywords win dos 
organization cs dept. , memorial university of 
lines 5 

adam 
mt. , 




from  ( andrew tong ) 
subject internal speaker 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 7 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

this probably is in a faq somewhere , but .  .  .  .  . 

i'm looking for 's internal speaker sound for  . 

should be at 's ftp site , but i ca n't remember the name of the site .  .  .  . 

thanks. 

subject win storm pc 
from  ( srini seetharam ) 
reply to  ( srini seetharam ) 
distribution world 
organization  .  . eng .  . , univ .  . of kansas 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 
lines 10 


anyone have any info .  . on the video sound card from designs .  . 
it is called win storm pc .  . 
they also have another card called the legend 

any info would be , , and 
 . 
thanks 



from  ( steve x4662 ) 
subject bug 
reply to 
organization technology , inc. 
keywords 
lines 23 

since out my generic card for a , i have 
noticed two new problems 

if i create a dos  ( 386 mode ) , when the text starts 
to scroll , rather than printing characters it starts to print 
lines that out to the and trash the entire 
display .  . ctrl alt del the dos and the 


after a short time in 's pc x remote for , all characters 
on the are changed to be unreadable i am unable to 
without  . 

these are in both 256 and 16 color drivers , large and small  . 
dos 5 , win 3 . 1 . , and  . 

i like the speed of the card and have had no other problems. any ideas 
thanks ! 

steve 
technology inc.  ( voice ) 
north avenue  ( fax ) 
, mn 

from de .  ( richard spitz ) 
subject re help with 
reply to de .  ( richard spitz ) 
organization  . f. der ,  ( germany ) 
distribution 
lines 63 

edu .  ( jeff h. swartz ) writes 

when i use a name such as rose . edu . 
for   
time out 
when i use the number 
local host or gateway not responding 

i know the is correct and the is correct. they work 
fine using ftp .  . 

they are working ok , but your definitions in and rc . are 
incorrect  ( see below) .  . 

the said if you are running packet software you need to 
load does this apply to me 

no , i do n't think so. you are using and , are n't 
you they use different packet types , so  ( tcp ip ) and  ( ipx spx ) 
should be able to just fine. is required if you are using 
different  . 

this is the rc . file. 
5 . 2 . 
50 . 

there is the first problem you did n't , just addresses .  . 
your file should look like this 

5 . 2 . name of your 
50 . name of your 

this is the beginning of the file. 
net 
name test . rose . edu . 

here you should only your , without the domain part. 

50 . 

instead , use name of your , as in your rc . 
i know the release notes for 3 . 31 . say that addresses should work also , 
but apparently they do n't .  . 

5 . 2 . 

here , too , you should use the of the instead of the 
address. 

it worked fine for me that way , although i could not more than 
one  . the say it should be possible to up to 
three , separated by , but it did n't work. 

hope it helps , 
richard 



dr. richard internet de . 
tel 49 89 
fax 49 89 
, germany 


from  ( matthew h gibson ) 
subject win 3 . 1 . drivers replacements  ( question ) 
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson 
lines 14 


has anyone had any experience with a replacement for 
called  . i read about it in apr 23 1993 and am interested 
but not willing to shell out the 45 the company wants just to try it 
out. it supposedly the problems that occur during a high speed 
file and a access made by another program running at the same 
time. if anyone has any pro cons about this product , i would be very inter 
to hear them. please email at the address give below. thanks. 

matthew gibson 

. 



from  ( stefan powell ) 
subject cool background patterns ! 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization computing and telecommunications department 
lines 16 

here are some cool 3 d background patterns i made. 

edit your control . and add the following lines to your patterns section .  . 

43 86 172 89 
1 43 85 43 85 43 85 
 ( diagonal ) 54 73 
0 85 85 85 

make sure your color is one of the standard 16 or the 
patterns might not work. i like dark grey the best with these. 

if you have any cool one 's of your own , please mail them to me. 


, ontario , canada 

from  ( doug ward ) 
subject stealth 24 video drivers 
organization state water survey 
lines 14 


i recently purchased a stealth 24 video card 
and received the wrong drivers .  . does anyone know where 
i can ftp the video drivers for the stealth 24 .  . 
i tried the drivers at and they do n't work. 
the right drivers are on the bbs but the file is almost 
1 and it would take a while to them 
at  . any information would be appreciated. please 
contact me at 

thank you 

doug ward 
. 

from 
subject re for other news readers 
lines 34 


in article  ( ashok aiyar ) writes 
in article  ( wim van holder ) writes 

what the status of for will it use the 
i liked it in dos but had to it since i started using to access 
our  ( results in invalid class error ( 

while i do not speak for peter , i am fairly sure he is planning a 
version. while this will definitely not make the initial 
public release of , it will follow on shortly thereafter .  . 

currently is in very late  . it looks like an excellent 
product , with several features beyond the dos version. 

supports the , , and there is also a direct to 
packet version that some people are using with the  . 



, 

is available anywhere via anonymous ftp 


james r. 

dept. of , 3 . 250 . voice (512) 
graduate school of business fax (512) 
university of texas internet 
austin , tx , u . s . a .  . bitnet 

education is ... hanging on until you 've caught on robert 


from  ( phil trodwell ) 
subject 
lines 9 
organization university of 


subject says it all. do any exist are they where 




this space i 'd be happy to a 
for  . into that with you right now , but not 
 ( cheap ) this radio ! s. 

from  ( liefting w ) 
subject re 33 1 . 
organization  . , , 
lines 19 

 ( charles choong ) writes 

help , problem in extended mode trying to 
access drives a or b , sometimes it will do , sometimes will 
on access sometimes will when a text file. 

hardware 
american 
91 
conner hard drive 
1 

please help ! ! ! 
its ok in standard mode ! ! ! 

i have the same problem. someone suggested it might be a bug .  . 
gonna check with my tomorrow .  . i 'll tell you if it helps .  . 

 . 

from k . 
subject re that display but do not print .  . 
summary 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 30 

in article  ( avinash chopde ) writes 
i just a new under 3 . 1 . 
but though all the applications display the correctly on the 
, quite a few of them fail to print out the document correctly 
 ( on a 4 non  . 
... 
but when i use the write , the square 
boxes in place of the characters of the new  . yet , write does 
display the correctly on the screen. 

this is a common problem with highly complex  . 
admits to a problem with older versions of the , 
but i 've found it to be pretty generic .  . 

you can get around the problem by the 
in the section of win .  . this entry the number of 
per em at which will render as outline 
instead of as  . the default is 256 .  . i 've generally been able 
to get to work by setting  . depending on your 
resolution and the point size you are using , you may need a 
different value. 

the resource against going above  . presumably , that 
might cause to print as square boxes or something.  ( i'm not 
smiling . ) . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


from  ( paul blackman ) 
subject re for win 3 . 1 . 
organization university of canberra 
lines 26 

in article  ( jamie scuglia ) writes 
are there any out there for 3 . 1 . 

try by karl  . the latest version is 2.0  ( or later ) but 
the following is at in the directory .  . 
zip virtual  ( ver 1 . 

or email karl and ask him to put version 2.0 up 
karl 's email  ( from the write file of v1 . 

i was for and must say it is very good 
(i gain nothing from saying  . 
it 'll even remember your  ( workspaces as you said ) between 
 . 

thanks in advance. 
your welcome. 

o paul 
o water research centre , 
o of applied science 
( ) o university of canberra , australia .  . 

spend a little love and get high 



from  ( stephen l wyatt ) 
subject re is really and 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 24 

in article  ( stephen kearney ) writes 

apparently not. many people complain about the confusion that 
results from the split .  . it 's just a basic 
flaw .  . 

i have one thing to say why does everyone say that them up is 
such a bad thing i actually like my program and file 
do be  .  . it make things easier to figure out .  .  . i mean , take a look 
at 2 's  .  .  .  ( no flames ! ) .  .  . i personally hate it cause i just 
have too much trouble out how to do simple things like file copy .  .  . 

and do n't say just the !  .  .  . cause i hate in the first place. 
i have too much trouble telling what all those little push mean. 
i want f c etc .  .  . 

although i know i'm in the minority .  . 




! ! ! no disclaimer .  .  . i . blame everything on someone else 



from  ( thomas gamet ) 
subject keyboard 
organization international , park , ca 
lines 35 

to all hardware and 

my current home project is to build a huge keyboard for a 
physically relative of mine. my goal is for this keyboard 
to look exactly like an at keyboard to its host system. 
this will be a highly keyboard with a little from z world 
at its heart .  . the only thing i lack is detailed information on the 
hardware that the  ( with 3 . 1 . and dos 5 . will be 
expecting .  . my project is independant of , my hope is that some of 
you fellow 's users will recognize what i need and be 
willing to point me in the right direction .  . 

i have the l. hardware bible  ( 2nd  . the gives 
most  ( if not all ) of the information i will need concerning codes 
and even a wire for the ps 2 style i will need , but it 
leaves a number of important questions  . 
1. is it or serial i'm 
since the host is providing a  . in either 
event , how is the data 
2. is it half or truly one way i'm half 
since the host can turn on and off. 
3. are there any available for communicating with the at 
keyboard standard  ( other than by a real keyboard ) 

if anyone knows of a book or article  ( or any other written source of 
information ) on the above , please me at 
whatever i do it must be safe for i cannot afford to replace the in 
the event of a  . 

thank you for your time. 
zeit .  . 

thomas 
software engineer 
international 

from  ( michael p maley ) 
subject re application for 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 6 

i look at and really liked it. however , i think you should 
wait for version 2.0 (i think it will be out  . 

mike 



from  ( chia lee ) 
subject re dos size in 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 20 

s. wrote 

i have an a card , and i am using in mode 
 ( normal a , not  . in the enhanced mode 
the dos is too small for my 14  . is there a 
way to the size for the dos you 'll have to 
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to 
world. 

thanks. 

 ( please include this message for reference ) 
s.  ( 919)467 )  ( h ) 
 ( 919)515 )  ( w ) 

as i can recall , you can click on the left of dos , then 
choose to change .  . also there is a to show you in advance how 
the you choose will affect the size of dos  . make a try ! 



from  ( derek a. piasecki ) 
subject re pro 3 . 0 . and ! does n't like being moved 
keywords pro 3 . 0 . 
organization college , , ca 
lines 13 


sorry about that do n't want to anyone .  .  .  . 

i do n't think there is any correlation between the and  . 
i pro , and again , with no problems. 
i think problems may have been related to filling my until it had 
0 ( ! ) left while , although i would think it would n't 
matter since pro was n't running at the time , and i made space available 
immediately anyways .  . 
but , whatever , the cause , it is working now. 




from  ( alan walford ) 
subject pro 
reply to 
organization systems , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 25 

i have heard many things about the pro card .  . some have 
been positive but most are negative .  . could people please 
these (i am interested in the version in  . 

1 ) the card does not work in a system with  . 

2 ) the card works in a system with some 
set but it is much  . 

3) the card is in its  ( true colour ) modes .  . 

4 ) the latest build 59 drivers still do not work in many 
cases. 

5 ) this card is the full card for the money. 

6 ) this card is the greatest thing since bread .  . ) 

thanks for your  . i will summarize .  . 

al 


systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 
or  .  .  . uunet . ! ca . ! ! 

from (a . b .  . wuysang ) 
subject re codes  ( dos sorry for wrong group ( 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 48 

in article  ( michael panayiotakis ) writes 

hey now. first of all , sorry to post this dos question in a 
group , but i'm in kinda a , so i ca n't to find the dos 
groups  names. 

anyway , anyone know where i find the codes to dos commands 

there are 3 alternatives 
1. you can try to write a small c program something like 

my 
my  ( system command ) 

and display my value  ( which is the code of the  . 

2. or use com . instead of command . com .  ( it has built in move command ) 
you can also get any program exist code by using the function 
of 

c command 

will display the code of the command. 

3. get dos 6 , not worth buying if you already have , 
and you only need the move utility .  . 

the manual does n't seem to have all of them. i'm particularly looking 
for copy , in order to make a move file , such that if the file 
was n't properly , it wo n't be deleted. 


please e mail 
thanks , i . a . , 


michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
how do make a  . file reflect a directory 
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong .  .  .  ( gd ) 




student 
monash university  ( clayton ) 
, australia 


from  ( mario veraart ) 
subject re help 
organization physics and 
lines 31 

 ( qing yin ) writes 

hi , it 's an easy question for you  . i 'd appreciate any help. 

we need to write an on line help for our application .  . we do n't have 
software 's  ( yet ) ) .  . since we just want to build 
a  . file around  help engine , i hope it wo n't be that complicated 
anyway , could someone give me some hints of how to build such an 
on line help , if it does not take 100 pages to explain or if it is complicated , 
would you help to point out what i would need to do it 



q .  . 


hi , 

if you have developed your own application you must have a 
of some sort that contains the or file to 
and generate  . files out of  . files. 
files are generated by a like word for dos or  . 

if this is not the solution be more specific about your application .  . 



physics and 
email the the 
if all else fails , show pretty pictures and , 
and do n't talk about , david 

from  ( daniel mittleman ) 
subject re for 
organization university of arizona mis department 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host arizona . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( matt jacobson ) writes .  .  .  . 

i have an ibm and run 3 . 1 .  . a friend for 
on top of this. it loads automatically when i type win , and 
surely to the  ( already slow ) process of starting up. 

i would like to know how to stop or this program ! ! 
is there anyone familiar with who can tell me how to turn it off 

1. get the friend to it. 
2. read the manual  ( though from your post i infer that you are using 
software . ) . 
3. go into sys . and change the shell line to read shell 


daniel david (602) 

from  ( robert j. niland ) 
subject re plus for problems .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host org . 
organization , inc. 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 

 ( kent p. iler ) writes 

i have normal plus for dos , but i 've been considering buying 
the version .  .  .  . it . got really great in computer  . 
i have a friend who to the and unix machines here 
using it , but the seems to have a problem keeping up with the 
 .  .  . he . has a 14 , 400 on a 50 machine .  . i ca n't 
see it having trouble keeping up. his for dos works great , 

re what to do after the high speed arrives .  . edition 01 apr 93 

this article applies only to 3 . 0 . and 3 . 1 . , and not to nt , 2 
or dos not running under  . 

one of the of most current is that 
their rs  ( serial , com ) is seriously deficient .  . almost 
everyone who a high speed , v . 32 . , or hst ) 
the problem the first time they try to a file or accept 
an fax  ( at ) after the  . and 
errors abound , even when the only active application is the or 
fax program .  . if the at all , it may take even longer 
than with the old  . 


there are three reasons for the problem 

1. the universal receiver  ( uarts ) used in most 
are primitive devices with single  . if the 
operating system cannot read and each character at high 
interrupt , the next character the and 
the previous one is lost. dos , being a fairly single minded 
environment during , can usually keep up. ca n't .  . 

2. has more operating system than plain dos , and 
often take longer to service .  . are much more likely 
than under dos .  . as soon as you report to your pc that you 
are data , you may be advised that you need to to a 
. more likely , since there seems to be a conspiracy of ignorance 
about this issue , you 'll get no useful advice at all. most of the 
front and mail order sources i spoke with in attempting to solve 
my own problem had never heard the term and many did n't even 
know what a was. 

3. even your pc has  ( and ps 2 's do ) , or if you can 
your mother com board or add a new com board , you may still experience 
errors and because the standard com drivers 
do n't take full advantage of the  . 3 . 1 . is improved in this 
regard over 3 . 0 . , but i still recommend a  . applications 
like win  ( which is what i use ) cannot get around this problem 
by themselves. 

if you have a card , you may not have a problem , as the part of 
the card can be designed to be aware of the state of the , and avoid 
it however , i would n't want to bet that the card 
were that clever , and will insist on a if i ever buy a 
card .  . some cards do n't even have conventional , but if they 
are to work with standard drivers , they need to simulate one. 
use  ( below ) to see what the card is , or is to be. 


the hardware situation. 

the on most pc com are based on national 
or  ( or inside where you ca n't replace 
them) .  . you can id the type on your system by running the 
program  . be sure to run it in dos before 
bringing up  . the serial may prevent from 
accurately a if you run it from a dos  . 

the has separate 16 and receive with 
levels , and can run at up to 
, , although with current technology , there 's no point in 
pushing your luck by going over 115 , 200  . the has access 
cycle times than the or  . the also has capability , but 
it is not clear that any pc drivers ever use this. for more technical info , 
see national application note an  . 

so , what component do you have 

try to the on your mother board , function i o card , com 
board or card .  . if you ca n't find a component with 
the numbers or , your com are probably buried in , 
and you wo n't be able to perform a chip replacement .  . if you can 
your com  ( as i chose to do ) , you can at least add an 
com board. 

if you have one or more or , you can buy plug in 
or  ( low power version ) from several 
typically for 9 to 15 each .  . the n chip is the normal 40 pin 
dual in line  . other are available , but avoid any 
without the a  ( the are presumably all  . 

early have , although national will exchange those 
of their own manufacture for free. are available from various 
ic makers other than national .  . the manual for the drivers states 
support for the following  ( apparently equivalent ) 
national , , 
technology 
texas 
silicon systems 

about the pre a and western digital , 
says that problems have been reported with early ibm ps 2 and 70 
systems  ( ibm will them) .  . 

if you t have , you 'll need to buy an after 
market com or function board. if this is a card situation , you 
may be  . to add a new com or function card , you 'll need to 
either the 2  ( port(s ) you are replacing , or re assign them to 
4  ( although watch out for conflicts without  . 

although cards are available , in the interest of getting the 
problem solved quickly i elected buy the technology 
card from 


drive 
san jose ca 
 ( 800 ) voice us 
 ( 408 ) 1200 voice other 
 ( 800 ) fax us 

the  ( and the is important ) for 89 .  . it is an 8 bit 
card providing 

type address and comments 
com com 1 , 2 , 3 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 in 
com com 2 , 3 , 4 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 in 
parallel , 2 , 3 5 , 7 
game 

the includes a and for the secondary com 
, a for the game , two plates for 
the based and a to  . each can 
be individually , and the com have tx , , , , , 
, and  . 

also a super i o m f card that also has  . 

i have heard from several people about less expensive m f i o cards 
with 

systems 
 ( 407 ) 
19 . for the card , plus 9 . per  . 

trading and 
 ( 518 )  ( voice ) ,  ( 518 )  . 
their card is 33 w one , 45 w 2 , and they sell for 13 .  . 

r s data systems , inc. 
east 
, 
phone  ( 407 ) 
fax  ( 407 ) 
game card w 2 for 39 

i have no personal experience with any of the except  . 

, back at the card from  .  .  . i only needed two serial , 
and am running out of on my pc , so i my built in based 
 . however , with the  ( below ) , i could have set 
the as and 4 , using  . 


the software situation 

simply to will not completely solve common 
problems. the standard serial drivers do n't take full advantage of the 
 . the 3 . 0 . drivers are even less capable , and the 3 . 1 . 
drivers have the following 
they only the receive , and only at above  . 
they never the , which results in an interrupt 
rate of during  . 
they set the level at 14  ( too high it 's easy for 2 
more to arrive before the can read the  . 
the of the control only allows up to  . 
with a v . , data and text can easily 3 1 
or more , suggesting that a host connect rate of 57 , 600 would 
be effective. 
the wo n't accept above . 
the wo n't let dos programs know there is a there , and even 
if it did , dos programs that are n't aware get little benefit 
from a with the standard drivers .  . 
they do n't allow for , 4. 
the does n't , 4 properly in many systems. 
provides no for that do n't provide 
speed options above  . 

these problems are not solved in nt or dos 6 . 0 . , and may 
or may not be addressed in any after 3 . 1 .  ( but before 4 .  . 
suggest they may be solved in 4 . 0 . . 

you can get replacement drivers that solve all of those problems by buying 
a copy of , current version 1.2 , from 

engineering research 
division 
hill 
or 
(503) voice 
(503) fax 
(503) bbs 

compuserve , 

price was around 50 as i recall .  . eng is not set up to accept credit 
cards , so i had to send a check .  . and 1 software list 
but as far as i know , they do n't stock it. is not a software company 
per  . they apparently needed reliable hi speed serial for 
an in house instrument application , wrote their own , discovered a 
market for it , revised it to be a general purpose com  . they 
recently it for 3 . 1 .  . it is run time  . 

i now have my host  ( dte ) connect rate set to 57 , 600 most of my 
, and i am having zero problems with  . i routinely 
see that 2 , 000  . i am also using 115 , 200 
when an to my pc , with i o .  . 
to various remote systems are another matter , because many hosts 
are still using and drivers .  . 

note that is still the highest rate that the 3 . 1 . 
in control will allow in a com  . gets 
around this by allowing you to , on each , a factor that will 
set the real rate to a multiple of the rate passed through the 
and boxes .  . 

i also have hardware control enabled , and i suggest that you 
do the same. even if you only ever 7 bit ascii data , is 
not a sufficiently reliable method of control. the informal  ( dec ) 
standard for is that the sender may another 
16  ( yes , sixteen ) after of the from the receiving 
system or device. the 16 in the is clearly not big enough 
to let us rely exclusively on  . a well respected 
engineer has informed me that the 's ca n't really do all 
by itself in the dos environment , so using data above 
115 , 200 may still be  . 

even with hardware control , a with can still 
experience in very busy systems , with lots of running and 
serious in progress. if this is your situation , you may need to 
buy a co com board , but this will cost you more than a 
 . a review of two such , and a review of 
, can be found in the feb 93 issue of sources magazine .  . 
i suggest trying a first , and experiment with 
process and time if you are a power user whose 
system still runs into problems. 


soapbox comments 

the state of rs serial support is an embarrassment across 
the computer industry .  . because it is the oldest standard i o interface , 
the job of hardware and writing software often seems to be 
to the least or lowest at computer 
 . the design of the average serial is at least ten years 
behind the state of the art .  . in my last job , with a major workstation 
, i for improved serial when they were doing the 
initial designs of a new system. that family of machines was 
subsequently introduced with  . however , this is the 
exception. few computer seem to have any for decent 
i o .  . 

you may as well learn what you can about serial i o , because this 
situation shows no sign of improving soon. when v . fast . arrives , i expect 
cries of from users world wide whose sort of 
work today with v . 32 . , but will fail miserably with v . fast .  . without a 
hardware  ( like the 16550 ) and without software drivers that 
use that to best advantage , a v . fast . will be a waste of money. 

regards , a east harmony road 
bob 
internet co 
compuserve ,  ( 303 ) 

1993 robert j. 
all rights 

permission is granted for automatic of this article , via 
electronic , magnetic and media , in an form , through any 
usenet newsgroup where the article is posted by the author. permission 
is granted for each compuserve and usenet reader and each 
person who received this article from compuserve , an ftp site 
by the author or via electronic mail from the author , to one 
electronic copy and to make of this edition of 
this article for personal non use , provided that no material 
changes are made to the article or this statement. all other 
copying , , reproduction or of this article , in 
any form , is without the express written consent of the 
author , robert j.  . 



from  ( dale erickson ) 
subject problem 
article i.d. 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
lines 9 
nntp posting host edu . 

when i use  ( or kermit ) in win 3 . 1 . , or use after 
to dos , can not find the serial  . if you have some ideas on how 
to solve this problem or where i can find further information , send me email 
or send it to the news group. thanks. 






from de .  ( christoph steinbeck ) 
subject z up and with 
lines 9 
organization institute , university of 

all , 

i 'd like to know , how z is initiated in a file , 
to check how it works before  . 
, nothing about that feature is mentioned in the manual .  . 
can anybody help me 

ciao , chris 


from  ( the cynic ) 
subject how do i quickly switch between 
organization at t bell labs , , ohio 
distribution na 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 18 


can someone out there tell me how to switch 's resolution 
quickly and easily i know that i can go back into to do it , 
but what i 'd really like is to have is the ability to just change a 
couple of or files and have the resolution 
changed. i already have both video drivers that i need on my system , 
so that is n't a problem. 

thanks , 

 . 


l. 
use this address , all others ! 
 ( h ) ,  ( w ) 



from  ( donald newbold ) 
subject re  .  .  . now 4 
organization corporation , , al 
lines 41 

while there are too many ps clones to count , some of which are quite poor , 
trying to something that goes through regular does require 
some patience .  . three questions come to mid real quick for something like 
this. 

q which version of ps will we 
aside from the level 1 and level 2 issues , has in the past released 
new code that just as all other 
software do. the level 2 stuff may seem sound now , but i 
you , changes will become more frequent as their customer list begins to 
in the face of competition .  . this allows them to shift people to 
, as well as design efforts for level 3. 

q do we the , or do we make it work correctly 
from the to the 4 there have been  .  ( if i had 
a number to call at or , they have heard from me . ) . 
which approach to take depends on which you want to emulate .  . 

q do we follow the red book , or do we follow someone 's implementation 
without a doubt , there are differences between the red book and 's 
ps .  . with level 2 many issues have been refined but the red book does 
leave big , big holes in the implementation specific stuff. it would be 
nice it the red at least things down enough so that two 
different of 's ps do n't do the exact opposite given 
an identical set of conditions .  . 

q 
having done a lot of ps myself , the unfortunate side of 
is the limited number of sources for test files. the primary 
source we use is  . and having their 1992 ps files , 
 ( 1300 of them) over half are taken from  . it may not ideal , 
but the files are what the use. i'm sure that 
uses them too , but 's output is by definition correct , even if its 
wrong. 

yes , there are some very poor clones .  . we 've seen them here at (a sub 
of which has its own called  . some are poor for lack 
of design , some are poor because they followed the red book , and some are poor 
because the do n't know what ps is. 



subject help with changing logo 
from (c .  . doelle ) 
lines 23 

brad ! 

monday april 26 1993 17 24 , brad wrote to  ( crosspost 1 ) all 

bs for a card these are the correct files but you ca n't just copy them 
bs back and expect it to work. you have to create a new win . com . file. try 
bs the command  ( you will have to worry about what each file is in 
bs since i do n't know your setup ) 

bs copy b win . win . com . 

bs (i this from by robbins great book ) 
bs this is also how you can put your own logo into the 
bs screen. an file is just a file. 

brad , 
what is the procedure used to   the file i would 
love to use some of my files i have created as a logo screen. thanks 

chris 


origin  ( 1 

from  ( cindy moore ) 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to  ( cindy moore ) 
organization dept. , 
keywords 
lines 25 

in c  ( sean eckton ) writes 

the is slow .  . this is in comparison to the other i 
mentioned. i have no idea how the compares .  . 

the interface between 1 . and the is just , i 've not 
had any problems with it. 

i just bought a 200 a couple of days ago. i compared it to the 
print of an and knew that the was n't for me. the 
200 is pretty fast and really with good quality .  . i can compare it 
with the and they look almost identical ( 
depending on the kind of  . i do n't have problems with the ink not 
being , it seems to very fast .  . probably within a second .  . since 
is giving a 50 until the end of may , it is really a good buy .  . 

how much is the going for i got mine for which was in the 
end the factor for me. 

cindy 

cindy 

internet bitnet 
uucp ... ! ! ! po box , ca , 

from 
subject re problem with print file. help ! ! ! ! 
organization center for 
distribution world 
lines 34 


in article writes 
to all the 

i have a file that is three pages long with 10 to 12 1 line 
plus a 5 by 2  . the size of this file is about before 
all the embedded objects and after all the 
embedded objects .  . well , when i print it  ( since i do n't have a laser 
, i have to send it to a print file ) , gives me back a 
file that is well over long .  . i just fail to see how a 
file can be to a file. obviously , i will not able to carry 
this file to the public unless i find myself a network 
card , a etc. 

could anyone please enlighten me with a solution (i already try to 
print a page at a time , it still wo n't fit into a floppy ) 

thanx a  . 




department of engineering 
e mail university of new 
tel  ( 506 ) 



i once had this problem. all i did was to copy the whole doc to a new file. the problem 
was gone. hope this helps .  . 





from  ( carl zmola ) 
subject re for win 3 . 1 . a small review 
organization university of illinois at chicago 
lines 32 

 ( chris huey ) writes 

wrote 
thanks to all those people who recommended for 
3 . 1 .  . i found 3 , from australia 's 
archive cc . monash . edu . , which some 
sites in the u.s. the three i found were 

1. 1 . 10 . 
review deleted 
2. 1 . 6 . 
review deleted 
3. 2 . 30 . and 
review deleted 

i really appreciate this information. however , given that i do n't have 
direct internet access which means i do n't have access i must 
resort to using  . this means that i need the site name and the 
directory where these are  . 

zip . is on , but i'm not sure of the whole directory .  . 

another to into the running is  . it is on , but 
i'm not sure where .  . it is more complicated then , but i 've found 
it to be more stable and more  . i it to people who 
have already used a virtual  . oh , it 's free. 
and  . 






from  ( matt jacobson ) 
subject errors and a bad memory 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 18 

hi. my last question for the year .  . i have a mail order no name 
with 4  . i never have problems with my huge or when 
running , but 1 . and 0 . constantly crash on me , most 
commonly a memory error. the only thing i can do is turn 
off and re boot. my off all the memory every , 
and there is never a problem with this either. 

could it be a bug in my copy instead of the hardware i remember 
having some error problems when it. 


is there any change i could make to the or of 
this happening (i think win vs win s produce different , but both 
crash frequently nonetheless ) 

i know this is a pain , but please answer by email because my home account 
does n't have  . and i will stop asking questions now. thank you. 
pager 

from uni . de .  ( weidlich ) 
subject searching for a phonetic 
organization f. a.d. uni 
lines 13 

i'm searching for a phonetic for 3 . 1 .  . if 
anybody knows one , please mail me ! 

thanks. 





 .  . ,  . 67 
uni . de . d 50 
phone 49 250 dr. b. 
fax 49 

from  ( david e. brown ) 
subject re drivers for stealth 24 
organization university 
lines 16 

doug ward writes 

i recently purchased a stealth 24 video card and received 
the wrong drivers .  . does anyone know where i can ftp the proper 
drivers the file at does not work with 
this video card .  . please respond to 

thank you 
doug ward 

if you want to get them and get them now  ( also the most up to date ) use 
the bbs at 1 408  . they may take an hour to so do it 
when are low. yeah , i know it costs but locking up your system 
gets old quick .  . maybe someone has them on the net. i 've got the 
stealth drivers .  . 
david 

from  ( carlos dominguez ) 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
reply to 
organization usenet node , , new york , usa 
lines 17 
x newsreader 1 . 07 .  ( waffle 1 . 

in () writes 

have you tried re the software otherwise i would be dubious about 
simple ways to change that screen. is it not designed to be an to 
would be 

so when is going to open the doors for to accept 
internet mail eh 

obviously if you can post news , mail should go through as well .  .  . 



. sysadmin 
) 
( ( ( (  .  .  . !  ( bang ) 

from 
subject win 3 . 0 . help please ! 
organization university of northern iowa 
lines 10 

i have win 3 . 0 . and several and 's but i ca n't figure out 
how to change the or use the  . any help would be appreciated. 


thanx , 



ps please e mail me 


from  ( emile woo ) 
subject help ! groups ! ! ! 
organization university of british , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ca . 

! 
i do n't usually subscribe to these newsgroups so i would really 
appreciate it if someone could possibly e mail me the answer to my problem. 
i have been using 3 . 1 . since buying it last but i have just 
now come across an bug .  . i now have about 8 different groups in 
program but it seems that i something new that 
makes a new group , it after i turn of ! 
this happened when i and pro v . 3 .  . they both created 
their own groups but when i turned off and them , they were 
gone. i had to pull them up as new items and put them in a 
previously existing group as all new disappear as soon as i turn 
off  . 
my set up 
precision 25 w 4 
with 1 
3 . 1 . running in mode 


thank you in advance ! 








, student representative to senate  . sig .  . holding 
internet to decide 
tel ally correct  . 

from  ( kjetil kolin ) 
subject mode 
organization university of 
lines 1 

i'm looking for information how w nt uses mode .  .  ( the support) 

from  ( seagull ) 
subject re , , risc 
lines 54 


the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 
hmm .  .  .  . not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember 
reading that the set on risc is rather large .  . 
the difference is in addressing modes risc sets are not 
as is  . 

there are some things you might be interested to know about today 's risc 
 . it is true that there are instructions , but what is 
not commonly known is that this causes the size of your to 
, so that in some cases is similar for larger applications .  . 
as a compromise , many risc today are actually a cross between 
a reduced instructions set , and a complex one. 

this is not to say that there is no future in , has 
certainly proved that. 

what i want to know , is what does this have to do with this group 

dave 



subject re , , risc 
newsgroups unix . dos . under unix , sys . ibm . pc . misc . , sys . ibm . pc . net . , , misc . , alt . questions . , , misc . , alt . , , man . 
references 

from article , by 
in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
computer for more information about risc .  . 

hmm .  .  .  . not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember 
reading that the set on risc is rather large .  . 
the difference is in addressing modes risc sets are not 
as is  . 



some people say it 's fun , but i think it 's very serious. 



dave  ( ds4 ) 
president , systems and , inc. 
president , hardware and computing knowledge society  ( hacks ) 


from  ( aln go ny ! ) 
subject re re win nt what is it 
nntp posting host cis . yale . edu . 
organization yale university new haven , usa 
lines 72 

in article , says 

in a previous article ,  ( alan scott olson ) wrote 
two part question 

1 ) what is nt a  real  

2 ) this past , a local  hacker  radio show a new product 
from called  chicago  if i recall .  . anyone know what this is 

that is it 

thanks a  . 



nt is a giant operating system. 1 . , it does not 
run on top of dos .  . it is its own , with  ( billy us ) true 
, security , will run 1 . 
programs as well as dos programs , has processor support , and is 
primarily a server program .  . it 's is too high for it to be 
economical for most users. 

it also runs 2 character based and  . the dos , 
and 32 bit run in a 32 bit  . 

if you consider the fact that nt has 
the , 
built in support for 
built in support for 
comes with like ping and an ftp , etc 
applications like and a 32 bit version of 

the argument an issue. 

speaking of , it requires at least a with 16 of  . 
it run with 12 , but that 's like running 2 2.0 with 4  . and that 's 
just to run it. also , i have heard that the system files take up 30 50 , 
and it is recommended that your drive be a half ! the is 
on  . 


i it on a with and it did a of , with a 
virtual memory file. it but it  .  ( this was the 
build ) 

i the machine to and the is good , 
at that point i the march build .  . consider they 
are probably still working on the feature set , and done a lot of fine 
to the code yet. 

is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true with 
and , but has much smaller hardware requirements , 
and does not meet security  ( but that 's okay since it will probably 
be more of a  . there are a few differences , but those are the 
main ones. there was an article about in pc week last august .  . 
the and nt development groups at oft are in intense 
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will 
arise nt will be the server ( n t echonology ) , will be the 
machine .  . it is entirely possible for different 's to work together , 
partly because is just a small nt  ( think of it that way ,  . 
 ( novell creates an on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't 
scorn the concept . ) . 
anyway , do n't expect it soon. 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be 
released next year  ( read see it in 95 ) , so i expect that wo n't be out 
 . 

i have little info on chicago so i make a comparison .  . is it in is 
there anyone out there who has tested both and cares to make a comparison 
just my 0 . 02 . 



from  ( reincarnation of elvis ) 
subject speeding up 
keywords speed 
lines 19 

i have a 33 with 8 of memory 

i have noticed that lately when i use programs like or draw 
my computer down and becomes really ! 

what can i do to increase what should i turn on or off 

will not or stuff like that help when it comes to 
the running speed of and the programs that run under it 

thanx in advance 




j . p .  . e mail 
sociologist it 's to chicago , we 've got a full 
( ) university of gas , half a pack of , it 's dark , and 
u bay , ontario we 're wearing  . 

from k . 
subject re copy move files in file 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 25 

in article  ( scott crittenden ) writes 
my understanding is that , to copy files from one directory to another on 
the same drive in file  ( using a mouse ) , you hold down the ctrl key 
while the file from one directory 's to the other. this 
works for me .  .  .  . about of the time. the other 2 , the file gets 
moved rather than copied .  . anybody else encountered this 
... 

i tried to respond by email , but all attempts  . 

the condition of the ctrl key before you press the makes no 
difference whatsoever. you have to be holding the ctrl key when you 
release the if you want to force a copy operation. 

here 's a simple experiment .  . select a file and begin to it  ( no ctrl 
 . notice that the file 's from the listing  . now 
watch what happens to that as you press and release the ctrl key 
 ( keeping the pressed all the  . in addition , the 
that you are will show a while you are holding the ctrl key , 
indicating that the file is being copied rather than moved .  . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


subject re for and 
from  ( flint waters ) 
distribution , misc . , , world 
organization university of 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 13 


now does anyone know if it is possible to use and 
for dos at the same time. 

ie can i access a file on another pc while being on to the 
at the same time , simultaneously .  . 

yup .  . we 're using both and they work just fine. , someday 
will communicate over  . right now we have to load  . 

i use with and all works well. 



from  ( steinar kleven ) 
subject re help 
nntp posting host no . 
organization college of engineering 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 38 

wrote 
 ( qing yin ) writes 

hi , it 's an easy question for you  . i 'd appreciate any help. 

we need to write an on line help for our application .  . we do n't have 
software 's  ( yet ) ) .  . since we just want to build 
a  . file around  help engine , i hope it wo n't be that complicated 
anyway , could someone give me some hints of how to build such an 
on line help , if it does not take 100 pages to explain or if it is complicated , 
would you help to point out what i would need to do it 



q .  . 


hi , 

if you have developed your own application you must have a 
of some sort that contains the or file to 
and generate  . files out of  . files. 

no , u can what  . zip . from ftp . edu . 
this from is all u need to  ( simple )  . 
files from rich text format files ( .  . this 
also contains  . for  . 

files are generated by a like word for dos or  . 

if this is not the solution be more specific about your application .  . 



physics and 
email the the 
if all else fails , show pretty pictures and , 
and do n't talk about , david 

from  ( rajiev gupta ) 
subject re questions about nt .  . help ! 
nntp posting host 
organization central 
keywords nt , unix , sun 
lines 36 

in article  ( minghua shan ) writes 

i do n't know much about nt , but i 've always thought 
that win nt would run only on systems. 
we are setting up a network which includes a sun server 4 490 
and about a dozen pc 's .  . some people suggest that we run nt 
on the sun server 4 490 replacing the current  . 
i do n't know whether this is possible and whether this would do us any 
good. i would appreciate any help on answering a few questions below. 

1. does nt run on sun server 490 
2. if the answer to question 1 is yes , does it run unix applications 
 ( such as sas for  . 
3. is nt a 
4. when will nt be released 
5. is there any telephone number that i can call and get more 
info on win nt 

thank you. 



as far as i have read win nt will be supported on , dec and the 
series of only .  . i do remember though reading a about support 
sometime in the future. i am not sure what you mean by running unix applications . 
you would have to have sas for win nt  ( or maybe sas for  . i have read 
that will of win nt by end of may 93  ( comdex  . hope 
this helps .  . 




disclaimer 
de la 72 these are my views , 
tel 32 2 33 12 b not my  . 
fax 32 2 32 16 

from  ( alec lee ) 
subject replacement 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 15 

there was a recent post about a bbs where you could a replacement 
for  ( win 3 . that fixed a lot of the problems with high speed 
modems .  . does anyone know of an ftp site where i can get it 

thanks , 




 ( 303 ) 


sexy but what 's wrong with being sexy 
, 


from  ( kirk membry ) 
subject moving 
reply to ! ! 
organization private system 
lines 9 

i remember reading about a program that made run away 
from the as it moved near them. does anyone know the name 
of this program and the ftp  ( probably at cica ) 



our age is the age of industry 
! ! 


from  ( tom haapanen ) 
subject nt .  . misc , setup 
organization software inc. 
lines 76 
nntp posting host net . 

this is the official request for discussion  ( rfd ) for the creation of two 
new newsgroups for nt .  . this is a second , replacing 
the one originally posted in  93  ( and never taken to a  . the 
proposed groups are described below 

name nt . setup . 
status  . 
purpose discussions about setting up and nt , and about 
system and issues for nt .  . 

name nt . misc . 
status  . 
purpose non programming discussions about using nt , 
including issues such as security , features , 
mode and 3 . 1 .  ( win16 )  . 

rationale 
nt is the member of the family 
of operating systems  ( or operating for those who wish 
to argue about the meaning of an ) .  . the family ranges from 
through 3 . 1 . and for to 
nt at the high end. to date , has over 
50 , 000 copies and pre release of nt the 
actual release is for may june  . 

while nt has an entirely new design internally , it shares 
an application programming interface with the other members of the 
family its includes the used in win 
3 . 1 . , and the subset  ( win32 less threads , 
and security ) can be used to create 32 bit applications for 
3 . 1 .  . 

the user interface is also practically identical to that of 
3 . 1 . , with the addition of and a few other features .  . it uses 
program , file and other , and generally pre 
an identical appearance to the user .  . many of the 
nt applications are of existing 3 . 1 . , and 
nt also runs existing 3 . 1 . applications .  . 

thus , it appears logical that nt should share the following 
groups with the other members of the family 

programmer . tools . 
programmer . misc . 
programmer . 

the following groups are also clearly applicable to nt as 
well as 3 . 1 . 
announce . 


in conclusion , the only clear argument for the separation of the 
3 . 1 . and nt is different internal 
structures of 3 . 1 . and nt .  . and yet operating 
systems such as 2 , , and all have 
major rewrites without having been split into separate 
newsgroup  . 

further , 3 . 1 . is due for a major rewrite itself in 
when the fully 32 bit , protected mode and with dos built in next 
generation , chicago , next year , surely it should 
remain in the same  . and what , then , would be the 
for separating nt from other versions 


discussion period 
the discussion period will run from 27 april , 1992 to 18 may , 1993 .  . 

voting 
the  ( call for votes ) will be issued around 19 may , 1993 , based on 
the received during the discussion period. no votes will 
be accepted prior to the  . 

tom software , 
stick your index fingers into both of your mouth. now pull 
up. that 's how the makes you feel .  . car ,  93 

from  ( kirtley wilson ) 
subject office 
article i.d. news . 1993apr6 . 
organization university , illinois .  . 
lines 31 
nntp posting host edu . 

i am in charge of some computer software for a small office and i 
have a few question about 's office pack .  . 

1 ) i was wondering , are the programs that are with the office 
pack , power point , , and complete and the latest 
addition 

2 ) are the programs in any way 

3) can we update single programs at a latter date ( i.e. from 4 . 0 . to 
5 ) 

4 ) do you receive all of the necessary and documentation 

5 ) is there anything that i should be aware of that makes the office 
less of deal that it seems 

sorry if i seem skeptical put the price for the office 39 . on the 
street sounds like a great deal for the office that is its first 
computer and software .  . but all four complete programs for less than 
makes me just a little suspicious .  . maybe its just me. 

thanks for your help in advance 


university 



internet 
bitnet 

from  ( craig lewis ) 
subject re please on internet access to compuserve 
organization , reston , va 
lines 31 

 ( scstech admin ) writes 

hi , 

sometime ago there are some discussions on compuserve access thru 
the internet .  . but i seem to those articles .  . can someone please 
me where  ( which site ) i can to to gain access. 

try 128 . 128 . , to 

this will get you into the compuserve network. enter cis and you 'll get 
the  . 

i can files as well. 

i have n't , if you can figure it out let me know. also , let me know if your 
key works ) 

thanks , 



email 



craig lewis 





from  ( bo peng ) 
subject re more 
organization michigan state university 
lines 30 
nntp posting host edu . 

from article , by  ( dave laudicina ) 
has anyone experienced a at all using this 
card .  . is only in  . i have replaced card and am waiting on 
latest drivers .  . also have experienced general protection fault errors 
in on tools option and in setup .  . 
i had a but was getting genral protection fault errors 
in an application .  . these card must have terrible 
quality control to let products on the market with so many  . 
what a  . running on gateway 2000 50 .  . 
dave l 


you 're using drivers version 2 . 02 . or earlier. the latest is 2 . 03 . , available 
from their bbs or by  . it at least the problem. 

the reason i wanted to reply in public instead of private mail is because 
of following i talked to their tech support a few days ago and was told 
that i can expect a new version near the end of the month .  . which should be 
about now .  .  .  . 

however , i have a problem when switching back from a dos in standard 
mode .  . apparently they do n't know of this problem and seem to be surprised 
why anybody would want to use standard mode at all. 


it 's a great card for the price , at least when i bought it. now there may be 
better alternatives .  . 




from  ( bradley t banko ) 
subject dos quick c 2.5 3 . 1 . 
reply to b 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 22 

i am using dos quick c 2.5 in a dos under 3 . 1 . , and the other 
day while i was running the , i got a general protection fault 
immediately followed by a serious error . when i , i found 
that about 15 files had gotten cross linked which is a pretty serious 
corruption of the hard drive file system. 

i am concerned that quick c in a dos has somehow outside 
its protected mode world and corrupted the and 
that is what caused the problem. 

i thought that dos programs run in dos were pretty well contained 
by  . if that is true , then maybe the quick c has nothing 
to do with it. has anybody else had this type of problem 

(i only recently from quick c 2.0 to 2 . 5 . ) . 

brad 


brad dept of physics u of illinois b 

see one. do one. teach one. 73 de @ il . 

from  ( scott zabolotzky ) 
subject  . to  . 
organization motorola , inc. 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 129 . 122 . 
lines 12 


does anybody have any idea where i could find a program that can 
convert a  . image into a  . image suitable for a 
(i . e .  . 256  . there 's something out there 
i can get from an ftp site somewhere .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance .  .  .  . 

scott 




from  ( don eller ) 
subject re files on 1 . and 1.0 
article i.d. 
organization , inc. 
lines 31 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

the wrote 
i have a 33 computer with a 1.0 card .  . i'm running 
1 .  . i have the set up properly to play 
normal sounds ( . files , etc . ) .  . i want to play files through the 
media that is included with  . i know i have to set up the 
patch or something in the in the control  . i know 
nothing about  .  ( this is to be the way i 'll get my feet wet . ) . 

how do i set up so that i can play files 
if you the drivers correctly , and have 
the latest drivers , the media should be setup to play files 
authored to 's standard  ( general 
midi ) , see the section in the back of the manual in the 
 . 
you 'll find that files exist with all kinds of different 
, so do n't expect them to always sound correct without using 
some kind of file editor , such as 's plus .  . 

you can attempt to use the to the for 
, but since you cannot the you are 
stuck with the that come with this  . unless you can 
find an editor for making to the instrument in 
, i would suggest you the early version of 
drivers that were to , and the later 
drivers that are to the general  . 


david thomas the 
state university ` ' ) , , , 
of new york if music be the food of love , () 
@ buffalo play on !  . ` . . )     

from  ( wildstrom ) 
subject re 3 . 1 . keeps please help 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host access . net . 



in article  ( eric bosco ) writes 
from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject 3 . 1 . keeps please help 
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 56 37 gmt 

as the subjects says , 3 . 1 . keeps  ( givinh me gpf ) on me of 
late. it was never a very stable , but now it seems to crash every 
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash ie i 

there is a way in sys . to turn off checking  ( unfortunately , 
my good references are at home , but any standard win reference 
will tell you how to do it. if not , email back to me . ) . that memory 
may be producing errors. danger is , if you turn off , 
you run the slight risk of data corruption due to a missed real error. 


from 
subject re  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
keywords 
organization university of notre dame 
lines 64 

in article stanford . edu . d 3 . stanford . edu .  ( robert kayman ) writes 
from d 3 . stanford . edu .  ( robert kayman ) 
subject  ( bubblejet ) and  .  .  . 
keywords 
date 18 apr 93 04 17 41 gmt 


fellow  . 

i am asking for your wisdom to help me decide which i 
should , the  ( bubblejet ) vs. the  . i 
thought , rather than trust the , i would benefit more from 
relying on those who use these daily and use them to their 
potential. and , i figure all of you will know their benefits and pitfalls 
better than any  . 

now , i would greatly appreciate any information you could render on the 
of the vs. the  ( 300  . 
which is is there a print quality difference , 
particularly in which will handle large documents better  ( 75 
pages or more ) any personal experience on either will be 
here which works better under 3 . 1 .  ( any problems , etc ) 
cost of memory , , , etc basically , your 
personal experiences with either of these machines is highly desirable , 
both good and bad. 

advance and thanks for all your input. e mail or news posting is 
readily acceptable , but e mail is encouraged  ( limits  . 


sincerely , 

robert or 

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not. 
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision 
revised ! ! 


all right. not saying i know any more than the average , i 'll give 
your question a shot .  . 

the key issue that i bought my 200 on was ink speed .  . you really 
have to try awful hard to get the 200 ink to smear .  . the need 
10 15 seconds to completely  . in both cases , however , do not get your 
pages wet .  . unlike laser , the material on your pages is ink , not 
 . but that should go without saying. 

my pc has very little memory  ( only ram ) , so the 200 takes a little 
while to print but every application i use takes a while to run. once 
the computer is solely printing , it like a and puts pages out 
every 15 30 seconds , depending on how detailed your are. 

the 200 can do soft  . i'm assuming that the can , or 
would n't sell many .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

size is another factor .  . the 200 is much smaller , but the is built 
like a  . i bet the 200 would get first. 

finally , the print quality .  . i love the 200 's resolution .  . it looks like 
a good laser quality print .  . the 's i 've used .  .  .  .  . they . look like ink .  . not 
as impressive. 

so , i chose the  . any other opinions 

from  ( richard calderon ) 
subject re moving 
nntp posting host miami . edu . 
organization university of miami , medical school 
lines 17 

 ( kirk membry ) writes 

i remember reading about a program that made run away 
from the as it moved near them. does anyone know the name 
of this program and the ftp  ( probably at cica ) 

as i remember it , the name of the program your looking for is called  . 
was where i saw it last .  . it was quite a while ago. 



richard 
university of miami school of medicine 
information systems computing 
15 st. 
miami , florida 


from  ( eugene y .  . kuo ) 
subject any updated 200 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 8 

hi ... can anyone tell me where i can get a copy of updated 200 
for 3 . 1 . , if any i have 1.0 which comes with 
my 200 , i just wonder if there is any newer version. 

thanks very much , please email. 




from  ( iskandar taib ) 
subject re 3 . 1 . general questions 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 30 

in article  ( robert gruen ) writes 
1. i received for when i purchased c for 
 . what is what can it do for me all i 
received was the , no  . 

maybe it the 9 ) 


2. i am running in mode using a that was 
with my card .  . the card is a card with , and i think 
it has an chip in it  ( at least what some program tells  . 
the is an old that was written for 3 . 1 . , it seems to 
work fine , but would i gain any benefits by switching to a newer if 
so which one should i use and where could i find it 

lots of drivers are available off ftp . edu . in pub pc 
drivers video .  . i 've tried two zip . and zip .  . these 
give you a choice of and non drivers .  . the drivers 
were fast but caused problems with my machine  ( which has a 
 . i finally got drivers  ( wndspeed by 
binar ) from  . amazing .  . fast  ( for a non 
card ) and best of all no 's for a month or so .  .  .  . 





the only thing worse than 
internet is 
bitnet ! 

from  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
subject re gone 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 26 
reply to  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( hitoshi sano ) says 

i'm not sure if this is the proper place to post this. 

the on 1 . program have all and i need to 
them. the files all seem to be there on the and i think there 
must be a better way than re everything. thanks for any help ! 


you know this happened to me also. 
i am not sure what caused it. i think there might have been 
a system error and  . i came back and all was well 
except no groups. program was empty .  . all the  . files were 
in the directory .  . i had to the groups with the new and group 
selection .  . all the and files inside the groups were still there 
and working fine. just the groups had gone out of program  . 

strange ! ! ! ! 
c  .  .  .  .  . 


this is sent by university of arizona tucson 


death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings 

from  ( hiroto miyoshi ) 
subject about files on 
organization department of psychology , university of 
distribution na 
lines 18 



i have a question about the files for in  . 
i it and to it. however , it did n't work. 
in addition , it altered or eliminated my file so that i had 
to my again. 

is there anything i have to know to it or do i eventually have 
to ask to send a working model to me (i heard that they have it) 
i just want to see its look and feel before buying it. 

any pointer would be greatly appreciated. 
thank you 






from 
subject pc with 
organization university , , 
lines 14 

, 

we are having using the pc  ( printer program 
with support) with the print  . the simply 
an do only the capture till the end of the , while after some 
it should start the printing .  . 
does anybody uses this two programs together 

thanks , 

dept. of atomic physics , university 
, 
e mail  ( eltenet ) 
 ( eltenet , internet ) 

from  ( rahul mehta ) 
subject info on books on , etc. 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 18 



hi everybody , 

i am interested in the following topics. 

1)bios ) programming on and  . 
2)memory ) in and  . 
3)developing ) basic  . 

i would like to have your valuable opinion on the books 
that are best in the above topics. please send a mail to 
. i will post a summary of the 
suggestions .  . 

2 32 1 thanks in advance. 



organization university of central florida computer services 
from mark 
subject bigger headings 
lines 8 

does anyone know of bigger i'm using a with 
a in mode and would prefer to have larger characters 
for the heading  ( practically for  . i'm already using the 
character sets .  . 

mark 

any idea of the difference between the and the 

from 
subject re word 2.0 help ! 
organization university computer services 
lines 17 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( greg cook ) writes 
from article , by 
can anyone tell me if and how they have printed spanish characters i know 5 . 1 . has this built in , but i do not recall ever seeing this option on  . help ! 

try using the extended character set  ( alt sequences ) . . 
look in character map in the group and see the alt sequence 
for the you want ! 

thanks , i think i 've it out now. 


robert s. include , , sir , mr. , and i 

university math computer science double major 

internet address vms . edu . milwaukee , wi 


from  ( hayes james michael jr ) 
subject order of files written when 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 22 


trying to pin point a hardware problem with my , 
 . group files get corrupted on a regular basis. 
only happens on this drive , d had only one corrupt file 
in over a year and it was under the control of on c. 
32 bit access and are off. since 
of problem has turned from an to a reason for 
murder .  . 

since the most frequent files corrupted are the  . files , 
are these the last thing written to when 

also , are there any available that do 
a more job than dos 6 , 4 . 5 . , etc dos 6 and 
win 3 . 1 .  . 

thanks 

mike knowledge is good. college motto 
www knowledge and motto 
tech , no , thank you ! ,  a day at the races  
driven to my head against engineering physics for 4 years. 

from  ( david farley ) 
subject re file with dos 6 . 0 . 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 35 

 ( stuff deleted ) 

be that what it may , i would really suggest to everyone to take the 
opportunity to go to these technical  . they are n't actually 
incredibly in depth , but you do get a lot of material about and 
straight from those in the know. besides that they offer 
you huge on software .  . if i remember correctly , you could pick 
up word 2.0 , 4 . 0 . , or whatever their program is for 130 .  . 
that is the full blown version , not an or version. you 
could also pick up office for or something like that. myself 
i for word. 

the value of these aside , you ought to be able to buy full copies 
of all this software through your campus bookstore or software 
at these rates. i'm not aware that the version of word or 
is down in any way. 


well , hope that was helpful to someone .  . and besides that i hope someone 
will go to a and save a little money. 

and if anyone at is reading this i really love your products. 
i need a job once i graduate also , can we work something out ) 

thanks , 






david the university of chicago library 
702 east street , 
chicago , illinois 


from  ( alec lee ) 
subject speaker sound 
summary where can i ftp it 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 7 

is there an ftp site where i can get the speaker sound there 's 
a sound . file that claims to be the but i'm suspicious since 
it 's not a  . file. 

thanks 



from  ( joseph paparella ) 
subject re 
organization computer science 
lines 2 

i find that it 's always  ( almost anyway ) busy when i , but if i try repeatedly , usually only 5 to 15 tries , i always get connected .  . 


from  ( avinash chopde ) 
subject that display but do not print .  . 
organization mit for computer science 
distribution na 
lines 18 

i just a new under 3 . 1 . 
but though all the applications display the correctly on the 
, quite a few of them fail to print out the document correctly 
 ( on a 4 non  . 

when i use the in , the document correctly , so i assume 
knows that the has to be to the  . 

but when i use the write , the square 
boxes in place of the characters of the new  . yet , write does 
display the correctly on the screen. 

i looked through all the and , but got nowhere .  . 
all of them just make the statement that will print 
exactly as you see them on the so i assume knows that a 
has to be automatically but , how to make it do that 

appreciate any help .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( richard ) 
subject re does 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 12 

s. writes 

yes , and it is the i 've ever watched .  . it did a 
hard in 20 minutes. 

i found the looks very much like  . 
is it just a strip down version of the later 

i have both and , so i was wondering 
if i need to 

richard 

from  ( robert kudla ) 
subject re , win 3 . 1 . , 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 16 

in  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) writes 
anybody seen running the 
sorry , do n't know the version of the  ( no indication in the menus ) but it 's a recently 
gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from bbs but wondered 
if anyone else had seen this. 

, yes. it seems to , or change shape into 
 . not enough to , just call attention to 
's  . 

rob 


rob keywords 's leather yes 1 . 
light blue right r . e . m .  . dan genesis in the 
, the silver , the lion takes control .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( liefting w ) 
subject re why is my so  ( ms mouse ) 
organization  . , , 
lines 20 

 ( sean eckton ) writes 

i have a serial and am using com . 8 . 00 .  ( was using 8 . 20 . 
i think , but switched to 8 . 00 . to see if it was any  . motion 
is nice and , but motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click 
on something because my around. i can be moving the to 
the right with relatively uniform motion and the will move 
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move for a bit then jump 
again  ( maybe this time to the left about  . 5 . ! ) .  . this is crazy ! i have 
never had so much trouble with a before. anyone have any solutions 

does think they are what everyone should be just steam ! 

i think i have the same problem. i think it is caused by the ball 
in the , which does n't roll so  . the in the 
notice this and , i hit a mine  ( using ) ) .  . 

i think the solution will be buying a new , and or using a  . 

 . 

from  ( richard g ramirez ) 
subject re summary c 
reply to  ( richard g ramirez ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 4 

could you post a description of , your chosen 
product .  . 

thanks 

from  ( tom finn ) 
subject re multiple 
nntp posting host com . 
organization computer corporation , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 22 

in article  ( don mcgee ) writes 

is there a free  ( share ware ) that will allow multiple 
in 3 . 1 .  . what is desired is to have a top 
for several people that each can by name and choice 
of programs etc. 


there 's a called on that has 5 i 
have n't done much with it yet , but it seems to be able to do what you 
want it to. 

do n't have the exact archive name , but it 's something like 
blah  . zip .  . 

tom 


i speak only for myself. 

peace is the name of the ideal we have deduced from the fact that there have 
been between wars .  . jerry in the 

from  ( chris g. demetriou ) 
subject re pc , , 2 , and unix 
organization  r  us 
lines 22 
nntp posting host cs . berkeley . edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 6 apr 1993 11 41 36 gmt 

in article  ( roderick campbell ) writes 
there is a free unix , , that has cc , c , ( ) , 
and many other features besides , with a large number of 
that can be added .  . and there is also a free i believe. 
both these unix 's are quite  . you can check out 

i about , but for , do n't forget 
 ( well tested , at that ) , nfs , a fast , incredibly stable , 
and the list goes on .  .  .  . 8 ) 

for us folk , look in  . . 




chris 
of announce . , anti , and sometime 

chris g. 

as depth first search whenever you go to fix something you 
find that 3 more things are actually broken. adam glass 

from  ( sebastian beer ) 
subject re , win 3 . 1 . , 
x comment to  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) 
organization 
lines 20 
x gateway 2 . 4 . 

a . b .  . am 15 . 04 . 93 . 
, win 3 . 1 . , 

anybody seen running the 
sorry , do n't know the version of the  ( no indication in the 
menus ) but it 's a recently gateway system. am going to try the 
latest drivers from bbs but wondered if anyone else had seen this. 

no not at all. i'm using with 2 . 03 . and 
from 13 .  .  . i 've never had any problems with the 
 . 
is there already a newer published 




beer 

die 


from  ( wildstrom ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 21 
nntp posting host access . net . 

writes 

is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true with 
and , but has much smaller hardware requirements , 
and does not meet security  ( but that 's okay since it will probably 
be more of a  . there are a few differences , but those are the 
main ones. there was an article about in pc week last august .  . 
the and nt development groups at oft are in intense 
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will 
arise nt will be the server ( n t echonology ) , will be the 
machine .  . it is entirely possible for different 's to work together , 
partly because is just a small nt  ( think of it that way ,  . 
 ( novell creates an on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't 
scorn the concept . ) . 
anyway , do n't expect it soon. 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be 
released next year  ( read see it in 95 ) , so i expect that wo n't be out 
 . 
how does chicago differ from the  ( sort of ) 4. my understand 
, at least from the of 4 is that it 's sort 
of nt a full operating system but lacking server and security 
features that make nt such a bear. is not true 

from  ( bob taylor ) 
subject re printing problem 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 32 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

tom wrote 

, 

i recently tried to print some using 3 . 0 . with my 
, and i seem to be having a problem. what 
happens is after i physically load the into the 
 ( per the user manual ) and then select the print 
from  ( all of the proper options have been selected ) , the 
just out the without any printing of 
either a return address or the mailing address. at 
this point , the 's light begins to , and 
the print shows the job as busy. this is all 
that happens , until i either shut the off or the 
printing job from the print  . i have also tried this 
without the use of the print , with similar results 
 ( amipro shows the as being  . so , does anybody 
have any idea solution regarding this problem i appreciate 
the help. thanks. 

yes ignore the manual .  . just insert the do n't use the 
to move it up. the sends a message to the that 
tells it to load the if it is already loaded , it gets 
and the tries to load another. the instructions in the manual 
are for dos  . that do n't send the load message. 



tom 

bob 
vancouver 

from  ( erich w lantz ) 
subject 80  . mail messages in 
keywords editor mail 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 31 

i have a system of that me to 
mail from a public access unix system to my dos box .  . i read and reply 
to the mail with a 3 . 1 . based editor .  . 

everything works as long as the author of the message has 
his text at 80  .  .  . sometimes i get slightly 
messages that run off , so i have to use the to read 
the whole thing. 

i'm using mainly , but i 've experienced the same prob with 
all other  . i 've with word in 
the various , but to no avail. i know i'm missing something very 
basic in editor setup , but what is it 

oh yeah , word for converts everything but for what 
i'm looking for that 's like using a to crack  . 

i 'd really like to have an editor setup that would display all 
ascii files in a format to my screen. 

thanks in advance , 


w. 
of 
 85 
well dead now , so shut up ! m . p .  . 





from  ( rafael ) 
subject c edition request was re absolute newbie questions .  .  .  . 
organization , ai dept , japan .  . 
lines 52 
nntp posting host 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 06 16 54 gmt 

in article  ( samuel e wiggins ) writes 

btw , how would you rate the new c edition for 
, anyone 

time for a new discussion , maybe i asked in these groups some time ago 
what about the ve , and got no answers , so i decided to try. my brother 
who lives in the us bought and sent it to me , and i'm still trying to get 
used to it. 

before i put my good bad points list , consider i am a pascal dos 
programmer , and sometimes try to make something in unix with c  ( just 
some from  . i used to make some programs in 
c version 5 ( ! ! ) because we used some third party 
that required that. 
i like  . it seems to me much more easier to use than , 
the  . i tried to learn sometimes , but never 
felt with it. 
v e seems very nice to create simple , like the examples on the 
book. so far , no problems. lets see next week or so , when i 
will try something more complex .  . 
it works nice even in my weak machine , 6  . 

but .  .  .  .  .  . 

the manual for the resource seems to be from a different version 
from the itself. some of the that appear on the manual 
have more than in the manual .  . 
i think i will run into trouble since i got this ve from my brother 
as a present. i wanted to buy the japanese version because 1 ) i 
suspect that the will be in japanese ( and 2 ) i believe it 
will be far more expensive here. so he bought it as a present and sent to 
me , i send the card to the japanese branch of , but .  .  .  . 
who knows. 

so , i 'd like to ask some questions for you all 

i know that there are some guys around here in this group. is 
there anybody from is there any e mail address that we can 
contact the technical support not for stupid questions , but to ask 
for example , why the manual seems to be different from the itself 
is there anybody else using it around here 
will the book of be useful for me i intend to use and 
to make the and then work on the code itself. 

answers to my e mail or programmer . tools . , please. 

thanks in advance , 

 . 



from  ( brent casavant ) 
subject re file with dos 6 . 0 . 
summary explanation of message 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 63 

in article  ( james dean barwick ) writes 
stuff deleted 

more on files .  .  .  . 

i'm sure everyone who has an part of their hard 
has seen the message you have a file greater than the suggested 
size .  .  . will only use the size suggested .  .  . do . you n't to create this 
file anyway or something like that. 

well , a friend of mine  ( robert ) called and asked them what and why. 
what they said is that the amount of free space and 
that number by 2. then it for the largest block 
of free space .  . then suggests the smaller of the two numbers. 

they also said that under absolutely no circumstances .  .  . none . !  .  .  . will . 
uses a file larger than the suggested size. well .  .  . that . 's what he 
said ! 

i call . if this is true why does report the memory is 
available to me if it 's not going to use it 

any 

james 

well , someone at told you wrong. will use a file 
larger than the recommended size. last summer i went to a 
3 . 1 . technical and they a lot of information 
that the general public might not be aware of. anyway in the main book 
they handed out they have a section on creating larger than recommended 
. i 'll quote the information 

if you create a permanent larger than the recommended size , you 
will receive a message telling you that will not use anything 
larger than the recommended size. this error message is incorrect , we 
will allow the use of the larger , up to four times the amount 
of on your machine .  . 

so as you see , does know that the information is incorrect .  . you 
probably just into some who was new on the job and was only 
telling you what little he knew .  . 

be that what it may , i would really suggest to everyone to take the 
opportunity to go to these technical  . they are n't actually 
incredibly in depth , but you do get a lot of material about and 
straight from those in the know. besides that they offer 
you huge on software .  . if i remember correctly , you could pick 
up word 2.0 , 4 . 0 . , or whatever their program is for 130 .  . 
that is the full blown version , not an or version. you 
could also pick up office for or something like that. myself 
i for word. 

well , hope that was helpful to someone .  . and besides that i hope someone 
will go to a and save a little money. 

and if anyone at is reading this i really love your products. 
i need a job once i graduate also , can we work something out ) 

thanks , 




from  ( richard warner ) 
subject re 
organization san jose state university math cs dept. 
lines 36 

 ( al devilbiss ) writes 

 ( jorge sun bos hardware ) writes 
is there any ftp site that carries results for different 
cards in  ( xls ) format what is the latest version of and 
how do they differ is the source available , and has anybody try to it to 
x , at least in a way that will make comparisons possible 

on ftp . edu . in pub pc misc zip . is a by 
steve gibson of with 3 . 11 . and a number of other 
results for and four video cards. this is a 
very current and is likely to have any card you 're currently 
giving serious consideration .  . not in format .  . latest version of 
that i know of is 3 . 11 .  . i believe they try to maintain 
the same scale between versions , and new versions are released 
to defeat the coding put in by to 
the  . do n't know on the last one. 

and why they are considering using as a test , they may want 
to read everything steve gibson has said on the subject in his 
the past couple of month .  . in short , virtually 
every board on the test by writing things in the 
that is there only to make the board appear on the 
 . so the score has no bearing in reality to 
how cards stack up on real world  . 

in the last pc magazine they some of the new , 
and admitted that many of them   on  . interestingly , 
they  allowed  one type of behaviour  ( caching for 
, no matter how unreal ) , yet did not allow a couple of other 
types of behaviour that some of the cards used. at least 
one card was eliminated from the editor 's choice because of 
on the  . 

al 


from  ( yong thia ) 
subject protection fault 
summary fault 
keywords fault 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 13 

hi ! i was wondering if anyone out there could help me. 
i have an error message that goes 



what does it mean 

i am running 3 . 1 .  . 

thanks in advance 


from 
subject re 
organization , systems eng , pa 
lines 20 

! 

i 've had a bunch of problems with the  . a dos on the 
can result in the blowing up into a set of 
lines , the entire  . nothing can this 
except to completely from  . the other problem is 
that that scroll often lines rather than actually 
, as if a was printed without an  . this seems only to happen 
to communications programs , but i ca n't nail it down any further than that. 
note , though , that the programs do n't have to be communicating .  . even 
just back through capture or files in 
these programs causes the problem. 

prior to the latest rev of word perfect for , would sometimes 
blow up , and the error message would cite the video as the source of 
the problem. i 've still seen this , but only once or twice with 5 . 2 .  . 

dave 
 ( my opinions are my own ) 


from  ( jan van loenen ) 
subject re , win 3 . 1 . , 
lines 47 

 ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) writes 

in article  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) writes 

anybody seen running the 
sorry , do n't know the version of the  ( no indication in the menus ) but it 's a recently 
gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from bbs but wondered 
if anyone else had seen this. 

as a followup , this is a co 's machine .  . he has the latest 2 . 03 . drivers .  . 
it only happens using the  . sometimes it takes a minute 
or so for the to out , but it eventually does in this mode .  . i 
something is on memory the video card wants. i excluded 
in the line and in system . the problem  . 
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components .  . 
it is a 2 with an  ( 24xx )  . ah well , 
i was this was some kind of  known problem  or somebody had seen it 
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here 
usually are far more in the know. 

i have  ( had ) several problems with the card .  . 
applications when moving the  ( vga  . fixed by removing 
the line 0 , 0 from sys .  . the default value 9 , 256 
does just fine. 
random white all over the when moving the , in a 
256 color mode  ( the hardware  . fixed by turning 
off the hardware scroll ( ) before entering the 
mode .  . this also fixed the problem of the dos boxes under  . 
with the hardware scroll enabled , applications write garbage outside the 
 . 
the do not remove the in 256 color modes  ( hardware 
 . i do n't know if this is a problem or a problem. 
clearly there should be two types of removing functions a remove 
for draw , which can be ignored for hardware and a remove 
 . do other cards with hardware have the same problem 
the does not support the mode .  .  ( universal 
drivers do not run at  . 


disclaimer unless otherwise stated , the above comments are entirely my own. 


jan van 
digital equipment corporation 

j 


subject roman . 13 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 

from 
subject word 2.0 help ! 
organization university computer services 
lines 10 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 

, 
i'm having problems printing spanish characters with  . i was using the true type which has the characters , and used insert symbol to put in in the document .  . however , when i put it in the doc , i get a big square character , and then it out just the same  ( to my , thinking that was just the way it  . 
can anyone tell me if and how they have printed spanish characters i know 5 . 1 . has this built in , but i do not recall ever seeing this option on  . help ! 

robert s. include , , sir , mr. , and i 

university math computer science double major 

internet address vms . edu . milwaukee , wi 


from  ( robert kudla ) 
subject re can i change to data in 3 . 1 . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 65 

in writes 
, yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is on the 
, that is it , it is  . not even a editor will find it. you can 

but a compare utility  ( old versus new ) will. and 3 . 1 . is 
also enough at time that you can copy all the files 
onto your hard , which greatly things up and makes them 
less , if you can spare the 7 or so  . 

write over the to , but you ca n't change the name it. i 
think if you wish to change this you would have to be a , and we 're not 
going to promote that here. 

no , we 're not. but we 're also not going to promote to 
paranoia when the real issue is convenience .  . i do n't like 
dealing with  . personally , i have no use for changing the 
info , but i see it as a valid need , and one that ought to 
be solved using a quick little utility rather than a half hour 
that 's just about guaranteed to mess up your in one 
way or another. 

so , while i'm not going to put much time into it myself , here 's the 
procedure for getting on your way to finding the information 

1. copy all your into the directory from which you want 
to it. i 've been using c myself. 

2. from there , copy that directory to something like c  . 

3. from c  . 

4. the two to determine changes .  . 
i.e. , . . report . txt . 

5. look in the report file for the  ( file(s ) that change .  . assuming 
they did n't cover themselves covering their own , at least one 
file should have a difference noted at a particular offset .  . 
said offset in the original directory and see what 's there using a 
editor , and do the same for the modified one. 

6. you 're on your own as far as breaking the code goes i do n't 
really do cryptography .  . it 's probably just an key or something i 
think is more concerned with joe at the office 
his copy than with real who will probably just 
the damned thing anyway. this should work with just about 
any obnoxious product that tries to write to the original 
when you in some extreme cases you may not be able 
to back the up to hard , and will be stuck doing a 
compare on  ( lotus stuff is probably like  . 

as i noted before , if you can afford the space on the hard , and 
do n't do much in the way of , from one 
directory to another may be less  . doing some of the stuff 
i 've mentioned here may well your license with , as if 
they 'd ever find out. if you are n't careful with the editor , you 
could also something important .  .  .  .  . i guess that 's a 
disclaimer .  . 

have at it .  .  .  .  . 

rob 

rob keywords 's leather yes 1 . 
light blue right r . e . m .  . dan genesis in the 
, the silver , the lion takes control .  .  .  .  .  . 

organization university of central florida computer services 
from mark 
subject why i'm not using dos 6 anymore 
lines 18 

i 've been running dos 6 for about a month .  . i was generally impressed with 
the the multiple were great , the 
new commands were nice , and worked fine  ( twice as slow for 
large data , twice as fast for small with  . 

until now. 

this morning at 4 am while i was working on my research paper , i had to 
a dos program  ( that did no i o) from within 3 . 1 .  . 
when my machine finished , i found my directory and about two 
of my other were corrupted .  . 

i cannot afford problems like this. i'm returning to dos 5. 

mark 

p.s. i 've also noticed bad errors from where none should 
exist. 

from  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
subject re on under 3 . 1 . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 34 
reply to  ( martin linsenbigler ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( joseph paparella ) says 

i 've and researched this question over the last month or so because i have the same requirements you do .  .  .  .  .  . and . the long and short of it is that the drivers do n't accept at any but and using or unless you buy special drivers from someone who has them .  .  .  .  . i . 've talked to systems who say their does n't support other than and as above , but who claim to be one that will soon ! . 

the other alternative seems to be possible , but in one case expensive , i.e. 4 card for 600 ! ! , and in the other , the  ( author(s ) of for claim to have a 4 serial card with and drivers for to match (i . e .  . irq5 ) for 120 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the second paragraph is , because i have n't checked it out yet .  .  .  .  . but . intend to as soon as i can free up 120 g 

hope this will save you some steps .  . 



i had this problem when i first loaded  . my i o card is for 2 's 
2 's 1 2 serial  ( 1 for and 1 for my external modem ) and 
a game  . problem enters .  . the serial have no selection for 
com , they are stuck on 3 and 4. 
good card for 's and 's but lousy for serial .  . 

i called and other places. the long and short of it is 
wants and 2 only ! , for selection .  . 
i went out and bought a small i o card just for and serial .  . 
now i have all 4 active com and and  . 
this half card was less than 20 .  . 

on com 1 external on com 2 , i the so i could use 
the for my card  . 
c  .  .  .  .  . 


this is sent by university of arizona tucson 


death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings 

from  ( greg bishop ) 
subject re , win 3 . 1 . , 
organization physics department , 
news software vax vms 
reply to 
lines 26 

in article  ( don a . b .  . lindbergh ) writes 

anybody seen running the 
sorry , do n't know the version of the  ( no indication in the menus ) but it 's a recently 
gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from bbs but wondered 
if anyone else had seen this. 


as a followup , this is a co 's machine .  . he has the latest 2 . 03 . drivers .  . 
it only happens using the  . sometimes it takes a minute 
or so for the to out , but it eventually does in this mode .  . i 
something is on memory the video card wants. i excluded 
in the line and in system . the problem  . 
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components .  . 
it is a 2 with an  ( 24xx )  . ah well , 
i was this was some kind of  known problem  or somebody had seen it 
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here 
usually are far more in the know. 

i use the in mode all of the time. i 
have not found in the  . the is a little 
from time to time  ( due to 32 bit access to the file ) , but it is never 
 . 

greg  . 


from  ( the cybard ) 
subject files on 1 . and 1.0 
summary how can i play files in 3 . 1 . with a 1.0 card 
keywords , , , ibm pc 
organization 
lines 15 
nntp posting host buffalo . edu . 

i have a 33 computer with a 1.0 card .  . i'm running 
1 .  . i have the set up properly to play 
normal sounds ( . files , etc . ) .  . i want to play files through the 
media that is included with  . i know i have to set up the 
patch or something in the in the control  . i know 
nothing about  .  ( this is to be the way i 'll get my feet wet . ) . 

how do i set up so that i can play files 



david thomas the 
state university ` ' ) , , , 
of new york if music be the food of love , () 
@ buffalo play on !  . ` . . )     

subject file 
from 
organization canada 
nntp posting host bbs 
nntp posting user 
lines 7 

a co of mine needs to convert a file to a form 
 ( ie ascii ) in or dos .  . does anybody know of a utility that will do 
this i have a vague memory of a utility someone mentioned once .  .  .  . 

thanks for any info , 

 . 

subject re mail via 
from  ( wes james ) 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization sun , inc. 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 40 


we here at utah state university cooperative extension have been using 
for a while now. we wanted to talk to the internet with the mail 
so we got the gateway .  . you also need a transport 
on top of that which is utterly stupid but that 's what they 
require to get the gateway to work. you need a dedicated pc 
for the gateway and if you are looking at remote access you need another 
dedicated pc for the remote mail stuff. we do not have the remote mail 
going but you indicate that that is what you want to do. 

there is a somewhere in the system though. i do n't know if it 
is mail , the gateway or the vax here on campus that is in the 
mail that is sent .  . the scenario is this. the outgoing mail goes to a 
unix system which then the mail where it needs to go. if that mail 
is to the vax , the vax has problems some times receiving the mail .  . 
most messages do get through this way except if someone has there mail 
on the vax to some other  . that is the main  . 
where ever the mail is to that person gets a message 
then a message saying  ( error garbage code stuff ) . if you 
can stay away from sending to a vax you are ok. the system people 
of course say that the vax is not the problem , the gateway is probably 
the problem. if anyone wants to get help it is only 00 . for one 
support call .  .  ( until problem is worked out ) to that i say. i 
am looking for a better idea. 

if you go forward on any of this and find out anything knew , please 
drop me a note anyone. the next is supposed to have 
built in they say .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . the of 

good luck ! ! ! ! ! 


james email 
utah state university 
cooperative extension 
systems 
voice  ( 801)750 ) 
, fax  ( 801)750 ) 



from  ( chris wooff ) 
subject up after removing an ole server 
keywords ole , 
nntp posting host 22 . ac . uk . 
organization the university of 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 

a while ago i for as part of an evaluation .  . once 
the evaluation was complete i deleted the software from my pc .  . 

unfortunately there is still a ghost of left when i run 
something like write and go to an object then 
appears on the list of objects i'm offered .  . i looked around all 
the obvious files without success. the next thing i tried 
was looking for the string in every file in the 
directory .  . it turned up in a file called  ( or 
 . unfortunately the file was and so i did n't feel 
inclined to edit it. 

i 'd welcome a solution for removing from the list of ole  . 

chris 


from  ( william jeremiah ) 
subject looking for 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
organization university of , canada 
lines 8 

i'm looking for a c . for 3 . 1 .  . does anybody 
happen to know where i could find such a 

thanks in advance , 
jerry 


look ma ! no  . signature . ! 

subject roman . 14 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 


from 
subject 1 . with 
organization university of , , new 
lines 11 

from green new  .  .  . 

we are looking for a 3 . 1 . that will allow (a hypen ) 
over in both and lower cases. this is so we can use 
characters in applications .  . 

thanks in advance 
stuart 

 ( email directly to would be the method of 
contact ) 

from  ( kirk membry ) 
subject re access for the blind 
reply to ! ! 
organization private system 
lines 18 

in  ( michael panayiotakis ) writes 

at the oft display at , there were a few computers running 
, and win .  . for the blind , i think. did n't pay much 
attention to it , but it was there. 

it seems that a particular program designed for blind people is more important 
than trying to interface with a way for blind people to use it. 
if someone made a voice recognition  ( sound ) oriented program , 
it would probably been more effective. i do n't know what the original 
purpose of was for the person who posted the question 
though. 



our age is the age of industry 
! ! 


from  ( david glenn ) 
subject re or which to choose 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization corp .  . 
lines 54 

in article wrote 
(c . m .  . yearsley ) writes 

i 've just bought a pc which came with a of stuff , including 
type version 1 . 15 .  . as a to , i'm 
confused about which i should be using , or  . 

if you are going to stay with , be sure to to 2.5 , which 
2 . 0 .  . who knows how old 1 . 15 . is. 2.5 is as fast as , and if 
you the small , does better at 
the smaller point sizes .  . 

not true ! both type 1 and can be of excellent quality and poor quality 
at any size. it all depends on the 's and the complexity of the 
related to the size and resolution at which they are viewed .  . probably the reason 
for your opinion experience that is inferior is because most on the 
market today have been converted from type 1 to either by the 
or end users using or instead of the being 
hand to take advantage of the language. at best these converted 
will be on a par with the type 1 of its  . 

is a much and more language than type 1  ( the 
of for instance , which does and type 1  . if you check out the 
3 . 1 . core  ( times , , , symbol , wingdings ) you 'll see what can 
be done with  . there are other out there that have been hand and not 
just converted .  . some of the pack 2 are very well. 

you can use both and at the same time , if you like. 
 ( type 1 ) tend to be of higher quality 
and be more complete in terms of foreign characters. 

again , not true. the characters in a or type 1 depend on the  . if someone 
converts a type 1 to they 'll only get the characters in the of  . 
allows for much more flexibility in this area as well. you can have thousands of 
in a file  ( mac ps set ) and use the characters appropriate 
for the particular you are running the on. for instance , all or our 
2 have the mac set in them. the of the are such that 
if the is brought over to the mac the user will have access to the full mac set .  . 


regards , a east harmony road 
bob 
internet co 
compuserve ,  ( 303 ) 

hope this up some of the confusion. feel free to contact me if anyone would like 
more info .  . 

regards , 

dave glenn 
program , stuff 

compuserve , 

from  ( morgan j bullard ) 
subject re speeding up 
keywords speed 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 30 

 ( reincarnation of elvis ) writes 

i have a 33 with 8 of memory 

i have noticed that lately when i use programs like or draw 
my computer down and becomes really ! 

what can i do to increase what should i turn on or off 

will not or stuff like that help when it comes to 
the running speed of and the programs that run under it 

thanx in advance 



1 ) make sure your hard drive is  . this will speed up more than 
just btw. use something like 's or pc tools .  . 
2 ) i think that leaving the paper out will use less and therefore 
will speed up your machine but i could very will be wrong on this. 
there 's a good chance you 've already done this but if not it may speed things 
up. good luck 

or 


j . p .  . e mail 
sociologist it 's to chicago , we 've got a full 
( ) university of gas , half a pack of , it 's dark , and 
u bay , ontario we 're wearing  . 

from  ( daniel y . h .  . wong ) 
subject looking for the latest drivers for 
organization dept. of electrical engineering , university of , canada 
distribution 
lines 14 

hi , anyone have the latest drivers for the card 
 ( 32 plus ) the one i have  ( version 1 . seem to have a lot of problems. 
i believe the latest version is 1 . 3 . and would someone please 
it to some ftp site so that i can it. 

thanks 





daniel y . h .  .  ( 416)978 ) 
electrical engineering 


from  ( shiva shenoy ) 
subject re help 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 53 

in  ( mario veraart ) writes 

 ( qing yin ) writes 

hi , it 's an easy question for you  . i 'd appreciate any help. 

we need to write an on line help for our application .  . we do n't have 
software 's  ( yet ) ) .  . since we just want to build 
a  . file around  help engine , i hope it wo n't be that complicated 
anyway , could someone give me some hints of how to build such an 
on line help , if it does not take 100 pages to explain or if it is complicated , 
would you help to point out what i would need to do it 



q .  . 


hi , 

if you have developed your own application you must have a 
of some sort that contains the or file to 
and generate  . files out of  . files. 
files are generated by a like word for dos or  . 

you do not need the  . what you need  ( and can get free ) are 

ftp . edu . 
index pub pc index 

first get pub pc what . zip . ( 1 . this contains the help 
among other things. it is free from  . 

then get these (i think these are free too) 

pub pc 
files zip . , zip . zip . 

these are 

pub pc 
files zip . , zip . , zip . 

pub pc 
files zip .  ( macros for word 2.0 to convert doc to  . 


e mail 
black , dept of , , ames , ia office  ( 515 ) 


e mail 
black , dept of , , ames , ia office  ( 515 ) 

from  ( ron apland ) 
subject re telephone of logic 
organization college 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( hua chen ) writes 
is there anybody who knows the telephone number of logic co .  . , 
of a card please reply to 
thank you very much. 


center for 



bbs number 
226 

ron 

from  ( david bryan strutt ) 
subject re help with changing logo 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization the university of , 
lines 29 

in article  ( charles u. farley ) writes 

i know this is probably a faq , but .  .  .  . 

i the s w for my card , and it my 
logo files. when i start now , it has the 3 . 0 . logo instead of 
the 3 . 1 . logo .  . 

i thought the files that controlled this were 

system 
system 

i these files , but it did n't change the logo .  . anyone know what 
the correct files are 

i believe you have the correct files. i think what you 'll have to 
do is go back into setup and choose change video or 
whatever it is called .  . then the trick is choose the same 
you currently have. what setup does is it actually changes the 
file win . com . whenever you go into it and change the video 
hardware selection .  . it the contents of 
into win . com . when you do this. this trick can also be used to 
change the logo into whatever you want it to be. 

 . sig . alert 


end  . sig . alert 

subject is causing bad on my 
from  ( john driver ) 
organization communications , san diego ca 
lines 47 

i am having something very unusual happen. first 
some background on my system. i have a 63 hard drive , 
and am running  ( the version that comes with 3 . on 
it. i rarely use  . i use a program called 
gold v1 . 14 . to do live time on my hard drive .  . it works by 
having a device detect whenever more than one read is 
necessary for a file , or if there is anything else is wrong with it , 
and minor problems are fully checked out upon  . my hard 
drive is notorious for bad  . i usually end up with 8 new bad 
a week. 

here 's what happened i a program , and broke in with 
an emergency warning and recommended i  . it gave me this 
message twice before the program was fully loaded .  . i the program 
and did just this. went through its process , examining 
for new errors etc. , and a up and said something about 
for a brief period of time. 

i then went back to the program , executed it again , and the 
exact same error was detected .  . i and tried again , and the 
same error happened again. so , i removed from memory , and went 
to the program to see if i could detect anything wrong. sure enough 
there was a number of read attempts .  . so i and , 
but removed the  . i executed the program .  . no read errors , 
either or detected by  . i quit the program , loaded the 
, and the program again. the errors were detected .  . 

ok , so the errors are there , and but does n't fix 
them , when the is loaded .  . when the is not loaded there are 
no errors. so , to see if the was interfering with any other 
files , i went into gold and all files , and searched them 
for a random string  ( in other words , i wanted the program to 
completely read every file on my hard  . before i got through 
the c 's had detected at least errors and recommended i  . 

does anybody , have any idea why is causing on 
my hard drive oh , there are exactly two per file , and 1 in 
about every 100 files are affected .  . 

i originally posted this message to corp .  . 's 
system , but i someone out in may know enough about 
to help me out. 


internet  ( john driver ) 
uucp ... ! ! ! 
communications public access in san diego , ca  ( 619 ) 

from  ( sadun anik ) 
subject dark of my 
organization center for reliable and high computing 
lines 19 
nntp posting host edu . 


here is an problem. whenever i save an which contains dark 
like dark red or dark , these are converted to the 
bright  . this happens with every editor including the image 
editor that came with  . i do n't have this problem with  . files 
either only with  . files or  . the problem is with 
the field in the file  . checking the file 
with a editor , i can see that the are ok. by editing the 
 ( copying from another that i did n't edit ) i can 
fix the  . does anybody know what may be causing this problem 

thanks. 




, u of illinois at urbana champaign 
center for reliable and high computing 
e mail 

from  ( hayes james michael jr ) 
subject start up position for , how 
keywords , position 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 8 


how do you set up an to give its a default start up 
position and size 

mike knowledge is good. college motto 
www knowledge and motto 
tech , no , thank you ! ,  a day at the races  
driven to my head against engineering physics for 4 years. 

from  ( convex unix ) 
subject re help with 
reply to 
organization natural environment research council 
lines 4 


i had a similar problem try changing the to 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . or 0 . 

tommy .  . 

from  ( thomas g schlatter ) 
subject re wo n't my dos run in a ! 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 8 

in article writes 
can somebody help me out there i have just purchased win 3 . 1 . and i just 
ca n't get dos  ( text mode apps ) to run in a on their own. i 've 
tried around with the etc , but to no avail. what am 
i doing wrong (i did n't get this problem under  . 

are you sure you 're running in enhanced mode  ( windows 3 . 1 . 
takes more memory .  .  . ) . 

from 
subject re page setup in 
organization clark university 
lines 29 

in a previous article ,  ( joel aycock ) wrote 

i with the margin problem for ages as well , until i 
finally got hold of the editor , and into 
 ( there is no setup to force to default to 
0 . 0 . it 's into code ! ! ! ) .  . 

do a search for  . 75 . , then change the offending to  . 00 . , 
et  . who are the guys who these options anyway 

i'm interested in whether the problem only it 's head for 
certain i'm using an old  ( or is that ex never can 
 . 

 . 

you are alone. i get the same problems with my panasonic  ( 24 
 . , it 's a great  . i just ca n't find a for it , 
only for the non i version. anyone seen it 

rob 




rob 

annoy rush  . think for yourself. 


from  ( paul blackman ) 
subject re moving 
article i.d. 
organization university of canberra 
lines 20 

in article ! ! writes 
i remember reading about a program that made run away 
from the as it moved near them. does anyone know the name 
of this program and the ftp  ( probably at cica ) 

the file is zip . and you 'll find it in the   directory 
at  . 

the one line description is 
your with 


o paul 
o water research centre , 
o of applied science 
( ) o university of canberra , australia .  . 

spend a little love and get high 



from  ( gilles khouzam ) 
subject re questions  . and licensing ) 
summary good choice 
keywords 
organization university , montreal , canada 
lines 55 

in article ny writes 
i would be very if someone would answer a few 
questions about for  . 

i currently have which does not work with 
very well and is a conventional memory  . 1 .  . 
i am considering moving all our machines to  . 

how much conventional does use over and above the 
for the network card 

i have just checked it and you have three files that are loaded 
128 



if i have a card , are the and drivers 
still needed 

no uses it 's own drivers .  . 

does do a license check over the network to ensure each 
machine is running its own copy of  ( note i do 
not want to break the license agreement and i will buy a copy 
of for each of our machines , it is just that i would like 
to try it out first to see if it our needs. returning one 
opened copy is much easier than returning n opened copies . ) . 

not that i know of , i bought two copies , had some problems with one 
both from the same , no problems. do worry i just had 
a really old and that 's the only problem i got .  . 

if you buy the to 3 . 1 . for does it replace 
all of win 3 . 1 . as you it or does it depend on current 
win 3 . 1 . files 
it will replace all older files (i think) and you for the 
others. 

if i nt on my server when it comes out , will i have 
any with the machines 

this i do not know .  .  .  . 

when i started this message , i was going to ask only 2 questions but i got carried 
away. i 'll stop now ) .  . 

i look forward to your replies .  . 

al 


hope this helps 




subject roman . 08 14 
from  ( cliff ) 
reply to  ( cliff ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of south dakota 
lines 


from  . chen ) 
subject help on 
summary size 
keywords , 3 . 1 . , 
organization centre , university of queensland 
lines 18 

i wonder if anyone can tell me whether or not i can create a 
of any size i followed the creation example in manual 
and a  ( set the to 24 ) and 
a string with 72 chars .  . but i just cannot get the right 
image. i changed the to and used the same value 
string  ( padded with zero to make up to the right size ) and 
got the image. 

the example in the manual is size , which are multiple of 2  . 
can you define a image of any size 

thanks very much. 

g 

g. , centre for information technology research , university of 
queensland , australia 
tel 61 7 365 , fax 61 7 365 

from  ( phillip michael williams ) 
subject x for 
organization university 
lines 7 

are there any x that can run under i only know of 
but have not seen it in action. are there any others 

thanks in advance. 




from  ( thomas g schlatter ) 
subject re order of files written when 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 31 

in article  ( hayes james michael jr ) writes 

trying to pin point a hardware problem with my , 
 . group files get corrupted on a regular basis. 
only happens on this drive , d had only one corrupt file 
in over a year and it was under the control of on c. 
32 bit access and are off. since 
of problem has turned from an to a reason for 
murder .  . 

are you using if you are , it. we had a lot 
of problems with things  ( including 
the permanent file ) when we were using it. 


since the most frequent files corrupted are the  . files , 
are these the last thing written to when 

indeed they are. advanced personal measure tells me they are 
just before shell . 


also , are there any available that do 
a more job than dos 6 , 4 . 5 . , etc dos 6 and 
win 3 . 1 .  . 

i really like and plus 

tom 



from  ( g hunt ) 
subject for and 
organization school of , university of , uk 
lines 19 

this may be a simple question but 

we have a number of pc 's which we use to link to a using 
for dos  ( via 3 .  . 
now , to make life easier for us we are thinking of using for 
to allow file across our pc network. 

now does anyone know if it is possible to use and 
for dos at the same time. 

ie can i access a file on another pc while being on to the 
at the same time , simultaneously .  . 

any help well appreciated. 

hunt .  . 
centre for advanced studies in 
university of 


from  ( ashok aiyar ) 
subject re for other news readers 
organization cwru school of medicine 
lines 26 
nntp posting host slip . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( ginny mcbride ) writes 


in article 
 ( ashok aiyar ) writes 

currently is in very late  . it looks like an excellent 
product , with several features beyond the dos version. 

supports the , , and there is also a direct to 
packet version that some people are using with the  . 


what 's it gonna cost 

again , i do not speak for peter , but it is my understanding that it 
will status as 1 . 05 . for dos is , and i imagine that the 
will be similar. i also believe that a new version of 
for dos will be released sometime in the near future. 




mail 
department of biochemistry tel  ( 216 ) 
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax  ( 216 ) 

subject re 
from 
organization university of missouri kansas city 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 33 

in article , ( chris almy ) writes 

, although i do not trust it for my hard , sounds 
great for  . the of having to mount the 
is but something i can deal with. the problem 
when under  . is there a way to mount and while 
under or is this part of the soon to be 
available from other 


 . chris . 


i ca n't see why you would not trust it because it is safer than any previous 
programs. it into the and makes it nearly 
impossible to delete .  . 


















from  ( howard moy ) 
subject how to fix word 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 14 


hi , 

i have a problem when using with  . the 
problem is the characters get cut off on the display , 
but print out ok. anyone know how to fix the so 
i can see them on the 

many thanks , 



! ! 
! (608) ! 

from  ( maw yuan ) 
subject 1 . sys . 
organization university of hawaii , college of engineering 
lines 11 

hi there , 

with a of , is there a need to run load for 
3 . 1 . if yes , can i run load without 
if i need both , is the following sys . 
ok  .  .  . sys . 
 .  .  . sys . e 

thanks in advance for e mail reply. 



from  ( moret magistere ) 
subject 3 . 0 . and 2.0 
nntp posting host fr . 
reply to  ( moret magistere ) 
organization 
lines 7 


i wanted to create a file with win  . 1 . , to print it on a 
ii. it created a file version 3 . 0 . , but our 
laser accept only 2 . 0 .  . how resolve this problem 


thanks , 

from  ( fromut fritze ) 
subject re anyone know 's email address 
organization , germany 
lines 15 

does anybody know if has a e mail address and if 
so , what it is i know they have a bbs and something on 
compuserve , but i'm someone know 's their e mail 
address. 

john white from can be reached at as ,  . 
for me would as email address work from internet .  . 


internet 
phone germany 
address , analytic division r d , 
, d 2 , germany 



from  ( brad cain ) 
subject changing system 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 18 

i would like to change all of the system in  .  .  . i have a 
program that will generate system from , but i was 
wondering if there is a problem to help you set up all your system 
 . 

also , how do i change the text color .  .  .  . all of my text is black , 
and i want to change it .  .  .  . could n't find any options in control or 
in win . 

brad cain 





brad cain 
white . ee . edu . university of electrical engineering 
blah , blah , blah alt . blah . 

from  ( bill scrivener ) 
subject in need of help .  .  .  .  . 
organization texas a m university , academic computing services 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host zeus . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

ok , i have a problem that i thought you guys might know about .  .  .  .  . 

i'm running a 25 with a  . i also have 3 . 1 . , but 
hardly any dos application will run out it. also , when i do a 
command , it says that i have used up out of of conventional 
memory , zero from level memory , and all of my memory. 
and to top it off , i ca n't load any device drivers into memory. 
do i just need more memory also , why would it use up memory instead 
of memory 

please reply by e mail only to 





bill it 's not the first time that you 
texas a m university sleep with a woman that matters , 
college station , texas but the first time 
email you wake up with her. 



from  ( olcay boz ) 
subject 
organization university 
lines 12 

hi , 

can somebody tell me how much is and from where can i buy it for 
the price thanks in advance .  .  . 



m 
0 


o 0 0 o 

subject re start up position for , how 
from  ( david white ) 
organization industrial research ltd , , new 
keywords , position 
nntp posting host 
lines 15 

in  ( hayes james michael jr ) writes 

how do you set up an to give its a default start up 
position and size 

try zip . from ftp . edu . 129 . 20 . in the directory 
ftp pub pc  . it 's  . 

also noticed there a program called zip . , which from the description 
looks like it also does what you want. 

hope this helps .  . 

david white  ( engineer , fan son of my dad ) 
internet fax 64 9 

from  ( ken lam ) 
subject re wanted address 
reply to 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 27 

 ( rob de winter ) writes 

i am looking for the exact address of the , which 
and other software .  . 

the information i am looking for is 

mail address 
phone number 
fax number 
e mail address 

try 
or 

thanks in advance. 


nothing beats , if you want to have real fun during  . 
rob de philips research , ist it , building 1 
p.o. box ,  . the 
tel 31 40 e mail 


ken 
network administrator @ university of dept of biology 
s . c .  . space grant  ( 803 ) fax  ( 803 ) 

from  ( joseph paparella ) 
subject re on under 3 . 1 . 
organization computer science 
lines 8 

i 've and researched this question over the last month or so because i have the same requirements you do .  .  .  .  .  . and . the long and short of it is that the drivers do n't accept at any but and using or unless you buy special drivers from someone who has them .  .  .  .  . i . 've talked to systems who say their does n't support other than and as above , but who claim to be one that will soon ! . 

the other alternative seems to be possible , but in one case expensive , i.e. 4 card for 600 ! ! , and in the other , the  ( author(s ) of for claim to have a 4 serial card with and drivers for to match (i . e .  . irq5 ) for 120 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the second paragraph is , because i have n't checked it out yet .  .  .  .  . but . intend to as soon as i can free up 120 g 

hope this will save you some steps .  . 


from  ( chris menzel ) 
subject re plus for problems .  .  .  .  . 
organization texas a m university , college station , tx 
lines 25 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

jeff wrote 
in article  ( kent p. iler ) writes 
. 
. 
i have a friend who to the and unix machines here 
using plus for , but the seems to have a problem 
keeping up with the 
 .  .  . he . has a 14 , 400 on a 50 machine .  . 

tell him he probably needs to to a video card ! my 
was one of the reasons i sought out the  . i get 
about 7 million on my 25 and it just about keeps up with the 
speed  ( using plus for , too) .  . he should get over 
10 million on his machine with the same card .  . anything 10 should 
acceptable speed .  .  .  . 

i'm using pc plus at home on my old 20 with a 14 , 400 
with no problems at all. i am , however , running only 
straight 16 color  . 



internet 
philosophy , texas a m university phone  ( 409 ) 
college station , tx fax  ( 409 ) 

from  ( chris huey ) 
subject re for win 3 . 1 . a small review 
organization , inc. 
lines 28 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 
thanks to all those people who recommended for 
3 . 1 .  . i found 3 , from australia 's 
archive cc . monash . edu . , which some 
sites in the u.s. the three i found were 

1. 1 . 10 . 
review deleted 
2. 1 . 6 . 
review deleted 
3. 2 . 30 . and 
review deleted 

i really appreciate this information. however , given that i do n't have 
direct internet access which means i do n't have access i must 
resort to using  . this means that i need the site name and the 
directory where these are  . 

so , can you  ( or anyone else ) post or email me the needed information 

thanks very much ! ! ! 

chris 


chris , inc. 
voice (503) 
software in about an hour 

from  ( colin manning ) 
subject with line drawing characters etc wanted 
distribution world 
organization systems 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1 . 90 .  ( ka9q 1 . 
lines 13 


title says it all i'm in need of a character set ie 
one that contains the line drawing and other characters in the pc 
character set similar to those you get when running a text mode application .  . 

if anyone could point me at such a thing , i 'd be grateful. 

the only included with are not  . 

regards , 


colin 

from  ( marc snyder ) 
subject re anyone use number 9 video card 
organization corporation , division 
keywords video hardware 
lines 13 

in article com . com .  ( chris claborne ) writes 
has anyone used the number ( 9 ) video with 
or nt what do you think 

i just put one in my machine last week. i have an 66 .  . i was 
getting with my , and the 9 board is 
doing  . from my brief experiences with it , i'm very 
satisfied .  . btw , this is with win 3 . 1 .  . 

uucp  .  .  . ! ! 
system administrator 
corporation 
, new york work play 

from  ( tanabe ) 
subject terminal software 
article i.d. ponder . 
organization university of north texas 
lines 10 

please reply via email .  .  .  . 

when i use the terminal software for such as terminal . or 
, it does n't use the whole  . i mean , when the software 's 
size is , it still around the 2 3 of  . it does not 
use whole  . i set 30 , but still the same. at 2 3 
from the top of the  . could anyone tell me how to setup these software 
to use whole 

thanks in advance. 

from  ( robert a nicholls ) 
subject to communications 
organization department of computing , imperial college , university of london , uk .  . 
lines 49 
nntp posting host doc . ic . ac . uk . 

a couple of weeks ago i posted a question concerning 
communicating 
between and using  . the answers i received at 
that time 
allowed me to get a of my project working .  . however , 
during 
this process i have come up with new problems. 

1 ) there seems to be a limit of characters for a topic 
string .  . is 
this inherent in all systems or just peculiar to 
or 

2 ) it is easy to an access from using the 
command , 
 ( provided the above is overcome by using short 
field and table 
names ) but how is one meant to update a 
a ) a update command does not seem to work. 
b ) an access macro using a execute command 
from cannot 
be used because when the macro requests information from 
using a 
second channel the programs dead lock until time 
occur .  . 
 ( the to access channel has to close before the access 
to channel 
is initiated , i guess . ) . 
c ) access does not allow to the information. 


the way i eventually managed to update a was by 
sending key 
from to access using the command. this 
has 
the problem that access cannot be and it must 
always be in a 
state ready to respond to the sequence of key 
sends .  . 

are all the above statements correct or have i made incorrect 
assumptions 
are there any better work to the above are there any 
signs of an 
for access 

bob 



from  ( mike smith ) 
subject 's and 
reply to 
organization bull , information systems , , mass .  . , usa 
distribution 
lines 28 


hi all , 

i have a in which i a class and create a of that 
class type .  . both calls require a instance handle ,  . 

's 3 . 1 . book says that it is best to use the instance 
handle of the calling program , not the instance handle of the 
 ( page  . 

i have two questions 

1 ) is there a way to find out the instance handle of a 

2 ) what are the possible problems with using the instance handle of 
the 

thanks in advance , 
mike 



mike smith e mail 
bull information systems inc. phone  ( 508 ) 
road fax  ( 508 ) 
, ma usa 



from  ( tom 5 4341 ) 
subject re pro drivers 
news software vax vms 1.41 
reply to 
organization university of arizona mis department group 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( robertson ) writes .  .  .  . 
does anybody know the ftp site with the latest drivers for the 

thanks 

the latest release is 59 and can be found at ftp . edu . 
in the pub pc ... directory structure as zip .  . i checked with 's 
bbs last and there were no past 59 .  . 

we have the local card and i noticed that i get garbage around the 
edges of a when i move it. has anybody else noticed this also 

tom .  . 

thomas b. internet 
mayo clinic if you do n't know where voice  ( 507 ) 
200 first street sw you 're going you 'll never fax  ( 507 ) 
mail stop get there. 
rochester , mn 


from  ( manu das ) 
subject wanted source for editing 
organization ca , usa 
lines 18 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 


hi everyone , 

i would like to get an example  ( program(source code ) to get started with a simple 
editor  ( similar to editor , but lot simplified ) . can someone 
point me to a source such as a programming book , or example program 
comes with  ( from or  . i would greatly appreciate 
it. 

all i want to do is to be able to place a edit control or or a 
on a and be able to and  . 

if anyone has written similar program and do n't mind code or ideas , 
i would appreciate it very much. 

in advance , 

please send me directly at 

from  ( douglas b. dodson ) 
subject 3 . 1 . or dos 5 . 0 . or or 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 59 

, 

i thought this problem might have something to do with 3 . 1 . and 
a video card .  .  . any . ideas 

i recently purchased a 33 machine and am having problems where the 
machine will suddenly or  . this may happen in 3 . 1 . or dos 
5 . 0 .  . sometimes it is after printing a document , sometimes after using the 
, and sometimes just when i am sitting there. twice when it happened , the 
machine and seven  . i looked in the documentation and 
the seven code meant a problem with  . the machine has the 
following and files 

33 

5 . 25 . and 3.5 
hard drive 

compatible on 
citizen 145 on 
ni with card w 
two 
3 . 1 . 
dos 5 . 0 . 

sys . 

device c sys . 
dos high 
c dos 
files 20 
20 
9 , 128 



off 
c 
p g 
path c dos c c 
c 
set c dos 
c dos 


when the machine , i ca n't use the or keyboard or use ctrl alt del 
to  . if any one can give me any help , i would greatly appreciate it. if 
anyone can help this machine for the best  ( memory wise ) i 
would appreciate that also. 

douglas b. internet 
systems , inc. 
state college , pa usa 


disclaimer ! 

any ideas or opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect the ideas or 
opinions of  . 

from  ( kjell ljungqvist ) 
subject for panasonic 
organization university of technology 
lines 15 
distribution 
reply to 
nntp posting host cs . fi . 

! 

i am looking pro a win 3 . 1 . for the panasonic laser 
 . (i am not sure about the order of the first letters in the 
name , but the numbers are right and they are important . ) . i have found 
drivers for panasonic and so on , but i think there should 
be drivers available where the model is included. 

for any help ! 







from  ( eric trepanier ) 
subject more cool files 
reply to 
organization bell , systems development 
lines 27 


in article writes 


hi , everybody 
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting 
looking at those same old files that came with  . so , 
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful file 
i can share .  . or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for 
some files , like some files , some animals files , 
etc .  .  .  .  . i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all. 


i the compuserve of the month .  . a image of 
a ball next to a hole .  . very nice , , easily 
converted to a  . if anyone wants , i could a copy 
on  .  .  . 


eric 


eric internet , 
55 o .  . 
 ( quebec ) everybody has a right to believe in something 
canada  ( 514)663 ) i believe i 'll have another beer ! 


from de .  ( winkelhake olaf ) 
subject re wanted info on 
organization university of germany 
lines 30 
nntp posting host rz . uni . de . 

in article  ( rob de winter ) writes 

does anyone know the phone and fax number of the 
corporation .  . i am also interested in their e mail address. 

i would also like to know what the current status of their product 
is. i received the last update 1 . 5 . about 1 . 5 . year ago. are their any new 
developments or is dying 

regards , 

rob de  . 



nothing beats , if you want to have real fun during  . 
rob de philips research , ist it , building 1 
p.o. box ,  . the 
tel 31 40 e mail 

rob , 

their e mail is 

i 've heard v . 2 . 0 . is in  . 

have a look at list . l which is a list. 

regards , 


from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject re how do i quickly switch between 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
reply to 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
distribution na 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 27 

in article  ( the 
cynic ) writes 

can someone out there tell me how to switch 's resolution 
quickly and easily i know that i can go back into to do it , 
but what i 'd really like is to have is the ability to just change a 
couple of or files and have the resolution 
changed. i already have both video drivers that i need on my system , 
so that is n't a problem. 

thanks , 

 . 


l. 
use this address , all others ! 
 ( h ) ,  ( w ) 

there is a program called v switch . zip .  . i do n't remember if it 
is on edu . or on ftp . edu .  . 

it is easy to use and does the job with no problem. 

eric 



from  ( kin cho ) 
subject 17 experience sought 
organization integrated systems , inc. 
lines 12 
nntp posting host com . 

i 'd appreciate if you can email or post you positive 
or negative experience with this , especially 
compared to to  . 
i 'd summarize if i got multiple responses. 

thanks. 




cho  ( voice(408 )  . 230 
integrated systems inc. fax  ( 408 ) 

from de .  ( stefan kolodzie ) 
subject and pro problems on a 
organization i , 
lines 19 
nntp posting host 100 . 6 . 

, 

i have a with 3 . 1 . running fine. 2.0 and 
pro for also work fine when no virtual memory is used. 
switching on the virtual memory option these programs  ( probably others too) 
do n't work , the system  . the same programs work well with arbitrary 
virtual memory on two other pc 's .  . what am i doing wrong 

if you can help , please mail to me directly , if possible. 

thank you very much in advance. 




k. university 
institute for general psychology , germany 
e mail de . 


from  ( greg  going again  ennis ) 
subject 0 . drivers for win 3 . 1 . 
organization college , , ma 
lines 10 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 

hi all , 
could someone please tell me if there are drivers for 3 . 1 . for 
the new 2 . 0 .  . or will the 1 . 5 . drivers be sufficient 
i would be appreciate any info .  . 

thanks , 
greg 




from  ( lamont downs ) 
subject re win nt what is it 
lines 18 
nntp posting host cat . edu . 
organization 

can anyone tell me how chicago 4 would differ from 
2 2 . x . believe it or not , i'm not trying to start a flame war , 
here. i'm simply curious if there is going to be any feature 
advantage in either of these products (i do not consider the fact that 
it has of approval much of a feature .  .  . ) . 

one difference will probably be the same difference as between and 
3 . x . now one will likely have a lot of software available for 
it and one wo n't  ( emulation , with the inevitable that 
up in spite of all the contrary claims , just does n't count when you 
have to use a certain software that does n't quite run properly 
under the  .  . ) .  . want to channel their resources 
a that has a large base , and in a case like that the 
that is most successfully  ( regardless of its relative 
sophistication ) will win .  . 




from stars .  ( jefrem iwaniw ) 
subject re c 
in reply to david a. 's message of 26 apr 1993 14 22 55 gmt 
nntp posting host 8 . 
organization software corporation 
distribution usa 
lines 20 


to clarify 

is considered an for  . there will be no product 
called c 8 . 0 .  ( although the command line of lists its 
version as 8 .  . is not a dos only product it is a c c 
capable of producing for dos or , as is 
 . ed . ) .  . the  ( significant ) difference is that comes with 
many tools  ( ide , etc ) which assist in 
creating much more quickly  ( basically by 
the thousands of lines of  . initial 
have been very  . 

everyone who is a user of should have received a 
amount of info regarding the of  . if you 
have n't , call and i'm sure they 'd be happy to send you some ! 


software corporation 


from tony 
subject saved my ! 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 28 

1. fire up word for  ( version 2 . 

2. type the following paragraph 

if you want to really very dead good , you just live. 
without one of the write aids , what you 're can get 
what helps me impress me boss .  . 

3. under tools options grammar select use grammar and style rules 
strictly  ( all rules ) and click ok. 

4. run the grammar  ( this also does a  . 

no  . 


passive sentences 0 
reading 5 . 
grade level 6 . 6 . 
5 . 2 . 
fog index 8 . 7 . 




 ( someone buy some beer please . ) . 



from 
subject re , , risc 
organization university , australia .  . 
lines 18 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
originator 

in article  ( ghhwang ) writes 

dear friend , 
the risc means reduced set computer . the risc usually has 
small set so as to reduce the complex and can increase 
the rate to have a high  . you can read some books about 
comp