from  ( badry jason theodore ) 
subject drives 
summary trouble with master slave drives 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization university of , canada 
lines 16 

hi. i am trying to set up a conner and a quantum drive .  . i have 
the conner set to the master , and the quantum set to the slave  ( does n't work 
the other way  . i am able to access both drives if i from a 
, but the drives will not themselves. i am running 6 , and 
have the conner partitioned as primary dos , and is with system 
files. i have tried all different types of , and even changed 
cards. if i from a , everything works great  ( except 
the part  . the system does n't report an error message or anything , 
just there. does anyone have any suggestions , or has somebody else 
run into a similar problem i was thinking that i might have to update the 
on one of the drives  ( is this possible ) .  . any suggestions answers would be 
greatly appreciated. please reply to 

jason 



from  ( justin dolske ) 
subject re wanted with high interrupt 
organization green state university b . g .  . , oh. 
distribution na 
lines 32 

 ( loran n .  . yourk ) writes 

with a sound card on interrupt 5 , two serial  ( one for on , 
one for miracle on i3 ) and a on , i have run out of 
low  . what i would like is a with an interrupt of 
10 , 11 , or 12  ( which ever interrupt the ps 2 uses ) in in 
computer .  . i called technical support of , , 
 ( checked what the on the video cards can use ) 
and they all said the only possible on these cards was ones 
lower than 7. does anyone know of any board for an which will 
allow a  ( or even a serial port ) with high 

try putting one of the for your com onto  . the hardware will 
to on at class machines  ( eg , anything with high 
 . this is what i'm doing on my set up right now. 
i 've got on  ( really address it this way in software ) , 
on , on , on , and my on one of 
the in between .  . works just great .  . 
if you need even more , there 's a text file floating around somewhere that 
details how to hack up any serial card  ( and probably any others ) to work on the 
higher  . it basically involves cutting the trace to the low and running a wire over the a high pin on the bus. 

it will be best to put the 's com onto 9. this will be the 

first by the system , giving the a better response 
especially under like 2 which i'm running with no 
problems. 






from  ( mubashir cheema ) 
subject can i have 2 on a pc 
summary 2 
keywords 2 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
lines 15 


i have recently into pc world. i have been using before. 
trying to establish a network  ( lan ) here that could use 2 different  . 
panasonic for printing and for letters etc. 
is it at all possible in this world i know when using unix etc i can 
which to print from. but i am not sure how would handle that. if 
they ca n't then i guess i 'll leave for good and move on to unix .  . 



communications  ( 601 ) 
fax  ( 601 ) 
russell street , 20 email 
, 


from  ( mohit k goyal ) 
subject re 17 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization univ .  . of texas at 
lines 10 

the  . i also a new , the , which has just 
been released .  . last year for the may  issue of , i 

do you have the for this what have they changed from the 


do you know if their is going to be a new soon (a ) 

thanks. 


from  ( rupert c. young ) 
subject re future plans 
organization institute of technology 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host central . mit . edu . 

in article de . from 19 apr 1993 10 12 31 gmt you wrote 
in article  ( robert plamondon ) writes 
in article de . de .  ( wayne hodgen ) writes 

to sum up , when an board with  ( true 1280x1024 ) 
and a fast side is available under , i will buy one. 

just a new line of pc cards that do in 
color .  . they start at  . i do n't think your wait will be very long .  . 




from  ( richard krehbiel ) 
subject re vs 
in reply to 's message of 18 apr 1993 19 30 47 gmt 
lines 14 
organization , inc. 

in article  ( grubb ) writes 

 ( richard krehbiel ) writes 
stuff about the connection between and ida 
, 16 bit ,  . 
if speed come from ida where does the 8 . s for 
come from 

well , some quick math on my part shows that an 8 . , 16 bits 
wide , a every two will provide 8 . 
 . someone said that it really takes 3 to 
perform a , so that reduces the rate to 5 . s , 
which is the commonly used figure for speed .  . however , i 
believe a two is possible  ( 0 wait  . 

richard 
2 2.0 will do for me until for the comes along .  .  .  . 

from 
subject conner 120 question 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 

what do i need to do to this drive as a slave 
model 

please reply via e mail .  . thanks ! ! 

jeff 

four out of five electrons prefer holes for their 
needs. boycott  . ignore anybody who 
to be a serious user .  . support new makers 
of hardware and software .  . buy canadian music. quit  . 
take up running .  . is the of  . 



from  ( russell schulz ) 
subject re  ( was for windows ) 
reply to  ( russell schulz ) 
organization private system , , , canada 
x newsreader v1 . 03 . 
lines 14 

 ( fred waller ) writes 

are not stupid ! 

actually , they are , in the sense that hardware solutions to 
a software problem are not proper .  . a programmer 's function 

much deleted 

amazing .  . i could not find one reference to in all of this. 

followups out. 

russell ! 

from david 
subject re clones now legal in us ! ! ! 
organization sophomore , math computer science , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . sys . ibm . pc . hardware . 19 apr 93 
clones now legal  .  .  . by 
a friend of mine called me on the phone and told me he was 
and saw a report that the ruling prohibiting from selling their 
clones has been thrown out , making it legal for to in the us. 
can anyone out there verify this 

it 's true. i read about it from an article in  ( ca n't send it 
here though) .  . u.s. district court judge william a. , of san 
francisco , threw out the jury verdict prohibiting from using  
for the  . 

david finger or email for pgp public key 
16 45 
stop the big brother chip just say no to the clipper chip ! 

from  ( augustyn robert ) 
subject data path from 16 to 32 bits but speed less then double 
organization university of , ontario , canada 
lines 5 

in evolution of 80 data path has been from 
8 to 16 32 bits but the speed of data has not increased at 
same rate . the . question is why what is relationship data path and data speed 
thanks in advance for the input. 
robert .  . 

from  ( paul e. carroll ) 
subject do not ! ! help ! ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
lines 22 

! ! ! ! ! please someone tell me what i have done ! ! ! 

my 40  ( 8450at ) has a big on the side that says 

do not  ( big here ) 

a big off the side of the drive is pretty hard not to turn 
when removing the drive ! 

i turned it. now the drive wo n't spin up ! even with no data or 
in .  .  . just power .  .  .  . it wo n't spin up ! ! 

please help ! 

thanks 



paul 


engineering research center for field 

from  ( tony 5 6 ) 
subject re help with drive to pc 
keywords , external , help 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 11 


i would like to thank all those people who responded to my post. i 
would , however , like to clear some things up. my drive is external . 
also , the on the back of it is of the male 37 pin variety .  . 
as a result , i cannot easily find a cost effective solution to use the drive .  . 

any advice will be greatly appreciated. i would prefer email. 
thanks ! 

 .  . tony . 


from  ( imad m jureidini ) 
subject re problems with 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( imad m jureidini ) 
organization university 
lines 22 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( imad m jureidini ) writes 
hi ! 
i recently purchased the  . i own an 
card , and i have so far failed to get the to work under dos .  . it 

one of the drivers (i think it 's the aspicd ) supports a 
, which means to not the when it loads .  . this 
fixed the problem a friend of mine was having with his 
 . 

regards , 


it worked ! ! ! 
thank you very much ! 




the ultimate knight , grand priest of the of the  . 


subject re dos 6 . 0 . 
from  ( wallace venable ) 
organization college of engineering 
nntp posting host 80 . 85 . 
lines 10 


i know of two people who have stories about the dos 6 . 0 .  . 
that 's 100 of the people i know with dos 6 . 0 .  . both have 
had to their and start over. 

i used the standard program to put dos 6 . 0 . on my 
machine with 3 . 0 . already  . no problems. i kept , 
rather than switch .  . 
i am very pleased with the memory i gained since i did not have a 
memory  . i also like the multiple feature .  . 

from  ( patrick w cunningham ) 
subject 
nntp posting host 
organization texas 
lines 4 

any comments of good , bad 

thanks , 


from  ( emilio navarro ) 
subject and 
summary 
keywords 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 9 

everyone , 

could anyone tell me where to find some information about and 
interrupt calls .  . a book or maybe an ftp site. 

thank you in advance. 




from  ( liz camarra ) 
subject some more info .  . about board 
originator 
organization school of and earth science and technology 
lines 10 

one more thing to add , the board is only 
able to handle the 1 on board , the however can 
the 2 on board to support modes such as 
,  . and under dos .  . 


stephen ,  . engineering , univ .  . of hawaii 
do n't have my own account until  . school starts  ( autumn 93 ) 
death to ! go ! 


from  ( alex se ) 
subject external drive 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 12 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host east . sun . com . 
keywords external drive 

hi , 

i just inherited an external  . this thing has every known to man on the back .  . 
the question is does anyone know how to connect this thing to a pc .  . what hardware is needed 
software 

, 


p.s. please respond directly .  . i am not on this  . 



from  ( yousuf khan ) 
subject re vs  ( here we go again .  .  .  .  . ) . 
organization data ltd .  . 
lines 36 

in  ( scott mace ) writes 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 

i almost got a laughing at this one. 

you 'll probably get one when you realize that your 100 super 
local high tech  .  .  . 

if anything ,  ( on a pc ) will be killed off by local 
with any luck pc will be any with by  . 

have you ever seen what happens when you a to 
a local bus. it actually down your system 
 . it must be real nice to get by 20 100 for the 
extra cost of a drive , then pay another 200 for a  . 

yeah , there is absolutely no use for except for video  . 
and no could possibly take advantage the , because it runs at 
8 and 16 bits. do people forget that the was specifically 
designed to interface directly with the at we 've seen 
come out for , , and now even , but at all times 
it was a 16 bit standard , running at somewhere near 8 10  . when 
you run an off of the , there 's no way that you 're running it 
at 33 , it would burn up. of course same goes for , , whatever , 
none of them run at speed .  . 

the only way to gain advantage with a is to it up to 
a  . i suspect it would be much , much better to 
get a software instead , since you get write as well. 

because you have an and no one makes that big .  . 

i 've seen some drives going as high as  . 

khan 

from  ( robin kenny ) 
subject re memory loss .  . any . idea why 
organization response centre  ( melbourne ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 5 . 
lines 14 

how is the backed up cell or ni cell 

your may be dead. 

wrote 
a friend 's computer recently failed to recognize its hard drive .  . 
on examination it was discovered that the had lost all data .  . 
no other problems were discovered .  . when the was , 
everything appeared to work as before. this all happened after 
a long period of stable operation. the most recent change had 
been the addition of a second hard drive as a slave .  . had 
been along with for quite a while. any ideas 
the computer is a with of , an wonder card , and is 
about a year and a half old .  . 

from  ( nick , pc software , , , nz ) 
subject re 3.5 only reads what it wrote 
nntp posting host ac . 
reply to 
organization university of , , new 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( peter 
dressner ) writes 

i have a gateway with a 3.5  . the drive only reads files it 
wrote to the  . that have been and 
contain files from other machines are unreadable .  . also , 3.5 
that were written by this drive a long time ago are 
also unreadable .  . 

this sounds like a head problem. 

too right it does ! 

... how does one go about 
fixing it are there that you can 

the very very first thing you do is make sure that all files on 
the that you can currently read in the drive , which are n't 
already on your or another  ( if you have two drives ) 
get copied to your  ( and or to a in your other  . 

if you do n't do this before fixing the problem you have 
those files  .  ( well , you can try to re the drive back 
to read your , but do n't count on be able to do so ! ) 

generally , head is something i 'd only trust to a good 
 ( though there are have been  . 


, pc applications , , uni of , n . z .  . 
tel  ( 64(3)364 ) , fax  ( 64(3)364 ) 

from  ( lance hartmann ) 
subject re stealth 24 problems ! ! ! 
summary users complain of service from  . 
reply to 
organization ibm , austin 
keywords video 
lines 43 

in article  ( diers ) writes 

i own a stealth 24 card from  . when using the win 3 . 1 . 
the card and work but are not very fast .  . all of the other 
drivers have a number of  . remain when are 
and text boxes are often unreadable .  . all attempts to get help from 
have failed .  . i have called the tech support and never been able 
to get past the hold line (a call ) in a reasonable time  ( ie  . 
leaving voice mail has not helped either. the bbs is a joke ! it always 
has too many people on to anything. you cannot even get a file 
listing  ( it considers that a ! ) .  . i have the tech support group. 
all this with no  . 

the bottom line is if you are looking for a fast card and want to use it 
for , do not get a product .  . try another , i wish i had. 

while others here may have had better experiences , i , too , share the 
sentiments posted above. though i have the original stealth , 
it is only relatively recent that the drivers for this card 
have evolved to a point of decent  . note that there are 
still a couple of modes i cannot use  . will not ) due to , 
mis drawn check boxes , etc. i believe the version i have is 2 . 01 .  . 
if there 's a more recent release , i 'd appreciate if someone would 
drop me a note to let me know i have n't been able to get on their 
bbs lately to check again. naturally , does n't even bother 
me of  . 

was helpful when i finally reached the right person in 
some of my  problems due to an address conflict .  . the 
addresses  ( 2e0 , 2e8 ) were in at least my version of the 
manual .  . i hope it has been by now. the tech 
explained that all based use these addresses .  . i have not 
confirmed the validity of that statement. 

when i my in the near future  ( hopefully with some 
form of local bus ) , i 'll seek a video solution from someone other than 
 . 

 ( lance 
yes , that is a ' '  ( percent sign ) in my network address. 

all statements , comments , opinions , etc. reflect those of the author 
and shall not be as those of ibm or anyone else for that matter. 

from  ( terje thoegersen ) 
subject re problems with 
organization a . s . 
lines 26 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 

in article ,  ( imad m jureidini ) writes 
hi ! 
i recently purchased the  . i own an 
card , and i have so far failed to get the to work under dos .  . it 
works very well under 2 , so i know that the drive is not faulty .  . 
in my sys . , i have sys . , sys . , sys .  . in my 
, i have , which came with dos 6 . 0 .  . seems to find 
and the drive as drive f , but when i switch to that drive and try a 
, i get an error message telling me the drive is not ready or something 
like that. the is locked too , and the do n't seem to 
recognize that i have a at that point. 
has anyone ever had this problem is there something that i 
am missing and finally , i was wondering if anyone using this setup could 
post his her sys . and  . 


hi ! 

one of the drivers (i think it 's the aspicd ) supports a 
, which means to not the when it loads .  . this 
fixed the problem a friend of mine was having with his 
 . 

regards , 



from  ( tony vecchi ) 
subject two questions 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 14 


two questions 
1 i'm trying to figure out how to access advanced chip setting on a 
 ( air ) that has  . specifically . i would like to set 
the or wait states or speed on this board , i ca n't seem to be 
able to do it .  . any . help in this area would be greatly appreciated. 

2 i am looking for a phone number for drives , specifically i 
am looking for on a drive .  .  . 

thanks in advance. 
tony 



from  ( vasudev murthy ) 
subject from gateway opinions sought 
nntp posting host 
organization america , inc. , texas 
distribution usa 
lines 25 


sorry if this has been to death on this forum. 

i am looking seriously at buying a 33 from gateway .  . 
i will probably buy it without a , as i 've heard negative 
stuff about gateway  . 

i 've also heard its tough to get through to technical 
support .  . 

i'm seeking opinions on whether or not its wise to go ahead 
based on such as price , service , general 
of the system , reliability of the machine and of 
gateway too , and so on. 

please ! ! 

thanks in advance ! 



any opinions expressed are strictly 
my own and have nothing to do with 
 ( 214 ) advanced switching lab , america , inc. 
hill tx 

from  ( robert m. bultman ) 
subject hot shot 
summary hot shot 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
keywords hot shot 
lines 23 

i recently acquired an hot shot board for an 
documentation .  . 

does anyone know what the on the 
back of the card do 

did it come with software 

any help or information about the card would be greatly 
appreciated. 

thanks , 
rob 

robert m. 
speed scientific school 
university of 
internet 

robert m. 
speed scientific school 
university of 
internet 

from  ( gary korenek ) 
subject re 50 vs 50 
organization network technology inc. 
lines 26 

in article  ( michael hamilton ) writes 
i have seen a 
mother board with 2 local which claimed to be able to 
support any , including the 66 and  . can someone 
some more informed light on this issue 
... 
michael 

some support and 50  . there is an option 
 ( bios i think) where additional  ( wait(s ) can be added with regard to 
 . this the down to a rate that gives 
the  ( device(s ) time to  do their  . these particular  ( wait(s ) 
are applied when the with  . you want to 
these  ( wait(s ) only if you are using a 50 with devices .  . 

this is from reading my manual , and these are my 
 . your mileage may vary .  . 

strictly speaking , and are not  . and , there is at 
least one  fudge  mechanism to physically allow it to work. 



network technology incorporated 
 ( formerly international corp . ) . 
sugar land , texas  ( 713)274 ) 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
subject 50 vs. 50 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
lines 30 


ay in many recent i have seen both 50 and 
ay based systems. does the first really exists and does it imply that all 
ay on the with it works at that speed , as opposite 
ay latter , where only the of the are working at 
ay 
ay many thanx in advance ! 
ay 
ay andrew .  . 

andrew , yes there is a and version of the  . if you are 
considering buying one or the other , definitely go for the with a nice 
size external ! the is far greater .  . 

the only has the internal to work with at , while the 
has a much larger to work at with. neither 
systems could actually run a program out of main memory , since is 
still too slow for that high of speed ( 16 . ) .  . 




. 2 . 0 . evaluation copy 
2 . w net , ann . arbor . mi . us . , 1 or 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re help ! ! determine this chip ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


did it ever to you to just call s number and ask 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from  ( bill burge ) 
subject re dos 6 . 0 . 
organization office systems , santa ca 
distribution na 
lines 22 

in article  ( james nonnemacher ) writes 
is there enough experience out in with dos 6 . 0 . that anyone could make some comments on whether 
or not it 's a worthwhile any problems with hardware or any been found 

one thing i wonder about is the included with dos 6 . 0 .  . is there any possiblity that if 
the double  . file gets corrupted your would be unreadable how would one from 
such an event 

the file that would be a problem is , not  .  . 

! ! 
 ( 0 0 ) 
( ) 
bill and his dog 
problem resolution bbs  ( 310 )  ( n 8 1 ) 
office systems fax  ( 310 ) 
 ( 310 ) 
tech support  ( this is an request 
gen l info fax system , call it from the 
compuserve go on your fax ) 



from 
subject re gateway 2000 33 too 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
lines 15 

in article , says 

i just received my gateway 2000 33 system. 
the first thing i noticed when i in the power is the 
that comes from the fan .  . in fact i can hear the in 

if your gateway is with a western hard drive , then the 
is probably coming from there and not from the fan .  . the western drives 
are notoriously  . on the other hand , if you do n't have a western 
drive , then maybe it is the fan .  . there 's not alot to do about it except 
around the somehow. 


u of i chicago 24 hour bar b q 
standard old disclaimer 

from  ( richard solomon ) 
subject for 
organization 
lines 12 

subject says it all ) 

i'm looking for the for an at 
card .  . 

thanks in advance , 
richard 

richard solomon 
drive 
, co 
... ! uunet ! ! ! richard . solomon .  ( 719 ) 

from tech . edu . 
subject for sale ! ! 
lines 26 
organization institute of technology 



for sale ! ! ! 



it 's in very good condition , used for one year .  . it has 

25 
52 hard 
super color 
2 
1 . 44 . drive 

software 


dos 5 . 0 . 
3 . 1 . 
works for 2.0 
pascal 6 . 0 . 
c 3 . 0 . for dos 


i'm asking for the system. send me e mail if interested .  . 


from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re on dos 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
keywords , dos , 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 21 

in article  ( ib hojme ) writes 
i have a question concerning on dos .  . 

i have a and two hard 
 ( id 's 0 and  . i 'd like to connect a , but i 
do n't have software to access it. does such a exist 
as or 
also what if i want a third i know that dos only can 
see two two physical and four logical  . will it be 
possible to use extra 

contrary to what others might have thought , i actually did have a drive 
once. it was the and the 02  . i found that the 
could n't keep up with a 1 1 , so the best i could do 
with the drive was a 2 1 and a data of about k  . 

i have had that drive with , , and drives 
because the 02 will kinda itself in there with no help 
needed from the computer 's  . dos will see many logical drives , much more 
than 4 (i 've had up to  . i 've often wondered how many drives you 
could off a 01 02 .  . 

from 
subject for sale 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 6 
originator 

i have 1 for sale .  . it is in perfect condition. it 
will not work in my system because it requires 72 pin  . 
i would like to get what i paid for it. 115 3 for  . 

in addition , if you have a 72 pin or ps 2 type for 
sale , drop me a line. thanks. 

from  ( robert moskal ) 
subject 10 board 
organization public access unix , 
lines 11 

i 've been the existence of way too many general protection 
on a 33 , , system. at this point i think i 've 
the problem down to the video drivers for the 10 by 
national design , inc. 

yet somehow i find this hard to believe. does anyone else have any 
experiences with this board. 

thanx , 
robert 
, usa 

from  ( kevin o'gorman ) 
subject date is stuck 
organization vital software services , , ca 
lines 15 

anybody seen the date get stuck 

i'm running dos 5 . 0 . with a system alive all the time. the machine 
is left running all the time. 

suddenly , the date no longer rolls over. the time is  ( reasonably ) accurate 
, but we have to change the date by hand every morning. this involves 
the system to get to dos .  . 

anyone have the slightest idea why this should be even a clue as to whether 
the hardware  ( battery ) or dos is broken 

kevin o ( , kevin ) 
voice vital computer systems , , , ca 
non disclaimer my boss is me , and he stands behind everything i say. 

from 
subject external ac 
lines 7 

, 
i have a with no or  . the 
requires a source of ac , but i do not know how 
to connect the power source to the 3 pin  . i know 
that the top pin is the ground , so i would guess that the other 
two are the ac , right if you have any hints , please 
e mail me , i really need help .  .  .  . thanks ! ! ! n .  . 

subject re date is stuck 
from 
organization university of , , new 
nntp posting host ac . 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( kevin o'gorman ) writes 
anybody seen the date get stuck 

i'm running dos 5 . 0 . with a system alive all the time. the machine 
is left running all the time. 

suddenly , the date no longer rolls over. the time is  ( reasonably ) accurate 
, but we have to change the date by hand every morning. this involves 
the system to get to dos .  . 

anyone have the slightest idea why this should be even a clue as to whether 
the hardware  ( battery ) or dos is broken 

i bet it suddenly started when you started leaving the pc running the 
all night. there is a bug in the date roll over software in 
pc 's that means you have to be doing something like waiting for keyboard 
via a dos call rather than a call  ( as often use ) otherwise the code 
to update the date after never gets called .  . 

somebody might be able to correct the details in case i 've mis 
them , but i think you have to change the program  ( if you have the sources ) 
or add a or system patch or something. as far as i know the 
keeps the right time  ( in fact about 7 seconds day better than dos 's  . 

mark , university of  . 

from  ( yong thia ) 
subject local 
summary 
keywords 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 9 

hi ! i was wondering if anyone out there could point me to where i can 
get the or any relevant books on this subject. 

regards 
jimmy 



subject help with internet ! ! ! 
from 
reply to 
organization harding university 
nntp posting host harding . edu . 
lines 10 

i know this is n't the exact right place to put this , but im ! 

i 'll be going home for the summer , and wont have direct access to my 
vax account .  .  .  . my . problem is , i need a service that does n't charge body 
parts , vital , or my first born son , that allows me access to the 
internet ! all i really need is to be able to to my school account , 
and from there i can do anything i need to do. any help will be greatly 
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

please ! e mail to 

from  ( jon pastor ) 
subject re no 32 bit box on gateway 
nntp posting host 
organization not much .  .  .  . 
lines 20 

i got this from 

from 
x mailer america mailer 
to 
subject re 32 bit access 
date mon , 29 93 14 26 45 
message id 
status 

jon 

to get access in all you have to do is edit the system .  .  .  . 
look under the section and add this line to it 
on ... this will give you the that you 
need .  .  .  . thanks ) 

regards , 
 ( g2kscooter ) 
gateway 2000 

from  ( wayne hamilton ) 
subject re null 25 pin serial 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 57 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

bruce wrote 
in article writes 
can someone give me the 
on a null , i 
which get crossed .  .  .  .  . ) 


that 's an easy one .  .  .  . carry all 25 straight thru , with the exception of 
2 3 , which should be crossed .  .  .  . 

as someone else already mentioned , do n't carry thru the other 23  . 

plan a , minimal null 
 ( sg(7 )  ( sg(7 ) 
 ( td(2 )  ( rd(3 ) 
 ( rd(3 )  ( td(2 ) 
if you 're files 2 , this ought to work  ( unless 
you have a  . 

plan b , null with control 
 ( sg(7 )  ( sg(7 ) 
 ( td(2 )  ( rd(3 ) 
 ( rd(3 )  ( td(2 ) 
 ( dcd(8 )  ( dtr(20 ) 
 ( dtr(20 )  ( dcd(8 ) 
some software will wait for before anything. 
such software will raise to the to accept a call .  . 
with this , each side 's will drive the other 's  . 

plan c , null with hardware control 
 ( sg(7 )  ( sg(7 ) 
 ( td(2 )  ( rd(3 ) 
 ( rd(3 )  ( td(2 ) 
 ( rts(4 )  ( cts(5 ) 
 ( cts(5 )  ( rts(4 ) 
for high speed , you want the control. 

plan d , deluxe null  ( combine b and c ) 
 ( sg(7 )  ( sg(7 ) 
 ( td(2 )  ( rd(3 ) 
 ( rd(3 )  ( td(2 ) 
 ( rts(4 )  ( cts(5 ) 
 ( cts(5 )  ( rts(4 ) 
 ( dcd(8 )  ( dtr(20 ) 
 ( dtr(20 )  ( dcd(8 ) 
this one is ideal .  . it leaves out and  ( rarely used  . 
if you 're really , or you just have an wire to spend , 
you might add 
 ( fg(1 )  ( fg(1 ) 

the pin numbers above are  ( obviously ) for 25 pin  . 
i do n't have a 9 pin  . 


wayne 
i net 
box , urbana , il  ( 217)384 )  ( 4310(voice ) ,  ( 4311(bbs ) 

from 
subject how is a made 
organization university of western , london 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 9 

i need to know the to connect to make a for a serial 
so i can build one. the is used to test the 
serial  . 

thanks for any help. 


steve 


from  ( ville v walveranta ) 
subject suggestions 
nntp posting host 
organization portal communications company 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 12 


i'm planning on buying a  ( first time since i sold 
my five years ago ) for a pc .  . i have no idea what 
kind of stick i should buy .  . many people have recommended 
variety of es models .  . are they any good the best 



v. tel .  . fax .  .  .  .  .  ( 510 ) 
 . ,  . 5 from finland 1 
, ca  ( faxes automatically recognized ) 
usa email .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( jeremy d. zawodny ) 
subject help needed in setting up w or  .  .  . 
summary help me .  .  .  .  . 
organization green state univ .  . 
lines 21 


okay , i'm trying to on a couple  ( okay , a whole bunch ) 
of machines .  . they 're all true blue with either cards 
or cards. (i those names are correct . ) . well , the for 
say that it 'll run over an , but i 've had little 
success. 

if anyone has w , i 'd like some 
help with the file for  .  .  . 

btw , please reply via e mail if possible .  .  .  . 

thanks , 

jeremy 


jeremy computer science undergrad green state university 

student computer 2 2.0 user 


from  ( randy ellingson ) 
subject or ! ! 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 38 

wow , you guys are really going wild on this vs. thing , and i think 
it 's great ! 

however , i think that some people  ( such as myself ) would benefit from answers 
to the  ( simple ) question which would you choose , and why 

like lots of people , i 'd really like to increase my data rate from 
the hard drive .  . right now i have a drive  ( seagate 1239a ) , and 
what i would say is a standard  ( not special , no i believe ) 
card on my 50 .  . 

i'm currently thinking about adding another , in the to range .  . 
and i'm thinking hard  ( you should hear those a in my head ) 
about buying a drive  ( scsi for the future  . i believe i'm getting 
something like right now  ( according to  . 

how would this 
number compare if i bought the state of the art card for my pc , and 
the state of the art hard drive  ( the wailing system i could hope for ) 

obviously money factors into this choice as well as any other , but what would 
you want to use on your system and how much would it cost 

along those lines , what kind of rate could i see with my 's if i 
were to buy the top of the line for my , 
and how much would it cost 

i actually have a 16 , and could  ( what a waste i guess it would be .  .  . ) . 
up a through it 's which an of  . 
actually , i have a borrowed up through it now  ( and 
own the drivers for the 16  . is this a 
2 how could i tell is the a 2 are all 
's 2 

thanks for any comments .  . 




from  ( ken cis stnt ) 
subject re difference between and 
organization new jersey institute of technology , , n . j .  . 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( joerg schlaeger ) writes 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
better  ( os 2 ix ) are able to handle more than of , 
if you use bus. 
has someone experience with 
i think of  . the problem is the 
, which is unable to reach more than  . 

i do n't think is a problem. since is much 
than , the of double does n't matter. 

ken 

i apologize if there are incorrect , rude , and or expressions in 
this mail or post. they are not intended .  . please consider that english is a 
second language for me and i do n't have full understanding of certain words 
or each of a phrase .  . thank you. ken , cis student , 

from  ( peter j. mckinney ) 
subject re pc keyboard 
summary of cap lock and ctrl on pc keyboard 
keywords cap lock and ctrl key 
article i.d. 
organization state university 
lines 31 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( john wen ) writes 
from  ( john wen ) 
subject pc keyboard 
summary of cap lock and ctrl on pc keyboard 
keywords cap lock and ctrl key 
date mon , 5 apr 1993 19 23 35 gmt 
does anyone know of a software that can exchange caps lock and ctrl 
on the at style keyboard i'm looking for a memory resident 
program that can work with other programs , rather than a feature in a 
specific program (i am aware of a program back and forth 
that provides this feature within that  . thanks. 

a program in the archive zip . on and sites in the 
keyboard directory will do this. it is written in assembler and it 
best if you have a to create a new keyboard map .  . it is possible , 
however , to use a editor to edit the provided compiled keyboard 
if you do not have a  . i used zip . , also available 
on  . simply for the codes 00 01 02 03 to the 
of the normal keyboard map .  . then the codes for the that you 
wish to  . see the keyboard directory of for programs that report 
the for each key to you  ( some programs also have this  . 
good luck , 



peter j. 

fluid mechanics and wind engineering program 
civil engineering department 
state university 


from  ( patrick w cunningham ) 
subject tech question 
nntp posting host 
organization texas 
lines 10 

hey , does anybody know anything about technology computers 

i have a technology and need a new mother board for it. 

does anybody know where i can get one. 

 ( leading is really made by  . is model 700 ) 




from  ( will estes ) 
subject stealth 24 giving 9 . 4 . 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 56 

i have just a stealth 24 card in 
a  66 system with , and 16 of memory , 
that gets about a 6 . 0 .  . using 
the color under , i am getting a 
of only about 9 . 5 . million .  . since 
i have heard that others get 15 to 16 million for this card , 
i assume that something is very wrong with my setup .  . 

what are some possible causes of the card slowing down like this 

i the program on memory , and i noted 
the following memory on my machine 

v1 . 30 . by system analysis mon apr 19 , 1993 11 43 page 1 

access 

access speed ratio ( ) 
start start size time us 0 25 50 75 100 

0 32 
32 32 
64 32 
32 
128 64 
32 
128 

32 
32 

32 

32 
32 
154 
64 
64 

note two things on this 

1 ) the video memory appears to be many orders of magnitude than 
system memory. are there wait states being inserted here , and what would 
cause that 

2 ) the page frame seems to be slow , even though 
it is being to the fast memory in my system through 
 . what 's going on there 

note that my stealth 24 's video at is being 
through the  . 

any ideas on what might be happening here 


will internet 

from  ( william john m. christie ) 
subject re suggestions 
nntp posting host cc . ca . 
organization university of , , canada 
lines 31 


it depends on what you 'd like your for. i 've seen 
at radio shack .  . they seemed and did n't fit well in my 
hand. i have heard on c . s . i . p . games . that they do n't last well  ( less than 
a year ) on  . one feature does seem to be the ability 
to the of the stick. 

i recently purchased a  . there are n't any cups and 
no but otherwise it seems to be an excellent  . 
i'm currently using it for the series and red baron .  . works 
quite well. the large base does not require a hand and so 
leaves it free. the provide good response  ( you can hear 
and feel them  . there are other models made by that can go up or 
down in features .  . 

for price comparison sell for 35 . 00 . here 
compared to the 45 . 00 . i paid for a  . i think the extra 
10 . 00 . is worth it just in feel .  . best thing to do is to ask a 
to let you try them out or at least feel it before you buy .  . 

just another note , are best for or something 
that needs sensitive touch .  . if you 're only playing games such as 
or some other game that only uses digital  . only up , 
down , left , etc. instead of  how much right' ) you might want to look into 
a  . they look like a control but i do n't know 
much beyond that. 

will ! philosophy the principles and 
university of uh oh .  .  .  . science of thought and reality 
, , canada i'm philosopher someone who thinks 
brain  . they 're useful to society 

from  ( tom huot ) 
subject re and 
lines 22 
nntp posting host com . 
organization research inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

the wrote 
 ( william roger uzun ) writes 

i have a board in a pc , and i have it 
to 7 ,  . will this conflict with my 
parallel i just have an , a board 
with , and a board. should i choose 
another besides 7 or is 7 safe to use on 

recently i was adding a to my computer , and i noticed that uses 
7 and so does my card  . i 've never had a problem , but i'm 
just wondering why not. i thought this would cause a conflict .  . 

i would also like an explanation of this. if anyone can explain 
why the pro and 1 can share an , please do so. 
thanks 



tom 



from 
subject clones now legal in us ! ! ! 
organization university of 
lines 7 
nntp posting host fred . edu . 

a friend of mine called me on the phone and told me he was 
and saw a report that the ruling prohibiting from selling their 
clones has been thrown out , making it legal for to in the us. 
can anyone out there verify this 

thanks in advance 


from  ( liz camarra ) 
subject re which high video card 
organization school of and earth science and technology 
lines 35 

in article  ( bob blean ) writes 

someone in this group posted a little while back that they were getting an 
card has that card arrived what do the look 
like 

the one i got only does about s in text and  ( vga mcga ) mode , 
which is almost identical to the other based cards  ( ati 
does about s) .  . this is since the supposedly should 
be much  ( and i was told by someone that it can do almost 16 s) , 
since the chip is covered by the label , i ca n't really tell 
for sure if it uses a chip , but the  . that comes with 
the board  ( no ! ) did say it has 1 and uses a chip .  . 
(3 . is about 4  . than a  ( 34 vs 38 ) using 
standard  . 

btw if anyone is , i'm trying to sell a  ( 2 
vram ) for a friend for , email if interested  ( i'm too broke to 
take it  . 

also , is the based card real what does it use for speed 

i think it 's available in limited  . no idea of what 
chip it uses though. 

be very careful with though , the i got 
for example only has a file on that serve as 
documentation , and conflicts the hell with my 
card  ( or maybe it 's my , an a . i . r .  . vlb ) 


stephen ,  . engineering , univ .  . of hawaii 
using a friend 's account while waiting for my new  . account 
death to ! go ! 


from  ( joe zbiciak ) 
subject for 14 . 4 . 's ... any good 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 24 

i have a quick question regarding the 
that  out relatively recently it supports v . 32 . , v . , 
v . 42 . , group iii fax , and so on .  .  .  . however , i heard there 
are in the  . i know someone that has a 
14 . 4 . that uses the , and he has n't had a problem. 

what 's the word on the is this a bug specific 
to a specific brand using the , or is it the 
itself and , if it is the , what 
are the chances that if i buy one of these modems  ( using the 
chipset ) , that a ) the bug will affect me , b ) a 
change will fix for the bug 

please send responses via email .  .  .  . 

joe 



joseph 
disclaimer if you believe any of this , check your head ! 


nuke the ! 

from  ( fast felson ) 
subject problem 
organization school of economics 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 29 



i have recently suffered from various problems concerning 
an  . 

problem 1 
drive does n't work. there 's apparently at least two 
on the that affect the drive .  . unfortunately i 
have only one of them  ( in the lower front  . i would like 
to know , if there are any other such and possibly where they 
are  . 

problem 2 
my hard refuse to boot. with my two 's  ( rodime , miniscribe ) 
i get a message  missing operating system  , even though the have been 
with the same and they damn sure have an operating 
system on them. if i from a quantum i might get as far as getting 
the dos version information. this might of course be due to 
memory drivers .  . 
are there any that could affect the causing such errors 

thanks in advance 




yo 11 b 25 , , finland 358 21 

pgp key available via finger 

from  ( studner roger alan ) 
subject for sale 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 4 

i am selling a 14 . with  . 
there is no manual , as it was lost going from one side of the u.s. to the other at some point. the is setup for , and it has built in help , but a quick reference guide on the bottom of it , so its use it not difficult by any means. 
any 


from  ( wayne rash ) 
subject re 17 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 50 
nntp posting host access . net . 

 ( michael g support) writes 

and they too said that the was the best to get if 
you had the money. but they also said that the pro 
17 is the next best choice and that it has picture quality .  . 
this can be had for around 1070 .  . 

has anyone actually seen any of these 

i am responsible for choosing standard components in my company and as part 
of my review i got the 7 , 17 , and  . i picked 
the even though it costs more than the other two choices because it 
has a the best clarity and text is not fuzzy at all. the 7 is the 
worst , the 17 is much better but the both of 
them out of the water .  . i do n't understand why the is so much better 
since one would think that the 17 with it 's would 
be better. i can only imagine that the must be incredible if it 
is than the  . 


michael g. 

the light at the end of the may be an  . 

one of the i for the june issue of magazine was 
the  . i also a new , the , which has just 
been released .  . last year for the may  issue of , i 
several , including the  . there 's no question that the 
are the best available this year , just as they were last 
year .  . the difference between my of the best in and the 
in sources is due mainly to a difference in the 
and the  . i used different than they did , and i 
differently. there 's nothing wrong with the , and it 
very highly in my , but it was a few points of perfect. 

, one of the things everyone should do when they 're reading 
of any product , whether it 's or , is to read the 
and carefully .  . unless you know how the product 
was done , and on what the scores are based , you ca n't possibly 
know what they really mean. just seeing that i rank a differently 
from sources is meaningless without knowing how we did the 
 . likewise , it 's impossible to tell whether a will meet 
your needs unless you know how we did the  . after all , some of 
what we do may not apply to you. likewise , some of what we do may apply 
more closely in one review than in another. you ca n't always tell 
anything from reading the or so words of commentary we write if you 
do n't also understand the  . 

wayne 


from  ( ikos ) 
subject where can i buy a 
summary just as the subject  .  .  . 
keywords , , phoenix , , 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution 
lines 22 

i'm in the market to my to a phoenix 1 . 10 .  ( got a new hard , 
discovered my does n't have a type 47 ) and i would like know where i 
can one of these things. 

i checked with the  ( for the curious it 's from 
mylex ) , and hearing the 60 figure prompted me to at least try to 
around .  .  .  . 

problem is , i do n't know where to around for something like this. 

i have heard that there 's a in the south bay and it 's 
been alleged that they in the  . 

did find the , did n't find the ad or the  . 

so , can anybody help me out on this quest 

to anybody who replies to this thanks in advance. 

jeff these are my opinions. it 
( not would be quite silly if it 
 .  .  . ! netcom ! ! jeff was also my company 's .  .  .  . 

from  ( david m. todd ) 
subject what video board for my system 
organization university of , amherst 
lines 40 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 

i 'd appreciate any advice about a video card for my system 

33 , 16 of 
on a 3 . 11 . network 
, capable of 76 rate 

major 

i expect i will work mostly in , but with some dos 
applications and i would want decent speed in dos .  . i do mostly word 
, and communications not much  . 

with a 15 , i expect i will work mostly in and 256 
seems plenty , but i 'd like like the image to be , fast , 
and solid .  . 

other 

i sometimes run a unix  ( coherent ) and i understand that some 
(e . g .  . ) do n't encourage the third party 
development of drivers .  . 

i might move to 2 if i decide i need better speed and reliability 
than i get with for my work and  . 

i do n't have a local i'm not sure how much to 
in an video board  ( versus getting something less expensive now and 
to local  . 

i like buying things from that treat their well. 

if you have any advice for me , i 'd love to hear it via email or post. 

thanks. 


david m. 
department of psychology , university of , amherst , ma usa 
phone fax 


from  ( oppy ) 
subject info .  . on card or other low end 
originator 
organization university of california , davis 
distribution usa 
lines 16 

i am looking for an card , and have yet to run across any 
real of them. one of the cards the local stores are pushing is 
the for  . apparently it uses a logic  . chip , 
but i do n't know which one  ( gd5426 ) .  . one of the i 've spoken with 
claims the card out performs the stealth 24 and the 
plus cards  ( s3 based ) , but that ca n't be true 
if it is using the  . i like the price of the , but if it 
in behind the cards , i 'll pay the extra 50 for one 
of them. 

any info .  . on low end cards would be appreciated. if i get replies via 
email , i 'll post summary info .  . if anyone else is interested .  . 

thanks in advance , 
brian 


from  ( doug henderson ) 
subject 
lines 16 

i received a computer  ( dos ) without a manual that 
describes the on the  . it came with 
and i up 'd it to  . but the computer or setup does not 
recognize the extra  . 

does anyone know if this computer is capable of greater than 
on the main board and what are required to expand it to 

some 
main board number 
phoenix v1 . 51 . 1985 

thanks in advance , 
doug 



from  ( kjetil kolin ) 
subject protected mode 
organization university of 
lines 6 

is there anybody who has  ( or can point me in the right direction ) any 
information about protected mode also interested in protected mode viewed from 
a point of view. 

thanks in advance 


from  ( juan leon ) 
subject modems and lines. 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

hi , 

i just got a problem , i have a which i use to connect 
to my university , but i get too much garbage on the screen. i do know it 's 
because the in the line (i can actually hear it) .  . so my question is 
will an error correction help to eliminate this garbage , my 
does n't have any of these on hardware , can a software implemented 
do the trick 

thanks. 








electrical computer major university computing services 
university of southern california 
los , ca .  . 

from  ( dan moyer ) 
subject re and 
nntp posting host 
organization corp , e m , , 
lines 19 

in article  ( kok yin ) writes 
can someone please tell me where can i get the best deal for or 
66 with you can reply to me thru e mail or to this 
group. 


i purchased a super board from company a month ago. 
i do n't have the mailing address clyde regularly in pc week. he can also be reached via compuserve .  . the phone number is 
1  . 

i think has very compared to other , plus i liked the fact he 's a ee that knows what he 's talking about 
concerning hardware , and he can be easily reached via compuserve for non 
questions , and is very to his over the phone. 

regards 
dan 




from  ( wayne summer ) 
subject re vs 
distribution world 
reply to 1 . 17 . by mike michael b. smith 
organization wayne 's machine bay , florida 
lines 33 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 

i wo n't argue that the standard makes for a good , well 
data , but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 

i have been following this thread and i 'd in my two  .  .  . 

the ii is comparable with the 16 . vs 8 . 33 .  . 
the has had a pre since  85 and can 
operate with 1 ! is used almost exclusively on these systems. 

a that data by allows the to request data 
from the hard drive and continue working while the gets the data 
and it to memory. a that allows can operate 
even better with multiple devices .  . this is true with 
units. for example , when or a , the command is 
issued to the and the is released to allow access to other 
devices on the bus. this greatly increases or , at least , do 
something else while backing up your hard drive ) .  . which happens to be 
what i am doing while reading this group. 

its a long story , but i still use on my except for the which , 
thanks to , i can move between both machines .  . if , and when , is 
better and supported on the ibm machines , i plan to 
completely get rid of  . 

wayne summer simply the best. 
bay ,  . us x 

quote of the week do n't hate because because they are , 
though .  .  . hate . them because their products are found in c . s . ibm . pc . misc . 

from  ( p d h ) 
subject re where to find with other than 3 and 4. 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 23 

 ( wayne hamilton ) writes 

a friend of mine recently got such a serial card .  . i 'll have to 
ask him to verify the details , but as i recall , he paid 50 , it 's 
made by , it has 2  ( or was it 4 ) , and it supports the at 
 ( 8 15 ) in addition to the ones. i'm sure of the 
last , because he had trouble finding software that would allow 
him to the standard  . 

unfortunately there a lot of such software .  . i also find it to be 
the case that the majority of the software that is bad in this regard 
is software .  . way too many are very 
poorly written. but then most of the programs in dos are crap , such 
as the print command that up your system for long periods of 
time when the is full instead of trying every  . 

back to software .  .  .  . i find success with  ( my at 5 
works ok on  . 

, , protection  ( 1(911)a1 ) 
right conservative are out to separate you from your money 
left liberal do are out to separate you from everything else ! ! 


from  ( chris brinton ) 
subject re for a local  ( cache 
reply to 
organization , inc. boston ma 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( penio penev ) writes 
on 15 apr 1993 20 14 20 gmt wrote 

i would like to hear the net . wisdom . and net . opinions . on  . 
i would to get a card for my 66  . 
what are good options for this  ( preferably under  . it must also work 
under 2 and be compatible with  ( and other s  . 

i have a on an , although my machine is 
66  . i has the save rate of 0 . s regardless of 
the variations of the speed .  . i tested it with speed between 
5 . and 8 .  . not any difference. the problem is not the 
interface between the and the memory. 

my advice buy of , save 70 and enjoy  . 


 ( 212)327 )  ( w ) internet 

disclaimer all are mine. 


i also have a 66 and a 212 .  . i have a local  ( generic ) and i get 
s. i tried my local for an and my 
rate went to s. the for this drive show a to 
rate of 2 . s. i dont know how to get there from here. the local interface 
got me a little , but certainly not as much as i had hoped .  . i am also looking for a way to 
improve my , but im not convinced that the is the 
 ( although im willing to entertain the possibility that it is) .  . i am already running a big 
main memory , so im not really interested in this solution either. 


chris 
, inc. 


my opinions are my own , but you 're welcome to them. 


from  ( david stam ) 
subject re for a local  ( cache 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 85 

wrote 

i have a on an , although my machine is 
66  . i has the save rate of 0 . s regardless of 
the variations of the speed .  . i tested it with speed between 
5 . and 8 .  . not any difference. the problem is not the 
interface between the and the memory. 


chris wrote 
i also have a 66 and a 212 .  . i have a local  ( generic ) and i get 
s. i tried my local for an and my 
rate went to s. the for this drive show a to 
rate of 2 . s. i dont know how to get there from here. the local interface 
got me a little , but certainly not as much as i had hoped .  . i am also looking for a way to 

what is the deal with the is anybody getting 
anywhere close to the rate i have n't seen anything 
even close to the limit of the interface .  . these drives are 1 1 
 ( non interleaved ) , are n't they 

here are the i get 

1 ) read  ( msdos c program that uses calls to read 64 
blocks from outside  ( first ) track inward ) 




quantum 

2 ) read  ( same c program , but re reads the same block repeatedly 
so in effect is reading the on the drive ) 




quantum 

3) 7 . rate  ( seems to agree with (2) above) 




quantum 

i managed to get hold of the quantum product manual and it goes 
into detail describing how the bits get from the , 
through the , and out the interface .  . nowhere do i see 
anything like after the bits are of the at high speed 
they sit around in a to before they are sent to the host 
 ( even though i swear that 's happening ) .  . here are some relevent 
quotes from the manual 

data is transferred from the to the read at a rate of 
3 . 75 . s , 1 . s minimum.  ( my calculations show 
and minimum .  .  .  . at with 87 
per track on the outside and 44 on the inside ) 

single errors of up to 24 bits within one can be 
 on the  , in real time as they occur , allowing a high degree of 
data with no impact to the drive 's  . (i take 
this to mean error correction is n't the bottleneck ) 

for page mode , the data rate to and from the 
is up to 10 . 0 . s. this high rate allows the at interface 
ic to communicate over the at at a data rate of 5 . 0 . s , 
while the simultaneously to 

so the thing can even do it 's pre while it 's sending the 
requested  ( it has 3 read for pre , i guess 
you could call that a ) .  . 

so when i do a read on the outer , why am i getting a 
when i should be getting around 

any of you hard out there know 


wondering why my are so slow , 
david 
o o 
( ) 
david the choice of a generation 
un x free ! 

from (e .  . wong ) 
subject help with mode for 
organization data general corporation , , ma 
lines 16 

i finally got the for my plus  . however , 
when i tried to use this to view under mode , i get lines on the picture .  . 
with or below , the picture is fine. can someone tell me what was wrong 
is it the card , or is it the software 

thanks 
8 ) 






user 's name edward 
internet 
telephone  ( 508 ) 

from  ( richard krehbiel ) 
subject re or 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 13 30 17 gmt 
lines 16 
organization , inc. 

in article  ( beng tay ) writes 

hi , 
i am buying a quantum and is a 
 . is 32 bit 
than 16 bit card 

no , is no than  . the interface is 
fundamentally nothing more than an extension of the , and if 
you it to it 'll work as fast as the of the two , 
meaning speed .  . 

i hear that 
the is than a 

on the other hand , i would n't expect it to be ... 

richard 
2 2.0 will do for me until for the comes along .  .  .  . 

from  ( rick adams ) 
subject help with 66 decision. 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution us 
lines 37 

i'm buying a new system this week to replace my brain dead , and 
could use some on a couple systems i'm looking at if anyone is 
familiar with them. 

the system that looks the most interesting is the 66 
 . for about  ( delivered ) it , , , a 
 ( with software bundle ) , media vision sound board , 14 , 
, and the usual drives , , software .  . since my is 
for a system , it seems almost too good to be true  ( which may mean it 
is too good to be true , of course) .  . among other things , i 've never seen a 
review of the systems  ( or their parent company , smart ) , or of 
the they are using  ( the  . any would be 
appreciated. 

in a similar vein , the second system i'm considering 's 
66 with a  ( 2mb ) 14 mi 
is one i 've never seen anywhere. i'm familiar with the 
firm but not the product line and some idea of their quality would be 
benefit here as well. 

any other suggestions in the price range would be my 
greatest needs are speed and capabilities .  . 

email response would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks , 




the only purpose for which power can be rightfully 
over any member of a civilized community , against his will , is to 
prevent harm to others. his own good , either physical or moral , is 
not a sufficient warrant .  . john stuart mill 

adams 
anonymous users may send to ap 

from  ( richard krehbiel ) 
subject re vs 
in reply to 's message of 16 apr 1993 07 30 17 
lines 12 
organization , inc. 


in article  ( mark ashley ) writes 

first off , with all these huge software and files that 
they produce , may no longer be sufficient for me  ( 510  . 

i 've seen a listing of a hard drive .  . 

second ,  ( rumor is) the the importance of 
and will support it soon. i'm just not sure if it 's on dos , win , or nt .  . 

nt already supports , a variety of , for , 
, and  . so does 2 2 . 0 .  . 

richard 
2 2.0 will do for me until for the comes along .  .  .  . 

from  ( michael gerhards ) 
distribution world 
subject re what 's the between . sys . com 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization private system 
lines 20 

wrote 
what 's the difference between com . in and 
doing device sys . in sys . 

the only difference is the time the gets loaded .  . sys . will be 
loaded during the sys . and before the command . com .  . com . 
will be loaded during and so after the command . com .  . 

which one is better 

com . could be started from the after the and it 
could perhaps be , if no other is loaded after it. 
the working of both drivers is totally the same. 

when i dos , i preferred most of the drivers in , 
because some programs wo n't run with some drivers and i could choose the 
ones i needed during  . but with , this advantage is gone , 
because lets you choose in sys . which drivers should be loaded .  . 

michael 

michael 59 
germany voice 49 

from  ( bruce powell ) 
subject re with yes it should be possible , 
organization south east queensland board 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( g chow ) writes 
in article  ( guido leenders ) writes 
hi , 

is it possible to use an with together with an 
in one system 

i 've read stuff about secondary  . does this trick work 

thanx in advance , 




i have the same question as  . it is possible to use the drive 
as a master and the drive as the slave 

i can say that you can use an as master and as slave , as 
i have just my machine with a ( and 
extended ) while maintaining my 'd as 
master drive .  . the trick is the which supports up to 4 drives 
while with existing ( , , , ) .  . 

so according to the documentation it should work with , and i can 
you it works with  . 

bruce email 

from 
subject re no required if you do n't want to load 
nntp posting host 
organization computer services centre , c . u . h . k .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 20 

in article  ( stephen mark sanderson ) writes 
from  ( stephen mark sanderson ) 
subject no required if you do n't want to load 
date 8 apr 1993 15 12 40 0500 
everybody , dos 6 users in particular , take note if you want to play games 
that hate use their own memory , dos 6 is not a problem. no 
required. as your system starts up , hit the key .  . this tells 
it to and altogether. you get a plain , generic 
of dos , with nothing loaded .  . there 's another function key that actually 
steps thru sys . asking if you want to execute each line , but i 've 
forgotten it at the moment .  .  . you . can try finding it i think it 's  .  .  . 

no , you need not the sys . , in dos 6 . 0 . , there is a function 
of , have you tried sys . the is the kind that 
you can choose you sys . at the  . and i find that is very good. 
it has no conflict to  . (i have problem when using 
the key you say is , which is trace the sys . step by step. 
sorry , if any error ) 



from  ( mohit k goyal ) 
subject of 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization univ .  . of texas at 
lines 5 

can someone tell me the and of the 
the 5fge ) 

thanks. 


from wang 
subject conner problem 
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 14 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 


hi , 
recently , when i run the surface test , i realize a slow 
down in  . at of the test , the will 
be checked at the speed that usually is. as the surface test 
half way through my , a slow down occured .  . the 
expected time for operation will jump from 3 to 6 minutes. i try to use 
some of the tools to check if there is any physical damage to 
my and report always turn out to be none. the surface test 
only slow down for a certain section of the and turn back to the 
original speed after it gets over the section .  . i am wondering whether 
it is a problem or some other problems. anyway help or comment 
will be  .  .  .  . 
wang 

from  ( eric hung ) 
subject re comments video  ( creative labs ) 
nntp posting host 
organization corporation , city ca 
lines 41 

in article  ( michael grant ) writes 
in article , writes 
in  ( bill heiser ) writes 

in article  ( randy suess ) w 

the video does n't work with the pro , does n't work 
with system  . 

are you serious so i ca n't use a video in my 33 
what are the alternatives  ( other than removing memory ) 

get a better one. about the win tv thing 

the at the of dawn 
just who are you calling a head 
just a friend of the  . 
2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 31 , 61 , 89 , , , ,  .  .  .  . 

no good. i tv. it can run in dos and  . win tv only run in 
 . sorry .  .  .  .  . 


still no good. tv will not work on a with local video .  . 
it will not work in any high modes either. the people who 
make the card me that they will have a card available in june 
that supports both local and hi  . btw does anyone know the 
name of the company who makes tv phone bbs internet 

thanks 

michael grant 
or 



i have a spectrum , it seems to work very nicely with video for 
 . with my setup  ( 386 25 , 17 , 16 , and f va ) , the 
board could handle up to 15 frame s. 

eric .  . 

from  ( stephen r. ) 
subject re another happy gateway owner 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 20 

 ( jon pastor ) writes 

which they do in the vast majority of cases. remember that it 's only the 
people on the of the curve who are motivated to write the ones who 
love it , and the ones who hate it. you do n't hear from the folks in the 
middle very often .  .  .  . 

they have rough edges , no doubt about it but they give good value per dollar , 
and use almost all top quality components .  . 

i am one of those middle of the road owners who is satisfied with 
my system. i had my share of problems corrections phone etc. i'm 
satisfied on what i got for my money. 

stephen r. 

what am i trying to do , what am i trying to say , i'm not trying to tell you 
anything you did n't know when you up today .  .  .  . 
mode nothing music for the masses 
stephen r. of illinois 

from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re help is my dying 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


it sounds like a with a sick on its way out ! 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from mohammad al 
subject or 
organization university computer science , 
lines 27 


this might be a silly question but i have to ask it anyway. i am in 
the process of an 66 computer and i 
found two places that sell machines that have what i want and have the 
same price .  . the first is and they use a  ( that 's 
the brand of the motherboard ) with chip set , the other is 
 ( formerly technology ) and they use the 
 . 

i said that this might be a silly question since i believe that 
is a very well known while i never 
heard of ! i am however towards the machine because 
my impression is that they are known for building good , solid machines 
and they have good tech support  ( 24 , 7 days wk ) , and a better 
 ( 2  . , on the other hand , seems to have 
recently and i'm not sure how much i should 
trust the company .  . 

i would really appreciate any on this. is the machine the 
clear choice does anyone know anything positive or negative about 
either company has anyone ever heard of should i 
go with just because it has the etc. 

thanks very much in advance for any information. 


mohammad al 

from  ( kent hioe ) 
subject need advice to select sound card 
keywords sound card .  . 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization jpl 
lines 32 


hi , i need some advice from the in a sound card .  . 

i am about to buy a sound card for my kid .  . i do n't know which one to buy .  . 
which one to select from the following list 

sound 16 
sound card 
spectrum 
sound pro 
sound 


my is around 250 .  . 


could some of you know about sound cards help me to select the most appropriate 
one for my kid 


i have 33  . 
i also have that i would like to connect to the sound card .  . 


thank you. 



kent 




from  ( shaw goh ) 
subject re non speed 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

 ( x5336 ) wrote 

just taken of a machine , and very nice it is too. 
one the speed when is on is 230 or something 
not the problem. the problem is the speed when is off. its 
7  . the equivalent in car terms is having a nice with a 
that turns it into a skateboard .  . 

does anyone have a clue as to what determines the relative of 
vs non i would like to set it to give a speed of 
about 30 or 40 with off. 

cheers , 


it should be that of  ( ie  . 


from  ( tim biernat ) 
subject re no 32 bit box on gateway 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola , inc. , group 
lines 29 

in article  ( scott linn ) writes 
while playing around with my gateway 2000 local machine last 
night , it became apparent that 3 . 1 . did n't give the option 
for 32 bit access for virtual memory. 

i am using a permanent file , and the drive is on the local 
interface .  . 

is this expected , or should i be investigating further why no 32 bit 
option appears 


you need to few in your system .  . 
in the virtual memory section , flip the switch on and the 
associated  ( wdctl or some such ) switch on. this will 
access , but be sure you can use it , as not all hard drives 
and support it ! 


 .  .  . for . seriously fast access 

1 ) out 
2 ) 2 

i did this 2 is incredible .  . finally a real for 
the humble pc ) 

tim 


from  ( tracy blomquist ) 
subject re 17 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 33 

tony wrote 
in article  ( mohit k goyal ) writes 

oh yeah , i just read in another newsgroup that the uses a 
high quality than is in most 
for example) and this is where the extra cost comes from. it 
is also where the high bandwidth comes from , and the 
image , and the large image size , etc , etc .  .  .  . 

it 's also where the two lines across the  ( one a third 
down , the other two down ) come from. 


the 2 lines are not a result of the high end , these 
2 will be found on all 17 (e . g .  . , 17 , 
,  . on 14 , you 'll find one wire .  . 

their level of is purely subjective .  . i'm so happy with the 
of the that i do n't even notice the lines. 

the uses a sa which , when viewed as a complete , 
has a larger than the standard  . this results in 
a than other 17 using the standard 
 ( which has a flat but not flat surface ) , and 
apparently the ability to provide a beam focus .  . 


, , . , 
karl e mail fax 1 
opinions are my own 1 
` ' ' ' 
bell northern research , p . o . box . , c , ottawa ,  . , 
` ' 

from  ( paul yee ) 
subject re from b drive 
summary sorry , ca n't be done from 
nntp posting host eng . ca . 
organization communications research , university 
lines 30 

in article  ( mohammad khan ) writes 
 ( gordon lang ) writes 

david wrote 
i have a 5 1 4 drive as drive a. how can i make the system from 
my 3 1 2 b drive 

reply suggesting switch deleted 


i have , i have around the but have n't tried this but somewhere it says a c 
i would assume that you could probably slip in a b 
a . ) . i have n't tried it and 
b . ) . do n't mess with your unless you know what your doing ! ! 

i hate to your but you cannot slip in a b to that 
particular setting .  . that setting only allows you to set 
the order of the a with respect to the primary c , 
i.e. , check a first , then c or check c , then a . 



gordon lang 

mohammad r. khan 
after  93 , please send mail to 

regards , 
paul 


from  ( bill barnes ) 
subject help ! second drive 
organization , college park , md , usa , na , earth , way 
lines 44 
nntp posting host net . 

recently my cousin got a second internal drive (a , 
i can look up the model number if it 's important ) and i 've been 
trying to help him it. i 've got a vested interest , since 
my machine 's and i have to use his until i get mine fixed. 
he already has a  ( again , i forget the model number 
but i can find out . ) . 

anyway , i ca n't seem to get the bloody thing up. i 've managed to get 
one or the other drive up  ( with the other disconnected ) , but not both 
at the same time whenever i try , the thing during 
never gets past the system test. the 's 
says it supports two drives i think i 've the 
correctly the power 's in properly i even learned about the 
master slave relationship that two are supposed to have  ( did n't 
know were into s m ! 8 ) and i think i the 
properly  ( the one is the master , the new one is the  . 

the only thing i can think of is maybe i'm doing the wrong. i 've 
tried several combinations 

master slave 
slave master 
master slave 

none of them worked .  . unfortunately , i ca n't think of any others. 

another possibility is that the one is already partitioned into 
two drives , c and d , and the asks for c drive and d 
drive setup info rather than drive 1 and drive 2 like most others 
i 've seen. could this be confusing things 

so , i need help ! the drive came of any , except for some 
info for the setup the has a little piece of paper 
about the size of an index card i the  ( it 's one 
of those with a at each end and the one in the middle , so 
it looks like a serial connection ) now i be lost ! 

many , many thanks in advance ! this is practically an emergency (i have 
two papers to do on this thing for monday ! ) ! help ! 


william 
 ( 301 ) voice  ( 301 ) fax 
disclaimer i do n't speak for and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( hakamata atsushi ) 
subject need info on for ii 
reply to 
organization display products group , corporation , tokyo , japan 
lines 11 
nntp posting host 43 . 2 . 19 . 6 . 

i am looking for good add on for ii. 
i found in pc magazine article and data products 
are well known of for series .  . but i could n't find 
the model name of these products. 

any suggestions please. 

thanks in advance , 


corporation technology center 

from  ( gerard pinzone ) 
subject drivers fix for 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 14 
reply to  ( gerard pinzone ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


just to let all you faithful owners .  .  .  .  . 

ever notice ca n't load you high ai n't it a bitch 

well , you can call up 's bbs and get a hold of the new drivers 
that can be loaded high. sorry , i do n't have their on me. ( 

i tested them out and the seem to work great ! 

small nose , loose girls , no , ( .  .  . ) . 
curls ! ) . ( . 
( v ) 
join the ! kill ! 

from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject please help identify video hardware 
article i.d. 
organization company research 
lines 11 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

i need a device  ( either an board or a subsystem ) which will 
take two video and them according to a  . 
the can be as simple as a rectangular with signal 
one being used for the and signal two for the  . 
but i beleive may also exist which i do not want 
to exclude from my search .  . i know this sort of hardware exists 
for , etc. but i need it for  . 

please email and or post any leads .  .  .  .  . 

gordon lang or 

from 
subject vs. 
organization university 
lines 8 

do all cards for dos systems require a separate device to be loaded 
into memory for each device up will this also be true of the 32 bit 
's 

thanks. 




from  ( eric j balog ) 
subject a drive won t 
organization university of 
lines 26 
nntp posting host seas . edu . 

hi ! 

i recently switched my 3.5 drive to a . the problem is , while i can read and 
write to both the new a and b correctly , i ca n't from a in a . 
i 've checked the it is set for seek at and 
order a , c . 

once , i had a that did not have the systems files on it in a . i got a 
message telling me to put a systems in the drive .  . it did n't work. 
when i do have a systems in the a drive , this is what happens 
1 ) power on and memory test 
2 ) a light comes on 
3) b light comes on , followed by a short 
4 ) light comes on for an instant 
5 ) b light comes on again , then nothing happens 

the light goes off , there is no activity of any kind , and the 
blanks .  . i ca n't even use ctrl alt del .  . 

any suggestions .  . 

thanks in advance. 

eric 



from  ( niels olsen ) 
subject re for 14 . 4 . 's ... any good 
organization department of computer science , u of 
lines 33 

 ( thomas d. barrett ) writes 

in article  ( joe zbiciak ) writes 
what 's the word on the is this a bug specific 
to a specific brand using the , or is it the 
itself 

there were an of problems , but that is pretty much 
expected with any fax talking with a different fax or 
which may have also been revised or is new. i'm pretty much 
to any current problems , so you 'll have to get it 
from someone else. 

someone else , could you please comment on that. i have just bought 
a 14 . , which has a  . it was n't cheap 
so i would like to hear of problems i'm likely to run into. 

however , i can tell you to stay clear of any board which uses the 
 ( as opposed to the dpu ) for an internal implementation .  . 
this is because the used speed instead of having a 
interface .  . without the interface , the number of 
are still the same and thus may get dropped under 
conditions  ( like in  . as far as i know , the speed 
works ok for external modems if a is used on the internal serial 
board. 

, i was lucky ! the internal version has a and one 
of the is  . 

but still i would like to hear more of the above mentioned 
problems. 



subject re western digital info needed 
from 
distribution world 
lines 28 


in article ,  ( michael gerhards ) writes 
ks wrote 
my western digital also has three sets of on the back .  . i am using it with 
another hard drive as well and the for the were written right 
on the board of the drive .  .  .  .  .  . ma . 

the is used , if the other drive a conner  . 

no set drive is alone 
ma drive is master 
drive is slave 

yo , yo , yo . 
the western digital will it either s , m , a 
put on the s its printed on the it. 

hope i helped i had the same problem. 
bye .  .  . 
later  . 




michael 

michael 59 
germany voice 49 

from 
subject re for 
news software ibm 2  ( nr 2 ) by o .  . and r. 
lines 18 
reply to 
organization ibm t. j. watson research 

in  ( d hosek ) writes 
what is the recommended for can i just use any old 
, or is something more needed mostly curious before i go blowing 
a of cash on a new system. 

or 2 for the original you just need something that can do 
at 45  ( just tell them compatible and they 
should get the  . for the 2 , get what you like. i prefer 
like the ibm , the or even a fixed like 
my home 6. i like the because it 's easy to run them 
in modes like , or at higher modes like 
 . 


dick my opinions only , not official ibm positions , etc 
ibm development they 'd make me wear a suit if i were to speak for ibm .  . 
,  .  .  . the is  . 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject data and 
lines 5 

does anyone have enough experience to report whether data 
has any effect on the 
, i expect that the time required to data 
would increase the  . 


from  ( phil hunt ) 
subject what is a tech card 
organization , inc. 
reply to  ( phil hunt ) 
x mailer release 1 . 
lines 22 

hi , 

i am going through a box of old ibm card and came across one called a 

technology card .  . it is dated 1990 and has a on 
it and a big chip that has  c cube  on it. 

no to the outside , but a type 50 pin on the board. 

it is a 16 bit board. 

any ideas what it is 






hunt wherever you go , there you are ! 
, inc. 

internet uucp ! ! ! 

from  ( david shepherd ) 
subject re and next like 
lines 25 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 
as far as i can tell , the md is an offshoot of technology that already exists. 
it is an drive .  . drives exist already for computers. they 're expensive 
and a bit slow , but the are  ( 128  . dan .  . 

i read a recent article in personal computer world mainly about the new 
 ( dcc and md ) but at the end talked about how nice 
it would be to use these for data with a brief of 
how much data you could  . the author had been talking to someone 
from about these and mentioned this to get the reply md 
is a purely format , we would n't use it for data , then when 
pressed for info about the man basically admitted that it was 
no more than a slight on md ! 

what i think the original poster was wanting was drives at md 
 . i 'd assume that the problem here is that an md system 
can have higher than an system as the ear does n't pick up 
the occasional bit error as well as an program ! 



david shepherd tel x 
ltd , 1000 aztec west , , , 
they did n't like the , they do n't like the tax , 
and they wo n't like the council tax .  . 

subject 8900 switch  ( someone archive this ! ) 
from 
organization state university 
lines 109 

txt . jeffrey e. 

switch on the 



9 
xx 8 8 8 8 1 
xx 6 10 
4 2 
xx 
xx 8 8 8 8 3 
5 5 
7 

1  ( 8 dram ) 


4 
9 
11 8 8 8 8 1 
6 10 
4 2 
5 
11 8 8 8 8 3 
5 4 
7 

2  ( 2 4 8 dram ) 


4 
9 
11 8 8 8 8 1 
6 10 
4 5 2 

11 8 8 8 8 5 3 
4 
4 

3  ( 2 4 8 dram ) 

1. 
2. 15 for  . 
3. 9 for  . ( note 1 ) 
4. , , ,  ( j3 for 2 and 3 , for 3) 
5. video basic system. 
6. 8900 chip chip .  . 
7. for ibm pc , pc at and compatible systems. 
8. video up to 
9. feature for special applications .  . 
10. video 
11. blocks and  ( 2 4 8 board only ) 
note 1 hardware option. feature not present for all board versions. 

switch for the 6 switch box ( 1 from  . 

switch 3 rate 
on less than  ( default ) 
off 38 

switch 5 fast and slow address 
off fast address  ( default ) 
on slow address 

switch 6 8 16 bit data path 
off 16 bit data path  ( default ) 
on 8 bit data path 




for 
1 2 3 1 2 3 

off  ( def ) on 

for size 
1 1 x 
2 x 2 x 
3 x 3 
standard interface 
 ( def ) 

for 
1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 


4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 

two four eight 

select 
1 2 3 1 2 3 

40 48 
two 4 8 






mode  ( default ) on on 
mode off on 
mode on off 
mode off off 


from  ( aovai ) 
subject hard question 
distribution world 
organization the bbs 
lines 18 

hi , 

i just my old and get 2 drives hard drive and a 
drive .  . my questions are 

can i use these 2 drives as drives d e on my this 
currently has hard drive , 1 . 1 . drives .  . 

if i can , what s w or h w do i need 

please send your advice comments to 

thanks a lot , 



via pro 


from  ( morten christian holmgreen ) 
subject re 17 
organization department of computer science , u of 
lines 23 

 ( tony catone ) writes 

in article  ( mohit k goyal ) writes 

oh yeah , i just read in another newsgroup that the uses a 
high quality than is in most 
for example) and this is where the extra cost comes from. it 
is also where the high bandwidth comes from , and the 
image , and the large image size , etc , etc .  .  .  . 

it 's also where the two lines across the  ( one a third 
down , the other two down ) come from. 

are you actually using one or are you just talking ) 

i'm sitting in from of one right now and i must say i never notice them ! yes , 
of course i can see them if i look , but no way ! ! ! 

christian 

m. christian c . dk . 
m .  . student , university of , dept. of computer science 
human errors can only be avoided if one can avoid the use of humans 

from cat . uucp .  ( dave ) 
subject re how to search for bad memory  . 
organization rest area for weary 
lines 37 

k . writes 

steps deleted 
... 

it 's an interesting idea , but the worst case data patterns developed to 
test magnetic media are totally different than the patterns used to detect 
common in memory  . 

i was having major memory problems a few ago. 
getting error system halted error message in  . 
i plus , check it , , as well as several 
memory  . i had a total of 8 in my system. 
these bought memory either fine 
without errors or found an error at some address that i could n't 
place on a memory chip .  . out of i came up with 
the  ( now deleted ) steps to find bad memory  . i found 2 
 ( moral never buy memory not for sensitive or critical 
applications on the back .  . 
anyway i did filter out all the bad memory using 
combinations of 4 of the 8 and creating a drive to 
test on. although it n't my error problems 
in  . i did to find bad memory in this manner 
it has never failed to find a bad chip for me. and the 
have always me either not finding the error or 
pointing to an which i have no idea on what chip it is. 

p.s. man my typing today and i do n't feel like around with 
this line editor .  . 

david 



china cat bbs c cat ! 
 ( 301)604 ) 1200 14 , 400  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! c cat ! david 


from  ( daniel m. coleman ) 
subject re do the pro 16 and 24 bit drivers work 
lines 47 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
organization the university of texas at austin 
lines 47 

in article uucp . ,  ( alireza vali ) writes 
hi there. we just bought a 66 gateway system with a 2 
pro video card .  . everything seems to work fine except for the 
drivers for 24 bit , and and 16 bit 
modes .  . the and start after , 
and within of use , everything on the is totally 
 . naturally , i called gateway tech support to 
about this. the asked me about the drivers , and i told him it 
was version 1 . 5 . , build 59 .  . he told me that the 16 and 24 bit drivers for 
the pro simply do not work ! ! ! is this true if so , i'm simply 
amazed .  . how could this be the strange thing is i would have expected 
to see some discussion on here  ( unless the subject has made the faq ! ! ! ) .  . 

one very suspicious point that came up later was that he stated that none 
of the have working 16 and or 24 bit drivers 
for 3 . 1 .  . i easily challenged him on that because i 've been 
running a in 15 bit mode at home for 4 months now , and i have 
tested and used the 24 bit mode as well. he then backed off and said 
well , has been working on those drivers much longer .  . anyway , i 
just wanted to see if anyone else had any trouble and what they did about 
it. any will be appreciated. 

the system is 

gateway 66 local 
16 

local 
pro local with 
dos 6 . 0 . 
3 . 1 . 
32 drivers version 1 . 5 .  ( build 59 ) 

i have been able to successfully use both 16 and 24 bit color modes on my 
gateway system , although my setup is less complicated than yours. it sounds as 
if you may have a hardware conflict or problem. is your memory above 
i have heard of with that card with a 
variety of systems. call up gateway and give them hell until they help you 
fix it. 

dan 


daniel matthew internet 

the university of texas at austin 
electrical computer engineering bitnet  . bitnet . 

from  ( yoda ) 
subject re from b drive 
organization kansas state university 
lines 14 
nntp posting host matt . ksu . ksu . edu . 

 ( david weisberger ) writes 

i have a 5 1 4 drive as drive a. how can i make the system from 
my 3 1 2 b drive  ( optimally , the computer would be able to 
from either a or b , checking them in order for a  . but 
if i have to switch around and simply switch the drives so that 
it ca n't 5 1 4 , that 's ok. also , b wo n't do the trick 
for me . ) . 

thanks , 

you can try to get into the setup ctrl alt or 
ctrl alt on most pc 's .  . that should give you an option 
to set regarding the drives to from. 

from  ( charles w. browning ) 
subject hard drive help ! ! ! 
organization national science center foundation 
summary hard drive help ! ! 
keywords hard 
lines 17 

i have a new hard drive  ( rll or mfm ) that has been 
in and will not format .  . i suspected that the switch 
may have been moved in the movement of the drive from one place to 
another. does anyone have the switch for this drive .  . it has 
with 6 and has 8  . is the one that 
the drive number .  . if you have info on this drive , or know 
a number i can call to it , please , please let me know by 
email. it has 5 heads and i think is type 17. 

thanks in advance ! 

browning 


charles w. browning 
university of 
, 

from  ( eyal lebedinsky ) 
subject re for is slow .  .  .  .  . 
organization info sci eng , university of canberra , australia 
lines 89 

in names . edu . writes 

i'm using to read my , and it is slow .  . something 
like 90 of my time is being spent reading the , and this 
is in a program that does nothing but  ( printf( ) and  . 

if you only do read print then there is no reason for the stuff 
not to take 90 of the time even if it is efficient .  . 

the problem is that a lot of programs trap ( like ) and 
so it is a slow as hell interface .  . can i read the in 
a reasonably safe fashion via and that is n't or 
specific 

the truth is that reading is slow .  . i read it directly 
from the hardware  . note that doing so exposes you to 
from , so you may want to read  ( say ) twice in a 
row and keep the lower results. do n't just turn off , it may 
prove detrimental to the health of any high speed and other 
devices .  . 

here is an example of how to do this 

joy . c . 

an example of how to read pc by the hardware 
directly .  . 
uses  ( inp( )  ( outp( ) for access. 
will when  count 0  up to zero .  . 
this reads one (a is presented and b is in the  . 
you can read both at once by the two , but it will time out 
when either is not connected .  . 

there is no need to this since it runs for as long as 
the needs. 

written by 


include h . 
include h . 
include h . 

 ( int x , y , , b2 ) 

define 

define for b use 
define for b use 
define  ( xjoy yjoy ) 
define for b use 
define for b use 

returns 0 if ok 
 ( int x , y , , b2 ) 

count 
, joy 

 ( char)xymask ) 
count 0 
 ( joyport , 0 ) set 
do 
 ( joy  ( char)inp )  ( joyport ) 
if  ( temp xjoy ) 
x count 
if  ( temp yjoy ) 
y count 
while ( count  ( temp joy ) xymask ) 
!  ( joy but1 ) 
!  ( joy but2 ) 

return ( ! count ) 


this  ( main( ) is for  . 



main () 

rc , x , y , , 

( hit any key to n ) 
while ( !  (  ) 
rc ( x , y , , b2 ) 
( r d 3d 3d d d , rc , x , y , , b2 ) 



from  ( james chuang ) 
subject re stealth 24 giving 9 . 4 . 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 8 

pc only got around 9 10 when they tested the steal 24 .  . it sounds 
like you are ok. 





if someone asks if you are a god , you say .  .  .  . yes ! 

from  ( richard muratti ) 
subject parallel 
x to all 
lines 25 

can anybody please help me with information on the use of the 
 . 

i have successfully used one on a by bit 0 of 
and controlling bit 7 of for the direction of data  ( ie 
0 for output , 1 for  . 

the same code does not work on my machine .  . i have heard that i might 
have to use bit 5 of , however this also does not work. 

for a parallel i am using one of those super i o cards and have been 
running a off it via a parallel to so i am 
pretty sure that the is  . 


any information would be greatly  . 

please post a reply here or email me on 

internet 

thanks 
richard  . 

origin programming bbs (3 632 341 ) 

from hannover . de .  ( andreas heinbokel ) 
subject looking for ad pc board 
keywords ad 
reply to hannover . de . 
organization hannover , 
lines 43 



this is for a friend of mine. please send answers directly to him (e mail 
see below ) ! 


digital pc board 

and ! 

i am looking for a a d pc board with a rate above 250 an a 
resolution of 8 bit. the rate can be by an mode where 
the time equivalent 2 , 4 or 8 times higher rate than 
the a d uses in non mode .  . 

the board must content an a d similar to devices ad or 
ad or if available a on. 

if you a pc board  ( 16 bit , isa ) with this or better , please 
send me an email 

hannover . de . 

or a to 49 


thanks in advance for your help ! 

sincerely 

matthias 
, university of hannover , germany 







hannover . de . 

... all wisdom is print on t shirts 


from  ( wayne rash ) 
subject re 17 with to 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 21 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host access . net . 
keywords 17 

 ( michael scanlon ) writes 

i do n't know if this is an obvious question , but can any of the current 
of cards  ( diamond etc ) be used to drive a 
which has and and ( 5 altogether ) 
out the back i might be able to get of a 
17  ( 1510 cheap ) and i was wondering if it was 
possible to connect it via an  ( rgb to ) to my gateway , would 
i need different drivers etc. 


thanks 

mike 
please reply to 

you need a that has a on one end and five 
on the other. i bought one from when i bought the 
i use , which also has five  . check with a computer 
that good  . quite a few use that setup .  . 


from  ( john gayman ) 
subject another happy gateway owner 
organization , , pa 
lines 43 


since i 've been seeing all kinds of regarding 
lately on here , i thought i post my recent pleasant experiences. my 
machine  ( 4dx2 66v ) this past friday .  . this was two weeks to the day from 
when i called the order in. 

upon it i found everything to be in perfect order. all the 
i ordered were properly  ( jumbo 250  . i 
was very impressed with the quantity and quality of the gateway 
documentation .  . all software came with the original and  . 
the gateway manual itself is in a nice 3  . the came 
with drivers .  . all other software i  ( microsoft office ) 
was properly  . the machine came right up out of the box and 
has been  . it 's been on all and it hardly 
even room  . i think the big case has a 
lot to do with it. 

it 's up and running dos 6 . 0 . with no problems. i 've also read about 
some people having problems with high speed serial communications .  . 
i used the dos 6 . 0 . program which lets me link to my old 
computer via a serial at 115 .  . it then the other 
machines two hard as my f g. you can to these 
drives and either run programs or copy files. it 's almost like a 
peer peer except you can also run programs on the other machine .  . 
it 's not a two way street. the other machine is the server and this 
machine is the  . so where it seems to differ from the 
peer to peer stuff. for a dos utility its very impressive. 

my 250 took about 11 to back up of data .  . i also 
by passed any potential gateway problems by taking the 430 
credit and applying it towards a  . i love this ! 

so , i'm glad there is some good news gateway stories and i'm glad it 
was me.  ( now if it just keeps  . ) 


john 



john , 
uucp uunet ! ! john 
packet @ 

from  ( marc wandschneider ) 
subject re vs 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization , university , montreal , canada 
lines 22 

in article 1 . 17 . by mike michael b. smith writes 
in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 

i wo n't argue that the standard makes for a good , well 
data , but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 

i have been following this thread and i 'd in my two  .  .  . 

the ii is comparable with the 16 . vs 8 . 33 .  . 

except for the fact that it 's superior in just about every way to 
the bus. 

the has had a pre since  85 and can 
operate with 1 ! is used almost exclusively on these systems. 

except for the new systems that now only with  . 

! 
'em .  . 

from  ( steve harrold ) 
subject re need info on video card 
organization , 
lines 46 

experiences with video card 

several problems 

1 ) the ad 16 . 7 . million at resolution with 
of , which is what i have. this color depth is not supported 
with video version 1 . 00 . and drivers version 1 . 01 .  . a of 
are supported at and with 
 . 

2 ) with the color choice i notice two minor 

a ) under , when an entry in a list is highlighted  ( such as in an 
open menu ) and then is , a line often 
remains where the left of the highlighted rectangle used to 
be. 

b ) with word for , when you use in a table , the 
display shows the of the for example , if you 
the cell as 10 , the display is 90  ( the is  . 

3) the big killer bug is using the c integrated development 
environment. the problem occurs when you click on the 
 ( or use the option in the run command ) , and the 
application goes to character mode  ( as it is designed 
to  . the goes , and is largely unreadable .  . the 
display is all  . 

through trial and error , i have found that when the 
is you should do alt followed by the letter 
r . this to the , and it 
does this satisfactorily .  . i wish i did n't have to do this. 

the bug is more than with the drivers .  . the same 
behavior happens with the standard that comes with 
 . there must be something in the video card that 
the mode .  . 

the problem is not my  . the same bug shows up when i use 
another in place of my usual one. 

i still like this video card , and am its problems will be 
 ( they do offer a 5 year  . 


, 

from  ( beng tay ) 
subject or 
organization singapore notes server 
lines 20 

hi , 
i am buying a quantum and is a 
 . is 32 bit 
than 16 bit card i hear that 
the is than a 
which one is true 

please shed some light by email or post. 
thanks a lot. 

best regards , 



singapore operation phone  ( 65 ) 
singapore  . ltd .  . fax  ( 65 ) 272 
road internet 
singapore 
of singapore 


from  ( tiger zhao ) 
subject re 100 and 100 needed 
organization tiger 's 
lines 23 

writes 
i need 100 and 100 , but price should be around 
17 20 piece .  . 

i assume you are talking about x 9 , or x 9 with 
speed of i would take pieces per week if you have that price .  . 
 ( fob us  . 

i am not waiting for an offer with that price , i could only dream. 

tiger 

i am waiting for an offer .  . 


, 
seattle 
 ( 206 ) ,  ( home ) 
 ( 206 )  ( work ) 
 ( 206 )  ( fax ) 
internet 
uucp ! washington . edu . ! 


from  ( allen koberg ) 
subject re what is at speed 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 24 

in article arbor . mi . us . arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) writes 

s there is one in the setup that says at  . i have 
, which is beyond , but may be ok if all of the cards can 
run that fast .  . i would set it to 3 ( in fact i did ) and set it back if 
anything acts ( e.g. you get drive errors , your 
up , you have video problems , etc. ) .  . if you the at 
, then that should be the first thing to check if you get an error on 
your system. 

it is pretty safe to your at , as long as your cards 
still work  . i suggest backing up your before playing with 
it though. 

on my 50  ( really 50 , not dx2 ) , my at is set to 3. 

at 16 . 67 . , i have no problems. pro , 14 . 4 . , 
, etc. all work fine. 

if i set it to 2  ( 25 mhz ) , i simply do n't get past the post routines .  . 

i doubt you could actually damage much by playing with it. 

allen 

from  ( ken staggers ) 
subject re extension by credit company applies to the of computer 
article i.d. cup . 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 20 
nntp posting host writer . cup . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 1 . 

wrote 
most , if not all , credit card offer to double the up 
to one year , namely , if you make a by a credit card , you get 
additional up to one year .  . does it apply to the of 
computers i wonder if anyone out there has used it. is there any 
thanks in advance. 

i am just about to post the results of my big computer  . one 
of the key points was the ability to use my american express card .  . i 
read the fine print between double policies of and 
 . sure , both will allow you double on computers , but 
has a claim of 250 . 00 .  . could you imagine trying to get your 
or mother board fixed for 250 . 00 . has no limit on claims .  . 

remember , if you use , you must either send a copy of the info 
to them in 30 days from , or you must call them to pre and 
then send them the paperwork within 90 days of  ( my pre 
arrived  . requires no pre  . 

ken 

from 
subject faq on 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization bbs , 's best usenet access  ( 212 9146 ) 
lines 9 

reply to 

is there a faq on if i missed it , could anyone please repost 
or email it to me thanks in advance. 

... , internet 1 

blue wave 12 . 


subject 
from 
reply to 
organization cal state 
lines 12 

i just bought a new hard drive for my system to go with the one 
i already had. my problem is this. my system only had a 
for one drive , so i had to buy with two drive 
on it , and consequently have to switch  . the problem is , 
the new hard drive 's manual refers to matching pin 1 on the 
with both pin 1 on the drive itself and pin 1 on the card .  . but 
for the life of me i cannot figure out how to tell which way to plug 
in the to these. 
secondly , the has like a at two ends and one between them. 
i figure one end goes in the and then the other two go into 
the drives .  . does it matter which i plug into the master drive 
and which into the slave any help appreciated. thanks .  .  .  . 

from  ( g chow ) 
subject re with 
organization monash university 
lines 27 

in article  ( guido leenders ) writes 
hi , 

is it possible to use an with together with an 
in one system 

i 've read stuff about secondary  . does this trick work 

thanx in advance , 




i have the same question as  . it is possible to use the drive as a master and the drive as the slave 
at the moment , i have been using the drive and recently i bought a drive to use as the 2nd drive . 
the person in the computer told me that it is not possible to run 2 cards together on the same ( and ) but i think there might be some way of making them work. can anybody enlighten me on this 
and it is possible to run a using a or vice 
can anybody please help me out on this 
your help will be very much appreciated. 

g . chow . 







from  ( paolo silvera ) 
subject what 
organization computer science  . university 
lines 21 

excuse me to every one. 
i am an owner and tired to have the same modes .  . 
so i saw on there was a little that made the 
's pc communicate with the 's  . 
the building mother house of this little me 
that using this thing i can use all the pc included 
the cards. 
i am interested in computer and i do not know many 
things about pc in general. 
so , what is the best  ( isa slot ) card on the market 
i 'd like to reach like with 256 
or with 24  . 

any suggestion 

in advance 






from  ( lee reynolds ) 
subject help with 8 bit memory card needed ! 
organization , incorporated .  . 
lines 16 

hi ! 

i'm busy some old machines  ( hey , they 're cheap and they 
work  ) and would be for any help with the following card 

full length 8 bit memory only card .  . 
has room for 8 of for a total of  . 
has an 8 position switch on it , presumably for addressing .  . 

does any kind soul out there have any or drivers for this 
i 'd be grateful. 

thanks , 
 . 



from  ( alireza vali ) 
subject do the pro 16 and 24 bit drivers work 
organization university of texas at austin 
lines 35 

hi there. we just bought a 66 gateway system with a 2 
pro video card .  . everything seems to work fine except for the 
drivers for 24 bit , and and 16 bit 
modes .  . the and start after , 
and within of use , everything on the is totally 
 . naturally , i called gateway tech support to 
about this. the asked me about the drivers , and i told him it 
was version 1 . 5 . , build 59 .  . he told me that the 16 and 24 bit drivers for 
the pro simply do not work ! ! ! is this true if so , i'm simply 
amazed .  . how could this be the strange thing is i would have expected 
to see some discussion on here  ( unless the subject has made the faq ! ! ! ) .  . 

one very suspicious point that came up later was that he stated that none 
of the have working 16 and or 24 bit drivers 
for 3 . 1 .  . i easily challenged him on that because i 've been 
running a in 15 bit mode at home for 4 months now , and i have 
tested and used the 24 bit mode as well. he then backed off and said 
well , has been working on those drivers much longer .  . anyway , i 
just wanted to see if anyone else had any trouble and what they did about 
it. any will be appreciated. 

the system is 

gateway 66 local 
16 

local 
pro local with 
dos 6 . 0 . 
3 . 1 . 
32 drivers version 1 . 5 .  ( build 59 ) 

thanks in advance. 

ali r. 

from 03 . navy . 
subject out of business 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 2 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

i heard went out of business. is this true 
they do n't answer their number .  . it 's  . 

from  ( phil hunt ) 
subject re com conflict really 
organization , inc. 
reply to  ( phil hunt ) 
x mailer release 1 . 
lines 43 


in article sys . ibm . pc . hardware . , alt . programmer . , sys . ibm . pc . misc . , pc . general . , pc . ibm . , misc . computers . d . , modems . , ) ,  ( oliver duesel ) writes 
hi there , 

 ( yuri yulaev ) writes 

i have i o card in my 40 pc .  . 
when i plug in wang at , it works. if i change 
it to it does n't .  . 
program gives like possible com 
conflict at  ( with in  . 

since your card only has one serial this should default to 
under dos , you ca n't share 's so you 'll have to set either your 
or your to ... using different and 's .  . 
when you set two  devices  onto the same like and  ( or 2 and 4 ) 
the  latter  one will always win , i.e. if you have your on and 
start using your on , your should work but your will 
stop doing so , until  . 

it should be no problem , setting your to  ( you did n't write 
anything about other  .  .  . ) . 

i hope , it helped a bit ....  ( by(t)e ) ,  . 



hi , 

i'm kind of new at the pc stuff. my machine has 4 serial  . com 1 
and 2 4 share same  . you mean i ca n't plug a into and a 
into and expect both to work 

if answer is no , should i change 's for com to be different and , 
does it really matter which i set the too 




hunt wherever you go , there you are ! 
, inc. 

internet uucp ! ! ! 

from (f . a .  . shea ) 
subject re for a local  ( cached ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization rochester institute of technology 
distribution usa 
lines 41 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 
in article writes 
i have a on an , although my machine is 
66  . i has the save rate of 0 . s regardless of 
the variations of the speed .  . i tested it with speed between 
5 . and 8 .  . not any difference. the problem is not the 
interface between the and the memory. 

my advice buy of , save 70 and enjoy  . 

computer 25 
5 . mhz ) 
drive  ( 213 mb ) 

i 'd still like to here from people with  . 
i still want to know what speed is used with drives .  . 
i still want to know if some  ( most ) drives can handle 8  . 


i recently bought a 33 computer and the the local 
card was getting around s  ( says  . i 
because this seemed slow and they said that 
6 . xx . does n't recognize local and wo n't give accurate results. i was 
told i would need 7 . 0 . in order to get a true account of my 
speed .  . 

i did n't really like this answer in part because the drive does n't seem 
as though it 's along at much more than that , but i also do n't 
know if i could tell the difference. 

i tried playing around with in the  ( bus speed at the like ) 
and noticed no significant change in  . 


frank 


learn of the frank 
he that teaches himself , 
a fool for his master rochester institute of technology 
ben franklin 

from  ( daniel m. coleman ) 
subject re gateway 2000 and problem. 
lines 37 
nntp posting host gray . cc . utexas . edu . 
organization the university of texas at austin 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( jude m. greer ) writes 
i was wondering if anyone out there has had the same problem i am having with 
my gateway 2000 system with pro  . 
when i have my computer in any resolution other than , everything is 
fine , but whenever i use it in  ( windows , , gifs ) the 
gets about 1 1 2  . at the very top and very bottom of the 
there is about a 3 4 bar of black .  . the is n't cut off , it just 
everything into the smaller space and up the aspect ratio .  . while i can 
change the v size on the back , this is a pain in the ass , and it just 
should n't happen anyway. i 've called gateway numerous times and they have n't 
been able to help me at all. two different times they sent me a new card , and 
both times the new card did n't work at all in my computer .  . they even tried 
to bill me for the first card because they did n't get it back in a couple of 
days , when they told me over the phone that they would wait more than 2 weeks 
before my card .  . but their customer support is a different story .  .  .  . 
so , if anyone has had this same problem , please let me know if you know what 
to do. hell , let me know if you do n't have a solution , just so i know i'm 
not the only one with this problem. thanks in advance. 

m. 


p.s. i already tried going into the 32 program and set 
up the card .  . does n't work. whenever i try to increase the size 
of the , it just starts to cut off the top and bottom .  . 


maybe its a problem. you mentioned that you cards , but not 
 . perhaps that could be it. 

dan 


daniel matthew internet 

the university of texas at austin 
electrical computer engineering bitnet  . bitnet . 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
subject re i do n't understand 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
lines 54 

students wrote 
i went buying recently , and the sales person told me that 
the 
are 9 chip and 3 chip , and one cannot use them 
if you use one , you have to use all of the same type .  . 

do n't believe everything you are told .  . i can tell you that mixing them 
between  banks  ok , and i ca n't see why mixing in one bank is not unless 
they are of different ( e.g. mixing of and in one 
bank ) .  . the two only differ in the type of it uses .  . assuming that 
the are ( 9 bit wide ) , here is the two equivalent 
 . the 3 chip uses two 4 bit wide  ( 1m of 4 bit 
) and one 1 bit wide chip ( for a total of 9 bit wide 
) .  . the 9 bit uses 1 bit wide  . these are equivalent 
because of the way that it is   on the board. at the 
interface , they both act as 9 bit wide ( 2 4 1 9 1 ) .  . sorry 
if too for . 


similarly , one cannot plug in two and one to 

the system a total of 6  . why is that so if my system supports 
of 8  ( it has 8 slots ) , can i plug in 4 to give my 


that sounds correct. the problem is that if your computer takes 9 bit 
wide , you can not mix different sizes in one bank. why you ask 
simple , if you understand why there is banks .  . assuming you have a 32 bit 
( or ) , the data (e . g .  . the mechanism to data 
from memory ) is 32 bits wide , so the computer expects to see 32 bits when 
it asks for data .  . to get that bandwidth ( 32 bit wide ) , the 
links 4 ( one bit is not data , but , so i will ignore that in 
this simple ) to get  ( 9 1 ) 4 32 bits . that means 
that a in a bank stores only 1 4 of the 32 bit wide data .  . if you 
have a 16 bit , two are linked together to get 16 bit wide 
data , which is the reason why banks are 2 wide , and 32 bit banks 
are 4 wide. if your computer required ( e.g. 32 bit wide data 
with 4 bits , used in some ps and ) , you could by 
one at a time. 

hope that this message is not over your head , but the answer to your 
question was not simple. i could of just said ,  because i said so . ' . 




. 2 . 0 . evaluation copy 
2 . w net , ann . arbor . mi . us . , 1 or 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

from  ( jay dresser ) 
subject help ! with 
lines 13 
nntp posting host 


we are trying to connect an 5 drive as the second 
drive on a panasonic machine .  . it seems to sort of talk to it  ( gets it 
and stepping ) but gives a not ready error. 

there are two  ( which seem to work best open ) , a 3 position 
switch , and a 8 position switch .  . we do n't know how to set the 
and think that may be the problem. 

any information , or advice  ( other than junk the stupid thing ) would be 
most , thanks.  ( email reply  . 



from  ( elliott wong ) 
subject help ! 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
follow poster 
lines 19 

dear all , 

i am trying to get my standard connection going with  ( pa0gri113016 ) 
and a 2000 card .  . i know that my and is 
working because i am able to ping , finger , and even with it. 

however , after a time , it randomly .  . help would be 
greatly appreciated. 

i suspect that there is a hardware conflict in the pc .  . i am 
running with a 33 , 2  . the card is 
for 5 ,  . 

thanks in advance. i know that it 's not much to go on , but i 
do n't even know what the questions to ask are , sorry. 

please send mail .  . 



from 
subject what 's the between . sys . com 
organization western michigan university 
lines 8 

what 's the difference between com . in and 
doing device sys . in sys . 

which one is better 

thanks a lot 



from  ( brian c. white ) 
subject re on dos 
keywords , dos , 
organization university of 
lines 15 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 
it was the and the 02  . i found that the 
could n't keep up with a 1 1 , so the best i could do 
with the drive was a 2 1 and a data of about k  . 

according to what others have told me , the is difficult to run at 
the 1 1 even though claims it. i have a non pc system 
 ( do n't ask what it is , you probably have n't heard of it) that is built 
around and it ca n't do 1 1 , either. 

brian 
( ) 


in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they 're not. 

from  ( robert paul walker ) 
subject dos board with 16  . 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 19 

i'm posting this for a friend that runs a bbs .  . i'm not sure if its under 
dos or  . 

he is interested in a board that has 16 on it. in another post , 
someone a , but did n't have too much info on it. 

could someone give me information on any that they know of with 
the before mentioned  . models .  .  .  . 
 . 

thanks , 

rob 



robert walker 
computer science dept. 
university of minnesota 

from  ( pete green ) 
subject wanted advice comments on building a pc 
distribution uk 
organization manchester computing centre 
lines 14 

in the next few months i am to build a or pc system 
for remote  . i would welcome any comments or advice you may 
have on the choice of , and i o  . 
for good selling these would be a big help. 

many thanks , 

peter green .  . 



peter r. green tel 44 61 200 fax 44 61 200 4019 
janet internet ac . uk . 
include disclaimers . 

from  ( adam cheal ) 
subject for 
organization computer science , university of b.c. , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 

ok , i 'll try one more time with this one. if anyone out there has any 
information on hard drives and how to set the 
 ( and where they are ) for master slave  . i will 
accept any info , as i have a er sitting in my room 
just waiting for me to huge applications .  . ) thanks in advance. 
 ( and yes , i check the that is posted here . ) . 

adam 


from 
subject what 's are my system using 
lines 10 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 

, 

i am having a small problem with my sound pro and a game. 
is there a utility out there that would tell me what 's my system 
is using 


thanks , 
mark brown 


from  ( robert merlicek ) 
subject and 
nntp posting host au . 
organization and csiro 
lines 13 

could someone tell me if the pro is supported in a version 
of now. 
if so where is it  . 
thanks 
robert 

email replies would be ) 



robert from hell 
engage ludicrous speed 


from  ( dan ) 
subject re questions 
organization university of california santa 
lines 42 
nntp posting host am . edu . 


in article  ( tiger zhao ) writes 
 ( mohit k goyal ) writes 
can anyone tell me if this card works with the march 2 2 . 1 . 

i believe so , since the cards have proven to be very 
reliable in 2 2 . 0 .  .  .  .  . 

the cards have an 2 2.0 that does work with the march 2 . 1 . 
 . support for the cards is not included with 2 2.0 any longer .  . 
if you wish to the from the , you will need to out the 
device drivers , as they have a nasty tendency to crash the 
cards when 2 attempts to use them.  ( thanks ! ) 

so you add the drivers to the sys . on the , and 
out the drivers .  . 

then you the whole 1st half of the  .  . and it wo n't work ! ibm 
nicely copies in the drivers once again.  ( thanks ibm ! ) so .  .  . out 
the drivers once more .  .  . and  . if you have everything in the 
right order .  .  . it will work. 

things are pretty through the rest of the  .  . except 2 
will try to the drivers once again at the end .  .  .  . so .  .  . you 
are off to more statements and more fun. 

the comes with drivers and costs the same as the cards that 
do not come with drivers .  . the dos drivers work great .  . this card can easily be 
to work with 8 different sets of i o  ( and you can use 
multiple host in one machine ) if you get a new card .  .  . it will also be 
able to support up to 8 gb drives under dos .  . 

hope this helps .  .  . 

dan 




dan 



from  ( xiangxin ) 
subject re low level format 
organization university of arizona , tucson 
lines 10 

in article  ( hector mandel ) writes 
i accidentally tried to low level format my western digital drive .  . 
is there a public domain or utility available that will allow 
me to fix it 

thanks. 

i am no expert on this. but i am pretty sure there is no way to this. drive has mapping information written directly on drives .  . when you low level format it , the information itself is gone as well , i do n't think you can get it back unless you send it back to western digital and ask them to it for you. 

jim 

from  ( gregory t. ewing ) 
subject 
summary 
keywords 
nntp posting host ie . 
organization trinity college , dublin 
lines 15 

i own an , , machine and am finding it too slow for 
certain games such as x  . i was in a computer there the other 
day and saw a series of which claim to speed up your machine 
to up to ! i was wondering if anyone out there who has a similar 
machine had bought one or seen one of these and whether or not 
they do actually work ! 
any help here would be much , 
thanks in advance , 
greg .  . 




when a man lies he murders some part of the world .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
or does he .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( robert a. luke ) 
subject help ! old on older compaq 
organization the corporation , , ca 
lines 27 
distribution world 
nntp posting host org . 

we are trying to a hard  ( miniscribe 
1988 ) on a ancient compaq for 
use in education. the only problem is that the 
compaq did n't come with the manual and i 
have n't been able to figure out how to start the setup 
program .  . 

i began using after were invented , so i have 
a couple of basic questions 

1. did class computers even have setup programs 

2. if they did  ( or , do ) , how do i access it 

if anybody has any good advice on how to proceed or 
what to do next or what to look out for , please let me 
know. e mail is best , but i 'll also be watching the 
newsgroup postings .  . 

thanks in advance , 
robert 



robert luke internet 
the corporation compuserve , 
danger , will ! 

from  ( gv fragante ) 
subject card 
organization the university of british 
lines 5 
nntp posting host ca . 

anyone familiar with this video card what does the use 
as i am in the market for a video card , what is the best among 
, logic and lab  ( ati is out of the question too expensive ) 

thanks. 

from  ( manolis stratakis ) 
subject any comments on book 
organization forth , p . o . box . , , , 
tel  ( 30(81)221171 ) , fax  ( 30(81)229342 ) , 3 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host forth . 
keywords , 

, 

i have the following list of books about buses 

1. system 
by tom 
press , 1993 34 . 

2. system 
by tom 
press , 1993 24 . 

3. , pc , , at , e , , and i o and  . 
by edward , 1992 
isbn 0 15 9 

4. at design 
by edward , 1990 
isbn 0 08 6 

5. to the ibm pc 
by , lewis c. 1990 

do you have any comments on any of them 

please reply by e mail , 

thanks in advance , 
 . 

from  ( hj lu ) 
subject re from b drive 
organization school of , washington state university 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( paul yee ) writes 
in article  ( mohammad khan ) writes 
 ( gordon lang ) writes 

david wrote 
i have a 5 1 4 drive as drive a. how can i make the system from 
my 3 1 2 b drive 

reply suggesting switch deleted 



i heard b . zip . could do exactly what you wanted without 
anything. check it out with  . 


h . j .  . 

from  ( tim biernat ) 
subject re 250 problems 
keywords gateway 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola , inc. , group 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

in article writes 
i have a memory systems 250 in my gateway 
system. i have found the capability to be 
fairly unreliable .  . in 3 cases out of 10 , i have had the fail 
at one point or another , often hanging in the middle of writing the tape. 
seek errors , drive errors seem to be most common .  . i use the 
dos software from memory systems. should i return the drive , 
get some better software , the  ( am using tapes ) 
any hints would be this stuff is to time to do over 
and over again until it  .  .  . 

i 've been using an identical setup , except for the , 
for several months now. from previous discussions on the net , 
the first thing to check for is conflicts with other devices , 
if you 've got any ones. next off , suspect 
your try a one. good luck ! 

tim 

from v . 
subject re original ibm pc 
organization university of technology 
lines 15 

in article writes 
a hard drive with type can be added , but i recommend not trying a 
full 5 1 4 hard drive , as i have run into trouble with the 63 . 
supply not having the to up those big heavy  . 

one way to get the system going with one drive and one hard 
on a 63 power supply is to first the power from 
the drive than turn on the pc , you will notice the hard drive 
having a real difficult time getting up to speed , but it manages .  . 
when is finished , plug in your drive , now it will work. 

 ( ok i know this is not very user friendly , maybe you are better off 
buying a 66 with power supply or something like that ) 



from  ( holly ks ) 
subject re western digital info needed 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization department of computer science , university 
lines 11 

my western digital also has three sets of on the back .  . i am using it with 
another hard drive as well and the for the were written right 
on the board of the drive .  .  .  .  .  . ma . 

i ca n't remember what the last one was. if you ca n't find these on the 
board , i 'll open my machine and tell you what mine are .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

kevin 
university , , ontario 



from  ( mike levis ) 
subject 3rd and vote ack  . programmer . , setup , , 
organization university of texas at san 
lines 
nntp posting host net . 

attention voters 

i had a problem with my on the first day of voting .  . 
please check the vote  ( ack ) at the end of this  . 
if your name address is not there , please send your vote again. 
 ( actually , check even if you voted after the first day ) 


introduction 

this is the third  ( and final ) call for votes  ( cfv ) for the creation 
of four 2 newsgroups and the of one 
 ( a ) create programmer .  ( unmoderated ) 
 ( b ) of programmer . to 
programmer . misc .  ( unmoderated ) 
 ( c ) setup .  ( unmoderated ) 
 ( d )  ( unmoderated ) 
 ( e )  ( unmoderated ) 

this is the second attempt at creating programmer . 
and setup . , and programmer . to 
programmer . misc .  . the first attempt failed in the summer 
of 1992  ( the voting was august 31 , 1992) .  . the voting rules 
state that another attempt for creating newsgroups can be started 
after a month waiting period  ( in this case , it is march 1 ,  . 
this is the first attempt at creating and 
 . 

this document contains 
the background showing the need for these 
the proposed for these 
voting instructions 
a voting ballot 
some example 
the voting rules 
the voting 
the mass acknowledgement 


background 

the creation of two , free , 32 bit compilers for 2 2 . x .  ( gcc 2 
and read programmer . for details ) has 
a continuing deluge of software from unix , such 
as , less , , , , , , , , and 
much more. has released its c c for 2 2 . x . , 
allowing for easier of dos and software .  . 

much of the pc hardware and drivers were written for dos , and 
later ,  . as more people are 2 2 . x . , the 
number of people asking questions about 2 's 
with their hardware increases , as does the questions on the 
of drivers for their hardware , 
, etc. 

is becoming popular .  . 2 2.0 supports 
using win 2 3 . 0 .  . furthermore , ibm is 
including direct support in 2 starting with version 
2 . 1 .  ( in addition to using win 2 3 .  . 

any non trivial software will have 2 is not exempt , 
especially since ibm is constantly adding new features to 2. 
so far , ibm has issued system and service 
(e . g .  . the service pak ) for free  ( free from and ftp sites , or 
for free plus a small media charge for read 
misc . for  . 


proposed 

 ( a ) create programmer .  ( unmoderated ) 

it will provide a forum for of software so 
as to coordinate efforts , avoid of effort , and 
spur additional development .  . the group will also cover 
such as from other  ( such as dos , 
, unix , etc ) , which aid in program 
 ( including tools such as mirrors ) , and 
so forth .  . 

 ( b ) programmer . misc .  ( unmoderated ) 

to keep the structure of the 2 newsgroup 
, programmer . should be to 
programmer . misc .  . 

programmer . misc . will still be the newsgroup 
for 2 to discuss programming issues and 
technical aspects of 2 in an setting .  . 

 ( c ) create setup .  ( unmoderated ) 

it will be devoted to 2 system setup , including the 
of device drivers , information , 
, system requirements , and overall 
 . 

 ( d ) create  ( unmoderated ) 

it will provide a forum for discussion of media issues. 

 ( e ) create  ( unmoderated ) 

it will provide a forum for 2 system bug reports , bug 
and work , the of system 
and service , and so forth .  . 

note that discussion of in applications belong in other 
newsgroups , and discussion of in 2 belong in 



how to vote 

to cast your vote , fill out the ballot below and e mail it to me. 
many will allow e mail to be sent by replying to this 
post. be sure to send only the ballot , and edit out the rest of 
this post. 

1 ) type in your vote for each proposal 

if you favor the charter as proposed , put a yes after its name. 
if you oppose the charter as proposed , put a no after its name. 
to , leave a after its name. 

2 ) type in your last name (i . e .  . your family name) , a , and 
your first name (i . e .  . your personal name) .  . 

3) cut out the ballot , please do not delete any lines of the 
ballot .  . 

4 ) e mail your ballot to before 11 59 59 
 ( central time) , april 24 , 1993 .  . 


ballot 

cut here cut here cut here 

 ( a ) programmer . 
 ( b ) programmer . misc . 
 ( c ) setup . 
 ( d ) 
 ( e ) 

 ( f ) voter 's last , first name 

e mail ballot to by april 24 

cut here cut here cut here 


example ballot 1 

 ( a ) programmer . yes 
 ( b ) programmer . misc . yes 
 ( c ) setup . no 
 ( d ) 
 ( e ) no 

 ( f ) voter 's last , first name smith , john 

in this example , john smith favors programmer . 
to be created , and programmer . to be to 
programmer . misc .  . he also the creation of 
setup . and  . he does not have a view 
on the creation of  . 


example ballot 2 

 ( a ) programmer . yes 
 ( b ) programmer . misc . yes 
 ( c ) setup . yes 
 ( d ) yes 
 ( e ) yes 

 ( f ) voter 's last , first name doe , 

in this example , doe favors the creation or of all 
the  . 


voting rules 

one vote per person. if you vote more than once , only the most 
recent vote will be counted .  . 

votes must be to me by the person voting .  . voting , 
, posting votes to a newsgroup , etc. will not be counted .  . 

do not ask how the votes are going .  . the status of the 
will be revealed only after the closes .  . 

i will acknowledge votes by mass acknowledgement  . i will 
post the ack twice  ( see below) .  . 

if you need help for using your editor , using e mail , how 
voting works in general , etc. then ask an expert at your site. 
also see the to create a new newsgroup   article which is 
posted to news.answers on a regular basis. 

if you need any on voting for this 
, send me e mail at 

when the voting period is over  ( see below) , a proposal 
passes if both of the following are true 
1 ) the number of yes votes the number of no votes 
by at least 100 (i . e .  . yes no 100 , or yes no  . 
2 ) the number of yes votes at least twice the 
number of no votes (i . e .  . yes 2 no , or yes no  . 
in other words , a proposal passes if 
yes no  ( 100 , no ) 
where  ( max( ) returns the highest number given to it. 




the voting period started on march 29 when the first was posted 
by david lawrence  ( the news . announce .  . 

this third is a repeat of the first , but it also has the 
mass acknowledgement  ( ack ) of names and e mail addresses of those who 
have already voted re send your vote if it is not there. if you 
have not voted yet , vote now ! 

the voting period will end at 11 59 59  ( central time) , on 
april 24 , 1993 .  . votes received after that time will not count. 
the voting results and tally will be posted shortly after that 
date. 


mass acknowledgement 

here is the list of people who have already sent in their 
as of 12 01 am  ( central time) on april 15 , 1993 


, 
, 
, peter 
, 
, tom 
, 
, warren 
, john 
, j. 
, 
, de . 
bell , douglas 
, robert net . ! ! ! 
, bryan 
, ed 
, john 
, 
, kevin 
, 
, 
, david both 
, 
, neil 
, david 
, 
, 
brown , bill 
, michael 
, bill 
, 
, john 
, 
, 
, 
, bruce 
, f. 
, 
, simon 
compton , 
, robert 
, 
, anthony 
, robert 
, tom 
, joe 
, john 
, ron 
, 
, stephen 
, patrick 
, 
, martin 
, 
, edward 
, 
fischer , 
, 
francis , tim 

, 
, de . 
friedrich , 
, 
g , uni . de . 
, edward 
, robert 
, 
, jeff 
, mark 
, david r. 
, john 
, 
green , anthony 
, mike 
, 
hacker jonathan 
, michael 
, 
, 
, 
, george 
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
henry , andrew 
, b . j .  . 
, 
, andrew 
, long 
, bob 
, matthew 
, bruce 
, 
hopkins , john 
, 
, robert 
, ping 
, dave 
, colin 
, 
, de . 
, bruce 
, bob 
, mark 
, 
, stephen 
, william 
, brian 
, 
, stephen 
, 
, 
, 
, james 
, 
, thomas ac . at . 
, mike 
, kevin 
, 
, 
, 
, george 
, 
, stan 
, kevin 
martin , de . 
, daniel 
, larry 
maxwell , scott 
, h. de . 
, 
, 
, matthew 
, john 
, ed 
, andrew 
, jeff 
miller , richard 
, h. p. de . 
, 
, john paul 
, david 
,  . 
, 
, 
, 
, 
, charles m. 
o , bruce 
o , 
, c. r. 
, eric 
, ronald 
, bill 
parks , 
, tom 
, bob 
, 
, 
, 
, david 
, stephen 
, paul 
, uunet . net . ! ! 
, michael 
, 
, jim 
, robert 
robertson , james 
roelofs , greg 
, 
, 
ryan , 
, larry 
, 
, 
, jim 
, 
shaw , jeremy 
, de . 
, timothy 
, 
smith , 
smith , 
, tim 
, tom 
, n 
, 
, 
, t. 
, stephen 
, 
sum , 
sum , 
, jeff 
swallow , doug 
, david 
thomas , stephen 
, michael 
, bernard 
, 
, jim 
, 
van der lek , 
van , ronald 
van , e . e .  . van 
, 
, eric 
, kevin 
, ole 
, david 
, jack 
, 
watson , brett 
, de . 
weeks , larry 
werner , john 
west , mike 
, uunet . net . ! ! 
white , andrew 
, brian 
, 
, allen allen 
, 
, stephen 
, 
, richard stratus . com . ! ! 
young , david m. 
, christian 
, jeremy 
, 

 ( os mike 2 
s 2 ) . 
 ( os 2 ) votes 
 ( os 2 ) 

from  ( starfleet command ) 
subject 256 color drivers 
article i.d. 
reply to 
distribution 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 5 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

i would appreciate the name from which functions as a 256 
color for a video card .  . the type of chip or used 
would suffice as well. 



from  ( volkert ) 
subject q which of these would you choose for 2 
organization university , , the 
nntp posting host 
lines 38 


netters ! 

i need a drive as my order was cancelled and thought  why not ask 
the net . i was a 74 but saw so much 
ones that i want to know more. 
the drive will be used to software and  ( if available ) for listening 
to 's .  . perhaps some day i 'll want to use it to read the other 's , but 
that 's not really relevant at the moment .  . 

i 've been offered the following , for the stated .  . 
they all claim to have i , and operate under 2. 
the drives are not listed in the faq and , please give 
your opinions on the drives , i 've got the impression that they 're not 
all  . actually the was listed as non in the faq and as 
a compatible product in the  . 

i 've calculated the as having times 2. it 's actually 
about times 1 . 8 .  . 

240 
philips i 
philips 

74 

who bought that that is in the faq it 's extremely cheap and , 
so what 's the trick or where can i order it  ( holland using  . 

200 

regards , 

name j v o o 
address 4 
fax 
holland e mail 


from  ( lance hartmann ) 
subject re video card at different address 
distribution usa 
organization ibm , austin 
keywords video addressing 
lines 19 

in article  ( jon zeeff ) writes 
i 'd like to add a second based video card to my system. does anyone 
know of a company that a card that can with another one 
all i really need is color text on one and fast color 
on the other. 

probably just a address would do it. 


for what it 's worth (i have n't confirmed it) , a tech told 
me that all based video cards use addresses and  . 
if this is true , it appears that you cannot use more than one card 
in your system. 

 ( lance 
yes , that is a ' '  ( percent sign ) in my network address. 

all statements , comments , opinions , etc. reflect those of the author 
and shall not be as those of ibm or anyone else for that matter. 

from  ( bas  ( i91 ) 
subject question can i connect two to one 
summary i want to connect a second to my 
keywords , , 
nntp posting host gene . 
organization , university of 
lines 21 

hi , 

i 've got a victor pc with a 20 in it. the is 
a , with an additional 9  . 

there are 2 from my to this  . one with 9 
and another with 34  . 

the has two for a 9 wire and one for a 34 wire 
bus. 

now i got a 20 from a friend of mine , and i wondered whether 
i can connect this second to the same  ( there is room 
for a 9 wire , but not for the 34 wire bus ) 

how can i solve my problem , any suggestions 

if you need more info , mail me , please 

 . 


from  ( john bongiovanni ) 
subject re date is stuck 
organization orbital engine company 
lines 29 

 ( barry sardis ) writes 

 ( kevin o'gorman ) writes 

anybody seen the date get stuck 

i'm running dos 5 . 0 . with a system alive all the time. the machine 
is left running all the time. 

suddenly , the date no longer rolls over. the time is  ( reasonably ) accurate 
, but we have to change the date by hand every morning. this involves 
the system to get to dos .  . 

i 've started to notice the same thing myself. i'm running dos 5 and win 3 . 1 . so 
i can fix it from the control  . at times it is the date , at 
others the seems to be running several behind where it should 
be. 

did i once hear that in order for the date to advance , something , like a 
, has to make a get date system call apparently , the 
hardware interrupt and do n't do this  ( date advance ) automatically .  . the 
get date call that a flag has been set , and then 
then advances the date. 

anybody with more info 

john , systems , orbital engine company , , australia 
, 
opinions expressed are my own and not those of my organisation .  . 

from  ( mike mpu ) 
subject re drives into two does it make them 
organization electric research laboratories , inc. 
lines 33 

in article  ( andrew rossmann ) writes 
 ( guy dawson ) writes 

the take up space , having 3 or 4 partition will cost 
somewhere between 4 8 of hard space , if you can this 
more power to you , its your choice. 


where does all this space go the dos partition table is fixed length 
and every hard carries one. what is this lost 4 

if i remember right , the partition table is an entire  . 
to find out how much it takes up , you need to 
heads 

also , if you create an extended partition , there is a second  partition  
in there for the logical drives .  . 

i think the original  ( guy ) was refering to something 
much more elementary .  . 

every partition  ( whether it is the entire or not ) has two and 
an initial directory .  . 

if you have a small  ( 50 or less ) , i would recommend that it remain 
a single partition .  . unless you have some other consideration .  . 

if you have a large  ( greater than 200 meg ) , multiple can 
make sense. 


mike  ( work ) 
electronic research  ( home ) 

from  ( mike yang ) 
subject re 17 
nntp posting host wpd . sgi . com . 
organization silicon , inc. 
lines 12 

in article  ( wayne rash ) writes 
i also a new , the , which has just 
been released .  . 

what 's the difference between the and the new i'm 
about to buy a gateway system and was going to take the 
 . should i get the instead 


mike silicon , inc. 



from  ( robert kimball ) 
subject master problem 
summary is there a problem with and master devices 
keywords master 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 16 
nntp posting host athena . com . 

i am trying to put together a new pc with local bus. i would like 
to get cards for video and but i have heard of a problem with 
on  . something to the effect that they will 
actually slow down a system. anyone heard of this problem 

specifically , i am interested in the  . 
before i shell out the for this thing i would like to get the 
straight from someone who knows. does anyone have this 
any problems with it 





bob 


from  ( richard krehbiel ) 
subject re vs 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 23 55 09 gmt 
lines 38 
organization , inc. 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 

in article  ( grubb ) writes 
point of view , why does have an advantage when it comes to 
data is data , and it could be anywhere on the drive .  . can 
find it can it get it off the drive and into the computer 
does it have a better system i thought was good at 
managing a data when multiple devices are attached .  . if we are 
only talking about a single drive , explain why is inherently 
at managing data from a hard drive .  . 

the series use  . this means that the 
does n't sit waiting for data , it can go off and do other 
computing if you have an advanced , that is. dos 
just and anyway. 


integrated device 
currently the most common standard , and is mainly used for 
medium drives .  . can have more than one hard drive .  . 
s  . 

why do n't you start with the of the first 
you can quote till you 're blue in the face , but if they 
the capability , then what 's the point 

who says is limited to 5 what about does anyone 
know how they perform 

why do n't you start with the of the first ) 
was designed to plug into virtually in essence , is 
, on a  . therefore it 's are the same as 
, 16 bit ,  . 

this is why i 've concluded that on is a waste of a fast 
 . the card 's job would to slow the to 
speed .  . heck , that 's what do i 'll just use one of those 
instead. 

richard 
2 2.0 will do for me until for the comes along .  .  .  . 

organization institute 
distribution na 
from jeff 
subject for sale sound card .  .  . ! 
lines 9 

well it seems that i have a card for sale since 
i recently purchased a  . the card comes complete , in 
condition with box , , , and original  . 
make an offer .  .  .  . canadian ! 
respond before april 28 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

e mail at 

j . m .  . 

from  ( delman lee ) 
subject future domain problem 
distribution 
organization university of , usa .  . 
lines 37 
nntp posting host edu . 

i am trying to get my system to work with a future 
domain  . 

the system up if the is from the system , 
and of course no devices found (i have no other  . 

the system up if the is removed from the 
system. the future domain card reports finding the on 
the bus. the system then of course stops because my 
hard ca n't be found. 

the system if all three  ( tandberg , future domain 
controller ) are in the system. 

looks like there is some conflict between the and future 
domain card .  . but the funny thing is that it only if the 
is connected .  . 

i have checked that there are no conflict in addresses , i o 
 . have i missed anything 

i am lost here. any suggestions are most  . thanks in advance. 

 . 






tel .  . 1 215 
medical image group , fax .  . 1 215 
university of , 
4 f hall , 418 service drive , 
philadelphia , pa , 
u . s . a .  .  . internet 


from a . 
subject ca n't set 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
keywords 
lines 15 

i have been unable to get com 4 to work programs such as show 
nothing  . i think the software options are ok is there a known 
hardware conflict and or for this 
system is a 66 with video card 
are set as follows 
on board coma to external device 
internal com 3 
card primary com 2 
on board com b com 4 9 does not work 
i have run this from a with only command . com . to eliminate 

any suggestions before i call technical support 
john 



from  ( randall , clark , , ) 
subject re vs 
originator 
organization materials science center 
lines 47 

from article , by  ( grubb ) 
 ( wayne smith ) write 

in article  ( grubb ) writes 
 ( wayne smith ) writes 
since the mac uses only 1 for hard drives yes the figure includes a 
hundred for drivers this is people and  . 
what group is this this is not a mac group. 
nice of you to delete both your and the item that prompted it. 
to whit 
i just bought at quantum 240 for my mac at home. i paid for it. i 


tons of stuff deleted on vs. question .  .  .  . 

wow , you guys are really going wild on this vs. thing , and i think 
it 's great ! 

like lots of people , i 'd really like to increase my data rate from 
the hard drive .  . right now i have a drive  ( seagate 1239a ) , and 
what i would say is a standard  ( not special , no i believe ) 
card on my 50 .  . 

i'm currently thinking about adding another , in the to range .  . 
and i'm thinking hard  ( you should hear those a in my head ) 
about buying a drive  ( scsi for the future  . i believe i'm getting 
something like right now  ( according to  . how would this 
number compare if i bought the state of the art card for my pc , and 
the state of the art hard drive  ( the wailing system i could hope for ) 
obviously money factors into this choice as well as any other , but what would 
you want to use on your system and how much would it cost 

along those lines , what kind of rate could i see with my 's if i 
were to buy the top of the line for my , 
and how much would it cost 

i actually have a 16 , and could  ( what a waste i guess it would be .  .  . ) . 
up a through it 's which an of  . 
actually , i have a borrowed up through it now  ( and 
own the drivers for the 16  . is this a 
2 how could i tell is the a 2 are all 
's 2 

thanks for any comments on these rephrased questions. 




from  ( jude m. greer ) 
subject gateway 2000 and problem. 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 25 

i was wondering if anyone out there has had the same problem i am having with 
my gateway 2000 system with pro  . 
when i have my computer in any resolution other than , everything is 
fine , but whenever i use it in  ( windows , , gifs ) the 
gets about 1 1 2  . at the very top and very bottom of the 
there is about a 3 4 bar of black .  . the is n't cut off , it just 
everything into the smaller space and up the aspect ratio .  . while i can 
change the v size on the back , this is a pain in the ass , and it just 
should n't happen anyway. i 've called gateway numerous times and they have n't 
been able to help me at all. two different times they sent me a new card , and 
both times the new card did n't work at all in my computer .  . they even tried 
to bill me for the first card because they did n't get it back in a couple of 
days , when they told me over the phone that they would wait more than 2 weeks 
before my card .  . but their customer support is a different story .  .  .  . 
so , if anyone has had this same problem , please let me know if you know what 
to do. hell , let me know if you do n't have a solution , just so i know i'm 
not the only one with this problem. thanks in advance. 

m. 


p.s. i already tried going into the 32 program and set 
up the card .  . does n't work. whenever i try to increase the size 
of the , it just starts to cut off the top and bottom .  . 


from  ( penio penev ) 
subject re for a local  ( cached ) 
reply to 
organization university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution usa 
x posted from edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 19 

on 15 apr 1993 20 14 20 gmt wrote 

i would like to hear the net . wisdom . and net . opinions . on  . 
i would to get a card for my 66  . 
what are good options for this  ( preferably under  . it must also work 
under 2 and be compatible with  ( and other s  . 

i have a on an , although my machine is 
66  . i has the save rate of 0 . s regardless of 
the variations of the speed .  . i tested it with speed between 
5 . and 8 .  . not any difference. the problem is not the 
interface between the and the memory. 

my advice buy of , save 70 and enjoy  . 


 ( 212)327 )  ( w ) internet 

disclaimer all are mine. 

from  ( daniel m. coleman ) 
subject re stealth 24 giving 9 . 4 . 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin , texas 
lines 25 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( will estes ) writes 
i have just a stealth 24 card in 
a  66 system with , and 16 of memory , 
that gets about a 6 . 0 .  . using 
the color under , i am getting a 
of only about 9 . 5 . million .  . since 
i have heard that others get 15 to 16 million for this card , 
i assume that something is very wrong with my setup .  . 

what are some possible causes of the card slowing down like this 

most importantly , which version are you using on my local 
pro , i 've gotten various scores from 15 . 8 . million to 
31 million , depending on the version. 2.5 gives the most 
scores , 3 . 11 . gives the least. a is meaningless 
without a version number .  . 

dan 


daniel matthew internet 

the university of texas at austin 
electrical computer engineering bitnet  . bitnet . 


from  ( perry egelmeers ) 
subject will somebody create a dos 6 . 0 . faq , please  ( was dos 6 . 0 . question) 
organization university of technology , the 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host win . tue . 


hi there , 

i think it is time to create a dos 6 . 0 . faq since lots of questions 
about it are actually the net. i wo n't be able to write it 
my self because of the lack of time knowledge experience. 


perry 

from de .  ( christian franke ) 
subject info about fast , , 
organization 
lines 25 
nntp posting host de . 
keywords , , 

, 

in the magazine i found a note about the new c t 
i o  . it support several parallel protocols , 
including 
fast 
enhanced capabilities  ( ecp ) 
enhanced parallel  ( epp ) 
the last two handle data up to  . 

is there any about these protocols available 

regards , 

christian 

university of technology 
i 
55 
w 
germany 
tel .  . 49 . 80 . 
e mail de . 



from  ( robert plamondon ) 
subject re vs  ( mini review ) 
organization corporation , ca 
lines 102 

in article 
 ( geoffrey sherwood ) writes 

in going with the modern trend , the card only supports 16 
in mode without a  . of course , this breaks any dos program 
which uses modes  ( like most of my  . 

this is not the case the on the supports modes of up to 
in 256  . applications should have no trouble 
setting these modes .  .  ( but i'm your posting to our software group , 
just in case. ca n't be too careful . ) . not that i doubt that your applications 
are failing to run lots of stuff depends on out which exact 
they 're looking at , and do n't use calls  ( vesa is still pretty  . 
every new chip set them. 

the supported really annoy me. you can do at if 
you tell the you have an  ( they only have about 
listed plus  generic  , and if you choose generic you ca n't get any high 
at  . but at you are limited to  . seems to me 
that the hardware should be able to support the bandwidth  ( if it can do 
at it sure should be able to do it at ! ) .  . higher resolution 
was the main reason i bought the card over the f. i currently have , 
and it will do as well. 

i think we go to at least 76 at , and maybe more  ( and 
it 's a function of the speed , not the power  . we need to 
fix the problems you 've noted  ( they were already on the list) .  . if 
you 're really interested , though , take a look at the text file 
, which holds the data from which the choices in the 
program are built .  . working by analogy , 
you can build up a new definition that has the right 
combinations of for your  . keep a copy 
of the file ! once you 've built a new version of the 
file , run the program , , and your new choices 
should show up.  ( this assumes you have the v. 2.2 drivers .  . 
you can tell the rev number by looking at the time of 
the 02 20 is version 2 . 20 .  . uses this , 
too . ) . 

the board is that the for most things according to the 
program .  . this program various and reports the results 
in second .  . i do n't have the numbers for the card , but they 
were close to half of the  ( ie , slower ) but that was running in a 
, , so the numbers are n't really comparable .  . the following numbers 
were all obtained using a , 33 , air  ( umc chipset ) , with 
8 memory. i give ranges because the program reports the numbers as it 
them , and these tend to jump around a bit. 

the was put out by and iit , who to my 
knowledge were by any motivations except making the 
iit card look really good. so i 'd take the 
numbers with a of salt .  .  ( texas did the same thing 
with , trying to make the look good compared to the 
, as if anyone cared . ) . it 's safer  ( though not safe ) to use 
from unbiased sources , such as labs , , 
etc. 


interestingly , the solid 
and show no improvement , and  ( ie , 
filled with cross hatching ) and  ( whatever they are. 
like maybe ) are a dead loss on the  . 

i think you 'll a large discrepancy between the results of and 
the results of anything else in the universe on these things. 

i give two 
numbers for the , because i think they are  . 
when the are first drawn on the they are done fairly 
1 3 the speed of the  . then the speed increases  . sounds 
like programming to a to me .  .  .  .  . 

is a perfectly legitimate has 
hooks for it built right into the  . what 's kind of silly is iit 's 
use of a the quick brown fox over the lazy dog then 
sat on a string in their  . not only is it useless in 
real applications , it lacks the programming of the 
, in which you save the of the 
most recently drawn string in off memory , and just do a 
to if you happen to be given that same string a 
second time in a row .  .  ( we call it the 
because 's the only person we can see from it he 
could right i will not cheat on a hundred times and be 
done in half the time it would take to actually form each character . ) . 

i make no claims that these numbers mean anything at all. its just what 
i saw when i them on my computer .  . i normally do n't write disclaimers , 
but this time maybe i 'd better. my is totally with my 
work (i program under unix on decstations ) is done completely without the 
knowledge , blessing , or equipment of my company .  . 

we do n't have any lawyers they 're all working for  . there 
used to be a lawyer in who did n't , but he died. 

robert 



robert , 
pay no attention to the man behind the  . i , the great and 
glorious , have spoken ! 
from a trade show 

from  ( colin paterson ) 
subject sound 
nntp posting host cc 
organization the society for the terminally hard of thinking 
lines 30 

hi , 
i'm currently in the process of writing a number of programs 
for the sound  . the first of which is a voice editor which 
is going to be available soon  ( as soon as i can get it to 
an ftp  . 

anyway the next stage is to use the to enter music and play 
the remotely .  . the problem is that i have little or no info 
on the  . 

i have tried using the sound freedom project routines , however 
this just results in the locking after a couple of and 
loss the of note data  . 

i am using c and would be for any info or source fragments 
may help. when i was in berlin this summer i saw a book which seemed to 
have all this information , but my german is poor to say the least , if anyone 
has this book could they please mail me. 

my second request for help concerns standard file  ( how can a file 
format be standard if you keep it secret ) i need to know the file format 
for instrument bank files  . and music files  .  . 

finally does anyone have a source for or files to 
or  . 

please help , you know it makes sense. 

colin 


from  ( brent c. williams ) 
subject re 250 for gateway 2000 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 59 

 ( peter f davis ) writes 

i 've just a new 250 from 
gateway , and i have a couple of with it. i do n't know how 
common or serious these problems may be. i would appreciate some 
from others who have used this system.  ( btw , this is on a 
system . ) . 

i have a similar on 66 2  . 

the problems are 

o firstly , gateway me only 120 , even though the 
drive is a 250  . when i called to complain , they only 
said that 's all we carry , and with , you can 
fit 250 on one tape. maybe so , but then why did i pay 
extra for the large capacity drive 

you got in the same way i did. silly me , believing 
that the 250 logo on the front meant actual carrying capacity .  . 
the people who do this sort of thing for a living call it 
 . lawyers who prosecute it call it fraud .  . 
perhaps we can have a bunch of other march on 
their  . 

o i have about 230 of data on my c drive .  . i choose the 
space optimizing scheme and started a full  . 
the software it would take about 22 minutes. it 
took 4 1 2 hours. does this sound about right 

this is a bit long .  . my system takes about 45 to do 
the same thing. usually 4 . 5 . hours , particularly if the 
is away the whole time means that your block size for 
the write is too small .  . is there any way to change the block 
size or write size so it 's bigger 

o during the , about a dozen files came up with access 
denied errors. most of these were in c system 
, keyboard . , shell . , etc . ) . , but also 
c and a couple of files in the c 
directory .  . anyone else had this happen 

this is because the files are opened by dos .  . the files in the 
directory are likely the file or the 
file for the system. i would recommend running the 
from dos so it will make a complete of the directory .  . 

thanks for any and all on this system. i 'd also appreciate 
hearing of good sources for , 250 
size. 

the wo n't do you any good since the drive 
wo n't write of physical data on the tape. 

thanks. 



san jose , california 

from  ( tim schewe ) 
subject 25 . 00 . network 
summary what is it 
keywords network 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 8 

i have heard that there is something called a 25 . 00 . network that allows 
two pc 's to be networked by their serial  . does someone out 
there know anything about this i would greatly appreciate e mail on this ! 

thanks ! 




from (s .  . alavi ) 
subject looking for large color  . 
organization nc state university 
lines 12 


i am looking for a 17 or larger that could do 
with and a card  ( ps2 70 ) 

i guess i would 19 and  ( later becuase of lower price ) 

please email me the brand , model , condition and asking price .  .  .  . 

 ( please include this message for reference ) 
s.  ( 919)467 )  ( h ) 
 ( 919)515 )  ( w ) 


from  ( steven pemberton ) 
subject any info on chip 
distribution world 
organization home home 
lines 16 

have released a pin  . designed to 
old 16 's the are also  . thus a 
can be into a , with a single chip  . 

unfortunately in australia the for  ( 16mhz ) and 
 ( 20mhz ) , about 1 . the price of a with two ! ! ! 

how much do these thing cost in the states 
how well do they work 

thanks for any info , 

o 

2 2.0 


from  ( welch bryan ) 
subject pc 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm , research triangle park , north 
lines 13 

my has a pc and wants to to a full  . does anyone 
know if we could use the it came with on a new machine i heard 
it 's or , but not sure which .  . also , does it use cards , so we can 
use the drive , , etc 

thanks for the help ! 
bryan 


bryan welch amateur radio 
internet  ( best ) , 
everything will save love and music. 
disclaimer it 's all opinion. everything. so there. 

from  ( juergen keil ) 
subject re sun on 
organization tools , , germany 
lines 15 



nntp posting host tools . de . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 04 02 31 gmt 

in article  ( peter d. bartok ) writes 

great ! but do n't let your effort and talent be un noticed. 
put the program on the net , it to some anonymous ftp 
sites .  . so people  ( at least me ) can have it and appreciate it. 

please put it into ftp . de . 1 . pub pc 

ok , the small that can be used to switch a drive into 
block mode for use with it now available 
by  ftp  from 

ftp . de . 1 . pub pc zip . 

... ! uunet , ! ! tools ! 

from  ( vesa perttunen ) 
subject re stealth 24 giving 9 . 4 . 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 18 56 49 gmt 
lines 7 
organization real life , inc. 

does your stealth 24 have a row of on the back plane 

if so , you have the older revision a board and the results 
are absolutely normal .  . the later revision b board at 13 
to 15 million  ( at least mine does in 50  . 

v 

from  ( jim graham ) 
subject re possible faq question about a 
organization what , me you must be  . 
lines 26 

in article 
 ( gordon lang ) writes 

national  . i do n't know if other make equivalent 
or not. maybe national is n't even the original , but they are the only 
one that i know about. , , , , , and 
 . 

no argument on going direct to national  ( see my previous post on this topic ) , 
but some info regarding what you said above. i do n't know about the or 
, but was the original source for the series  ( and i strongly 
suspect that they developed the others first , too) .  . 

i can also tell you that i'm one of those who wo n't buy a made by 
anyone other than national  . 

jim 


include disclaimer . h . 73 de ( 4 ) 

internet 30 . 86 . 
amateur radio  . beach , fl ) 

e mail me for information about  ( host mode for  . 


from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject re to opinions 
organization company research 
lines 43 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 

what are the current products available to the resolution 
which ones support 

any experiences with them , either good or bad 

is the quality difference really 

i'm planning on producing camera ready copy of homes .  . will the higher 
resolution be noticed for these 

if you are talking about laser 4 then i believe it has to be  . 
i do n't see any advantage to using when you have a of hardware 
into the that is doing the work and it can support any language 
that is suited for the job. besides i do n't think is even capable of 
handling 1200  . i only have experience with the laser 
master 1200 which brings the up to 1200 and it uses  . 
it also has a fast print mode which is not , and it is at a lower 
resolution  ( 600dpi i think) , but it is fast ! ! ! ! this particular product 
uses your host processor to process the , so even with a decent 
pc you know it 's going to be slow i.e. slow compared to a high end workstation 
ps .  . 

the quality difference is very and is almost worth the wait  ( for 
the ps processing ) i'm rather  . 

we were using it for b w camera images  ( rs  . the gray scale image was 
accepted by word and handed to the ps which converts 
the image into and then hands it off to the 
processor .  . the is into  ( lots of it) and when it 
is done it it directly to the  . the ps processor can also 
accept ps files created from other sources including dos applications , but 
has to be running at the time of printing .  . the ps processor is 
responsible for the and i 'd say it does a pretty good job. our 
camera images came out very good in my opinion.  ( not as good as laser master 's 
though) .  . 

i do n't know how many other similar products are out there but i would be 
surprised if there are several .  . 

gordon lang 


from  ( volkmar grote ) 
subject ibm ps 1 vs 
distribution world 
organization me organized 
lines 21 

, 

i already tried our national news group without success. 

i tried to replace a friend 's original ibm in his ps 1 pc 
with a normal drive .  . 
i already identified the power supply on 3  ( 5v ) and 6  ( 12v ) , 
pin 6 25 . 3.5 switch ) and inserted  ( 2k2 ) on 
8 , 26 , 28 , 30 , and 34 .  . 
the computer does n't complain about a missing , but the 's light 
on all the time. the drive up o.k. when i insert a , 
but i ca n't access it. 
the works fine in a normal pc .  . 

are there any points i missed 

thank you. 





from  ( ihno krumreich ) 
subject drives 
summary hit list of the most sold drives without interface 
keywords drives 
organization , 
lines 23 

has someone a list of 's with no interface and if known 
how much they are present in the market .  . 

please mail as i am not reading the group. 

i 'll post a summary if wanted .  . 


thanks 




phone  ( 49 ) 0 u u n n iii x x 
email u u n i x x 
24 fax  ( 49 ) 59 02 11 u u n n n i x 
d 21 u u n i x x 
n n iii x x 



phone  ( 49 ) 0 u u n n iii x x 
email u u n i x x 

from  ( jimmy buddenberg ) 
subject should i get card 
organization college 
lines 9 


i have a with local bus. would i see much of an increase in 
speed in my drives if i got a card i need advice ! 



jimmy internet 
college 


from  ( richard krehbiel ) 
subject re vs 
in reply to 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 20 42 47 gmt 
lines 30 
organization , inc. 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 

in article 1 . 17 . by mike michael b. smith writes 

but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 

a that data by allows the to request data 
from the hard drive and continue working while the gets the data 
and it to memory. 

also uses techniques .  . i believe also uses , 
and most a d also use  . is no big deal , and has nothing to 
do directly with  . 

does not do  . this is because it 's like pc at hard 
interface .  . the a to some memory on the 
card , then the the data from the to main 
memory where it 's needed .  . if does n't work this way , then it 's not 
compatible .  . 

heck , if used , then you 'd hear all kinds of about 
systems with more than not working with their 
drives .  . is the addressing limit of the , and if 
did there would be trouble .  . 

 ( btw , there are in the , but the 
last report i heard was that they are never implemented , because it 
would require a different kind of and different drivers . ) . 

richard 
2 2.0 will do for me until for the comes along .  .  .  . 

from  ( k j macdonald ) 
subject 25 to 40 
organization university 
lines 41 

i'm thinking of out on a new for my pc .  . i am 
running as my main , with a small dos partition left for my 
 games. 

my current setup is a 25  ( amd ) with 25  ( itt i think) and 9 
of , and  ( 120 100)mbyte )  . 

basically i have two choices 

1 ) get a 40 40 or 
2 ) get some sort of  . 

unfortunately i live in the uk where computer are far too high. 
the first option works out at about pounds 200. m start at 
this price for a 25 .  . 

i have a couple of questions. 

1 ) how much of an improvement in speed should i notice if i get a 
 . remember i'm using a 32 bit , and alot of floating point 
 . 

2 ) how much would a 33 be than the 40 

should i get an m board with a 40 and wait for 
price pressure to reduce the costs of the 

any experiences will be most helpful ... 

 . 

ps .  . example 

40 m board 
m board 


e mail 
dept. of 
university of scotland 


from 
subject request info on a mystery pc card 
organization corporation , s. , vt 
lines 11 

while through a box of old pc  ( 5150 ) parts , i found a half size 
board that looks like a board. it was made by data systems and 
has a date of 1986 on it. the board provides a male 24 pin 
and has 3 of 3 each , two a b c. i it into my pc 
and advanced several times , changing the positions each 
time , but the system did not recognise a  . 

does anyone have a clue as to what this board might be or how to it 
i could use another if it 's free. 

bryan 

from  ( doug adcock ) 
subject perfect 
organization bell northern research , bnr 
lines 26 

i 've been following the thread while waiting for 
mine to arrive in the mail .  . there seems to be a lot of 
about minor problems with the  . one 
article contained a comment that the owner called the 
and was told that his was within  ( 1 4 ) .  . 

well , my arrived last night and , sure enough , it has 
a very  . it 's not , but it 
is there and it is especially when the image does n't 
fill the entire screen. the fact that it is worse on the right 
side does n't help matters. 

what i'm trying to find out is if these minor 
are the norm or are most of their perfect i do n't want 
to send it back and get one with the same or an even worse 
problem. does the consider this kind of thing normal 
and their with less than perfect 
are other netters just living with these kind of 



 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
comments and opinions are mine not bnr 's 
doug 
bell northern research research triangle park , nc 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from 
subject help on hand wanted 
organization university of northern iowa 
lines 30 

fellow netters , 

i'm in the market for a hand  . however , i do n't know anyone who has 
one. i have my eye on two choices. 

this is available at for 90 .  . it includes 
software and provides 400 and 32 (i think) .  . the software 
is available through mail order for about 90 also. 

 ( gray for windows ) this 256 
 ( according to graphics ) and  . it is available for 
mail order and comes with perceive and picture  . 

i am also looking at a genius hand  ( b105 ) from  . it 
is basically the same as the except for the resolution  ( 400 
dpi ) and price (  . 

basically , i would like on which to buy .  . i have heard that 
makes the best and  . but which one is the 
best buy would really be helpful  ( output would be no better than 
iii or 200 to 360x360 ) i am the 
because it the most features and is in the middle in terms of 
 . which should i buy 

if you have a hand , please let me know whether or not you would 
recommend it. also , if you know of another within the price range 
 ( under 225 ) that would be a better deal , please e mail me. any and all help 
would be greatly appreciated. 

kevin 

from  ( claus schwinge ) 
subject needed , large , fast utility 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 15 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

i'm looking for a better method to back up files. currently using a 
that uses  . i will need to have a capacity of 600 to 
for future  . only dos files. 

i would be very of information about devices or 
of these products. , , , anything. 
if possible , please include price , speed ,  ( phone ) , 
and opinions about the quality reliability .  . 

please e mail , i 'll send to those interested .  . 

thanx in advance , 

claus 
student and records 

from 
subject for is slow .  .  .  .  . 
organization center for and research computing activities 
lines 14 
reply to 
nntp posting host oak . edu . 


i'm using to read my , and it is slow .  . something 
like 90 of my time is being spent reading the , and this 
is in a program that does nothing but  ( printf( ) and  . 

the problem is that a lot of programs trap ( like ) and 
so it is a slow as hell interface .  . can i read the in 
a reasonably safe fashion via and that is n't or 
specific 

thanks , 




from  ( allen gervais ) 
subject 
lines 18 

does anyone out their have a that i could compare 
notes with ,  ( jumper , software ,  .  . ) . 
or does anyone know where i could contact the makers of this drive 

you can contact network solutions at 
458  ( general number ) 
408  ( tech support) 
408  ( bbs ) 

thanks very much for the info david ! 
especially for their tech and bbs lines. 
this should get me going .  .  .  . 

bye ! 

x 2 . 1a . x it 's only a ... only a ... only a 

origin the keep bbs  ( 1 13 ) 

from 
subject need phone number for western digital  ( esdi problem ) 
organization university of washington 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host washington . edu . 
keywords western digital , 

i have with v . 1 . 1 .  . 
it has been working fine until i recently to  . 
now , my drive goes crazy making lots of seeking sound even when the 
drive is not  . of course , with hard errors. 
these symptoms disappear when i switch to non mode  ( 8  . 
i suspect some dependent routines .  .  ( there 's a newer version 
2 . could anybody help me on this 
by the way , my new mother board has , , 8 , and 
works fine with my old drives (i had to dig them  . ( 
also , i will appreciate it very much if somebody send me the phone numbers 
 ( tech support bbs ) for western digital .  . 
many thanks in advance. 



physics , , seattle ,  ( 206)543 ) 

from  ( raymond ngai ) 
subject system information needed 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
organization oracle corporation , , ca 
distribution 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 36 



does anybody out there have or used to have an from 
system inc.  ( which is out of business i believe ) my friend 
received an old pc which happens to have such a and i am 
having a hard time trying to add another to the card .  . 


i believe the is supposed to control drives as 
drives 


here the model info on the card , but any other similar model will 
probably do. 



system inc. 
model ps 
rev 2.2 9 21 


i would appreciate your reply directly to my e mail address below. 



thanks , 


ray 


( raymond ) 
( application system oracle , ) 
( applications division , ca ) 
( oracle corporation  ( 415)506 ) fax ) 

from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject help choosing 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
reply to 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 10 


i need to buy a for my machine to use with a quantum 
 . i know that is good , but they are kind of 
expensive .  . essentially i want a in the 100 150 range that i 
can use with this drive .  . i plan to use and later on 2 . 1 . when it 
comes out. any appreciated. 

eric 



from  ( tobin m creek ) 
subject re zip . any later version 
keywords 
organization 
lines 27 

 ( fombaron marc ) writes 

is there a more recent version of zip . because it does n't 
work on my machine .  . 
my has and they say it will be 
supported in the later versions , so is it out 

thank you for helping .  . 

 . 

the last i heard , the author was having some problems in his immediate 
family and had the of development for a time. 
this was some months ago. 

it 's a  . the is the best memory i have found 
anywhere. it does n't require mode  ( like qemm ) so it works with 
7. it does n't take any memory  ( runs , then  . 

if only the were a little and more stable .  . 



these views no one. now you 
even i wo n't claim them. are here 

include funny stuff . h . this is where i include some witty tripe 

from  ( dlp li ) 
subject re 40 
reply to  ( dlp li ) 
organization university , uk .  . 
lines 12 

2 ) anyone using this , what is your of the , 


there is a program called said have a bug 
so they cannot run the program .  . also may be 

regards , 


, uk .  . 



from 
subject application errors on 
organization at t 
keywords memory errors 
lines 60 


h e l p ! 

i have a problem in which i'm getting increasing every day .  .  .  . 

some background about my pc 

american  ( clone sx ) with of 
sys . file 

device c dos sys . 
dos high , 
device c 
files 30 
30 
stack 9 , 256 

file is using c 
set up is running 0 wait state on read and write  . 

the problem application error from 

i started off with a and then  . 
run , no problem. a permanent file of size was in place 
for  . 

ok , i then proceed to 
for version 2 . 0 .  . no problem with the  . i also 
allow to alter my the running on c ) .  . 
the problem came when i try to  ( bring up or if is running 
and right in the middle of it like click a selection with the mouse ) 
from the  . 
first of all , i always get the application error followed by 
another application error with various different messages. the 
following are some of them 

stack fault , by at address where is some 
number .  . is the provided by the manufacture ) 
general protection fault , by at the same address 
segment load failure , by at same address 

some how , the address was always something. what is address 
means 

i have absolutely on idea what this mean. i tried commented out the 
programs from , no help. 

is it something to do with the setup which is not telling 
what it suppose to know. looks like the application is 
memory when it is being loaded or while it is running .  . 

please reply if you have any idea or suggestion .  . i'm willing to try 
anything. 


steve 
at t bell labs 
, nj 



from  ( fast felson ) 
subject drivers for win 3 . 1 . 
organization school of economics 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 15 



i 've got an old card , but lacking suitable drivers 
for 3 . 1 .  . the drivers for the 8900 series seem to be incompatible .  . 
does anyone have an idea of where to get these drivers address for an 
ftp site would be nice. 

thanks in advance 




yo 11 b 25 , , finland 358 21 

pgp key available via finger 

from  ( tow wang hui ) 
subject file copying 
article i.d. srvr1 . 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization university of michigan  ( caen ) 
lines 15 
nntp posting host engin . umich . edu . 
originator 


a silly question i frequently edit small files and need to make copies of them 
on several of the same size and format , but my computer is 
only with one 3.5 drive and one 5 . 25 . drive ca n't i do the 
copying without files temporarily to my hard  ( which is 9 . full ) 
using standard 5 . 0 . commands i know 
a a 
works but for small of files , 
a  . txt . a 
does not ! 
maybe i 'll have to write my own file copy command in c , but the idea does not 
me. 
thanks for your help. 

francisco 

from  ( jens ejvinson ) 
subject re is  . slow for 50 with 
keywords 
organization computer club , , 
lines 44 

in  ( haktan bulut ) writes 

hi. i recently switched my old with a 50 .  . my computer 
is 

50  . 8 256  ( micronics 50mhz ) 

, 


when i use 0 . , i get a data 
about  . and sometimes  . is that good i thought 
that with i could get about  . 
somewhere in the manual for my i have read , that some host 
need to perform a low level format to the 
in that system , do i need that 
a guy i know , gets a about 1 . , and he has an and 
a 50 , how can a with the same system be 

is there anything that i can do to get a 


1. dont rely on  . they often show incorrect due to different 
programs. 

2. often needs a to get the speed from the card .  . 

3. make sure the card is operating in mode which is  . 

4. you can and get some s but just to loose the 
or other when  . 

(i get 2 . s with and and coretest ) 
(i get 1 . s sysinfo ) 



internet 
s 52 

tel 46  ( 0)60 ) act 
fax nope ! advanced computer technology 
bbs not yet .  .  .  . 


from  ( joe bleazard ) 
subject references needed on memory 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 15 

i am doing a report on the topic of  advanced memory  and 
need to know of some good references to cover this topic. it is an 
chemistry class on analysis. so , as you 
could guess , it does n't have to be an extremely or extensive 
covering of the topic. also , i am a chemical engineer and know some , 
but not too much about memory  . if anyone could help point 
me in a good direction i would be very  . 

thanks in advance. 

joe 
school of chemical engineering 
institute of technology 
, 0100 


from 
subject ftp problem on gateway 
organization university of wisconsin chemistry computing center 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

we have a gateway with a series plus .  . 

when we use ftp to send from the gateway with turned on , we see 
4 marks immediately .  . then the computer r e a l l y  . if we turn 
off the internal of the , the speed is better , but does n't match 
the speed when we receive to the gateway .  . 

it does n't matter if we send from the gateway or get to it 4 marks and 
then extreme if the is not  . 

does anyone know any more about this is there a fix 

the gateway was purchased in june , 1992 .  . 

please respond directly .  . you would n't believe how slow the news is on this 
system. 

thanks. 

from  ( tow wang hui ) 
subject needed drivers 
keywords 3 . 1 . 
article i.d. srvr1 . 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization university of michigan  ( caen ) 
lines 22 
nntp posting host engin . umich . edu . 
originator 


could anybody please provide me a copy of the 3 . 1 . drivers and 
from for use with their video card currently i do not have access to a to out to bbs .  . 
if you can help me , please do any of the following , is most convenient 
to you 

1 ) 
copy the files to a directory by any user in any cell of the 
andrew file system 

2 ) 
the files to an anonymous ftp site  ( where  . 

3) 
the files and send them to me by electronic mail .  . 

please me by electronic mail at 


thanks in advance. 

francisco 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 39 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( richard krehbiel ) writes 
stuff about the connection between and ida 
, 16 bit ,  . 
if speed come from ida where does the 8 . s for come from 

is not complex .  . it is just the way the industry uses and talks about it. 
there are three key differences in the chip , the , and 
the software .  . that is it. 
let us look as in from this stand point. 

1 and modes software only 
is then mode only 0 s vs. 0 s 
can be reached by most 1 with a 
rewrite of the software as is the case for the mac  . 

2 8 bit this is the main source for the confusion. this differs from 
1 only in the chip in most machines .  . in the mac and some 
this is called  fast 1  because it uses 1 and software drivers 
and can produce 2 through 1 of this even in the 
mode .  . average speed in 1 mode 
4 s with s see in both and higher end 
mode just allows a higher rate 10 s 

2 16 bit two versions wide fast .  . wide 2 requires two things 
over 8 bit 2 a 2 software and a wide on the 
machine and the external device. 
fast 2 also requires two things over 8 bit 2 2 
software and that the devise support 16 bit fast 2. 
speed of both is the same 8 s with s  . 

2 32 bit also know as wide and fast  . over 8 bit 2 this 
requires 2 software , wide 2 , and that the 
devices also have a 32 bit mode 2 chip .  . as expected this is very 
 . speed 15 s with s 


as i said simple. seven versions of by software , the 
chip , and the  . the software and it drops to 
only five versions of by only hardware the chip and the 

from  ( glenn t jayaputera ) 
subject need info on high quality video card 
organization department of computer science 
lines 10 

hi .  .  . i . need some info on video card .  . i am looking a video card that can 
deliver a high quality picture .  . i need the card to display images  ( well 
for company btw) , so it must be rich with and the speed 
must be fast too. 

i am just wondering if somebody can me what to buy for such 
application , and possible the address of the  . 

thanks in advance 
glenn 

from  ( greg   bishop ) 
subject help ! ! ! my is by demons ! 
distribution usa 
organization national association for the free exchange of information 
lines 29 


help ! i really got ripped off and i need some help myself. 

i bought a from hi tech for , then paid to 
get it , for about another  . here 's the deal the thing works 
fine ! it low level , etc without any bad at all ! and then .  .  .  . 
 ( jaws music ) start going bad ! ! ! ! one at a time. 
doctor keeps some u and some c. that it. for about 5 minutes. 

then next day when i run on it again no dice more and 
 . ! ! ! ! ! so i ok , 's 
just not being enough , i 'll use , i heard that works well. 
what happens goes and returns the to active use ! ! ! 
! ! ! ! it of course. the problem to 
be getting worse and worse. however when the is low level 
again the problem goes away for a while , only to return in a day or so. 

i'm so off right now i'm considering buying another , and i really 
ca n't afford it. 

i'm using , and 3 . 1 .  ( i'm not using the 32 bit access 
though , i know that can create  . the is using the second 
option to trick the into thinking it 's got less then , 
and everything else is standard , maybe i need to use a different 
head or something i do n't know. 

anyone who knows how to fix this problem please tell me how ! ! ! ! help ! ! ! ! 

the night before with yesterday 's technology. 

from  ( jesper spring ) 
subject  ( isa ) vs.  ( eisa ) 
organization department of computer science , u of 
lines 18 


, 

can anyone give me their opinion on which system has got the best overall 
system 

with or 
with 

the systems are equal in all other areas .  . 

thanks in advance 



spring , if animals believed in god 
university of , denmark the devil would be a man 


from  ( keith mancus ) 
subject ca n't get to work w pro 
organization 
lines 18 

i am unable to get my gateway 66 to run 
in  . i ordered a pro , and i'm pretty 
sure the is really there because i can select 
 . but no matter what i do with the program 
in the 's program group , remains out. 
i have 3 . 1 . , build 59 of the drivers , dos 5 . 0 .  . the 
drivers were by gateway , not by me , so perhaps there 's 
a file missing from the hard drive .  . it runs just fine. 
i did go into the and select  . sometimes 
it refuses  ( ghosted out ) , other time it accepts it , but when i hit 
ok and re enter , it 's back to  . at no time does 
it in the main  . help ! 


keith 

black and , when your states and cities fall , 
when your back 's against the  .  .  .  . fish 

from  ( ed mcclanahan ) 
subject re on w 
nntp posting host chaos 
organization wind river systems , inc. 
lines 22 

 ( keith mancus ) writes 

reference to running 's program and using 
its functions to position size images at various 


i thought this was a neat feature until i noticed that 
when an image is re , the is 
necessarily changed. this causes digital 
like my to get confused as to which 
mode to use if the gets too far from the 
standard  . for this reason , i use the 
for position size on the card 
and each mode individually  ( only the first time) 
at the  . the  ( and many other 
monitors ) has  ( have ) the ability to recall these 
the next time each mode is detected . 




edward 

from cat . uucp .  ( dave ) 
subject re vs 
organization rest area for weary 
lines 28 

 ( grubb ) writes 


1 2 chip also called 2  ( 8 bit ) 4 s with 
s  . this is as 2 in 4 93 for the 
pc and at these  . not the mac , the pc .  . 


i have been following this mess for a while. excuse my need for 
clarification .  . thinking seriously vs. and this thread 
could not have come at a better time. 

the above quote 1 2 chip 

are we talking about a 1 device (e . g .  . hd ) on a 2 
or 
are we talking about a 1 that had a chip 
using the same chip that is on a 2 board. 

thanks 

david 



china cat bbs c cat ! 
 ( 301)604 ) 1200 14 , 400  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! c cat ! david 


from  ( eddy zondag ) 
subject question how to get serial working on ibm 
organization philips research laboratories , , the 
lines 13 

do you happen to know how i can get a serial  ( 9 pins ) working on 
an ibm  ( which has a kind of connection besides serial 
and parallel  . the manual does n't say anything about it. 

i 've tried two drivers , with the result that left and right are 
recognized , but movement is not. should i cut or some 
to from the 

thanks for your help. 


philips research 


from  ( don hirschfeld ) 
subject re any problems 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
lines 1 

i have the and have no problems with it. 

from  ( cis083 spr93 ) 
subject computer buy 
organization temple university 
lines 46 
nntp posting host temple . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 


i saw the following computer in a and wanted to know if this is a good 
computer or does someone see something wrong with it. i also would like to 
switch the later when this computer becomes too slow .  . does anyone 
know if this is possible with a computer , or will it be difficult 
to find a that will fit in this computer .  . any help will be 
greatly appreciated. 

model 

25 
supports  ( processors(what is this ) 
to 66 
4 to 32 
8 internal 
1.2 5 1 4 1 . 44 . 3.5 drives 
hard drive 
x video resolution 
1 video 256 
6 available 16 bit 
one local  ( 16 bit compatible ) 
4 5 . 25 . drive , 3 external 
one 25 pin type parallel 
2 rs serial  ( 9 25 pin ) 
one 15 pin video 
one ps 2 compatible 
200 power supply 
key keyboard and included 
software includes 3 . 1 . , dos 5 . 0 . , works for 

the wants 1200  ( without monitor ) for this. is it a good price 

thanks ! 




bell at temple university , pa 

e mail address 


if you 're not part of the solution 
you 're part of the 



from 
subject re to 
distribution 
organization university of , 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( b b s) writes 
in article ,  ( shawn casey ) writes .  .  .  . 
, 

i have a question for anyone that may be familiar with and 
 . 

1 ) after i switch the into the board  ( all of the cards are 
isa ) the system seems to work with no problem what so ever. but some of the 
problems that we had with the board continue with the board. 
is it my understanding that the board should be able to handle 
when running  . 

problem when running our network via  ( tcp ip ) with 
running the system kicks us out of  ( irq within 
i  . 

also , are there any memory address problems that will happen when the 
are switched  ( base memory that is) .  . 

as far as i know , if you are using mother board , you have to use also 
cards or else your computer system will be than when you 're 
using board with cards. 
bill 


that 's nonsense ! ! you can use cards in an system without problem 
and at the same speed as in an system ! ! 

luke 

from  ( eric j balog ) 
subject drive problem help ! ! ! 
organization university of 
lines 25 
nntp posting host seas . edu . 

hi ! 

i have a problem with my drives .  . in an effort to make my 3.5 drive 
 ( normally b ) my a drive , i switched the order of on the 
from the serial card  . i up , changed the 
to reflect the a drive as the 3.5 and the b drive as the 5 . 25 .  . 
the drive did n't come on , and there was a failure trying to read from 
those drives .  . 

i switched the back to their original positions , and then up and 
the original  . the for the came on 
during this process , and they stay on for as long as the computer is on. 
i see that when there is a in a , the drive is , yet there seems 
to be no access. and detect both drives , but when i 
try to get detailed information about a or b , tells me that there 
is no in the drive .  . 

can anyone offer any suggestions 
i'm in need of help ! ! ! 

thank you for your time. 

eric 



from  ( scott mace ) 
subject re vs  ( here we go again .  .  .  .  . ) . 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 
in article  ( eric smith ) writes 

is better because it has a better future , and it has a lot of 
minor right now. cards are right now , but will 
be in a few years.  ( in fact , cards are so cheap , they 
might as well be free. the real cost is in the drives . ) . 
cards cost more , but they are worth it. 


i almost got a laughing at this one. 

you 'll probably get one when you realize that your 100 super 
local high tech  .  .  . 

if anything ,  ( on a pc ) will be killed off by local 
with any luck pc will be any with by  . 

have you ever seen what happens when you a to 
a local bus. it actually down your system 
 . it must be real nice to get by 20 100 for the 
extra cost of a drive , then pay another 200 for a  . 

maybe my workstation does n't understand what your local 
is 

local will be killed off by whatever is. 
it not good for much more than cards. 

to each his own. i 'll laugh when you start over how much you 
spent for your 2 little drives and then finding out you need more 
space .  . 

the biggest advantage of right now is that you can add more 
different kinds of devices , such as , etc. , easily , and can add 
bigger  . the best and most cost effective hard available 
are  . 

here here .  .  .  .  . 



only of you need drives larger then  . oh yes , gotta have 10 
rate for those and drives .  . 

do n't stick your foot in your mouth when you make a statement you know 
nothing about. 


i 'd rather wait a second compared to the 5 and would take .  . 
 ( obviously  . 

have you ever tried to 2 of oh i forgot you ca n't 
because you have an and no one makes that big .  . 


basically , if a person has to ask which one is better for him her , 
then they will probably never see the expensive benefits from  . 

i guess you probably bought a too 


also , all this waving about is a point if 
the user only has one or two drives on it. and with those two 
drives may be fast , but that speed is only due to the memory 
something i can with a  . 

what the 2 fast , wide has much more bandwidth than any stupid 
crap .  .  .  .  . 

stop this thread now , its just up bandwidth .  . if you want 
to read about vs just pay a visit to you local usenet archive .  . 

the best 2 fast , wide , etc is clearly than any the best drive .  . 
all the response given are based upon personal experience with 1 or 2 
drives .  . you ca n't judge such completely different  . 
has the low cost a descent  . 
has the ability for super high capacity and speed .  . 

neither one is better in all cases. 

if you do n't what i said about and then pick 
up a back issue of pc week in they tested , and 
cards. 

send flames to null .  .  .  .  .  . 



scott internet 



from  ( george pandelios ) 
subject help me select a solution 
organization the software engineering institute 
lines 55 


hi netters ! 

i'm looking at some sort of solution .  . after you read about 
my situation , i 'd like your opinion. here 's the scenario 

1. there are two computers in the house. one is a small  ( 40mb  . 
the other is a  ( 213 drive w  . both 
systems have pc tools and will use central point as the 
program .  . both systems have 3.5 and 5 . 25 .  . 

2. the computers are not networked  ( nor will they be anytime  . 

from what i have seen so far , there appear to be at least 4 possible 
solutions  ( i'm sure there are others i have n't thought  . for these 
options , i would appreciate hearing from anyone who has tried them or sees 
any flaws  ( drive type x wo n't with device y , etc . ) . in my thinking 
(i do n't know very much about these beasts ) 

1. put 2 . drives  ( or a combination drive ) on each system. 
can someone supply cost and brand information what 's a good brand 
what do the themselves cost 


2. put an internal on the using my , and 
continue to back up the with  . again , can someone recommend a 
few the only brand i remember is  . any 
happy or unhappy users (i know about the controversy ) 


3. connect an external on the using my , and 
 ( maybe ) connect it to the somehow  ( any suggestions ) 


4. a drive in each machine .  . again , any 's or 
for 

i appreciate your help. you may either post or send me e mail .  . i will 
summarize all responses for the net. 

thanks , 

george 

george j. internet 
software engineering institute usenet sei ! 
avenue voice  ( 412 ) 
pittsburgh , pa fax  ( 412 ) 

disclaimer these opinions are my own and do not reflect those of the 
software engineering institute , its , , 
, , or carnegie mellon university .  . in fact , 
any of these opinions to any individual , living 
or dead , fictional or real , is purely coincidental .  . so there. 


from  ( david . biediger ) 
subject computer  ( eisa system ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of texas at san 
distribution usa 
lines 9 


has anyone here dealt with i'm looking at an system 
they have that has an with a for video .  . 
the they use is made by  . i 've never heard 
of this brand .  . can anyone comment on or the 

thanks , 
david 


from  ( the emporium ) 
subject re 17 
organization school of computer science , university 
lines 27 

in article  ( mohit k goyal ) writes 

oh yeah , i just read in another newsgroup that the uses a high quality 
than is in most for example) and this 
is where the extra cost comes from. it is also where the high bandwidth 
comes from , and the image , and the large image size , etc , etc .  .  .  . 

i agree that the image is as as it gets with these , 
however in the 17 using these , the 2 black 
lines on the top and bottom of the , which are created due 
to the holding up the , are quite after 
a while. that is the only thing that is making me more in favor 
of the  ( or now also available the only difference , 
no ) .  . any experiences or opinions from people who have used 
the would be since i want to get one right after 
my are all done  ( ie about a week from  . 

tony 


tony @ university computer science 

account the sun is the same in a relative way , 
but you 're older 
however also available and of and one day 
closer to death. floyd 


from  ( damien neil ) 
subject re how hot should the be 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 16 
distribution na 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 

how hot should the in a 33 machine be 

currently it gets so hot that i can not hold a finger on it for more than 
0 . 5 . s. 

i seem to recall that run somewhere close to the point of water .  . 
anyone have an exact 

anyway , putting a fan on it wo n't hurt and could help. depends 
on how you are .  .  .  . 

neil until someone reality , the best 
case western reserve university i can do is a quick patch here and there. 
the choice of a generation .  . green 

from  ( sleeping dragon ) 
subject wanted opinions on and 
summary wanted opinions on and 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
distribution usa 
lines 15 

hi , 

i'm looking to buy a 17 soon , and it seems that i ca n't decide what 
i should buy .  . i have a  ( this is a  . 25 . version and it using 
a tube ) and a in mind. 

does anyone know of any or problems these have 

actually , any related opinions at buying a 17 will be  . 


thanks in advance , 




from berlin . de .  ( stefan reck ) 
subject re what is it 
distribution world 
organization 's host , berlin , germany 
lines 14 
x newsreader version 3 . 02 . 

 ( ted wright ) writes 

an rev b has come into my hands with 
no documentation .  . is this an something else 
the on it is dated 1987 , if that is any help. 

i think it is an if you need the i can help you. 




berlin . de . 
berlin 
germany that 's all 

from  ( geoff green ) 
subject i o card with 's 
reply to 
organization department of computer science , the university of queensland 
lines 18 

is it possible to buy a serial i o card with the 's built in 
 ( rather than having to buy them , and them in ) 

my current i o card uses 's  ( correct number the ones  . 
it also two drives , and two hard drives .  . 

ideally , i 'd like to get a new i o card , that had 2 serial with 
's and could also control another 2 's .  . it would have to have 
addresses for both the serial , and the , so 
it could co exist with my existing card .  . 

does such a exist now the hard part where can i get one in australia , 
brisbane 

thanks , 
geoff green 



from  ( lau wah ) 
subject re choosing an appropriate power supply please help ! 
reply to  ( lau wah ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 24 


in a previous article ,  ( alann lopes ) says 
... 

the problem is that i recently had an go bad and 
someone suggested that it may have been because of 
an power supply how does one know 
what kind of is necessary to run two large 
2 . and  . 

i am not an expert .  . my understanding is the output of the power 
supply must the sum of the hard requirement .  . 

typically , a power supply is sufficient to power a pc .  . 

hope this help. 




from  ( shaw goh ) 
subject re how is a made 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 
i need to know the to connect to make a for a serial 
so i can build one. the is used to test the 
serial  . 

thanks for any help. 


steve 

me too ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 


from  ( sean mars ) 
subject help blowing the stack 
expires 29 apr 93 23 00 00 gmt 
organization college , wi 
lines 25 


hi everyone , 
i have a question regarding my stack on my pc .  . i am programming 
in c 3 . 0 . and my program is rather large  ( model large too) .  . i keep 
getting errors that i am running out of memory after a while of running the 
program .  . when i the program , it says i have 4 . 45 . of so 
i ca n't seem to explain why it  . 

all it is doing is running in a loop while the operator is idle and 
after a while of sitting , it will up all the  . this leads 
me to believe that my stack is filling up and  . 

does the program take memory up when it is calling functions 
that do not return anything 

i have been working on this problem for days and i would really 
appreciate any  . if this is not the correct newsgroup , i will 
re post , but this is the only i could find .  . 

thanks in advance , 

email 
college 
, wi 


from  ( scott linn ) 
subject no 32 bit box on gateway 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , usa 
lines 16 

while playing around with my gateway 2000 local machine last 
night , it became apparent that 3 . 1 . did n't give the option 
for 32 bit access for virtual memory. 

i am using a permanent file , and the drive is on the local 
interface .  . 

is this expected , or should i be investigating further why no 32 bit 
option appears 

thanks for any help. 



scott 


from k . 
subject need info on ps 2 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 11 

would someone please email me the for a ps 2 6 pin din 
i'm trying to make an for a serial , and the who 
knows what works with the i bought does n't have it in stock .  . 
i have several different , but none of them make sense based on 
what information i have about the  ( they have to 
 . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


from thomas 
subject problem with 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 25 

hi , 
i 've got a i o card  ( ide serial parallel 
interface ) and two drives  ( 5 1 4 , 3 1 2 ) and a 
quantum connected to it. 
i was able to format the hard , but i could not from 
it. i can from drive a  ( which drive does not matter ) 
but if i remove the from drive a and press the switch , 
the led of drive a continues to , and the hard is 
not at all. 
i guess this must be a problem of either the i o card 
or drive  ( jumper ) 
does someone have any hint what could be the reason for it. 
please reply by email to 
thanks , 
thomas 

thomas 
internet 
thomas  ( 2 40 ) 
 ( uucp in germany , now active ) 
phone 49  ( work ) , 49  ( home ) 
fax 49 
sas institute , p . o . box . , d w 
one bad can ruin a whole day .  .  .  . 


from  ( sardjono insani ) 
subject connecting apple ii to ibm pc 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 11 


has anyone tried connecting an apple ii to a pc 
do i need any special card or software to do that 

thanks for any comments .  . 







from gov .  ( stockman w ) 
subject 
organization national laboratories 
lines 7 


does anyone have a list of the for instructions 
or know if the integer is down to 1 


thanks , , 


from  ( lee reynolds ) 
subject serial card for sale .  . 
organization , incorporated .  . 
lines 9 

selling 

card .  . four serial on one card  ( 16450s ) 
with and drivers for 2 and dos  ( works great with unix flavors 
too) .  . is probably around  . 

also willing to for  . 



from  ( gerard pinzone ) 
subject any good 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 12 
reply to  ( gerard pinzone ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


anybody use out there is it as good as they say i hate 
waiting around for my to finish the next level in and the 
such. 

how much memory does it eat up 


small nose , loose girls , no , ( .  .  . ) . 
curls ! ) . ( . 
( v ) 
join the ! kill ! 

subject in same machine how 
from 
organization state university 
lines 16 

if anyone out there can help , i would greatly appreciate it. 

this christmas , i built a computer out of used parts for my father in law. 
the drive that i was a 1  . anyway , he now he 
would like to put another into this system. i t want to buy another 
, the only reason why i used an in the first place is that it was 
free. would i need a special also , if i do need a 
special , where can i one , how much are they 

please send any responses to 



thanks in advance , 

stan 

subject conner info , please 
from  ( michael thurbin ) 
organization 1 , s 37 , 
lines 14 

i have a conner model  ( 200mb ) with no info at all. the only thing i know is that 
is normally used with compaq machines .  . 
please , send me information on switch , geometry and so on. 
it looks like a normal but is it possible to use it with a standard 

michael 



michael 
1 phone 46  ( 0)47021340 ) 
s 37 fax 46  ( 0)47048978 ) 



from  ( ron mastus ) 
subject problem with and drive 
summary problem getting drive and working together 
keywords 
nntp posting host su . au . 
organization university computing service , , , australia 
lines 39 


hi , 

i 've just replaced my existing with an , 
and am now having trouble from a 250 drive .  . 

i had no trouble the and dos both the 
drive and an existing drive however when i went to the 
from the i found that it was extremely slow  ( estimated time 3 
actual time 15 ! ) i have no trouble from the same to the 
drive .  . 

i seem to remember reading that some had to be changed to 
the drive and the to work together but i ca n't find any 
mention of it in the  . 

my system is 
33 
running 
running 
250 running off on 

any help would be 

thanks , 

ron .  . 


ron 
41 
phone 61 2  ( work ) 
61 2  ( home ) australia 



ron 
41 
phone 61 2  ( work ) 

from  ( scott wood ) 
subject re more western digital info needed 
organization university , rochester , michigan , u . s . a .  . 
lines 27 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( holly ks ) writes 

western digital also has three sets of on the back .  . i am using it with 
hard drive as well and the for the were written right 
the board of the drive .  .  .  .  .  . ma . 

well , i out how the go. now i have quite a different 
problem that has me like you would n't know. i have both drives 
working , the c system and all of my hardware  . only 
problem is , that during the up sequence , the computer does not want 
to pass up looking for a system on the a drive .  . 

all goes fine and the seems to be to 
what is necessary. all the drive work , but when the thing comes 
back around to the a drive and there is no present , it just  . 
if you insert a into drive a with a system however , it works fine 
and up  ( ie how all my software ) 

any additional help on this will be most welcome .  .  .  .  . 




over in michigan do n't no closed on 
, , , red , , , 
, english , ground 
anyway the last saturday this month .  . 

from  ( thomas wong ) 
subject re date is stuck 
organization dept. of civil engineering , u . b . c .  . , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 15 
nntp posting host civil . ca . 

in article  ( sam latonia ) writes 

i ca n't imagine why someone would leave their computer on all of 
the time to start with. its like leaving your tv , radio 
and everything in the house on all of the time to me .  .  .  .  . nuts . 


we have plenty of computer labs where the computers are left on all the 
time. i do n't see any than the ones we have in the 
offices which does get turned off at the end of the day. in fact , some 
of the computers in the labs have some of the same ones in the 
offices .  . but it goes both ways so ca n't conclude anything. 

thomas .  . 


from  ( ren hoek ) 
subject how to number of a chip 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
reply to  ( ren hoek ) 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
originator 

how can one tell which of your basic chip is number 20 i realize there 
is a of the chip missing so that one can orient it correctly. so 
using that hole as a guide , how can i count the of the chip to find 
20 please help. 




internet 

it is not i who am crazy .  .  .  . it is i who am mad ! ! ! 

from  ( allen , , , ny ) 
subject re ca n't set 
distribution usa 
organization college at , , ny 
lines 28 

in article , a . writes 
i have been unable to get com 4 to work programs such as show 
nothing  . i think the software options are ok is there a known 
hardware conflict and or for this 
system is a 66 with video card 
are set as follows 
on board coma to external device 
internal com 3 
card primary com 2 
on board com b com 4 9 does not work 
i have run this from a with only command . com . to eliminate 

any suggestions before i call technical support 
john 



i had this problem some time ago. some do not automatically 
or in the  . programs like most programs which 
write directly to the work fine but anything that uses a call 
fails .  . find a bbs or ftp site where you can get a copy of  . put 
device sys . in your sys . or run com . from your  . 
this little program will all existing and make sure the 
are updated .  . it works great .  . will also let you and 
such also if that is of any value to you. 

allen 


from  ( jeff wright ) 
subject need for , please 
organization data center , beach , ca 
distribution ca 
lines 20 


hi , all. this is my first posting , so be gentle .  .  .  . 

i have a external which has a , and i 'd 
like to use it with my and , which also take a 
for their , but it does n't work. i have the 
for the , and would like to make so i can use it. 

does anyone have for these or other  
i would greatly appreciate this info , either by 
e mail or fax .  . 

thanks very much , 
jeff , aka 
fax  ( 310 ) 


jeff 
phone  ( 213)812 ) fax  ( 213)812 ) 
, one space park , beach , ca 

from  ( nic  ( x5336 ) 
subject non speed 
reply to 
organization focus ltd , , england 
lines 18 


just taken of a machine , and very nice it is too. 
one the speed when is on is 230 or something 
not the problem. the problem is the speed when is off. its 
7  . the equivalent in car terms is having a nice with a 
that turns it into a skateboard .  . 

does anyone have a clue as to what determines the relative of 
vs non i would like to set it to give a speed of 
about 30 or 40 with off. 

cheers , 


well that was a piece of cake , eh k 9 
focus ,  . piece of cake master of 
 ( 0635 )  .  .  .  . of relevance to 
key to time zero .  . dr. who 

from  ( paul burry ) 
subject re vs 
organization canadian system security centre 
lines 15 

in article  ( guy dawson ) writes 
eh same article the pc would will get plug and play from the 
article it seems you get plug and play 1 only since 2 in full 
has ten not 7 devices .  . 

i beleive this last bit is just plain wrong ! 

i believe you are right. both and 2 support 8 devices on the 
 ( normally that would be the host and 7 targets ) each of which 
may have up to 8 logical units  . 


paul 
voice  ( 613 ) internet 
fax  ( 613 ) uucp  .  .  . ! uunet , ! ca . ! 

from  ( wally bass ) 
subject re date is stuck 
organization systems , santa 
lines 35 
nntp posting host com . 

in article 
 ( john bongiovanni ) writes 
stuff deleted 
did i once hear that in order for the date to advance , something , like a 
, has to make a get date system call apparently , the 
hardware interrupt and do n't do this  ( date advance ) automatically .  . the 
get date call that a flag has been set , and then 
then advances the date. 

anybody with more info 

there are two  problems  
(1) the which the uses only 1 bit 
for day , so a second of the past 
will get lost if no one calls the to read the in the 
meantime , and 
(2) the the day on the first  get date  
call from anybody  ( after the has been  . so 
unless the first  get date  call after is done by 
the dos    ( which is the only part of dos which knows how to 
the date , the day indication is normally lost. 
my guess is that kevin 's   system uses calls to read the 
 ( in order to display the time) , and is hence the entity which 
causes the day indication to get lost. even if the   system 
  the day    ( which i think is indicated by a non zero 
value in al ) , there really is n't any particularly good way to tell dos 
about it , so that dos can update the day. the system  should  use 
dos calls to get the time , which would cause the dos   to do 
the call , and the would hence be 
properly. possibly , though , the   system ca n't easily use dos 
calls for time , because dos is not , and perhaps time 
occur while the   system is  inside  some 
other dos call .  . 

bass 

from de .  ( carsten grammes ) 
subject list of  ( 21 04 93 ) 
organization des , 
lines 
nntp posting host rz . uni . de . 

of 



last update 14 . 4 . 1993 . 

by de) . 
and published regularly on sys . ibm . pc . hardware .  . 


! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
there is explicitly no 
that the given are correct or harmless .  . (i only , i do 
not check for myself ! ! ! ) .  . there is always the possibility that the 
may destroy your hardware ! 
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 


since i hope however that only well minded people the effort of 
posting their the chance of applicability exists. if you should 
agree or disagree with some setting , let me know immediately in order 
to update the list. 

if you a not mentioned here of which you know and or 
, please mail them to me for the next update of the list ! 

only  ( at bus ) will be accounted for. 
if not the landing should be set equal to the number of 
 . if not the  write  should be set 
 .  ( there are that do n't even ask for it) .  . 

another statement  ( maybe right ) 
do n't have and  . the is a built in 
and is n't used because most if not every has  . 

the  names are given as printed on the 's board , often only a 
number  ( jp12 means the  . a zero means that the 
is left open , a one means that the is closed. 



c o n n e r 


conner drive geometry 

at 

conner drives are low level at the  . it is only necessary 
to run setup , , and dos format .  . 

model heads l type table led 

2 38 0 3 n a 
4 38 0 3 n a 
8 38 0 3 n a 
6 33 0 1 a 
8 33 0 1 a 
8 33 0 1  ( a ) 
16 38 0 2 b 
4 39 0 2 b 
8 39 0 2 b 
8 39 0 2 b 
4 46 0 3 c 
8 46 0 3 c 
16 38 0 3 c 
16 63 0 3 d 
16 702 63 0 702 3 d 
16 63 0 3 d 
16 63 0 3 b 

table 1 table 2 



single drive act and c d single drive c d 
master drive act , c d and master drive c d 
slave drive no slave drive no 


table 3 
all conner 20 drives use 
drive type 2. all conner 40 
drives use drive type 17. 
single master drive c d 
slave drive no universal translate .  . 
select a drive type that is 
close to but does not 
the megabyte capacity of the 
drive .  . the drive will 
translate to the megabyte 
capacity that you have 
 . 

led 

a b c d 
j 4 j 5 j 5 j 3 
pin 1 pin 3 pin 3 pin 3 
pin 2 pin 4 pin 4 pin 4 


when i a conner  ( 203 mb ) as master and a 
 ( 203 mb ) as slave , both with and without the , the had 
seemingly normal behaviour .  . however , when doing writes to the , once 
in a while it would etc. using was almost 
impossible. 

the is to the as the master , and the conner 
as the slave .  . 



f u j i t s u 

details of drives  ( standard ) 



heads  ( physical ) 8 6 4 2 
 ( physical ) 
33 33 33 33 
speed  ( rpm ) 
capacity 





2 
1 
1 . led 
1 9 3 
1 6 .  . 1 . o o 
40 way . 
. 
. 
12 





pin function 
position 

1 2 active mode 
2 3 slave present mode 
4 5 pin 27 
1 5 6 pin 27 
7 8 2 drive system 
8 9 1 drive system 
10 11 pin 29 pin 31 
11 12 pin 31 pin 29 


pin function 
position 

1 2 slave drive mode 
2 4 5 master drive mode 
7 8 4 
8 9 7 


pin function 
position 

1 2 write protect enabled 
3 2 3 write protect 
4 5 6 

key (i guess ! ) marks default setting for 




setting for the in my system is , 33 
and 16 heads .  . 

i was trying to set my drive in the subject above to a slave drive for 
a conner drive and the support company gave me this answer  ( which  . the default on is on off off off off off  ( 1  . this sets the drive to be a single drive .  . setting to off on on off off off makes it a slave drive .  . has been set to on off off on  ( 1 4 ) all along. 



model heads capacity  ( million bytes ) 

10 63 75 . 
13 63 16 . 
16 63 51 . 


there are 6 on the switch block on these drives .  . only 4 of 
them have a use that i am aware of  ( from my manual ) 

master slave master ( ) 5 off 
slave 5 on 
4 ( ) 4 off 
7 4 on 
write protect ( ) 3 off 
enabled 3 on 
channel ready ( ) 1 off 
enabled 1 on 

i have no idea about the function of 2 and 6. the values 
listed with a ( ) are the default  . 


k a l o k 


heads 6 35 

120 
heads 6 40 

the following have been reported for but are probably 
also valid for other drives .  . 

single 
o o o o o 

o o o o o same row as pin 1 of the  . 

master  ( disk 1 ) 
o o o o o 

o o o o o 

slave 
o o o o o 

o o o o o 

these 5 pairs of are at the side of the  . 



m a x t o r 

model heads landing 

15 32 0 
16 38 0 
16 63 0 
16 63 0 
16 63 0 

are as follows 

the bottom of the drive looks like this  ( well , sort of ) 

o o 1 2 
o o 3 4 
o o 5 6 
o o 7 8 
o o 9 10 

power 

single drive dual drive system 
pin numbers system master slave 

1 2 slave drive remove remove 
3 4 activity led optional optional optional 
5 6 slave present remove remove optional 
7 8 master drive remove remove 
9 10 remove  ( n a ) optional remove 

only one drive  ( the master ) in an should have this  . 



16 467 17 62 , 0 closed , closed 
7 17 59 , 5 open , open 
4 39 , 0 closed , open 
8 17 57 , 9 open , closed 

16 17 124 , 3 closed , closed 
14 17 119 , 0 open , open 
8 39 , 0 closed , open 
15 17 , 0 open , closed 
8 33 , 2 

for the above 2 drives 

i o channel ready ( open close enabled ) 
see above 
see above 
operation status ( open normal close ) 
j j j j j 
2 1 1 1 1 
0 9 8 7 6 

power data 

idle mode ( open close enabled ) 
drive model ( open close ) 
( open 7 close 4 ) 

master slave drive is master and alone closed , closed 
drive is master of two drives closed , open 
drive is slave of two drives open , closed 




default  ( power up ) at translation  ( others possible ) 

16 38 212 

there are two sets of  . a set of 5 and a set of 
4. with the power and you , the set of 5 is 
 ( left to right ) , and the set of 4 is 
 ( bottom to top )  . 

the only of normal interest is  . it for only 
drive in a single drive system , or master drive in a dual drive 
system. 

remove the for slave drive in a dual drive system. 

is a and may be used to the spare if the 
drive is for a slave mode .  . 

, , , are  . abnormal operation 
may occur if  . 

22 is enabled  ( open disabled ) 
23 is slave master  ( open slave ) 
16 is i o channel ready  ( open disabled ) 


 ( 245mb self universal translate ) 
drive type user 
s t 
16 0 0 31  ( wpc and optional ) 

 ( master(2 ) closed 
 ( slave(2 ) open  ( use for storage ) 
single closed 


m i c r o p o l i s 


drive 



5 8 
heads 8 15 



 ( both ) 

track to track  ( read ) 1 . 5 . 
track to track  ( write ) 2.5 
average 10 
25 
5 . 56 . 
speed ( 5 ) 
data rate 
internal data rate 24 40 



16 heads 63 
master 16 heads 63 
slave 16 heads 63 

the both master and slave 


 ( labelled on the drive ) 


only these 2 are used 








in in only drive both master slave 
in out drive is master , slave is present 
out in drive is slave 
out out drive is master , no slave present  ( ie single drive ) 


m i c r o s c i e n c e 



model 00 
heads 7 

s t 35 ( ) 
size 


model 00 .  . 
size 

m i n i s c r i b e 



model at cap h rate access comments 
3.5 21 2 8 28 28 
3.5 42 4 8 28 28 
3.5 42 4 8 40 28 

 ( master(2 ) 5 6 
 ( slave(2 ) 1 2 
single 1 3  ( shunt storage ) 


n e c 

, 40 
head 4 41 

, 
head 8 41 

, 44 
head 8 26 0 


 ( for all above drives ) 
single 0 0 
master 1 0 
slave 1 1 

there have been reported difficulties in using as master and 
drives as slave the other way it works. 



q u a n t u m 

logical for quantum at drives 
of computer brokers of canada 


model cap heads track 
 ( mb )  ( ms ) 

42 19 965 5 17 
19 965 10 17 
120 15 9 32 
15 10 34 
15 13 36 
14 16 51 
52 17 8 17 
17 16 17 
17 16 17 
122 16 5 53 
16 13 51 


legend 1 0 no 


40 80 at 

meaning 
1 0 single drive 
1 1 master of dual drive 
0 0 slave of dual drive 
0 1 self seek test 



120 , , at 

sp meaning 
0 0 0 slave when the master is quantum other than 40 
0 0 1 slave in 40 mode 
0 1 0 slave when master is non quantum drive 
0 1 1 not used 
1 0 1 master drive mode checking for slave 
1 1 0 master in mode using sp to check if slave present 
1 1 1 master in 40 mode using sp to check if slave present 
1 0 0 single drive 



52 , 80 , , 120 240 at 
sp meaning 
0 0 0 slave in standard mode for with drives that use 
line to handle master slave communications 
0 0 1 slave in 40 mode  . without using line 
0 1 0 self test 
0 1 1 self test 
1 0 0 master in mode using to check for slave 
1 0 1 master in 40 mode using to check for slave 
1 1 0 master in mode using sp to check for slave without 
checking 
1 1 1 master in 40 mode using sp to check for slave without 
checking 



while my form the name , it is labeled as cs on 
my drive .  . 



the quantum series 

model cap heads track 
 ( mb )  ( ms ) 

42 5 17 
85 10 17 
16 17 
15 22 

write 0 for all quantum drives ( probably no significance ) 
landing 

if an drive is 
master only , use 
master with slave , or , and sp in some cases 
slave , no strap 


r o d i m e 

information for and series hard drives 

drive types 

model no. blocks cap .  . 

3 34 88 , 45 . 33 . 
5 34 , 75 . 55 . 
5 34 , 80 . 33 . 
7 34 , 
7 34 , 47 . 

217 15 28 91 , 46 . 67 . 
15 28 , 70 . 00 . 
15 28 , 80 . 
15 28 , 50 . 
15 28 , 35 . 
15 28 , 02 . 


link options 

in order to the series drives the for 
the single dual drive and led operation on the drive need to be set as 
described in the relevant product  . 
i a single drive environment the drive is described as a master .  . 
in a dual drive environment the drives are described as a master and a 
slave .  . this is due to the the takes place between the two drives 
when  . 
there are four links , , , and , to the 40 way 
interface  . they have the following functions and are described 
in order as viewed from the end of the drive , with the first 
described the 40 way interface  . 

led 
when , this the led drive to pin 39 of the 
interface .  . this allows a led to be connected to the interface .  . an 
external current limiting needs to be in series with 
the led when this option is  . the value of the will 
be on the led type chosen but will be in the range of 130 
ot  . 

dual drives 
this must be when two drives are attached to a single 
bus. it across the 40 way interface , 
indicating , to the master drive , the presence of a slave .  . 

master 
when this that the drive is a master .  . if 
there are two drives connected on a single then only one may be 
in this way. 


when this the signal to the drive , it is 
when the drive is used in host systems that have a higher 
data rate than the drive i.e. greater than 4 per 
second when using 1 1  . this is not normally 
as most hosts at a lower rate than 4 per 
second .  . 

there are four possible master slave in which a  ( drive(s ) 
may be 

master , single drive with led on interface  . 
master , single drive without led on interface only  . 
master , dual drive without led on interface  . 
slave , dual drive without led on interface no  . 
master , dual drive with led on interface ,  . 
slave , dual drive with led on interface only  . 

the master drive will delay power up for approximately two seconds to 
reduce power in applications where dual drives are used. 

the other for a led will be found close to the 28 way 
at the other end of the drive .  . this led is not affected 
by the link options .  . an internal current limiting is on the 
drive for this led  . refer to the product for further 
details. 




s e a g a t e 

there is a list of most  ( including , , ide ) on 
every under 

zip . 

it contains info about the following drives 










t e a c 

model 

 . heads t capacity 

physical 4 40 
 ( ami ) 8 40 0 0 
 ( award ) 13 17 0 0 
 ( phoenix ) 8 33 0 0 

and 

1 function 
.... 2 0 0 on act 
... off present 
3 1 1 on two 's 
40 off single 
power  ( power ) signal 2 on master ( single ) 
off slave  ( with 2 units used ) 
3 on i o not output 
off i o is output 
master slave 

no. 1 2 

single .  .  .  .  . 0 1 1 , on 
master .  .  .  .  . 1 1 0 , off not 
slave .  .  .  .  .  . 1 0 



w e s t e r n d i g i t a l 

series 

name size  ( mb ) heads 

40 . 7 . 5 17 
3 . 10 17 
119 . 0 . 14 17 
162 . 7 . 6 55 
8 . 12 35 
4 . 12 55 

please note that these are the recommended  . all the 
support so called translation , and should thus be able to work with 
any having than the total number of on 
the  . 

now , according to the manual , the are as follows 

ma 

single 0 0 0 
master 0 1 0 
slave 0 0 1 
slave with conner or 1 0 1 


maybe there are 2 kinds of 's floating around 

if your read ma and then use 
ma 
single 1 0 0 
master 0 1 0 
slave 0 0 1 

there have been reported difficulties in using as master and 
drives as slave the other way it works. 
when i a conner  ( 203 mb ) as master and a 
 ( 203 mb ) as slave , both with and without the , the had 
seemingly normal behaviour .  . however , when doing writes to the , once 
in a while it would etc. using was almost 
impossible. 

the is to the as the master , and the conner 
as the slave .  . 


a  ( 40 mb ) 

, 5 heads , 17 , ( ) 

1 drive is master 
1 2 3 2 drive is slave 
3 second drive is a conner drive 

no set this is the only drive .  . 



useful telephone numbers .  .  .  . 


6000 


info tech support 
fax back 
bbs 
they list their number as  ( 1(800)2 )  . 

quantum 
408 
408  ( support ) 
408  ( fax ) 
408  ( bbs ) 


info tech support 408 
fax back 408 
bbs 408 


last but not least 

if i could help you with my little collection and if you live in a 
part of the world far away from me , how about a for my 
i will surely answer ! 


experimental physics 


w 
germany 

from  ( michael scanlon ) 
subject 17 with to 
keywords 17 
lines 13 
organization none 
distribution usa 

i do n't know if this is an obvious question , but can any of the current 
of cards  ( diamond etc ) be used to drive a 
which has and and ( 5 altogether ) 
out the back i might be able to get of a 
17  ( 1510 cheap ) and i was wondering if it was 
possible to connect it via an  ( rgb to ) to my gateway , would 
i need different drivers etc. 


thanks 

mike 
please reply to 

from  ( karlsen bjorn ) 
subject re how is a made 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 17 26 28 gmt 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization as 
lines 27 

writes 

i need to know the to connect to make a for a serial 
so i can build one. the is used to test the 
serial  . 

thanks for any help. 

from a recent magazine i got the following 

question and part of the answer deleted 

if you are with a iron , the are easy to 
make. on a serial rs 232 pin , use a female 9 and 
connect 1 to 7 to 8 2 to 3 and 4 to 6 to 9. for serial rs 232 
25 pin , you 'll need a female 25 with 1 to 7 
2 to 3 4 to 5 to 8 6 to 11 to 20 to 22 15 to 17 to 23 and 18 to 25 
connected .  . to test a 25 pin parallel , you 'll need to 
connect 1 to 13 2 to 15 10 to 16 11 to 17 and 12 to 14 in a male 
25  . 

stan 


i have n't tried it. use at own risk. 



from  ( douglas a. bell ) 
subject re ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 18 
reply to  ( douglas a. bell ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( robert r. novitskey ) says 


just a for all you pc er 's out there. will the 
systems be compatible with current and cards any info would be 
helpful .  . i would just like to know before i my on new hardware .  . 

thanks 
bob 


well , it all depends on the  . 

i'm sure someone will make a that takes 
and uses a processor .  . i'm also sure that there 
will be some that wo n't .  . 


from  ( national center for research ) 
subject please help !  ( looking for books ) 
distribution na 
organization high , boulder co 
lines 6 

hi netters ! 
i often have with my pc and would like to fix it by myself. is 
there any book that show you how to fix your own pc  ( hardware , , 
problems .  .  . of course , no book would tell you the exact 
problem with your pc , but at least it will give a general idea what 
might be wrong. thanks so lot for your help. 

from  ( steve wechsler ) 
subject card for fixed 
organization the source for source 
lines 19 
x standard disclaimer i probably do n't speak for org .  . 


has anyone connected a high , fixed to their pc 
i have a that does at , but wo n't do 
any other  . all the video cards designed for this sort of 
thing are very expensive (  . has anyone done it with an 
card (i know it can be done , it 's just a question of getting the card 
at the right resolution and frequency ) i 'd like to use a 
 ( hercules ) as my dos command line , and switch to the 
for or x  ( under or  . 

any suggestions would be greatly appreciated. e mail , please. 

thanks , 


steve call 's bbs 
please respond to my via e mail  ( post also if you like ) 226 
because my site purges news much than i can keep up with it. 
this message was made from 100 materials .  . 

from  ( mark james ) 
subject re vs  ( why your system ) 
organization dept of computer science , university of , australia 
lines 12 

in article  ( scott mace ) writes 

have you ever seen what happens when you a to 
a local bus. it actually down your system .  .  .  .  .  . 

if you do n't what i said about and then pick 
up a back issue of pc week in they tested , and 
cards. 

is bad because it stops the processor from 
external as well as main memory while the card has the 
how significant is the slowing effect 

from  ( larry byler ) 
subject re problem with drive 
article i.d. cup . 
organization 
lines 31 
nntp posting host cup . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 10 . 

first of all , thanks to those of you who responded , both here and via e mail .  . 
the did n't out , but it was good hearing from you. 

now , following up to my earlier post 
... 
side 3 2 hard 2 
all  ( shown as ) 
normal primary secondary address 
single dual speed primary secondary address 
187 not driven drive 
... 
other cards  ( did n't check brand ) 2 serial 1 parallel 

compatible interface 
with default 2 , address 

i opened up the box and removed all the other cards above. no help there. 
then , not having anything better to try , i changed normal to 
on the  ( did n't make any difference ) and not 
driven to drive  ( also had no  . so i put 
everything back to the way it was and re the cards. 

i then the drive from the  . ! , 
the pc from power up , although it seemed to take several seconds 
before the first access to the hard  . plug the back 
to the and the original  ( non boot ) behavior returns .  . 

o.k. , with this additional information , does anyone in have any 
words of wisdom for what 's going on and how i should deal with it 

larry still  ( un)plugging ) away 

from  ( howard roark ) 
subject problem with and ! ! 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 8 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

i recently decided to try using for a memory and when i 
tried to print to my in from i would n't work. it would 
send the for the top margin and then the ready light would 
go off and stop working .  . i and the problem went away. 
i would like to continue using if possible. i would greatly 
appreciate any comments or suggestions ! ! please send them to , 



from  ( kevin computer science german undergrad ) 
subject how is a null 
organization college 
lines 13 


i am in the simple concept of the null 
 .  ( actually i have no idea , so do n't count that last statement . ) . what i'm 
asking is what does it use  ( or what are it 's ) i just want 
to one myself instead of buying one. i do n't even know what is 
used. 

help me please  ( at 

kevin 

p.s. i'm to use the for pc to pc  ( via link or 
 . ideas and info accepted . ) . 

from  ( ted richards ) 
subject re pc x 
distribution usa 
organization inc. mississauga  . canada 
lines 43 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

to following up my own note 
wrote 
al wrote 

it looks like everything works as but i am 
with the speed .  . i'm using an 400 internal 14 . in the pc 
with 14 . on the unix end , which are currently limited to 
19 . by the unix com link .  . to get a quantitative comparison , i 
did  cat file  where file is 20 ascii text , and 
it took 75 seconds to scroll through an x over the link , 
chars  . using the identical hardware and the same 
cat file  takes 11 seconds , chars  . btw , i use pc 
on my pc at work  ( hp ) every day for the same unix access from a pc over 
a and like that just fine. the same  cat file  by in 
2 seconds on the connection .  . 

i just tried a few experiments .  . i cat 'd a file  ( 471 lines ) 
under various 

pc for dos in a full 2  ( 1024x768x16 ) 18 
 ( dos ) in an 2  ( 1024xs768x256 ) ! 
 ( dos ) is a full 2  ( standard vga ) 11 
 ( dos ) in a 3 . 1 .  ( 1024x768x256 ) 30 
win in a 2  ( 1024x768x256 ) gave up after 4 ! 
win in 3 . 1 .  ( 1024x768x256 ) , but gave up after 2 
win in a 2 using 30 , could have been a 
little (i had to keep 
hitting the space bar ) 

i was using an wonder video card , by the way. 

so pc for dos looks pretty good  ( and the line by line 
in 2 looks pathetic , although full page are pretty 
 . 

i tried it under pc using my normal  ( 9x15bold or 10x20 ) , 
and with a very small , and there was no difference in the times. 
the receive light was on pretty , so it looks like the 
was the , not the drawing .  . 


... ! uunet . ca . ! ! 
inc. airport  . , mississauga  . canada 

from  ( nghia huynh ) 
subject apple hard drive 
nntp posting host su . au . 
organization etc organization 
lines 15 


just wanted to ask a question. i bought a hard drive second hand 
the other day , and i opened the up and saw that there was a small 
on the drive that had a little red apple with a taken out of it. 
it 's did not look the same as my existing hard that is in my 
computer already  ( it has fifty little out from it instead of 
the 39 that is out of my old hard  . 
i do n't know if drives for the apple  ( or mac ) are different from ones 
used in at clones , so could someone tell me if i could use this hard 
on my at if not , what did i just it 's a quantum  . 
it 's dated 1988 on the green board. will i need a add in card 
all the help is much appreciated. thanks ! ) 


pc 

subject card revision e address wanted 
from  ( wayne mcdougall ) 
organization the code works limited , po box 10 , , new 
lines 26 


i have a card  ( revision e) that was used with the 
system to take of a friend 's system. that system has 
and i'm attempting to it. 

unfortunately , the documentation for this ancient card has been lost in the 
of time , and i need to know the , and address for this card .  . 

can anyone suggest how i could determine these things 

there is a bank of on the card which are set to 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 


open 

thanks for your time. 


this posting is definitive .  .  . 
wayne keeper of the list of shows better than star  ( trek(tm ) 
ask me about the of , 18 25 april , 1993 
i always change my mind when new evidence is available. what method do you use 


from  ( superuser ) 
subject video changes 
organization international , ltd 
lines 61 


as most of you know , we have recently changed our standard local 
video card from our own based card to the new stealth 24 card 
for 2 , 3 , and 4  ( package 1 still has the  . we also have 
added the from the stealth 24 or to the to our 
product list. below are the comparisons of the different cards in the 
we will offer 

stealth 24 
16 , 256 16 , 256 , , , 16 . 16 , 256 , , , 16 . 
16 , 256 16 , 256 , , 16 , 256 , , 
16 , 256 16 , 256 16 , 256 
16 16 16 
video processor power 
video 

by processor 
type 
user no  ( no sockets ) no  ( no sockets ) yes  ( thru 
diamond ) 
60 72 60 72 60 72 
56 72 56 72 56 72 
44 70 43 72 43 72 
43 43 60 43 74 
26 pin 
feature no yes no 
conflict with 
 ( com4 ) no yes no 
drivers for 
win 3 . 1 . yes yes yes 
9 10 11 yes yes yes 
12 no yes yes 
yes yes yes 
2 , no no no 
win 3 . 1 . 10 . 21 m 


l 
with of video also gives 16 . , 
, and 256 color .  . based cards , since they are 
compatible , will have the conflict with  . admits conflict will 
exist with the stealth 24 .  . the manual incorrectly lists the 
addresses .  . no conflict .  . 


12 drivers are now currently available for stealth , 
, stealth 24 , and  . they can only be obtained from 
tech support , 408 2000 and not on any bbs .  . 

2 2.0 is supported for standard for all cards. drivers 
available in the near future. nt is not released yet , and no 
drivers are available currently .  . hopes to have all current 
products supported in the win nt release , on the nt  . 

is coming from in our tech support department was 
at at on 66 .  . these results are not official .  . 
results are from their own 66 , 256 @ 
 . 




from  ( lesley davidow ) 
subject re computers 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 11 

i recently purchased the then current  . 33 for  ( but changed 
to  . buy this  . 3 now for 100 more , you now 
get a bigger with  . 30 days ago , when i bought this 
 . , it was with  . this is a great deal although it is 
generally recommended you at least to the 15   ( ctx ) for 
more i believe. whether you also to the video 
card is your choice. i stayed with the pro .  . tech 
support is really good call after normal business hours to get the 
access. the part about buying a is the wait till it is 
once you order you can hardly wait to get it ! there are quite a 
few good mail order houses around lots of bang for with  . 

from  ( peter desnoyers ) 
subject help with fixed  ( 52khz ) 
nntp posting host mot . com . 
organization motorola , , 
lines 14 

i recently bought a for that will do 
non , which seems like a good deal. however , it is 
a fixed rate , and only handles 52 , i 
think. with my card it works only in modes and 62 
not much use , since just about any application will set the mode to 
something else , especially if it wants to do text , i suppose. anyway 

is there any way that i can use this as a general purpose 
display with a 1 card 

if not , can i do so with some sort of different card 

peter 


from  ( jason paul walters ) 
subject re and 
organization university 
lines 24 

in article , writes 
i have a 33 local system. it has 4 for 
that either have to use 4 or  . my question i just 
received a and it has 30  . the on the 
has at least 70 or so  . did i get the wrong 
or can i still use my , although not all the on the would 
be  . i have never encountered such a long for before. 
anyone have suggestions i ca n't get a hold of gateway yet. thanks 
please post to the net or 

yes , you bought the wrong  .  .  .  . you . need or , which are 72 pin 
 .  .  .  . these . are better anyway becuase the send receive data in 
 ( 32bit , one for each byte )  . you will see these 
becoming more widely used in the near future. 

jason 




jason 


a.k.a. mouth 

from cat . uucp .  ( dave ) 
subject where is it 
organization rest area for weary 
lines 14 

why does my keyboard not have a key 

c 


like to have my 2 worth or 0 . 02 .  ( boaring ) 

david 



china cat bbs c cat ! 
 ( 301)604 ) 1200 14 , 400  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! c cat ! david 


from  ( jrw ) 
subject re shopping for a new 
lines 39 
organization 

in article  ( david m. todd ) writes 
from  ( david m. todd ) 
subject re shopping for a new 
date 15 apr 1993 07 01 20 
in article  ( bill barnes ) writes 
basically i'm looking for a 15  ( 1024x768 ) non 
 . the is the one most of the computer use as 
their standard , and from what i 've seen and heard it looks pretty 
good , but it 's a bit expensive  ( 700 is the best deal i 've  . 
so i thought perhaps i might find something as good for less. any 
i also thought about the , which has the 
same as the except for the , which is more 
limited anybody have any comments on this one would it work with 

i believe that is replacing the and with and 
models , being released at the end of this month .  . i'm 
waiting for a , the main difference being a 3 year and 
higher at the higher  . it from a pc 
magazine note that the was being in a number of ways. 
call the number and have them send you info .  . 


david m. 
department of psychology , university of , amherst , ma usa 
phone fax 




i have been using a for several months now. several others here 
also have this  . we have had no problems. personally i would spend 
extra money for this and sacrifice other features on a pc such as 33 
50  . based on the comments of others you might want to view the 
vs the 4 series on a pc running at  . the rate 
appears ok for me , but you might feel differently. finally speaking of 
spending money , with the size of today 's files , etc , a is 
certainly worth 200  . recently i set up a friend 's pc and 
local bus. the time for a program was only a factor of 2 
which i doubt warrants the extra cost .  . 

from  ( terry griffith ) 
subject  .  . the . answers .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization michigan state university , college of engineering 
lines 21 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 



ok .  .  .  .  .  . thanks to all of you who responded to my post. 
here 's the official response from  .  . 
is aware of the problem , the new rev of the board  ( rev d ) should  ( not would ) take care of the problem. was scheduled to start 
on april 15 , i have no that did start on this day 
just the word of the tech on the other line. 

now the flame .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
you would think a company like who has produced good quality products in the past would be more and willing to make right on a of theirs .  . 
very poor tech support  ( the first 2 times i called i must have spoke with the 
because they where talking craziness ) the last time i talked to a tech named paul and he seemed to have a pretty good idea what was going on. 
until these problems are neither myself nor my department will buy 
or recommend products. 

flame off .  .  .  .  .  . 

again thanks to all of you who answered my post. 




from  ( gerry george ) 
subject re 8 cards on a 6 card 
article i.d. 
lines 28 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 
this may be the question of the year , but is there a 
way to   or expand a 6  ( all 16 bit ) 
to get the usual 8 my case has for 8 , and i 'd like to 
get a , but with all my other cards i'm already 'd out ! 
i'm that a simple solution exists , e.g. an that turns 

i'm not sure if this will work , but how about using one of those  t  
used in the low cases. they allow 3 5 on either 
side of the card .  . you can it in the last , and then  ( probably ) 
have 2 or 3  . this is actually how it is done in the low 
cases a standard , the  t  in one , 
and the cards into the  . i guess you could do this at 
each end of the  ( 1 8 ) to add even more. 

the  t  are simply with on them no 
on it. the only your case wo n't close , but for a system , 
that may not be a problem. 

do n't know about , though. i 'll leave that discussion to the 
 . 


george anything good in life is either 
school of , boston univ .  . illegal , immoral or  . 
internet any item not in the above three 
categories causes in rats ! 


from  ( tiger zhao ) 
subject re questions 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 28 

 ( mohit k goyal ) writes 


can anyone tell me if this card works with the march 2 2 . 1 . 

i believe so , since the cards have proven to be very 
reliable in 2 2 . 0 .  .  .  .  . 

where do i get 2 drivers 

 ( not manufactures ) will get all the software with the 
card which includes drivers for , 2 , unix and so forth .  . 

does this card work with the  ( in dos or 2 ) 

definitely .  . 

here is my setup 



i'm considering the because i have been told 's support is 
better than and that the performs better than the  . 
anyways , i just want to know if the will work in 2 dos with my 
above  . 

thank you extremely much for any and all replies .  . 


from  ( doug rabson ) 
subject local 
lines 7 
nntp posting host co . uk . 
organization intelligent office company ltd .  . 

is it possible to plug an ordinary card into a 
i am running out of and i have one spare  . 


doug , ltd .  . email 
phone 44 
fax 44 

from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re 17 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 10 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i have a 17 and i do n't see any lines across 
the and am only using the non mode .  . 
but because of the  . lines and that i do see and hear 
when i am and modes and switch back 
to anything of less. i would not buy another at what ever price .  . 
oh this is i guess a 15 area. it do n't impress me one bit ! 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from george ! 
subject re any problems 
organization organization for creative time wasting 
x newsreader 
lines 21 

 ( mark smith ) writes 

i'm thinking about getting a and it up 
through the on a media vision pro spectrum sound board. 
does anybody have this out there if so , does it work 

for anybody in general who has the drive , have you 
had any problems door not , , door not 
 ( getting stuck or not all the way ) , 
and any other related problems. 

i have one and it is my favorite drive so far. i also have 
a 74 and have had experience with several other drives  ( various 
drives ) 

the is than the , i like its door better  ( the 
needs 2 hands ) , the handling  ( the needs to be re to go from 
to while the does it on the fly ) , all in all i am seriously 
considering replacing my with another  . 

jws 

from  ( elliot b dierksen ) 
subject help with i o plus ii card needed 
reply to  ( elliot dierksen ) 
organization at t tax systems development , 
lines 36 

i am trying to help a friend of mine get the second serial on his 
i o plus ii card working and it does not want to  . the documentation 
is no help at all. as an example , it says  the serial can be changed to 
from by moving ' . but does not say what to move ! ! ( 

there are 2 banks of  . the first one is labeled as follows 





g 

the second bank is labeled and has the following 


4 
3 




i have determined that the tell it to address the first 
serial as or  . the , tell it to use the 
as or  . i am that the g the game and 
the should the second serial , but i ca n't get it to work. i 
have tried numerous setting on the bank without success. i assume that 
this bank must tell the card which 's to use for both , but i t 
know how. any suggestions would be greatly ! ! 



is that a real  .  .  . i mean is that a or 
is that a hmmm .  .  .  . no  .  .  . f. 

w )  ( 407 ) h )  ( 407 ) 290 

from  ( staffan k e ungsgard ) 
subject genius 
summary genius wanted 
keywords , genius 
organization  ( telesoft ab ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 15 

fellow  . 

i have a genius model 6 , but no for it. 
it 's a 3  . if anyone that s got one of 
could mail me a sys . or i would 
be very happy. 





internet 

10 , phone 46 8 
, fax 46 8 

from  ( jason bordujenko ) 
subject 
organization pro net australia 
lines 54 

g  day all , 

i was looking to build a parallel digital to the other 
day and came across this which i threw together on a piece 
of 

















 ( please excuse the obvious limits of the lower ascii set ) 

i have it all constructed here and sitting inside a nice little grey box .  . 

unfortunately i ca n't get it to work .  .  .  . i have a little here by the name 
of  ( which the came from ) and all i can get it to 
out of the box is data type with a small amount of music signal 
behind it it 's even worse than the speaker inside the machine .  . 

does anybody out in net . computer . world . have any ideas suggestions 
better designs  .  .  . etc 

many thanks for a reply via this conference or email. 


x regards , jason .  . 



jason computer department 
internet usenet grammar school 
node 3 702  ( grammar bbs ) 45 street 
data phone no. 61 72 ) . queensland 
 ( 077 ) 72 ) . australia 
61 72 ) . 
 ( 077 ) 72 ) . 

god made him simple , 
science made him god 

stephen king 's man  


from  ( matthew b lawson ) 
subject which high video card 
summary seek for video card 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
keywords , stealth , 
lines 21 

my brother is in the market for a high video card that supports 
local with 1  . does anyone have suggestions ideas on 

stealth pro local 



pro 

any other high card 


please post or email. thank you ! 

matt 


matthew b. 
now i , , praise and and glorify the king 
of heaven , because everything he does is right and all his ways 
are just .  . , king of , b.c. 

from  ( bing ho ) 
subject know anything about 2 
organization berkeley 
lines 11 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

i read about the development of 2 some time ago but dismissed it 
in light of the intense interest in and  . however , i recently 
was to hear that cannot address more than of , 
a limit that too many of us will hit all too soon. 

i recall that 2 will support 64 bit among other  . 
is there such a standard being developed 


ho 
university of california at berkeley 

from  ( charles budensiek ) 
subject re computer buy 
organization , ann arbor , mi 
lines 49 
nntp posting host umich . edu . 

in article  ( cis083 spr93 ) writes 

i saw the following computer in a and wanted to know if this is a good 
computer or does someone see something wrong with it. i also would like to 
stuff deleted 

model 

25 
supports  ( processors(what is this ) 
to 66 
4 to 32 
8 internal 
1.2 5 1 4 1 . 44 . 3.5 drives 
hard drive 
x video resolution 
1 video 256 
6 available 16 bit 
one local  ( 16 bit compatible ) 
4 5 . 25 . drive , 3 external 
one 25 pin type parallel 
2 rs serial  ( 9 25 pin ) 
one 15 pin video 
one ps 2 compatible 
200 power supply 
key keyboard and included 
software includes 3 . 1 . , dos 5 . 0 . , works for 

the wants 1200  ( without monitor ) for this. is it a good price 

thanks ! 


i recently bought a 33 case and everything 
works fine. seems to be a decent brand and what not. i would 
tend to say that it is a decent deal. the only things you might want to be 
wary about is that my l . e .  . computer has a back plane mounted  . 
ie the itself is a card that can be in to a  . 
some people do n't like these  . the second thing is that 
whoever set up my computer at the did n't really know what they were 
doing. the video did n't even take advantage of the 
card  . look forward to the system 
yourself. 



anyone have a coat my brain  . 
if i was a , would i be revered and charles 
worshipped like i would to be ask if you want it. 

from mohammad al 
subject re 17 
organization university computer science , 
lines 30 

in article cs  ( forrest normandy ) writes 
i want to buy a 17 , any comment on , , 
17 

thanks a lot. 



the university of 
internet cs science and technology 
e mail cs department of computer science 
phone  ( 852 ) 358 
a c , hall 4 , , 



sources magazine a number of 17 recently 
and they too said that the was the best to get if 
you had the money. but they also said that the pro 
17 is the next best choice and that it has picture quality .  . 
this can be had for around 1070 .  . 

has anyone actually seen any of these i am also thinking of buying a 
17 and was going to consider the  . if i remember 
correctly , i think its area is 16 measured  . 

thanks. 


mohammad al 

from  ( donald yee ) 
subject w dream 
organization institute of technology 
lines 36 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

hi 
i have an with of  . it is an 
based card .  . i had a problem for a while after my 
second of for the video , and thanks to , i got a fix 
from their tech support  ( it was not given in the 
ordinary manual .  . i assume it would come with memory ordered from 
them , so i guess i should be glad they did n't just say buy the memory 
from us or something like that . ) . 

the one thing that i was by was why there was not a 
color mode on the thing , either in full or 
mode .  . my plus can handle that , given 
of memory. all the buys you on the is  . 
just one more mode .  .  . had i known , i would n't have bothered .  . i 
asked them why , and all i got was your point is well taken , but 
's software are busy with other  . 

so , to get to the point , finally , are there any 
drivers out there that can handle high modes i 'd love to 
get another card , but perhaps it will have to wait until the next 
generation of cards comes out , since this card came with my 
system and it 's not so easy to exchange these things unless they 're 
broken. 

if you want these modes , away from 
cards  . or va vlb ) , at least until their are less 
busy . if the are to believed , i 've only seen one 
product thus far which can handle color  ( genoa ) , 
although that might be a  . 

please , if there are generic or semi generic drivers out 
there , let me know where i can get them. is ok , but i 
gotten that with my wonder  . 

thanks. 


from  ( will estes ) 
subject quantum is my working 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 10 

the quantum is supposed to have a on the 
built into the card .  . yet when i do a dos command 
on my system , the is always (i can hear the 
movement of the  . why is this happening strangely , even 
when i have , every command the 
 . did i somehow de the this is happening on each 
of two machines with an drive .  . 


will internet 

from  ( heuge aka hsu ) 
subject re pc x 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 25 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

in article  ( ted richards ) writes 
al wrote 

i just brought up 's pc , version , to use over a 
link to a unix system at  . is easy , but you 
need a program , also from , called to run on the unix host. 
total software cost for one was 200. 

anyone here know if is doing on these software 
for those of us for cash 

thanks 


s 

... ! uunet . ca . ! ! 
inc. airport  . , mississauga  . canada 



 ( aka heuge ) the university of southern california 
electrical and engineering 
ho , ho , ho .  .  .  . yeah yeah .  .  .  . who . 's santa 's next victim 
7 . 's the new , as he goes undercover 12 15 

from  ( thomas d. barrett ) 
subject re for 14 . 4 . 's ... any good 
organization advanced devices , inc. austin , texas 
lines 28 

in article  ( joe zbiciak ) writes 
what 's the word on the is this a bug specific 
to a specific brand using the , or is it the 
itself 

there were an of problems , but that is pretty much 
expected with any fax talking with a different fax or 
which may have also been revised or is new. i'm pretty much 
to any current problems , so you 'll have to get it 
from someone else. 

however , i can tell you to stay clear of any board which uses the 
 ( as opposed to the dpu ) for an internal implementation .  . 
this is because the used speed instead of having a 
interface .  . without the interface , the number of 
are still the same and thus may get dropped under 
conditions  ( like in  . as far as i know , the speed 
works ok for external modems if a is used on the internal serial 
board. 

hope this helps .  .  .  . 
tom 


tom  ( tdbear ) ,  . engineer v 
e. ben white austin , tx f 
 .  .  . do . n't take no take hold do n't leave it to chance 
my views are my own and may not be the same as the company of origin 

from  ( donald yee ) 
subject re question 
organization institute of technology 
lines 24 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article  ( jerry shekhel ) writes 
folks ! 

i have an archive  ( internal 80 ) drive , which is pretty 
comparable to the 250 .  . since i have two drives in 
my system , i'm using a small card  ( not accelerated ) made by archive to 
my drive as a third device. 

the problem although the dos based software works just fine , 
both the and central point programs for fail unless 
i switch the machine to non speed  ( i'm using a 33  . since 
the dos software works , it ca n't be a hardware problem , can it has anyone 
seen similar problems any solutions thanks in advance. 

yeah. sounds typical .  . makes all sorts of extra demands on hardware , 
and therefore your machine ca n't keep up with things. ever notice how when 
the in , everything else to a i 
imagine your and else that is running for time , 
and sometimes the program loses .  . be glad. i ca n't even run in 
medium speed with on my machine , supposedly because i have a 
machine which places extra demands on the data bus. 




from  ( roger c. pao ) 
subject re limit 
keywords , , question 
organization software 
lines 29 

 ( mark ashley ) writes 

in the latest pc magazine  ( pentium isssue ) , there 
is an on the 
of a pc using rather 
than just plain  . supposedly users 
will eventually want more than of  . 
however since the has only 24 bits , 
then anything on the can access only 
even if i have on the  . 
so far i agree with the arguments .  . 

then the writer claims that can 
occur in systems with over because 
of that limit .  . that part i do n't understand 
because the is right on the  . 
so the should have no problems talking 
with the  . can anybody explain this 

the problem is with masters which 
can only address the first of system 
memory. masters do not use the 
nor the system to do the actual data 
but their data directly 
to the system  . 



roger c. , , ! ! , 

from  ( roger uzun ) 
subject where can i get it 
article i.d. crash . 
organization network services  ( crash , ctsnet ) , , ca 
lines 6 

where can i get the to run on my pc 
via ftp would be best. 
roger 


net 

from  ( shirley l passman ) 
subject help with no for 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 1 



from de .  ( bernhard buckel ) 
subject re help ! my hard drive id ! 
organization university of , germany 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 42 

dave  ( david@c cat . wrote 
 ( gregory anthony vazzana ) writes 


, 

the other day i was using 's to my  ( seagate(125mb ) h 
problem  . i backed up all essential data and decided to 
my hard drive .  . when i attempted this it got to the 
head and gave me an error message saying that it could not find the 
i have tried everything i can think of. now i ca n't even access my hard 
to write information to it. i tried to up with my dos but d 
tries to my hard drive and gets 29 of the way through to say error 
hard drive .  . press to i tried to my hard drive 
for viruses but i can t access it and i get a message  ( when i try to do a 
saying error 24 can anyone help me i have no idea what to do. 

thanks in advance for any help ! 

greg 

try a level format via the command. 
g 5 where is the address of the 
 . 
if this will not work , a last resort would be to take a large 
to the hard , but this has to be done properly or you will cause 
or could cause more damage than has been done already. 

disclaimer i am not responsible for your actions by directly applying 
a large to your hard  . 

if done correctly the trick will wipe out everything on the 
hard completely and a low level format might succeed 


david 



china cat bbs c cat ! 
 ( 301)604 ) 1200 14 , 400  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! c cat ! david 


from  ( saeid  the last frontier' ) 
subject sending a null character across 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 10 

i have a question regarding sending a null character across 
connection .  . the actual problem is that  ( unix editior ) needs 
the null character for setting a mark and unfortunately we do n't know 
how to sent that from ibm across  . i am wondering if 
knows the keyboard combination for sending the null character. 
btw control , shift 2 which ctrl @ does not work. 

thanks 



from  ( gerry george ) 
subject partition table disappeared ! ! help 
article i.d. 
lines 20 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

my computer wo n't recognise my after a  ( windows crash ! ! ) 
are there any options to everything , without data 


the drive previously had 3 , but i do not remember the exact 
 . 

i have copies of the data from the  ( pc tools rescue  . i do not 
want to lose my data drive .  . do i have any options 






george anything good in life is either 
school of , boston univ .  . illegal , immoral or  . 
internet any item not in the above three 
categories causes in rats ! 


from  ( marc wandschneider ) 
subject re know anything about 2 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization , university , montreal , canada 
lines 22 

in article  ( bing ho ) writes 
i read about the development of 2 some time ago but dismissed it 
in light of the intense interest in and  . however , i recently 
was to hear that cannot address more than of , 
a limit that too many of us will hit all too soon. 

i recall that 2 will support 64 bit among other  . 
is there such a standard being developed 

very possibly , but if it 's still going to be backwards compatible 
with the , it 's going to be the same tripe that the current 
implementation really is. 

from what i 've seen , the will just be a new 
intelligent  ( ie , takes care of and the like , 
not  .  . ) . it 'll get somewhere up there with the 
iii  .  .  .  . 

is a bit too much of a hack for my liking .  .  .  . 

! 
'em .  . 

subject at 's need what kinda 
from  ( george risch ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of 
lines 11 

, 

i'm the proud owner of an ibm at without a  . i know it 
hooks into , but i need more info so i can replace it. what 's 
its any suggestions for replacement where can i get one please 
respond to 



thanks , 
george 

from  ( jim graham ) 
subject re possible faq question about a 
keywords 
organization what , me you must be  . 
lines 48 

thought i 'd post this as well as e mail it , just in case anyone else is 
interested in this info .  .  .  .  .  . 

in article 
 ( dan jordan ) writes 

, my question is could someone e mail me the names of 
of the and  . i have only seen them refered to by 
number , however i would like to find a technical manual for these  . 

any where i can find out the technical for these would be 
the as well as the however one will do. 

i suggest that you go direct to the original  ( and preferred .  .  . best . quality ) 
source for all of this , just as you would  ( at least , should ) for the 
themselves national  . you can reach them at 1 272  . 
they no longer the data sheets in a book , as they did when i got 
mine , but you can get them as individual sets of data sheets .  . you want , as 
a minimum , the following 

) 2 sets of data sheets 
) 
) 

) 2 application notes  ( yes , get these ! ) 
) an the design and application 
) an a comparison of the , and series 
of 

both of the application notes i listed have proven to be at least as 
valuable as the data sheets themselves  ( more ,  . an , in 
particular , is an well written application note that goes 
into detail about how and why the does what it does , and how best 
to take advantage of it. 

btw , they send these out free , as long as you do n't abuse it. 

later , 
jim 


include disclaimer . h . 73 de ( 4 ) 

internet 30 . 86 . 
amateur radio  . beach , fl ) 

e mail me for information about  ( host mode for  . 


from j  ( john manning ) 
subject and pro 
organization digital equipment corporation 
distribution usa 
lines 18 


hi , 

i just bought a drive and a pro  . the pin on 
the line out and the pro in are not the same. i am considering 
taking the output on the interface card and them to 
the line in on the pro .  . will this work with media software 
that uses the and the pro or do i need to go to the in on 
the pro .  . 

thanks , 

john 


john opinions expressed are my own. 
j i do not represent digital  . 


from  ( james begole ) 
subject limit 
organization su computer science department , blacksburg , va 
lines 13 

i was just reading in pc magazine that the in a pc with an 
can only access of memory. also , that some video cards on 
the look for a memory to map their memory to. so that 
if i wanted to put of memory on my pc , my video card would n't have 
anywhere to map it 's memory to. 

can someone explain this in more detail. is there a way around this 
limit .  . 

if you email me a response , i will summarize .  . 


james 

from  ( gene kostruba ) 
subject card 
organization university of california , santa 
lines 15 

i have a system with 4  . i am using a 
video card with 1 and a standard 14 in  . when i am 
running , and i have  ( say an application 
the program window ) , and i close the active application , 
is very slow .  . the part of the that is not is first , 
very  . this also happens when i an application .  . 

the card is as a than standard video card , but it 
does not have an chip on it. i am running at  . is this 
slow speed simply to be expected without an chip , or is there 
something else that is the system that i am of 

thanks. 

 ( you can mail to me directly if you wish , at 

from  ( juha liukkonen ) 
subject re please help identify this old card 
organization university of 
lines 29 

 ( mike simon ) writes 

in article ,  ( seng , speedy ) writes 
i have an old card  ( pc at bus ) that came out of a 
workstation .  . i'm trying to identify it in order to use it on a pc .  . 

the assembly number is 00 rev 2 and it is a 16 bit card , 
1985 .  . it has an as well as a connection .  . it has 
address for the , , , and via 
 . it also appears to have a processor on board , 
presumably for  . 

the chip appears to be an , a 48 pin  . is 
this chip an equivalent to the used in some cards there is also 
a pin chip , called a link 

i got two very similar sounding for cheap , too. their 
numbers were not series , but your description fits otherwise. they 
are 's aka plus cards. check out ftp . com . , there 
are drivers and programs for just about any and all 
cards. i concluded that my card was the after i their 
program for (  .  . passes . with flying ) ) 

anybody know of packet drivers for these cards under 2 .  .  . 


, aka 
university of , dept. of lost souls 
trust me , i know what i'm doing. hammer 

from  ( stig venaas ) 
subject re can t write to 
organization 
lines 31 

in article  ( andy nicola ) writes 

in a previous article , () says 

ok all you ! 
need answer quick . machine , 1 . 44 . unable to write to a 
machine . claims that is write protected , but it is not. 

note it 'll read 's with no problem. 

please e mail or post. 




if the is not an type , i.e. with the extra hole in the case 
opposite the normal write protect hole , the drive will not write to the 
 . you can a similar hole with whatever is or buy a small 
device , a square hole , for about 19 .  .  . see . the back pages of 
computer magazine for it. 

to be brief , make the hole any way you can or no writing ! 


andy 


of course you should be able to write a without 
making any holes .  . 



from  ( bill willis ) 
subject re help ! second drive 
organization engineering services , university 
lines 55 

in article  ( bill barnes ) writes 

recently my cousin got a second internal drive (a , 
i can look up the model number if it 's important ) and i 've been 
trying to help him it. i 've got a vested interest , since 
my machine 's and i have to use his until i get mine fixed. 
he already has a  ( again , i forget the model number 
but i can find out . ) . 

anyway , i ca n't seem to get the bloody thing up. i 've managed to get 
one or the other drive up  ( with the other disconnected ) , but not both 
at the same time whenever i try , the thing during 
never gets past the system test. the 's 
says it supports two drives i think i 've the 
correctly the power 's in properly i even learned about the 
master slave relationship that two are supposed to have  ( did n't 
know were into s m ! 8 ) and i think i the 
properly  ( the one is the master , the new one is the  . 

the only thing i can think of is maybe i'm doing the wrong. i 've 
tried several combinations 

master slave 
slave master 
master slave 

none of them worked .  . unfortunately , i ca n't think of any others. 

another possibility is that the one is already partitioned into 
two drives , c and d , and the asks for c drive and d 
drive setup info rather than drive 1 and drive 2 like most others 
i 've seen. could this be confusing things 

so , i need help ! the drive came of any , except for some 
info for the setup the has a little piece of paper 
about the size of an index card i the  ( it 's one 
of those with a at each end and the one in the middle , so 
it looks like a serial connection ) now i be lost ! 

many , many thanks in advance ! this is practically an emergency (i have 
two papers to do on this thing for monday ! ) ! help ! 


william 
 ( 301 ) voice  ( 301 ) fax 
disclaimer i do n't speak for and they do n't speak for me. 
i 've been told by our local computer that you ca n't do this unless you 
perform a low level format on your existing hard drive and set your system 
up for two hard drives from the beginning. i took him at his word , and i 
have not tried to find out any more about it , because i'm not going to back 
everything up just to add another  . if anyone knows for sure what the 
is , i would like to know also. thanks in advance also. 

bill 


from  ( lost cause ) 
subject connection machine 
organization institute of technology 
lines 19 
nntp posting host xx . au . 

all , 

i realise this has little to do with pc 's but it does have a lot to do 
with hardware .  .  .  .  . 

so , has of you heard of a computer called the connection machine .  . 
if so , could you e mail me any and all info you have , 
eg references , ideas etc. 

all help is appreciated. 

dreams 
l . cause . 


institute of technology 
music is like directing sounds , them into 
 .  . i wanted to link my music to places , 
and techniques .  . j . m . 

from  ( heikki haldre ) 
subject  ( q ) conner 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 6 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

can anybody send conner 
it has , and 4 , but i am more in its time out values , 
, etc. 

heikki internet 


from  ( scott wood ) 
subject western digital info needed 
organization university , rochester , michigan , u . s . a .  . 
lines 34 
nntp posting host edu . 

i was recently an older dec at work , and i have the option 
of adding an additional western digital hard drive to the machine .  . the 
existing drive is currently a western digital as well , and is working fine , 
but i do not have any documentation available for the master slave 
relationship necessary for a c d drive setup .  . 

the first drive is currently to dos 3 . but i am eventually 
going to both to dos v 5 . 0 . 

the drives themselves are both model number a 5 07 1991 
they are 4 head drives .  . a note to add is that there is no exact 
for these in my current , but it seems to work at a 
setting 17  ( 977 5 head , write pre , landing  . 
there are three pairs of on the back that i presume are 
for setting up the master slave .  . originally , the drive in the machine 
had none. currently , i was suggested to try the far right  ( looking at the 
back ) for master and the middle for the slave .  . 

when , the seems to puke the d drive .  . it does 
about three times on the second drive , but then gives the error. 
the problem is as simple as the drive not being , but not 
being a person who has ever had to actual format and drive , i 
would not even know how to do that. 

any and all help on this is great fully appreciated. if not , a number 
for western digital might just do as good ! 




over in michigan do n't no closed on 
, , , red , , , 
, english , ground 
anyway the last saturday this month .  . 

from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re vs 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 35 

in article  ( richard krehbiel ) writes 
can anyone explain in fairly simple terms why , if i get 2 , i might 
need an rather than an  . will suffer that 
much for a or so drive if i do n't have a drive or 
any help would be appreciated. 

so , when you 've got , you want to increase by 
increasing the amount of you do. 

one way is with or  . either of these make it 
possible for i o devices to move their data into and out of memory 
without the  . the alternative is for the to move 
the data .  . there are several interface cards that allow and 
 . 

how do you do on the 

, however , is defined by the standard at interface 
created for the ibm pc at , which requires the to move all the data 
, with no  . 

if we 're talking  ( at ) here , then you can only have 1 channel 
active at any one time , presumably data from a single device. 
so even though you can have at least 7 devices on a , explain how 
all 7 of those devices can to through a single card 
to the at at the same time. 

also , i'm still trying to track down a copy of ibm 's at reference book , 
but from their pc technical manual  ( page 2 93 ) 

the  ( fdd ) is on the i . o . and uses the system board 
direct memory access  ( dma ) for record data  . 
i expect to see something similar for the pc at  . 
so the low original pc card used and the pc at 
does n't ! ! that makes real sense. 

from  ( ted b. drude ) 
subject local service  ( was the infamous gateway 2000 video problem info requested ! ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization corporation , , al. 
lines 42 

in article greg writes 
in article ,  ( mike yang ) says 
so , by going through gateway , i save 13 . plus , i get 
technical support over the phone , free software  . 

have fun trying to get hold of technical support over the phone. at least 
you can walk right up to the and tell him what is wrong , and 
he has to fix it. 

how long does he have to take in fixing it does he have to use new 
parts when he it or can he used parts without your 
knowledge can he charge you for that should be under 
but he claims are due to improper on your part 

when it comes to local 

have fun getting good support .  . most of their are 
re , not trained , with a high rate .  . 

have fun getting in work done quickly and  . 

have fun getting out of work done , or even done 
period , unless you are on a paid service contract .  . 

having been both a service , and a service , at a 
and another computer place , i know what 
i'm talking about. 

i also know the local service that computer like 
to push when they 're selling .  . it 's that same old song that car 
having been singing for years buy from me and you 'll get good 
service .  . we always treat our right ! buy from my competition 
and you 'll be sorry if you need service .  . 

experienced mail order know that there are some mail order 
that give excellent service , including overnight replacement parts , 
on site calls , etc. there are probably some local that can give you 
good service , too. but if you think all local give good 
service , you are wrong. i have many to prove my point , 
but i'm sure there are others on the net can do a better job than i can. 



from  ( greg shaw ) 
subject re vs 
organization communications , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 39 

wrote 
 ( wayne smith ) writes 
what does a 200 400 5 drive cost 
since the is the only mac able to deal with s and hard drives start 
at i have no idea. 
for the mac i have the following these are all external 
15 
7 . 3 . 
5 . 63 . 
4 . 75 . 5 . 33 . 
4 . 67 . 4 . 90 . 
4 . 4 . 
( 3 . 4 . 31 . 
etc 

i thought you might want the latest 

as of 4 12 93 

could n't find one available. 



all above are quantum , low  ( 1 ) 3.5 drives 
240 

the last three are quantum 1 2 3.5 drives .  . 

bunch o stuff deleted 

came from the high end computer world with were the 
standard for the most part. 

hear , hear .  . 


you ca n't go against nature , because when you do , greg shaw 
go against nature , it 's part of nature too. 
love uunet ! ! com . ! shaw 

from  ( hj lu ) 
subject re possible hardware problems 
article i.d. 
organization washington state university ! 
lines 54 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( john f carr ) writes 

i'm running on an system , and i'm having what i think are 
hardware problems. it could be software , but i do n't see why i 'd be the 
only one having trouble .  . i 'd like some advice on how best to this. 

the when i try to build , i get and 
results. sometimes a  . o . file is not in valid a . out . format .  . the 
file gives me a valid  . sometimes the or core , 
but works fine when run again with the same input. the same 
source files with the same arguments gives slight differences in a few 
object files.  ( note that , unlike many other systems , does not put 
in object files so twice should give bit identical 
results . ) . 

i also have occasional corruption on my drive , but that 
could be caused by using development software .  . it could also be related to 
my problems  . the problems are not caused by 
problems i get the same results whether i do my work on an or 
 . 

i 've set the memory speed and write speed to the recommended values .  . 

recommended for what , dos that is a junk .  . 


i suspect the external , but i have no real evidence for this. 

the is a nice super with 256 write back and a 2 
66 processor .  . 

what i'm looking for 

. a system test program to run under dos or 

 . fire up to and at the 
same time running  . 


. suggestions about the cause of the problem 

bad memory , bad , bad  . 


. suggestions about how to the problem 


change wait state of  . 
turn off  . 
change speed 
 . 


h . j .  . 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject re vs 
distribution world 
lines 55 

in article ,  ( grubb ) says 

writes 
in article ,  ( grubb ) says 
in pc magazine april 27 , 1993 29 although is twice as as , 
20 than , and support up to 7 devices its acceptance  .  .  . has . 
long been by problems and  . 

i love it when magazine writers make stupid statements like that re 
 . where do they get those numbers i 'll list the actual 
ranges , which should convince anyone that such a 
statement is absurd 
i ranges from 0 s. 
ii ranges from 0 s. 
ranges from 0 8 . s. 
is always 1 . s  ( although there are some non standard versions ) 

by your own data the although is twice as fast as is correct 

 ( how is 0 40 twice 1 . 25 . do you just pick whatever setup that makes 
the correct ) 
even if you could make such a statement it would be meaningless unless 
you understood that and (i include and ata ) are 
completely different  ( esdi is device level , like  . 


with a 2 chip 1 can reach s which is indeed 
20 than 120 of 8 . 3 . is 9 . . all these facts have been 

great , you can compare two numbers  ( ata has several speed modes , by the 
way ) but what the article said was wrong. 

posted to this newsgroup in my mac ibm info available by ftp on 
aim . stanford . edu . 44 . 0 . in the info mac report as 
mac ibm compare version  . txt .  ( it should be but may still be there ) 

i would recommend people call the board and the 
if they are really interested in this stuff. 


part of this problem is both mac and ibm pc are about what 
is which .  . though it is well documented that the has a 2 chip 
an apple said it uses a fast 1 chip not at a s , 
s it does not. 1 is s and 
uses which is it seems that mac and ibm see 

something is missing there. ) anyway , i agree. there 's a lot of 
opportunity for like 2 which tells 
you nothing about the , whether it has wide support , etc. 

one reference for the 's 2 chip is 
 ( digital review , 21 , 1991  . 

what does it use a good chip (e . g .  . 53c710 ) 


from  ( george pandelios ) 
subject re help need for my compaq  . 
organization the software engineering institute 
lines 29 


in article ,  ( robert steuer ) writes 
my emergency group was given about 30 compaq 's 
from a local company as they were outdated .  . problem is though , it 
seems that the cannot be set without this 
 . 
we get this error on up 
162 system options not set  ( run setup ) 
insert diskette in drive a 

if someone has this , please e mail me. thank you ! 

robert m. amateur radio pa . usa . na . 
university internet 
system hill , nj 145 . 
computer operating system 2 2.0 why for less 


robert , 

you have probably solved your problem by now. anyway , if you can get your 
hands on plus  ( version 4 . 21 . , maybe others as well ) , it will let you write 
the compaq  . i know because i just did it. 

i was just about to search for such a when my brother in law 
fixed an old with it. you might try the ftp sites .  . 

george 


from  ( mark seltzer ) 
subject 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 12 

if anyone has any experience with the system i would 
be interested to hear your of it , and of in general. 

thank you. 

mark 




2 . mark , 28 , , , canada .  . 
2 . 10 . usenet gateway rose media 733 

from  ( paul yee ) 
subject re perfect 
nntp posting host eng . ca . 
organization communications research , university 
lines 55 

in article  ( doug adcock ) writes 
i 've been following the thread while waiting for 
mine to arrive in the mail .  . there seems to be a lot of 
about minor problems with the  . one 
article contained a comment that the owner called the 
and was told that his was within  ( 1 4 ) .  . 

that figure  ( 1 4 ) for image would seem to be a little high .  .  .  . 
on my the call for no greater than 12 . ) .  . 

well , my arrived last night and , sure enough , it has 
a very  . it 's not , but it 
is there and it is especially when the image does n't 
fill the entire screen. the fact that it is worse on the right 
side does n't help matters. 

what i'm trying to find out is if these minor 
are the norm or are most of their perfect i do n't want 
to send it back and get one with the same or an even worse 
problem. does the consider this kind of thing normal 
and their with less than perfect 

i ca n't speak for but as far as is concerned , they are 
to before leaving the central usa distribution point 
 ( ma ) for the eastern canadian market .  . now , here 's the key knows that 
the 15  are very sensitive to over 
 ( with all the , rough handling , and such ) and therefore 
expect and  ( at least in theory ) require that the local 
 ( not dealer ) have it at the local service centre  ( bull 
information systems in toronto ) before sale .  . this is the correct and 
probably only way of having any chance of receiving a perfect 
 ( the definition of perfect seems to depend on how one is , in my 
case quite ) .  . 

are other netters just living with these kind of 

i , for one , was not willing to accept what i considered a 
and , after two months of and direct contact with , 
finally received a satisfactorily  ( not perfect , imho , 
but a major improvement over what the and were trying 
convince me was normal ) .  . the short answer is no , do n't accept these 
as normal because for the one for the 
larger , one has a right to expect higher quality , and 
if you 're persistent , you 'll receive it. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
comments and opinions are mine not bnr 's 
doug 
bell northern research research triangle park , nc 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


regards , 
paul 


from  ( matt 2 5950 ) 
subject help with and 
organization national , , illinois 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 8 

help ! 
i'm trying to 3 . 05 . to work with a 
board. i can use ftp fine , but whenever i attempt to use , the 
machine with a and a green  . any ideas 

please e mail 



from  ( martin erzberger ) 
subject re for 
news software ibm 2  ( nr 2 ) 16 . by o .  . and r. 
lines 12 
nntp posting host 
reply to  ( martin erzberger ) 
organization university of , department of computer science 

in writes 
my home 6. i like the because it 's easy to run them 
in modes like , or at higher modes like 
 . 
oh yeah ! i just got my new yesterday  ( to replace my old 8515 ) , and 
i tried it with  . this mode is just great ! i can get four perfectly 
command on the ! and if i need more , i can go back to 
or even  . 
one thing i am wondering though why is n't there a file which contains 
all the up to now i have to change the pro . every 
time i want to switch , instead of simply going through the system of 2. 
regards , martin 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 44 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

writes 
in article ,  ( grubb ) says 
in pc magazine april 27 , 1993 29 although is twice as as , 
20 than , and support up to 7 devices its acceptance  .  .  . has . 
long been by problems and  . 

i love it when magazine writers make stupid statements like that re 
 . where do they get those numbers i 'll list the actual 
ranges , which should convince anyone that such a 
statement is absurd 
i ranges from 0 s. 
ii ranges from 0 s. 
ranges from 0 8 . s. 
is always 1 . s  ( although there are some non standard versions ) 
all this shows is that you do n't know much about  . 

1 with a 1 chip range is indeed 0 s 
and that is all you have right about 
1 with a 2 chip 4 s with s 8 bit 
note the increase in speed , the mac uses this version of 1 
so it does exist. some pc use this set up too. 
2 8 bit 1 mode 4 s with s 
2 16 bit wide or fast mode 8 s with s 
2 32 bit wide and fast 15 s with s 

by your own data the although is twice as fast as is correct 
with a 2 chip 1 can reach s which is indeed 
20 than 120 of 8 . 3 . is 9 . . all these facts have been 
posted to this newsgroup in my mac ibm info available by ftp on 
aim . stanford . edu . 44 . 0 . in the info mac report as 
mac ibm compare version  . txt .  ( it should be but may still be there ) 

part of this problem is both mac and ibm pc are about what 
is which .  . though it is well documented that the has a 2 chip 
an apple said it uses a fast 1 chip not at a s , 
s it does not. 1 is s and 
uses which is it seems that mac and ibm see 
1 interface and think  1  when it maybe a 1 interface driven 
in the machine by a 2 chip in 8 bit mode which is much 
then true 1 can go . 

do n't an article because you do n't understand what is going on. 
one reference for the 's 2 chip is 
 ( digital review , 21 , 1991  . 

from  ( the golden gryphon ) 
subject re , the and 
article i.d. 
organization open age , inc. 
lines 40 

de .  ( arnd burghardt ) writes 

hi folks , 

yesterday i visited the  ( hannover , germany ) , where was presenting 
the  ( 586 ) processor .  . they had four  ( in words 4 ) machines with this 
running .  . so they presented it nicely  ( unly by running picture shows ) , 
this i could do on a  . the promised it to be 
compatible to the , and i said i do n't believe. i showed him a one 
system  ( emergency , with to from disk ) , and said 
him me , this no , no glory ! a he decided no glory. 
he wo n't let anybody touch his holy , and not even a suspect  . 

i thought by myself  this is the coward of the day  and went back to earth. 

what we learn this technology is far from industrial , so you 
can expect this in your local computer at least in spring next 
year .  .  .  .  . 

only my  .  .  .  . 

yes only your 00 . 02 .  . here 's mine. 

if i were running at a new chip at a trade show , and had little to no real 
technical knowledge , i would n't let some stranger with a diskette my 
machine .  . if the machine is down too long people will not see my nice 
, and if this diskette is really something that will wipe 
the , or is loaded with a virus ! , i'm in deep trouble .  . 

no in their right mind would let you do this , unless they had 
specifically invited people to do so , and provided machines to do it with. 

we can we learn this technology will be from pc in may 1993 , 
and will be compatible .  . 


the golden 
the jewel of the american prison system. president bill 
clinton on living in the white house. 
the unix in the washington d . c .  . area 

from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject re the infamous gateway 2000 video problem info requested ! 
organization company research 
lines 32 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

greg wrote 
in article ,  ( mike yang ) says 
so , by going through gateway , i save 13 . plus , i get 
technical support over the phone , free software  . 

have fun trying to get hold of technical support over the phone. at least 
you can walk right up to the and tell him what is wrong , and 
he has to fix it. 

phone support is quick and from many mail order , but not so 
quick and not so from others  ( gateway  . but my experience 
with computer  ( which is significant ) has lead to the conclusion that 
sales and technical are forbidden to actually learn 
about the products they sell .  . talk about incompetent ! o.k. , so a few percent 
of their answers are correct , but those do n't even realize how stupid 
they are. ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . o.k.  .  .  . i . 'll down now .  .  .  .  . .... let me 
my  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

fact stores never provide a better value in terms of price per product .  . 

are desirable , however , to those people who are n't interested 
in learning about computers enough to make their own decisions. this is fine 
for example most of my education about , paper , , 
, etc. has come from sales  . i assume i must be an 
idiot .  . but i do n't care about those things. i do , however , care about my 
computer i.e. i demand features and , and i 'll be damned if i 'll 
pay some high school drop out on an over rated , over system 
and in the process be to his b . s .  . 

g . l .  . 

are generally so 

from  ( xiangxin ) 
subject re what is at speed 
organization university of arizona , tucson 
lines 22 

in article  ( wei hwu ) writes 
robert arbor . mi . wrote 

s there is one in the setup that says at  . i have 
s it set to the default of 4 , but was able to get it to work with 3. 
s the at 3 was something .  . i want to mess anything up 
s so i set it back to 4. also , the pc with it set at 2. 
s 
s what this do , and should i leave it at 4 

i think it 's impossible to let at operated too much more than 
 . i have a c t neat 20 mother board , and i set the at 
to 10 , but the stopped when it boot. so it 's correct 
that n means how many wait states. 

sm .  . 

i think it all depends on your and the cards you have in your system. your stopped probably because your ca n't handle the speed .  . i have a , i set my to 2.5 , that is close to  . i can gain increase on my video card and rate when i boost the speed .  . and my system work under this setting .  . and you know what , when i go to  ( 2(17mhz bus ) , my refuse to boot. 

just my 2  . 

jim 

from  ( shaw goh ) 
subject 1 . f d wanted 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 2 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

subject says it all. please email soon. 


from  ( robert yung ) 
subject how long do last 
article i.d. 
organization university 
lines 21 

well , my 2.5 year old no brand just 
bit the bullet .  . i pressed the power switch and a few seconds later , the power 
light went out with a pop .  . , it 's only been two and half years. 

how long would normal last i think the problem with my is 
the power switch .  .  .  . but the image was getting pretty dim anyway (i needed to 
have my all the way to the  .  . ) .  . and the did from 
time to time. is this normal  ( hehehe ) or do i just have the worst of luck 

question what do i do now buy a new one get it fixed save up for a 
really good one and get by with a cheap for now i rather save 
my money to my to 66 though .  .  .  . 

thanks ! 


what say 
extensive effort is being applied on a approach to the problem. 
what they really mean 
we just three new guys we 'll let them kick it around for a while. 
 ( robert ) bobby 

from  ( nicholas a. butzen ) 
subject re and 
organization program , nasa ames research center , field , ca 
lines 29 

they are actually 72 pin .  . they come in 4 , 8 , 16 , and 32 with soon 
if you are interested in or , i may be able to help. please call 
after 4 00 pdt .  . i may be interested in a trade .  . 




nasa it 's all done with 
in article ,  ( wailer at the of dawn ) writes 

in writes 

i have a 33 local system. it has 4 for 
that either have to use 4 or  . my question i just 
received a and it has 30  . the on the 
has at least 70 or so  . did i get the wrong 
or can i still use my , although not all the on the would 
be  . i have never encountered such a long for before. 
anyone have suggestions i ca n't get a hold of gateway yet. thanks 
please post to the net or 

yes you got the wrong  . you need 70 pin in 4 or 16 
flavors .  . 


the at the of dawn 
just who are you calling a head 
just a friend of the  . 
2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 31 , 61 , 89 , , , ,  .  .  .  . 

subject looking for replacement for a 
from  ( michael thurbin ) 
organization 1 , s 37 , 
lines 22 

hi ! 
i got hold of an old with model 45 

the hard is dead but the rest seems to work. i took the apart and found a very strange 
for i now try to replace .  . 

the is , model 1. 
has anyone any  . on this or suggestion where i can find it or a cheap replacement for it. 

thanks for your help. 

michael 

michael 



michael 
1 phone 46  ( 0)47021340 ) 
s 37 fax 46  ( 0)47048978 ) 



organization penn state university 
from 
subject help advice 
lines 11 

i own an which does all i want except run 1 game i want 
to buy .  . the game says it requires a with  . game tech .  . support 
says game will run on but uses a some which would 
make it run really slow  ( it 's a card game classic card games , 
are of game fictional card  . 

what can i do to speed up how this game would run , short of an 
 . co processor card 
my can run at 10  . any advice would be greatly appreciated. 



from 
subject re ca n't get to work w pro 
lines 25 
nntp posting host com . 
organization research labs 

in article ,  ( keith mancus ) writes 
i am unable to get my gateway 66 to run 
in  . i ordered a pro , and i'm pretty 
sure the is really there because i can select 
 . but no matter what i do with the program 
in the 's program group , remains out. 
i have 3 . 1 . , build 59 of the drivers , dos 5 . 0 .  . the 
drivers were by gateway , not by me , so perhaps there 's 
a file missing from the hard drive .  . it runs just fine. 
i did go into the and select  . sometimes 
it refuses  ( ghosted out ) , other time it accepts it , but when i hit 
ok and re enter , it 's back to  . at no time does 
it in the main  . help ! 


keith , 

i had a problem getting 256 (i was stuck with 16 ) even though 
the stuff said i was at 256 .  . i solved it by entering 
the  advanced  on the program and changing the 
 color  . sorry for the , i hope it helps some. 

btw , i have a and  . 

matt 

from  ( anisko ) 
subject re and 
reply to () 
distribution world 
organization corporation , 
lines 35 

in article  ( alan osborn ) writes 
in article ,  ( max brante ) writes .  .  .  . 
have anybody in converting a into a 
 . if so please let me know exactly how you did and what 
card you used. 
i wish i could help ! i posted a similar question about two weeks ago 
i got no response at all. i 've asked at my friendly  . 
i was told that it should be possible , but that they had no idea how 
it might be done. nor did they particularly care to investigate .  . 

please , if anyone has any suggestions , post them ! 


you might try asking on one of the sys . ibm .  .  ( the best one 
may be sys . ibm . pc .  . i say this because the conversion 
seems more a pc user wanting to use that , than 
an user who already can use the  ( unless maybe they 
want to really go wild converting the to , then 
using it as a with a ) 

as for cards , assuming that the can be 
modified adapted to handle , you should probably be able 
to use any card  ( at least with a around  . i have n't 
tried this , but that would be my guess .  .  .  . 

robert 



 .  .  . you . might want to price anyways it may be 
to go that route than to do the conversion besides , with the and 
beyond , will probably be the way to go .  .  .  . 




from  ( edward stasic ) 
subject re vs  ( here we go again .  .  .  .  . ) . 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 13 
nntp posting host ic . edu . 

in article  ( scott mace ) writes 

if you do n't what i said about and then pick 
up a back issue of pc week in they tested , and 
cards. 

do you recall which issue this was in i posted a message related to this a 
while back to an argument so that i could get the straight on 
this. this article would probably give me all the definitive answers that i 
want. 

ed 


from  ( paul davies ) 
subject help ! ! video problems. 
organization university of chemistry department 
lines 13 

i am using a ibm  ( 19 greysale ) with a  ( 1mb ) card .  . 

the looks great  ( windows ) at but total shit at  . 
there are lots of lines and the image is  . 

is there anything i can do. do you think it is the i know 
that it is at that but still. 

thanks for the help 

paul 



from  ( john a. slagel ) 
subject re for is slow .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 25 

writes 


i'm using to read my , and it is slow .  . something 
like 90 of my time is being spent reading the , and this 
is in a program that does nothing but  ( printf( ) and  . 

the problem is that a lot of programs trap ( like ) and 
so it is a slow as hell interface .  . can i read the in 
a reasonably safe fashion via and that is n't or 
specific 

the reads in values through a digital  . how 
you send a command to the to read it , then you time how long 
it takes for the to set a certain bit. this time 
is proportional to the position. obviously , since time 
is used as a position , you cannot get rid of this waste 
of time. if you wrote your own instead of the , it 
would speed it up some , but the time would still be there. 



john a. my old man used to tell me , before he left this 
j world , never buses or women you 
 ( 217 ) always get left behind. the marlboro man 

from  ( gregory g greene ) 
subject re vs 
organization university of new hampshire , nh 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 

' first off , with all these huge software and files that 
' they produce , may no longer be sufficient for me  ( 510  . 

seems to have broken this limit .  . they have 
and 's available. 
greg 



' mark disclaimer my opinions. not harris  
' 
' the lost los 

from 
subject an is example code available 
reply to  ( lloyd wood ) 
organization university , uk .  . 
lines 25 

world , 

i'm attempting to write an on an ibm pc for teaching 
purposes , so that first year eng students can  see  the workings 
of the as it performs logical , for 
example , being shown on a bit by bit basis  ( 1 and 1 1 ) so that the 
students can see that it 's not really a mystical process , but totally 
logical , for example. every should show some  working  , 
and not just alter memory contents .  . 

does anyone know of any freely available example code , 
in pascal or 2 , that would show me where i'm going wrong 
in writing my i'm using 's the 
as a reference the with the is 
for simple teaching purposes , i feel , and there 's no source code to help 
you roll your own. 

please email me if you can help , or if you know of somewhere more 
appropriate i should be posting this i rarely these groups. 

thanks , 

lloyd wood 



from 
subject 1 western digital no reply 
organization university of , computer services 
lines 3 

1 western digital 's voice mail 
can get information on many drives , or an 
actual person at the end. 

from  ( philip n .  . spiro ) 
subject re new for  , and misc .  . info 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 15 

clark wrote 

the to a is now  . 
 ( this will handle at a 
of 72  . 

not according to  . the will not do better than 
at  . btw , gateway told me the same thing. 








from  ( bob x629 ) 
subject q 
nntp posting host semi . harris . com . 
organization harris , research triangle park , nc 
keywords 
summary seeking advice experience with ,  . wrt 
lines 9 

i'm considering the of a 33 system to run  . 
the system has an brand  . anyone have any comments 
on 

thanks , 

bob 
systems phone  ( 919 ) 
harris , nc usa 

from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject flame 
article i.d. 
organization company research 
lines 5 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

i think it would be a great idea to have a new group created 

sys . ibm . pc . flame . 

anybody agree 

from  ( eric hung ) 
subject re help ! second drive 
nntp posting host 
organization corporation , city ca 
lines 37 


another possibility is that the one is already partitioned into 
two drives , c and d , and the asks for c drive and d 
drive setup info rather than drive 1 and drive 2 like most others 
i 've seen. could this be confusing things 

so , i need help ! the drive came of any , except for some 
info for the setup the has a little piece of paper 
about the size of an index card i the  ( it 's one 
of those with a at each end and the one in the middle , so 
it looks like a serial connection ) now i be lost ! 

many , many thanks in advance ! this is practically an emergency (i have 
two papers to do on this thing for monday ! ) ! help ! 


william 
 ( 301 ) voice  ( 301 ) fax 
disclaimer i do n't speak for and they do n't speak for me. 
i 've been told by our local computer that you ca n't do this unless you 
perform a low level format on your existing hard drive and set your system 
up for two hard drives from the beginning. i took him at his word , and i 
have not tried to find out any more about it , because i'm not going to back 
everything up just to add another  . if anyone knows for sure what the 
is , i would like to know also. thanks in advance also. 

bill 



if you bought your drive from a , you  t have to 
perform a low level format .  . even if the 1st is already partitioned 
into c and d , will automatically assign the 2 to d and 
change the 2nd partition of 1st drive to e. 

check the and setup , in particular the correct 
number of and 

from  ( andreas disteli ) 
subject 
nntp posting host 
organization dept. , federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , , 
lines 40 


re problems with 

as described the manual the following steps must be done for 
of the card .  . 


( call 
with 
with for x x 256 resolution 
interrupt ) 
lock 1  ( cr38 ) 
( for access to set ) 
lock 2  ( cr39 ) 
( for access to  . control and  . extension ) 
command group  ( cr40 ) 
( set bit 0 to 1 in  . ) 
advanced display functions 
( set bit 0 to 1 in function control ) 

after these the stack of the should be empty .  . 
when we watch the status  .  . status ) , we always get 
the value instead of  . 
full would mean  ( 8 places occupied ) , empty would mean 
 ( 0 places  . 

it is possible to read this in two different ways. 
both times we get different results. 



our machine is a 2 with and a local bus. 

any ideas 


, 
email 



from  ( john gayman ) 
subject re build 59 drivers good 
summary 
organization , , pa 
lines 22 

in article , writes 

how stable are the build 59 drivers are people having success 
and running with these 



i 've been using the drivers on a for several 
weeks with no problems. i'm running in and all software 
i 've run has worked fine. this includes many games and the based 
media encyclopedia , on which the full motion video works fine. 
i 'd recommend you give them a try. 


john 




john , 
uucp uunet ! ! john 
packet @ 

from  ( taka mizutani ) 
subject re 
organization university of 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 22 . fi . , 
22 . fi .  ( mika iisakkila ) wrote 

because of some contract , ibm is not allowed to sell its 
to third parties , so these are unlikely to become 
available in any non ibm machines .  . 

i saw in this months pc or pc world an ad for computers using ibm 's  . 
so i do n't think ibm is restricted in selling their , at least not 
anymore. a , even without would be great , 
especially with on board  . make it pin compatible , and you 
have the chip that dreams are made of ) 




from  ( guy dawson ) 
subject re 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 32 


in article ,  ( keith mancus ) writes 
in article ,  ( phil carmack ) writes 
 .  .  .  . there . are people who are driven enough to do it. 
if it were n't so people would n't buy  ( pentium(tm ) systems in the first 
place since they could buy a that would run their existing 
applications  . certainly a is in the same league as 
a  . 

is the anything more than a myth i have n't heard of it 
from any source that i trust , and i sure do n't see any for 
machines in computer  . is pretty busy with the 
right now i ca n't seem them introducing their own competition .  . 


ibm has a as a technology . 

this means here 's some neat technology . it is not 
a commitment to make such an item .  .  .  . 


keith 

black and , when your states and cities fall , 
when your back 's against the  .  .  .  . fish 

guy 


guy group  . 
tel uk 
tel ibm austin usa 

from  ( divya sundaram ) 
subject for a local  ( cached ) 
organization michigan state university , college of engineering 
lines 16 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ee . edu . 


hi , 

i would like to hear the net . wisdom . and net . opinions . on  . 
i would to get a card for my 66  . 
what are good options for this  ( preferably under  . it must also work 
under 2 and be compatible with  ( and other s  . 

please ..... 





live long , and then die a slow and horrible death .... 
what wanted to say .... 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
subject speed 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
lines 27 

b 
is it possible to plug in or into a saying 
wants 

you should n't have  . i have heard of machines having problems 
with than recommended memory , but never  . 

also , is it possible to plug in of different 
into the same ie 2 of and 2 of 6 
or something like that 

sure. i have 4 in one bank and 4 in the other ( i 
have a ) .  . i would n't recommend mixing within a bank , just to 
be on the safe side. 





. 2 . 0 . evaluation copy 
2 . w net , ann . arbor . mi . us . , 1 or 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

from  ( michael gerhards ) 
distribution world 
subject re western digital info needed 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization private system 
lines 12 

ks wrote 
my western digital also has three sets of on the back .  . i am using it with 
another hard drive as well and the for the were written right 
on the board of the drive .  .  .  .  .  . ma . 

the is used , if the other drive a conner  . 

no set drive is alone 
ma drive is master 
drive is slave 

michael 

michael 59 
germany voice 49 

from fr .  ( andrei yakovlev ) 
subject how to program a pc keyboard itself 
organization university of , france .  . 
lines 17 

hi all , 

i have heard that somewhere there exist , eg .  . one 
can program on the to show some specific characters , et . c .  . 
does it mean that there is some way of some non trivial data 
to the  ( as opposed to standard ... on off , ) . from 
inside the pc software i have not found any reference in the 
for the pc interface .  . anyone have any ideas  ( except that they 
may data by the sequences of the standard commands mentioned above , 
which would n't look too neat , besides , what would one do from an ) 

great thanks in advance , 

andrew .  . 




from  ( mark fraser ) 
subject limits help 
organization information services 
distribution na 
lines 23 

i would like advice on how to my to accept 
 ( currently on 4 and 3) 
 ( irq7 ) 
 ( irq5 ) 
sound card  ( no idea what to do can be set to any) 

using for up too many , and caused 
loss of communications with , and a few other 
problems. 

i could , i suppose , switch the 2 com devices , and 
the second on the super card , but i really want to 
have them both available. 

could the sound card use without up the works 

all replies and i only just to this 
newsgroup i assume there is an faq somewhere  ( rather , i'm 
sure someone will tell me about it .  .  .  . ) . 

thanks 
mark fraser 


from  ( mike wende ) 
subject re computers 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 19 

i have had a for a couple months. while the experience was not 
painless or perfect , it was way better than that by most  ( 7 
people i personally know) who have ordered  .  ( of course , 
several of the gateway were rewarded by getting free stuff as 
gateway ca n't seem to keep track of what it has or has n't sent 
out .  .  . b . ) 

i got the 1 card .  . the first one was , but 
replaced it with only minor hassles .  . this one works fine. i have n't 
noticed any problems in any of my applications .  . i also ordered it 
because of all the about the a few months ago. guess 
you can choose either state of the art stuff , or average 
stuff .  .  .  .  . 

for my particular  ( tower , supply , 3 , no 
, , etc . ) . the was slightly than gateway , 
austin , etc. but this can change from month to month .  . 

mike 

from  ( massimo rossi ) 
subject 
organization computer science  . university 
lines 16 

hi folks 
i have 2 first is an 
the second a  ( with a future domain no ram ) 
i 'd like to change my 2 and buy 
a new one with  ( at least 1mb ) that could 
all of them 
any 
how many 
and is it possible via or via sw select how divide 
the for 2  ( for example using dos that is 
about all on one i 'd like to reserve just to it) 

thanks to all 
write at 



from cat . uucp .  ( dave ) 
subject re run box w o cover 
organization rest area for weary 
lines 42 

 ( tim biernat ) writes 

i am interested in getting the of this group regarding 
extended operation of my with the cover removed 
from the  . there are a of reasons i am considering 
this , including quick access to during complex i o card 
 . 

my concern is that without a complete to direct the 
of air from the fan , hot may develop on my 
or elsewhere. my has air in the 
front of the right at level. these would be 
removed along with the top cover in this scenario , 
from the fan pretty useless. 

however , short periods in this mode do n't seem to things up 
too much , but my conclusions are far from scientific .  .  .  . 

tim 

i a 33 out of a box for more than a year with no 
major effects  ( yeah , no case at all , sitting on a bag ) 
other than the from the it pretty good. 
as for problems i bought a 12 14 fan and turned 
it on full and set the output directly on the  . 

i did finally get a case though and i am still running the parts 
with no ill effects .  . 

i also had no kids to things on the i had no cat leaving 
hair on the etc. etc. on and on .  .  .  .  . 

the two major concerns are keeping away and keeping the cool 
enjoy 

david 



china cat bbs c cat ! 
 ( 301)604 ) 1200 14 , 400  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! c cat ! david 


from  . wayne nichols ) 
subject help ! ten with 40  ( ami bios ) 
summary what error is by 10 at power up 
keywords 40 10 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 9 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 

i have a 40 with  . 
i have n't the little manual yet , 
and suddenly it 's giving me 10 when i turn the power on. 
it was working fine this morning , 
then gave all kinds of problems , in and outside it. 
after multiple , now it only gives 10 and there 

anybody know what 10 means 
thanks. 

from  ( tim ciceran ) 
subject re help ! 
organization university , st. ontario 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 29 

wrote 
could some one tell me what 

err 35 the chip is currently executing in virtual 
mode under the control 
of another program .  . you must turn off this other program in order 
to use dos to run in protected mode .  . 

means. 

this shows up on a express 33 whenever a program 
such as or is run. it has been tried under dr dos 
6 . 0 . , 5 . 0 . , and 4 . 01 .  . there is nothing , nada , in memory. 
nothing appears on a virus check .  . 

anybody 



this world and everything in it , richard ! every bit 
of it ! do you understand that 


i used to get this problem with when using the switch with 
in dos 5 . 0 .  . if you some to the problem 
should go away. 

 . 


from  ( haktan bulut ) 
subject is  . slow for 50 with 
keywords 
organization department of computer science , u of 
lines 27 

hi. i recently switched my old with a 50 .  . my computer 
is 

50  . 8 256  ( micronics 50mhz ) 

, 


when i use 0 . , i get a data 
about  . and sometimes  . is that good i thought 
that with i could get about  . 
somewhere in the manual for my i have read , that some host 
need to perform a low level format to the 
in that system , do i need that 
a guy i know , gets a about 1 . , and he has an and 
a 50 , how can a with the same system be 

is there anything that i can do to get a 


thanks. 

(e mail is preffered ) 



working on a sign .  .  .  .  .  .  . are we live or on 

subject help is my dying 
from  ( edwin ng ) 
organization university of , new  . 
lines 25 

hi. recently my has been acting up by taking about 
3 to warm up. 

previously , when i first start up my pc i can see all the 
messages  ( ram test  .  .  . but now i 've got to wait 
for about before the display shows anything and 
it starts up with a bright white  . this only happens 
when the system has been off for a long time  ( eg  . 
if it was only off for a couple of hours and then turned on 
again , the display works as normal like before. 

does anyone know what is causing this is it a warning that 
it will give up soon or just signs of  ( the system is a 
and its about 3  . i 've used systems at work for 
years and never seen this happen to a yet. 

i 'd really any help that you fellow netters can offer .  . 
thanks a lot. 





e e engineering , university of 
private , , new 

from  ( peter geltner ) 
subject re and 
organization santa college , santa , ca 
lines 23 

in article  ( nicholas vargish ) writes 
a  ( sb ) card is supposed to share 7 with 
 ( parallel interface 1 ) , and in general this scheme works well. 
however , sometimes there are conflicts it seemed to depend on the 
software more than anything else. origin games are especially 
about having the whole interrupt to themselves .  .  .  . ) 

my solution was to switch the interrupt to 5 , which is 
in contemporary computers  ( using 5 for the drives went out with 
the t put the in 5 if you have an , 
get a new computer  . this has been completely stable for 
me , and i use my to play  . and  . under (a free un x 
for or better pc machines ) with no problems , as 
well as games under dos .  .  .  . 

i also use 5. but there is one  . some games assume that 
the board is using 7 and have no way to this setting .  . i had 
trouble with some of the films games. 


peter administrative dean of computing 
santa college 
santa , california 

from  ( michael gerhards ) 
distribution world 
subject re help my pc ! 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization private system 
lines 15 

perry wrote 
 ( la   lada'nyi ) writes 

problem the machine  . at least that 's what i thought , but 
recently i discovered that the machine works , just the keyboard and 
the drops down from  ( 33mhz ) to standard  ( 16mhz ) mode .  . 

perhaps you hit the s  ( control s) try q .  . 
i know it does n't explain the rate drop .  .  .  . 

we had the same problem in our company .  . we changed the keyboard and 
after that , everything went fine. our told us that some of 
that series have a defect  . 

michael 

michael 59 
germany voice 49 

from  ( jim l ) 
subject re speed 
distribution world 
organization products division  ( an at t company) 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( kok yin ) writes 
robert arbor . mi . wrote 
b 
is it possible to plug in or into a saying 
wants 

you should n't have  . i have heard of machines having problems 
with than recommended memory , but never  . 


it should run without any trouble of course but why do you want to buy some 
and them with is more expensive than and 
furthermore your machine will run the speed 
you have  . just my 0 . thought .  .  .  .  . 



your machine will run at whatever the is to is set to 
 ( usually wait states ) regardless of what speed is  . no 
can sense the speed of the , unless you call 
failing as a sort of sense. this is how you can sometimes use 
in a machine .  . you either set the number of wait states to 
the slow  ( in which case , all memory will run at that 
rate ) or you reduce the wait states and take the chance that the 
will act like and you wo n't crash .  . 

putting in wo n't speed things up unless you tell the machine 
it has  . 

mixing fast and slow will not help you if you have to keep the 
down to slow  . 





mailer address is ! reply to 

james 1 
, co 

from  ( wally bass ) 
subject re vs 
organization systems , santa 
lines 20 
nntp posting host com . 

in article 
 ( wayne smith ) writes 
stuff deleted 
so the low original pc card used and the pc at 
does n't ! ! that makes real sense. 

actually , it does make a reasonable amount of sense. fixed 
are by the , and them to 
memory with a    ( or whatever the is called ) is 
quite efficient  ( single , goes as fast as the 
know how to use the  . since the was n't , 
the is likely a critical resource relative to , and 
it 's possible that interference would cause as much or more 
loss of  ( for 'computing' ) as does the   sequence .  . 

the , on the other hand , is not , so that using the 
for data  ( as was done on the pc jr , by the way ) really 
does stink .  . 

bass 

from  ( cs1442au ) 
subject dos 6 . 0 . question 
organization university of texas at arlington 
lines 17 

could some kind soul please email ma a response since i do n't have 
much time to read this group. 

question i have a hard drive which currently has 10 left. 
how much space will allow me to have i have a 50 w 4 
if it matters. 


thanks in advance 

jason 


jason brown 




from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re vs 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 

in article  ( greg shaw ) writes 
why do n't you start with the of the first 
you can quote till you 're blue in the face , but if they 
the capability , then what 's the point 

who said was necessary or are the only worth 
investing thousands of dollars (e . g .  . a new pc 's worth of money ) in . 

then do n't complain  ( maybe it was n't you) that was so expensive on 
pc 's because all we 've had until a year or two ago was the bus. 
 ( ie no one buys for because is slow ) 
are you saying that on an is not an automatic winner when 
compared to 

you did n't read to carefully .  . uses the same connection mechanism 
as standard  . if rate is limited by , whether it 's 
to , or matters not. 

i get different out of my when i change my speed .  . 

on mine , for one thing. out of the water , hands down. if 
has better , why is n't it used on workstations and file 


is just a variant of the old ibm at  .  ( at least that 's 
how it looks from a software point of  . it was never meant to be 
an all standard to be across different 
 . 

is there any argument that 
can  ( or ca n't ) data from the drive at least as fast as the 
drive is able to provide the data are versions of drives able 
to deliver higher to their interface  ( because 
of a higher , different arrangement of heads , etc ) 

given the original question  ( scsi used only as a single hard drive 
controller ) , is it then necessary to get a drive that will do 
at least 5 , maybe 10 for the choice to make any 
what does a 200 400 5 drive cost 

no , that 's the nice thing on a , can use both drives 
at once. i 've got unix loaded on one of my  ( along with windogs ) and the can only use one of the two drives at one time. it 's pretty  . 

if data is going from one drive to another , and if has the ability to 
perform that without the data having to go through the or main 
memory , then yes , that is the way to do it. as far as i know , 
ca n't do that. but when the wants data from both drives  ( data to be 
in main memory ) are you saying that can data from both drives 
at the same time and that data to main memory also at the 
same time working off 1 and 1 channel on an  ( or whatever ) 

i just bought at quantum 240 for my mac at home. i paid for it. i 
have n't seen drives  . 

a friend of mine just got a drive for 320 .  .  ( that 's 
million , or  . with the basic 20 interface , he gets 
close to 1 on his 20 .  . does your figure include a few 
hundred for drivers 

no , actually , we 're talking about being expensive simply because 
nobody did a common interface for the pc .  . if they had a common  ( read 
easily implemented ) method of adding to a pc  ( like as in a sun or 
mac ) , then you 'd find the connection medium of choice. 

so you 're saying that would have been the default interface type , 
considering that the vast majority of pc 's do n't have drives or 
or etc that most pc 's only have  ( or had ) 1 hard drive and 
run dos that hard drives cost a lot more than or drives 
at the time  ( and how common were drives under 80 4 to 10 years 
ago ) there 's a lot more than the lack of a common interface card that 
prevented from becoming the connection medium of choice. 

i wo n't argue that the standard makes for a good , well 
data , but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 

on a single drive , is more expensive .  . 

but on that point , is it this is what all this is about. do you 
get more for the money. for all the people that will only have 
a single hard drive in their system  ( regardless of the os ) will the 
choice really give them more than 

but , you bought your pc for 
, so , you 'd want to add more drives or whatever. 

true , but can also start on the , which means the option 
is there for drives or that run off their own cards. 

1. you can add many different types of devices and access them 
 . 

no argument. this is always held up to the first time as the 
best reason. but how many devices will the first time 
eventually acquire again does it make sense to go for a single 
hard drive system 

2. a device works on many different machines (i have a mac 
and a pc at home and moving hard drives between them is very nice 
with them up and away they go ) 

with all the postings on the i or ii , are you really sure that 
pc and apple hard drives are compatible and even if they are , 
is the data accessible from either machine  ( ie are there no 
or file table differences ) is it really plug n play 

3. devices work together better than devices .  . for 
instance , recently , i added an older connor 100 to a 
212  . the connor must be setup as the slave .  . it will 
work no other way. on , you set the address , check the 
, plug it in , and away it goes. 

so the c drive on the connor becomes a logical d drive to dos .  . is this 
really a problem 

4. i have a problem with 's exclusion i notice that 
the time it takes to switch from drive c to drive d is 
quite long as compared to the time it takes to switch from drive c 
to d on a system. under a , this is very 
, as many things can be going on at once. 

after having two drives in my system for temporary file , 
i have never seen any differences when switching between drives , nor 
have i ever seen any differences when files between drives or 
to from the same drive .  . 

one neat thing that i 've noticed lately (a fringe benefit ) has been the 
ability to add older  ( almost dead ) drives as on a system with 
little problem we 've got a bunch of almost dead 20 drives that i 've 
added to my pc .  . i 've now got the interface full , but , it does allow me to 
have 4 20 drives , 1 240 drive , 1 drive , and 1 drive 
all on the same card .  . 

that is nice  ( as long as the power supply can keep  . i do believe that 
there is the possibility for up to 4 drives on a pc .  . 

simply put , is than  . no to figure out. 

but what about  ( and expensive ) drivers to figure out at least 
does n't require drivers that precious conventional  ( dos ) memory. 

from  ( john c. lusth ) 
subject beats ! 
organization research center , n . c .  . 
lines 37 
nntp posting host com . 

hey folks .  . 

is it possible to short out your chip i think mine is  . 
these are the symptoms .  .  .  . 

i have to do the following to get my computer (a gateway 486dx33 ) 
to  .  .  . 

turn the power off 

the to the chip 

turn the power on 

get into setup upon getting the error 

set up the 

the setup with  ( phoenix bios ) 

ignore the diskette 0 seek error and press 

the computer then normally .  . both hard drives are accessible 
but the drives are not. 

i can back up over the network and such , but if i need to , 
i have to turn off the computer and repeat the steps above. if i 
simply alt del , the computer after the memory test. 

does this sound like the chip is can i buy another one 
where 

thank you for your kind attention .  . 

john 

john c. , research center , , nc , usa 

from doug  ( doug oke ) 
subject memory access time  ( was re and 4 sale ) 
organization mind link ! british , canada 
lines 41 

ben writes 

id 
posted mon , 12 apr 1993 10 41 0 

organization solutions , canberra act australia 

of 

by my way of thinking , michael , how could this memory be if it 
has a speed i did n't think needed a time. 

does n't that make it fast 

this chip would take to return valid data after being issued an address. 

time  ( none for , as you pointed out ) is a different , 
and is not generally referred to except by  . 

cheers , 
ben 


ben 
of engineering  ( computer engineering ) 
university of canberra 

email 
uucp  .  .  . ! uunet ! ! au . ! ! root 
3 


if a train station is where the train stops , what 's a workstation ! 



origin solutions canberra act australia (3 262 ) 



doug vancouver , canada doug 

from  ( eric m. sebastian ) 
subject question about 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 6 

i thought i read that was having some financial difficulties , 
is this true i ca n't seem to find the posting about it and was wondering 
if someone can this. 

thanks , 
eric 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 49 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

writes 
i ranges from 0 s. 
ii ranges from 0 s. 
ranges from 0 8 . s. 
is always 1 . s  ( although there are some non standard versions ) 
the above does not tell the proper story of 
i 8 bit 1 . s , s 
base .  . 
1 this requires a 2 chip and provides 
2 8 bit to 16 bit with 1  . 
2 4 s with s 8 bit , 8 s with s 16 bit , 
and 15 s with s 32 bit wide and fast . 16 bit can be 
wide or fast , it depends on how the is designed the will support 
fast but not wide when the is since the 
use a 1 non wide . 

the article in pc 4 27 93 29 was talking about 1 2 uses 
ten  ( 10 ) devices in it native mode , outside its native mode it a 
lot like 1  ( 7 devices , through put 

from your own 1 is indeed twice as the article pointed out 
as for 20 then that seems to be 8 bit 1 using a 2 
chip the mac uses a 2 chip for its 1 
and gets s through put for 8 bit 1 , far in excess of a 
normal 1 output 120 of 8 . 3 . is 9 . which is near 
the of a 1 machine with a 2 chip .  . 

the pc world seems to have 1 and 2 up. fact is 2 
allow near 2 through a 1 device 
as shown in the mac which some of the data of 1 vs 
or test. i agree that the article could have stated that the 20 
then came off a 1 device with a 2 chip .  . maybe it 
was there and the editor killed it because the article was dealing with 
1 not 2 and he did not understand the effect of a 1 device 
with a 2 chip .  . 
1 are limited to 5  . 1 devices with 2 
becoming common produce up to s in 8 bit mode and s in 16 bit 
mode the fast version , 1 cannot use wide . of 
the prime piece of is that 1 devices have 2 
or more accurately the machine does . this allows the best of both 
worlds high 2 and 1 costs full 2 hardware 
 ( port , electronic , etc ) is very expensive .  . it also creates 
a as to how fast 1 goes. 

when one knows the facts behind the numbers then one that the 
article knows what it is talking about even if it does not tell how the 
came about while is throwing out 
ranges that do n't tell since he 1 devices with 
2 his ranges tell even less then intended .  . 

from  ( steve la ) 
subject  .  .  . 
lines 10 
organization cal state long beach 
distribution usa 

i am looking for a to connect my  ( l r audio ) to 
the pro spectrum 16 sound card .  . thanks in advance for any  .  .  . 

steve 
steve la 
) ( ) ) ) network 
) ) 
( ) ) )  ( 310 ) 
university long beach ,  . long beach , ca 


from  ( michael gerhards ) 
distribution world 
subject re help ! ten with 40  ( ami bios ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization private system 
lines 9 

g. wayne wrote 
i have a 40 with  . 
 .  .  . 
after multiple , now it only gives 10 and there 
referring to the manual of my with , 10 are a 
 read write error  , if the system stops after these 
 . if the system continues , it is a  keyboard  . 

michael 

michael 59 
germany voice 49 

from  ( cavalier ) 
subject help needed 
organization university of 
lines 128 
nntp posting host seas . edu . 

hello. i hope somebody out here can help me. i am currently working 
on a project where i am trying to communicate from an ibm with 
phoenix , using c , to a board that i made with an 
with chip .  . the board works fine with the command and 
terminal mode of , but there seems to be something wrong 
with the or used when i try c . i need to 
access the i built using c , because i have a of c 
code that i will be using to perform calculations and that 
will be very difficult to code in assembly language for the  . 

i have included the assembly code that i am running and the c code 
that i am trying to use. if anyone can show me something that i 
am doing blatantly incorrectly or that i am missing because of my lack 
of knowledge about rs 232 serial communications , please e mail me. 
i wrote the assembly language to wait for a character to be received and 
then to check it against the character , if a is received , 
the will indicate this. two c programs that i have written do 
nothing , but set up com 2 and send the character. one uses 
the  ( bioscom( ) function in h . the other uses the software interrupt 
 ( int86( ) function in dos . h .  . i have checked the rate ( ) 
the ( none ) the stop bits ( 1 ) the character length ( 8 bits ) 
and the interrupt calls for ( ) .  . currently , i am at a loss as 
to what may be wrong. any hardware out there want to comment 


thanks alot , 
de jesus 





command command on 
a on 
high 8 bits of 
low 8 bits of 
data 
command 

org 
a , set low bits 

a , set high bits 

a , start a 
command 

a , display 11 on 7 segment 


a , clear command 



a , internally 

remove extraneous data 
a , for 8 data bits , 
no , 1 stop bit , 
a , and receive 


read status 
is 
no , loop 

read data character 
' ' is character 
no , loop 

a , character received , 
display 22 on 7 segment 

end 

c using  ( bioscom( ) 

include h . 
include h . 
include h . 

define 0 
define send 1 
define receive 2 
define status 3 

define 1 


 ( main( ) 




 ( bioscom , , ) 
 ( printf 2 n ) 

 ( while ! (  ( bioscom status , 0 , ) ) ) 

' ' 
 ( bioscom send , , ) 
 ( printf sent start character n ) 



c using  ( int86( ) 

include h . 
include h . 
include dos . h . 
include h . 

 ( main( ) 

union 

h . ah . 
h . al . 
x . 
 ( int86 , , ) 
 ( printf n ) 

h . ah . 
h . al . 
x . 
 ( int86 , , ) 
 ( printf sent start character n ) 


from  ( volkert ) 
subject re 50 vs 50 
organization university , , the 
nntp posting host 
lines 19 


anonymous , 

i saw a posting about the choice between 50 and a 50 .  . 
i was wondering although a 50 is because of the path to it 's 
external , should n't the choice be the 50 as that one can be 
made to work properly with a local i mean , speed is one thing , 
but all your speed will be during video i o , so just get that 
 .  .  . 
i'm willing to speculate that the 50 with local will be 2 4 times 
as fast as the 50 and probably as expensive  ( or cheap ) ! 

regards , 

name j v o o 
address 4 

holland e mail 


from 
subject  ( q ) (i . e .  . 2 or more hard drives ) 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 20 

please response directly to me 
by email. if there are a sufficient number of interesting 
responses , i will post a summary  ( on april 24 or  . 

i have through the mass of posting , but 
i missed any answers to a question posted early on 

has anyone  ( successfully ) put both and hard drives 
on the same system 

i am particularly interested in having the as the drive .  . 

for those who have managed this feat , i would appreciate 
a bit more information , such as what drives , which , 
and  ( if possible ) what 
 ( plus any other relevant info . ) .  . 

thanks in advance , 
robert 
all flames will be on my drive 

from  ( max brante ) 
subject and 
organization department of scientific computing , university 
lines 12 

have anybody in converting a into a 
 . if so please let me know exactly how you did and what 
card you used. 

thanx 


l l ( ) 
l l l l l 
l l l  ( l ( ) l f r 
l l l l l  ( l ) 


from  ( buddy christyono ) 
subject summary gold v 6 . 0 . 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 

hi netters , 

as promised , here are the summary of opinions on gold v . 6 . 0 .  . 
people seem to be quite happy with the product .  . there is no much of 
opinion on how good it is compared to the industry leader 3 . 0 .  . 
 ( superstor pro is not considered since it is than although 
just as reliable magazine 's conclusion ) ) , so it 's hard to make 
any decision to go with or with gold 0 .  . 
however , it seems that at 39 . , it is quite a buy .  . 

buddy 


summary of replies 

buddy , 

i do not have gold 6 . 0 . experience. i just ordered it. i currently have 
2 . 3 .  ( the last  . i am very pleased with its  . 

here is my suggestion .  .  .  . 

1 ) if you do not have any software currently , i would go with 
dos 6 . 0 . 's  . all the discussion on the net indicates that 
for 50 you get the  ( built into the os ) , plus the other 
that you would pay way more than 50 for. besides , you 
are now at 0 .  ( whatever that means .  .  . ) . 

2 ) if you have 2 . 3 . already  ( like i do ) , the cost is 29 . 
for the  . after thinking about it and asking the net , i 
decided that i could not go wrong with the update cost ! 
i have never suffered from of  . i have a with 
large sw in both and format .  . it 
works great .  . not  . i think the a is better than b 
arguements are a lot of bunk .  .  .  . they are all comparable in  . 
i am looking forward to being able to the sw .  . that 
has been an  . 

3) if you have , et . al .  . currently , i would not see it worth the 
effort to  . 

just my  . 02 . ... 

regards , 
mark 

buddy , 

i got the same mailer .  . about 2 weeks ago i got and it. the 
documentation was , in my opinion , easy to follow. i used the automatic 
 ( not the custom ) and everything went  . 

there were some specific instructions on a file for dealing with 
 . has an  ( unlike if you need it. my system has a 
hard drive .  . before i had free. after i had 
free. pretty good statistics considering that my permanent 
file stayed on the portion  ( along with other drivers and 
 . 

i have had no problems whatsoever. i have noticed no  ( other than it 
takes a little longer to boot ) either in or dos .  . so far i am a very 
happy  . 

bruce 

bruce f. never know when you 're going to 
need a good piece of  . 
software technical support engineer 
evans computer corp .  . my mail , my opinions 


i have been using gold for a little more than a month on 
a , drive , running dos in enhanced 
mode .  . 
i some and concluded that the speed of a drive 
with a drive read is about equal to the bare drive without a  . 
i have no about reliability .  . it was very easy to  . 
the only problem i had was with 3 d. i assumed the game 
was trying to dos access and moved the game to the non 
of the  . since then the game has never given me a problem. 
there was never any damage to the drive .  . 
for the whole has held 
around 1 . 8 . 1. this is lower than expected but about 20  ( size ) of my files 
are image files and some large zip files. 

if you have any more specific questions let me know. 
dan 


i bought it an have been happy with it. i use it on both and 40 
drives .  . i was using before gold came out. that is the 
same product 6 . 0 . is with. no problems with either 
product .  . 


ron 

end of messages 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject re why local 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( guy dawson ) writes 
how about an card move the data into the card at 
130 odd s and then wait for it to onto the net at 
just over s. 
how about s for 64 bit or s for apple 's 
of  ( byte 10 132 ) is interesting in that 
it allows with other card so that the s can be divided 
among many cards at the same time 90 and are about the only card 
able to do anything with that kind of speed and even 90 
around at s with a mode s. 
also called channel 
ibm 's 16 and 32 bit allows use of more than one in a computer 
 ( dct ) and anything can talk to anything , as fast as the two components 
involved can handle it. never took off because it was incompatible with 
and  . to be interface of ibm  ( carl  . 

ida ca n't handle speed never mind 's speed so it is out. 
along at mac ii s mode s 
so and are down by it. 
is a competing interface that is still in development .  . 

from () 
subject problem down with no reason 
keywords , , 
organization university of , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 53 

please help if you can with the following strange problem 

the drive in my would from time to 
time , for no obvious reason spin down completely  ( one can 
tell by the sound ) and simply refuse to be  . dos 
with an error  ( drive d cannot be or 
something the  . unfortunately , i cannot just reproduce 
the error. sometimes it occurs more often , sometimes 
less. the last time it happened was when i wanted to 
demonstrate some software to a  . 
i would like to know if anybody has experienced similar 
problems. i do n't like to take the thing to the 
only to be told that there 's nothing wrong with it. i 
checked the other post in this group about , and 
i do n't seem to be the only one who has problems. however , 
no one describes the same problem , and i also have a 
different  . 

thanx in advance for any e help. 

peter 

list of equipment 
computer 33 , 
master 
ii hard drive 
reader  ( problem remains with removed) 
card 

sys . 
files 30 
device c dos 
device c sys . 
device c system sys . 
device c system sys . d 
dos high 
country , , c dos country . sys . 
device c dos display . sys . con  ( ega , , 1 ) 


c sys . 
path c c dos 
set c dos 
mode con prepare  ( 437 ) c dos 
mode con select 
, , c dos keyboard . sys . 
c system d l d v 


peter schneider 
e mail 
phone  ( 41 1 ) 47 
fax  ( 41 1 ) 

from () 
subject experience anyone 
organization brown university , island usa 
lines 29 
nntp posting host brown . edu . 
summary , , 
x news software via post v1 . 0 . 

after a rough start a system  ( see earlier post ) , i'm trying 
again. i'm looking at the following system offered by 

w , 
3 32 bit local , 3 16 bit , 1 8 bit 
1.2 1 . 44 . drives 
hard drive  ( 15 ms ) w 
32 bit local video card w x ni (i think it 's an 
card ) 
14 ni x 
keyboard 
200 power supply 
3 . 1 . , , dos 6 . 0 . 
3 years limited 
1 year on site service 

i'm probably going to add the for a 15 flat digital , and 
will also want to go for at least 8 (  . 

has anyone bought from , particularly a system like the one 
i'm considering .  . i'm especially interested in their and service .  . 
can anyone recommend other who offer similar , with support , 
and comparable (i see just bit it .  .  . ) .  . 
thanks in advance , 

toby 


brown university 

from  ( darryl okahata ) 
subject re problem with and drive 
reply to 
organization center for 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 2 . 
lines 

ron wrote 

i 've just replaced my existing with an , 
and am now having trouble from a 250 drive .  . 

here 's a document that i wrote some time back .  . it 's slightly 
out of date , now that dos 6 has been released , but much of it is still 
useful. 


internet 

disclaimer this message is the author 's personal opinion and does not 
constitute the support , opinion or policy of or of the 
little green men that have been following him all day. 


id txt . 1 . 8 . 1993 01 25 00 55 08 
hints and for the 


this document contains hints and for getting the 
to work with various hardware and software 
 . they are based upon my experiences with an 
, and will , , help others. however , note that i 
cannot that the following will really help you  ( it works for 
me ) , and the information in this document could possibly cause you to 
lose some or all of your files on your hard  . 

important ! back up the entire contents of your hard before 
trying anything based upon information in this document .  . 

1993 , by  . this document may be freely 
copied for personal use only , and may not be in a for profit 
publication without the consent of the author. please note that i have 
no connection with other than as a customer .  . 

covered in this document 

3 . 1 . enhanced mode 
based devices 
sound cards 
info 

please note that parts of this document contain technical , and 
sometimes , descriptions of problems. 

for reference 

technical support  ( 800 ) 
bbs  ( 2400 9600 )  ( 408 ) 

please send comments , corrections , etc. via email to me 

compuserve , 
internet 


3 . 1 . enhanced mode 

the 3 . 1 . program should automatically dos 
and for use with the  . however , just in case 
something went wrong , i'm going to describe some of the changes needed 
to get 3 . 1 . working with the  . also , you may have noticed 
that 3 . 1 . makes your pc run much , even when 
you 're not running methods of speeding it up are discussed in 
the section called , 3 . 1 . runs . 




the program the to your 
sys . and files. if you follow the instructions , 
you 'll notice that you 'll need to use double with 
 ( this is the default  . you 'll also notice that your system runs 
much , much in both and  . see the section 
called , 3 . 1 . runs , for some ways of speeding your system 
up. 




to get the to work with , make sure that the 
section of the system . file contains the entry 

off 

i believe that the program automatically this entry 
to system . , but i'm not sure. if this does n't work for you , you 
might want to try adding some more lines 

off 
false 


 ( you probably do n't need the above lines , though . ) . the 
entry is used to support for memory 
like  ( only needed if you use such  . 


3 . 1 . runs 

once you do get 3 . 1 . running with the , chances are that 
your system is running much than before. if it 's not , it 's 
probably because 

1. you happen to be using sys . version 3 . 1 . in your 
sys . file. this appears to be a 
solution .  . 

2. you are very lucky .  . whether your luck will hold out remains to 
be seen .... 

if your system is running much than before , this is almost 
definitely caused by with double  . according to the 
documentation , and the technical note 
( double required with sys . ) , you must use 
with double enabled .  . while this works , it really 
down your pc i once that this my pc down by a 
factor of 5  . as i consider this unacceptable , i looked for other 
solutions. 

unfortunately , you cannot just double  . if you 
do , 3 . 1 . in enhanced mode will not work , and you might even 
destroy the contents of your hard by trying to run 3 . 1 .  . 
what you can do is one of the following 

1. use other drivers that provide double  . it is my 
opinion that the in is caused 
either by horribly inefficient double , or by a bug in 
 . 

2. use a that provides services ( stands for 
virtual services ) .  . this is a standard , which is supported 
by 3 . 1 . , that allows  ( like 
the 1542 ) to work with  . 

after trashing my hard countless times , i found the following 
solutions , none of which require using  ( note , however , that i 
am now getting occasional errors , which are probably not caused 
by these solutions , but might be see below) .  . while the following 
does not require , using some kind of utility is 
strongly recommended , as this makes run much , much 

1. if you do not have the sys . , or you do not need 
functions  ( for controlling a , drive , more than two 
physical hard , etc . ) . , you can add the sys . to your 
sys . file , e.g. 

c sys . 

 ( windows needs the option . ) . this must be loaded into 
low memory  ( it cannot be loaded into high memory ) , and it 
about 16  . as of 1992 , the sys . could be 
obtained from the bbs at  ( 408 )  ( hopefully , it 's 
still  . 

2. if you need functions and have the sys . , version 
3 . 0 . or 3 . , you can use both the sys . and sys . drivers 
in your sys . file , e.g. 

c sys . 
c sys . 

amazingly enough , the sys . can also be loaded high 
 ( assuming you have dos 5 . i would have thought that this would 
crash my system , but it does n't .  . i asked 's technical support 
about this , and they said that sys . high should be fine 
as long as sys . is loaded low. 

on my system , not using sys . with 3 . would 
cause 3 . 1 . to crash upon or 
, with the additional result of a corrupted  ( some of my 
c  . files would be  . for me , these 
usually occurred while making a different program from 
the default shell , and vice  . this is the reason 
sys . may be necessary. 

i have absolutely no idea if sys . is necessary with versions of 
earlier than 3 . 0 .  . 

note that many people can use 3 . 0 . or 3 . without 
sys . they do not seem to have any problems at all. i consider 
these people lucky .  . others , like me , have had all sorts of problems. 

3. in my opinion , the best , but not necessarily the easiest , solution is 
to to 3 . 1 .  . the sys . is no longer 
needed .  . unfortunately , while you could get previous 
from the bbs , the 3 . 1 . is not 
available from the bbs .  . as far as i know , there are only 
three ways to get a copy 

you can buy the new  ( as of 1992) 
, which supposedly includes 3 . 1 . as well as other 
drivers , such as drivers .  . i believe the list price is 
around 75 .  . 

if you already have a copy of an older version of , you 
can supposedly contact to it to for 
around 30 .  . 

a copy of 3 . 1 . is included in central point pc tools 8 . 0 . 
for  . note that the documentation and are in 
different  . note further that only is 
included the drivers and drivers to support more than two 
hard are not included. this is where i obtained my copy 
of 3 . 1 .  . 

note , however , that i am now getting occasional errors with 
 . in all probability , hardware in my pc is causing 
this , as i my just after i found the above 
solutions. however , because these errors occur only during 
, there is a very small , but definite , possibility that the 
errors are related  ( for example , changing the on off 
for certain might cause this) .  . i 've run various 
memory for hours at a time , and these have found no 
problems. this problem is probably caused by memory with marginal 
requirements , which cause errors during 
 ( this is why the memory did n't find any problems the problems 
show up only under i o) .  . however , i'm mentioning this just in case 
it is n't a hardware problem. 


based devices 

there are two possible problems with using the with a 
based device , such as the memory 
systems 250 

1. can take a very long time. the drive 
constantly starts , stops , starts , stops , etc. 

2. may be , or too many errors. 
 ( this problem might be caused by hardware on my  . 
however , i 've heard of other people having similar problems , and so 
i'm mentioning this just in case it is not a hardware problem on my 
) . 


take a long time 

if you have a based device , you may 
have to the on off for best 
results when using the drive .  . normally , while doing a 
or , the drive should be continuously running , with 
only an occasional  . however , the default on the 
may cause the drive to start and stop , 
start and stop , every few seconds .  . this causes wear to the 
and drive  ( however , note that a head or a 
drive can also cause this make sure your heads are  . 
this also causes the or to take much , much longer 
than necessary. 

the problem here is that these use the to 
data in memory to from the drive , and the uses 
to data in memory to from the hard  . the needs 
to feed data to the drive at a certain rate if the drive is 
not fed data quickly enough by the , the drive stops , 
a bit , and  ( once enough data is eventually fed to it) .  . 
the default on the  ( which is really timing ) is 
too large . for example , when a is done , data has to be 
transferred from a hard to memory , and then from memory to the 
tape. because the default on the the memory too 
much  ( too much time is spent data from a hard to 
memory ) , not enough time is spent data from memory to the 
drive .  . as a result , the drive constantly starts and stops , 
because data is not fed to it quickly enough. 

the solution is to change the 's on off  . the 
default setting is 11 on , and 5 off. 
the on needs to be lowered to 2 4  . this can 
be done in one of two ways 

if you have , you can use the n option. for example , i use 
a on of 4 , which means that i use the 
following line in my sys . file 

device c sys . 

note that there is no space between the n and the 4 . 

if you do n't have , your only recourse is to try to find a 
program called , which is very difficult to find .  . the 
reason is that , for reasons of their own , does not seem to 
want this widely  . i once asked someone who worked for 
, and they asked me to not it anywhere. if you have 
anonymous ftp access to the internet , you could try using to 
hunt down a copy i believe that there are a couple of sites that have 
it. if you do find a copy , you run it like so 

n 4 

this the on to 4  . running 
without any arguments the back to the 
 . 

note that it seems that you cannot use if you use 
my system if was loaded .  . i 
could use with sys . , however. 

do not lower the on below 2 , or increase it 
above 11  . if you lower it too low , the hard 
will suddenly drop your system will feel  . for me , 4 
works fine. this value may work fine for you , or you may 
have to it a little. 

once you 've lowered the on , and 
should run  . 

also , do not experiment with the on off times  ( with the other 
options that i have intentionally not described ) , unless you know what 
you are doing. bad combinations can cause errors and worse , by 
memory  . 

a program called exists on the bbs .  . unless 
this has been since i last checked  ( which has been a while ) , 
this is a self archive containing a file and a couple 
of other files. this file was supposed to allow one to set the 
on off times for the and others. however , when i tried 
running this program with my , my system  . at the time , i 
was running sys . , and i did n't check to see if there was a 
conflict with it. maybe this old program works only with the , 
although the say that it works with the 


or too many errors 

this problem may or may not exist. although it existed on my 
system , a hardware problem just on my particular could cause it. 
however , i 've heard of other people having similar problems , and so i'm 
mentioning this just in case it is n't a hardware problem just on my 
 . 

symptoms of this problem , which even after cleaning the 
head 

1. backing up to detected errors , 
resulting in an  . 

2. works , but the compare fails .  . 

3. the drive starts , stops , starts , stops , etc. much too often. 
unlike the above mentioned problem ( take a 
long time ) , where the drive starts and stops every few seconds , 
this kind of starting stopping occurs every few 10 20 seconds or so. 

4. plus 3 . 1 . does not find see any devices .  . other 
programs , like central point and the software 
 ( assuming that you have a 250 drive ) can find see the 
drive , but plus 3 . 1 . cannot .  . 

5. too many read errors. 

although i do not know what is causing this problem , i discovered 
that using a different solves it. a few months ago , i 
my , which contained an integrated 
 . as i already had a on the , i 
initially the  . after a while , i 
decided to try the and using the one on 
the  . when i did this , the drive (a 250 ) 
reliability increased , and plus 3 . 1 . was suddenly 
able to find and use the drive .  . 

i do n't know if this was caused by a hardware problem on my  . 
on the one hand , the drives worked great when they were attached 
to the , which seems to say that there was nothing wrong with the 
 . on the other hand , the drive did n't work well attached to 
the , but it did work when attached to a different 
this could be an indication of a hardware problem on my 
 . i did change drive , and so it is conceivable that 
the problem was in the  . i do n't know what the cause really is 
however , if you 're having similar problems , you might want to consider 
trying a new  . 


sound cards 

many popular sound cards can play or record sound , and 
this is typically done using  . like the drive , the 
's can conflict with the sound card  . unlike that of the 
, this conflict usually manifests itself as a error 
 ( your system with a error  . what happens is 
that , data is being transferred so quickly by the sound card and the 
, memory cannot occur quickly enough , which causes a 
error. usually , getting a error means that there is a 
hardware problem with your system in this case , however , the 
error is not a of bad hardware .  . 

i 've found that such errors typically occur while recording 
sound , and the chances of such errors increase as you increase 
the recording fidelity (e . g .  . , higher rate , recording in stereo , 
recording using 16 bits instead of 8 , etc . ) .  . 

like the drive solution , the solution here is to lower the 
's on  . see the section on drives for 
information on how this is done. note , however , that this may or may 
not solve the problem it may only reduce the probability of a 
error. the software used to record sound can greatly affect 
this problem (i . e .  . , some software is  . , the 
speed of your hard , and the amount of can also 
affect this. 


info 

this section contains hints , , and  . much 
of it is merely information that i 've heard or read about , and have not 
verified .  . i believe that the following information is correct , but i'm 
not sure. use it at your own risk. 

with 6 . 00 . , 6 . 01 . , and 6 . 02 . , you need to the 
(e . g .  . , 2 ) , unless you are using the  . 
if you do n't , will crash at  . although the 
manual mentions this , the program does not seem to detect that 
a is present and automatically add this option to the 
command line  ( at least , this occurred with the 6 . 00 . 
program i have n't tested any other  . earlier versions of 
probably need this , but i'm not sure (i 've never used a 
version earlier than 6 .  . 

if you use , you do not need to give the  . 

some or all versions of the do not support hard over one 
in size. to support hard with over , you 
need to get a new from  . i'm not sure if this is 
still true of the latest being sold by  . 

to connect a drive to the , you need a drive and 
some drivers .  . note that some drives have 
 ( non scsi ) these drives cannot be used with the  . you have three 
choices for drivers (i have no idea how well the following 
solutions work , or even if they work the following is 
information ) 

1. you can buy 's , which lists for 
something like 75 .  . if you already have older drivers , 
you can supposedly to for around 30 .  . contact 
for details. the supposedly contains 
everything that you need. 

2. you can buy the ! , which is made by the 
same people that make ! this contains 
drivers , drivers , worm drivers , etc. i do not know 
the list price , but i 've seen this sold for around 
80 90 .  . note that ! does not come with the 
, which is needed .  . if you do not already have , 
you may be better off getting 's instead. 

3. this method is , as the following drivers have been 
by 's , but i'm mentioning it in 
case someone already has these drivers .  . you can use the 
drivers in the  ( aspi4dos ) and the 
 ( aspi  . you will have to get a copy of 
(a high level driver ) , if it is not included in 
the , but this is available from several 
 . 

to use a drive with the , you need software that knows 
how to talk to a drive .  . software that i 've heard about are 
 ( again , like the above section on drives , i have no idea how 
well the following solutions work , or even if they work the 
following is information ) 

1. central point pc tools 8 . 0 . for supposedly supports a large 
number of drives .  . it comes with drivers 
 ( aspi4dos 3 . as well as central point  . 

2. the ! contains a 
program  ( see the above section on drives for more 
 . however , note that ! does not come with , but 
requires ,  . 

i 've seen that sell the in three 

1. with hard  . 
2. w and drivers .  . 
3. w , drivers , and 
! drivers programs. 

i imagine that now the in a fourth 

4. w and drivers  ( including 
 . 

those people who use unix might be interested in a version of 
for that talks to a drive via the  ( you 
need this before you can use this  . i 've never used 
this version of , but i 've heard that it works (i do n't know 
how well , though) .  . if you have anonymous ftp access to the internet , 
a copy can be found on army . and sites 


zip . for drives , 
zip . for relative to 1 . 10 . 
zip . for for , 

i have no idea if a copy can be found on compuserve might 
have it , if any forum does. 

as far as is concerned , the and the are 
the same with , the should work as well as the  . 
however , the hardware for these two is not 100 identical , and 
there is at least one  ( non msdos ) program that initially did not work 
with a , but did work with a  ( bsd386 a version of 
 . 

in case anyone 's curious , here 's an edited copy of my sys . file 

files 40 
40 
break on 
10 , 256 
device c sys sys . d 
device c sys . on 32 m x 
dos high , 
c sys sys . 
c dos 
shell c dos command . com . p 

note that i'm using and 3 . 1 .  . if i were using 
3 . 0 . or 3 . , i 'd probably have to use a sys . that looked like 

files 40 
40 
break on 
10 , 256 
device c sys sys . d 
device c sys . on 32 m x 
dos high , 
c sys sys . 
c sys sys . 
c dos 
shell c dos command . com . p 

if i were n't using , i 'd probably use something that looked 
like 

files 40 
40 
break on 
10 , 256 
device c sys sys . 
device c sys . on 32 32 m x 
dos high , 
c sys sys . 
c dos 
shell c dos command . com . p 

however , if i used a based drive , or if i 
to record high quality sound from a sound card , i would still 
need some way of changing the 's on off times. the first 
two versions of sys . take care of this , but this last version 
does n't .  . 



local 
fill 72 
 ( auto fill mode nil ) 
end 

from  ( tony catone ) 
subject re 17 

organization university of 
lines 14 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 14 apr 93 03 17 28 gmt 

in article  ( mohit k goyal ) writes 

oh yeah , i just read in another newsgroup that the uses a 
high quality than is in most 
for example) and this is where the extra cost comes from. it 
is also where the high bandwidth comes from , and the 
image , and the large image size , etc , etc .  .  .  . 

it 's also where the two lines across the  ( one a third 
down , the other two down ) come from. 


tony 


from 
subject can t write to 
organization division 
reply to () 
keywords write 
lines 10 

ok all you ! 
need answer quick . machine , 1 . 44 . unable to write to a 
machine . claims that is write protected , but it is not. 

note it 'll read 's with no problem. 

please e mail or post. 




from  ( national center for research ) 
subject looking for books 
distribution na 
organization high , boulder co 
lines 3 

hi netters ! 
i'm looking for books that showing how to fix your own hardware problem. 
please let me know if you have any books in mind. thanks. 

from  ( jay thompson ) 
subject dos 6 . 0 . 
organization 
lines 16 

i know of two people who have stories about the dos 6 . 0 .  . 
that 's 100 of the people i know with dos 6 . 0 .  . both have 
had to their and start over. one had drive d and work 
fine , only to c to have the thing , out an 
warning , and then  . all that was left on either drive was 
and sys .  . calls to only met with busy  . after 
the drive , i'm not sure if he had the to 6 . 0 . or stay with a known 
entity .  . 

the other may have been a marginal drive , however , his failed , 
he had to format a at 6 . 0 . , format the drive , and then  . 

i make now claims since i was not driving at the time , however , be careful 
and make sure you back important things up. 

i am interested in any other people with similar or success stories .  .  .  .  .  . 

from x .  . getter ) 
subject how do i put an on an 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 12 

this may be a question , but i need to put a hard drive on my father 's 
pc , either , , or  . i know how to it up , but how do i tell 
the computer the geometry of the drive .  . on my , you set it in the , but 
i doubt that 's how it 's done on an  . i thought it might be software with 
the card , but the card for 's that i saw did n't come with 
any. also , how do i low level format it once it 's on the computer  ( assuming 
a drive which needs formatting ) 

, 

rob 


from  ( daniel burstein ) 
subject re  ( q ) conner 
organization public access unix , 
lines 17 

in  ( heikki haldre ) writes 

can anybody send conner 
it has , and 4 , but i am more in its time out values , 
, etc. 

heikki internet 

conner has a 1 number with a touch tone voice response 
data bank giving all the info .  . 

if you call 1 directory  ( 1 1212 ) and ask for the 
phone number of conner , you should get what you need. 


all the usual disclaimers apply , whatever they may be. 


from  ( wayne rash ) 
subject re 17 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 20 
nntp posting host access . net . 

 ( mike yang ) writes 

in article  ( wayne rash ) writes 
i also a new , the , which has just 
been released .  . 

what 's the difference between the and the new i'm 
about to buy a gateway system and was going to take the 
 . should i get the instead 


mike silicon , inc. 


the is for  . it powers down when the 
appears , it powers down with you turn your computer off , and it 
all of the standards. it 's also protected against from 
 . 

personally , i think the is more bang for the right now. 

from  ( alec lee ) 
subject rate vs. size 
summary which is more important 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 10 

this past i found myself spending a ridiculous of time in front 
of my computer .  . since my eyes were going , i decided to shell out 
some serious money to from a 14 to a 17  . i'm running 
at 72  . my eyes are very grateful. however , i find myself using 
a smaller with less eye  . has anyone else had this kind of 
experience i thought that small were the culprit but it seems that 
was my real problem. any comments 




from  ( gabriel jones ) 
subject re zip . any later version 
keywords 



organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 1 



from  ( barry sardis ) 
subject re date is stuck 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 32 

 ( kevin o'gorman ) writes 

anybody seen the date get stuck 

i'm running dos 5 . 0 . with a system alive all the time. the machine 
is left running all the time. 

suddenly , the date no longer rolls over. the time is  ( reasonably ) accurate 
, but we have to change the date by hand every morning. this involves 
the system to get to dos .  . 

anyone have the slightest idea why this should be even a clue as to whether 
the hardware  ( battery ) or dos is broken 

kevin o ( , kevin ) 
voice vital computer systems , , , ca 
non disclaimer my boss is me , and he stands behind everything i say. 


i 've started to notice the same thing myself. i'm running dos 5 and win 3 . 1 . so 
i can fix it from the control  . at times it is the date , at 
others the seems to be running several behind where it should 
be. 

if you find out i 'd like to know also. oh , and i also leave my system running 
all the time. 


home  ( 408 ) 
avenue office  ( 408 ) 
san jose , ca fax  ( 408 ) 
email or 

from  ( michael panayiotakis ) 
subject re share your 
article i.d. seas . 1993apr6 . 
organization george washington university 
lines 46 

in article m . writes 
in article  ( john bodnar ) writes 
according to e  ( edgar pearlstein ) 
here 's another one 

5. my computer arrived with the following statement in its 
sys . file 9 , 256 .  . i changed it to 
8 , 128 and saved  . maybe it could be 
lowered even more , but i have n't tried it. 

exactly. 

regardless of what says , i have set 0 , 0 on every single 
computer i have on from a simple 16 up to 50 
with , , express 
cards , and from and  . 

not a problem yet , and the extra gained means a lot with conventional 
memory programs like and pcb .  . 

john while we liked developing 
the university of texas at austin applications , we never  . 
internet 
uucp .... ! cs . utexas . ! ! 



i remember reading somewhere  ( qemm manual , i think) that 
stack 9 , 256 is needed only for the setup program .  . 
otherwise , use stack 0 , 0. 

rich 



 .  . i . got my with pre , and is still 
9 , 256 .  . if it was needed only for setup , would n't the take it 
off  ( also , i do n't have the manual , as came with the 
, but not the manual , so could anyone verify this ) 



michael 
... ! uunet ! seas . edu . ! 
jack straw from , cut his buddy down , 
for him a shallow grave , and his body down .  .  .  .  ( gd ) 

from  ( heikki haldre ) 
subject  ( q ) compaq  . help ! ! 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 19 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


hi all compaq owners 

a friend of mine has compaq  ( portable iii ) , and he has lost all the and 
 . 

please help him getting the machine 's equipment definition  ( cmos ) memory 
right. the machine says that some of it are still 
incorrectly set up. it seems , that compaq has some defined not like 
the 100 ibm compatible machines .  . if you have a compaq , it 
certainly has diskette with it. and this is needed .  . i ca n't 
reach quickly any compaq here. 

if it is possible please email documentation , or some of its 
software .  . 

heikki e mail 
or 


from  ( grego filippo ) 
subject info wanted on labs 
organization de montreal 
lines 9 

hi fellow netters , 

does anybody have any info on labs card 
price , speed , with existing and up , 
compared to others cards ( is it an based card ) .  .  .  .  . 

thank you .  .  . 



from  ( stephen r. ) 
subject drive problems 
article i.d. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 17 

please reply via e mail since this is job related 

i have a back up system at one of my places of 
employment and it has two by the off the  . 

is there an easy fix or is the drive does it simply need 
cleaning 

any and all comments will be ! 

stephen 


what am i trying to do , what am i trying to say , i'm not trying to tell you 
anything you did n't know when you up today .  .  .  . 
mode nothing music for the masses 
stephen r. of illinois 

from  ( christopher kuperman ) 
subject re do i need intelligent serial i o 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 31 


bill writes 

no , buy the serial and  . each can be used for other things , 
you can use the with your next computer  ( might not be a pc ) or 
the without changing the box .  . i hear that is big in 
europe , you might be able to get one of those beautiful modems for 
less than the of a car someday  ( 64k  . 


bill , corp .  . r d center box 8 ny 



unfortunately the united states standard on is  .  . 
( 

but i suppose  .  . 

c .  . 


from aka 
the systems 

email 
@ 
a man a fish he 'll eat for a 
day , teach him how to fish he 'll 
eat for ever. 


from  ( yu wu ) 
subject what 's the difference between 30 pin and 72 pin 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host eng . umd . edu . 

hi , 

can anyone tell me the difference between 30 pin and 72 pin 
i wish to get detailed information about the origin of these two 
different types of , a magazine review  . 

by the way , if there is a faq for this group which covers the 
information , please also direct me to it. 

any help information would be very much appreciated. 


sincerely , 

yu 
dept. of ee , univ .  . of maryland 


from  ( brian j schaufenbuel ) 
subject philips 17 
keywords 17 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
distribution usa 
lines 26 



does anybody have an opinion on the philips 17 how does it 
compare to the 17 i am looking for a good 17  ( like many other 
net'ers ) and found a good price for the philips .  . here some the 


digital control 
ni 
 . 25 . 
display area 
to 100 
anti , ii .  .  .  . 
30 64 

why do n't i ever see this for sale  ( one company in apr computer shopper ) 
what is the what is the best price around for this .... 

and how  that 17 i love my 15  ( except for that little color 
thing on the l r  .  .  . 


brian 
brian j there is no art which one government sooner learns 
than that of money from the of the 
ames , ia people especially college students . adam smith 

from de .  ( carsten grammes ) 
subject sex ! ! ! 
organization des , 
lines 27 
nntp posting host rz . uni . de . 

, 

you 're not quite sure if that 's a joke or not anyway you read the article ! 

you 're right ! ! ! 

 . the  ( only this) is a joke , 2. it 's worth reading ) 

perhaps some of you know my regular  list of  where i 
give all available information about  . i am strongly 
interested in the directly .  . but i have no money 
for calls , so i need 

's email addresses 

please help if you can ! 

 . 



internet de . 
experimental physics 49 
49 

germany 


from  ( edward keegan ) 
subject dec mt , , conflict 
organization yale university computer science dept. , new haven , ct 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cs . yale . edu . 


i have a dec nt that has an , hard 
and drive .  . when i add a card  ( 3c503 ) and 
the system i receive an error message that a device cannot be 
found. pull the card and , everything is fine. i 've moved 
the and card to various , different positions 
 ( slot before the , after the controller ) with the 
same result. dec has n't responded to the problem yet. any help would 
be appreciated. 

edward t. , director e mail 
yale university , computer science department phone 1 203 
51 street , room fax 1 203 
new haven , ct 

from  ( michael schwabauer ) 
subject labs video card problem 
lines 7 
organization dakota state university 
lines 7 


i have a labs video card that gives me problems when i do anything in 
super mode .  . 0 . reports a video page frame address error at 
page frame 7. what does this mean and how  ( if i can ) could this be fixed 
the card says on it. 

thanks 

from  ( phil longstaff ) 
subject wanted info 
nntp posting host mot . com . 
reply to  ( phil longstaff ) 
organization motorola , mississauga , ontario 
lines 8 

i have a with an  . the last memory  ( which 
i for a trial ) reports the is an , 
and it is able to the behind , which can then be 
used for  ( except for video  . i would like to write my own to 
the memory. does anyone know where i can get programming information 
on this chip 



from  ( thor farrish ) 
subject drive geometry 
distribution usa 
organization computer science department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 1 



from  ( mohit k goyal ) 
subject re questions 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization univ .  . of texas at 
lines 12 

 . support for the cards is not included with 2 2.0 any longer .  . 

why not this is rather  .  .  . 

if you wish to the from the , you will need to out the 
device drivers , as they have a nasty tendency to crash the 
cards when 2 attempts to use them.  ( thanks ! ) 

yep .  . that 's cause the  ( latest(and presumably all future ) drivers look 
for the string or something to that effect in the cards  . 



from  ( bob blean ) 
subject re which high video card 
organization silicon 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( tim ciceran ) writes 

pc magazine just did another review of high end  . for all 
around  ( windows , dos , cad ) go for pro .  . they 've 
done two in the last three months and that card ranks as an 
choice in both  . for all around it seems it just ca n't be 
 . you should pick up this issue of pc  ( april 13 ) and check it out for 
yourself. 


the recent have all shown that the cards are 
doing than the card .  . 

the recent have all shown that the cards they looked 
at are doing than the card .  . about 
1 2 the speed , as i recall .  . 

the big question for me is the card .  . each of the 
cards tested so far has had the to do  . 
is the only one i know about (i do n't know about ami ) that uses 
the for  . that is  . 

i would like to know whether the card can do as fast as 
the card .  . if so , it would appear to be a  . 
 ( advertised are about the same for the two cards . ) . 

someone in this group posted a little while back that they were getting an 
card has that card arrived what do the look 
like 

also , is the based card real what does it use for speed 

bob 

from  ( al dykes ) 
subject i need a definition of the and 
organization unix in 
distribution na 
lines 15 


i need definitions of the and  . any background 
material would also be welcome. 

if email something to me or point me to an anonymous ftp server 
i 'd appreciate it. 

thanks. 

al 






from  ( ken cis stnt ) 
subject re help with 
keywords questions answers 
organization new jersey institute of technology , , n . j .  . 
lines 53 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( guy dawson ) writes 

in article ,  ( james c. tsiao ) writes 
in article  ( fernando  ( mei 1 ) writes 
wrote 
when i look at a magazine ad that says 
deleted 
what exactly do the numbers mean (i . e .  . which is the ,  .  . ) . 

the numbers 60 , 70 and 80 refers to  . could someone explain 
exactly what this numbers means  ( time spent processor 's request 
and answer  ( in case of reading ) ) 

it means the time required for the memory to , i.e. a 60 
needs before it is ready to be read again. 

nope ! it 's the time taken to read data from memory. it 's the read time. 
the memory will still have to be  . the whole is called 
a cycle , the cycle time being about twice the access time. 

i'm sorry if i'm misunderstanding your post , but does not have to 
be on each access cycle . so cycle time does not have to be 
twice the access time because of . 

the access time usually means the delay time from falling of raw 
address  ( ras ) to data driven .  . 

access cycle can be roughly shown as following  ( some 
are intentionally omitted ) 

ca ca raw address , ca address 
ras high , low , floating 
 .  .  . driven either h or l 
data valid valid 


cycle time 
access time  ( or ras access time) 

yes , the cycle time is more than twice as the access time but not 
because of the  . the can be done either as a 
of normal access cycle or as an individual cycle .  . 


other stuff deleted 


ken 

i apologize if there are incorrect , rude , and or expressions in 
this mail or post. they are not intended .  . please consider that english is a 
second language for me and i do n't have full understanding of certain words 
or each of a phrase .  . thank you. ken , cis student , 

from v . 
subject re question 
organization university of technology 
lines 22 

in article  ( marlboro man ) writes 
i am looking for a way to access the drive at the i o level , that 
is , lower than the  . given the , what 
chip do i need info on my is a 1 . , and i would 
also like to be able to write code that works on as well. 
also , with the method of access , is it possible to actually read the 
individual on the track as they into the i'm 
afraid the handling is done purely through hardware .  . 

if on the off chance i can get this basic on the access , anything to 
point me in the right direction would help a lot. 

there is a file out there  ( look for it with archie ) that is called 
which has lots of info on various pc things , 
amongst which is also a detailed description of all 
commands , i think hard drive commands are not there. 

it is possible to read an entire track including all , 
etc. by setting size to something very large  ( like 
 . 



from  ( jon zeeff ) 
subject video card at different address 
organization , ann arbor , mi 
lines 7 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host umich . edu . 

i 'd like to add a second based video card to my system. does anyone 
know of a company that a card that can with another one 
all i really need is color text on one and fast color 
on the other. 

probably just a address would do it. 


from  ( mike palmer ) 
subject re dos 6 . 0 . 
organization computer corporation 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 9 

(j .  . keith alston ) writes 

hi , 
does anyone know what type of is required to use the 
capability , provided in dos 6 . 0 . 

i tried a null and had two copies of talking happily 
to one another but kept saying no connection made . i gave 
up and used ! 

from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re vs 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 34 

in article 1 . 17 . by mike michael b. smith writes 

but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 

a that data by allows the to request data 
from the hard drive and continue working while the gets the data 
and it to memory. 

also uses techniques .  . i believe also uses , 
and most a d also use  . is no big deal , and has nothing to 
do directly with  . 

for example , when or a , the command is 
issued to the and the is released to allow access to other 
devices on the bus. this greatly increases or , at least , do 
something else while backing up your hard drive ) .  . which happens to be 
what i am doing while reading this group. 

you can thank your software for that. if dos had a few more brains , it 
could format etc. while you were doing something else. the 
hardware will support it , but dos  ( at least ) wo n't .  . again , this has 
nothing to do with  . 

its a long story , but i still use on my except for the which , 
thanks to , i can move between both machines .  . if , and when , is 
better and supported on the ibm machines , i plan to 
completely get rid of  . 

and if you stick with dos you 'll wonder why you ca n't  . 

again i ask why ca n't a unix or 2 type do all the miraculous things 
with an that it can with a  ( single ) hard drive .  . 

from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject test do n't read ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 6 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 





gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from  ( william scott x1568 ) 
subject re drive problems 
reply to 
organization surface warfare center , division 
lines 62 

in article ,  ( stephen r. ) writes 
please reply via e mail since this is job related 

i have a back up system at one of my places of 
employment and it has two by the off the  . 

is there an easy fix or is the drive does it simply need 
cleaning 

any and all comments will be ! 

stephen 


what am i trying to do , what am i trying to say , i'm not trying to tell you 
anything you did n't know when you up today .  .  .  . 
mode nothing music for the masses 
stephen r. of illinois 

does it do it to all were the two that it of the same 
type from the same the reason i ask is that i bought some generic 
that did this and found that the were not fully out and 
had closed the little hole .  . it was only on a few of a set .  . 

did you open up the and put the back on the reels 

if you have not yet , open it up by removing the two on the bottom of 
the and snap the plastic shell away from the metal base .  . 
as you are the through the assembly try not to touch any more 
than you have to. as you are doing it , look for a couple of little holes in 
the tape. these are the holes which let the drive know when it is 
at the end of the tape. the holes are a couple of apart. my best 
guess is that the drive finds the first and then stops on the second 


anyhow , if the has the holes , then check to see if the on the 
is clean .  . the function of the is to detect the holes .  . the 
drive shines a light at the and has a in the area where 
the reflection would come out. when the hole goes by , the the 
light that was allowed to pass and it knows when to stop .  . if the is 
or out of  ( unlikely since it is made into the case ) you might have 
a problem the end of the tape. 

if the drive does it on all and the all look good , then either 
the or the led of the system has failed or is  . if you open 
the drive door you will see the assembly to the left of the r w head 
assembly .  . if it looks clean and nothing is in its way , then the drive may 
need to be  . it is possible that the led is burned out or the 
is out. 

if it is still in , you might be able to send it back to for 
 . 



scott 


standard disclaimer 
the opinions expressed are those of my own and do not necessarily 
reflect those of the or the navy .  . i accept full responsibility .  . 


from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( wayne smith ) write 

in article  ( grubb ) writes 
 ( wayne smith ) writes 
since the mac uses only 1 for hard drives yes the figure includes a 
hundred for drivers this is people and  . 
what group is this this is not a mac group. 
nice of you to delete both your and the item that prompted it. 
to whit 
i just bought at quantum 240 for my mac at home. i paid for it. i 

have n't seen drives  . 
to which you responded 
a friend of mine just got a drive for 320 .  .  ( that 's 
million , or  . with the basic 20 interface , he gets 
close to 1 on his 20 .  . does your figure include a few 
hundred for drivers 
to which i correctly pointed out the following 
since the mac uses only 1 for hard drives yes the figure includes a 
hundred for drivers this is people and  . 
as i said this is and you should by the mac 
not giving drive for 320 example. by giving an 
example you give the implied consent that for mac info to be included 
in the  . 

ok once again with the list 
why the list again we are talking on a pc , not on a mac or 
a unix box .  . and we are talking , or possibly or  . 
ok i will do this v e r y s l o w l y so you can understand 
of whether it is a mac or a pc 1 and 2 are different 
from each other as is and 1. all of these 
have different and costs .  . them all together as   is 
and  . take again the quote later on as an example of the problem 
in the pc world the list was so that you knew where the numbers were 
coming from in the article. it shows the article is correct in it 
about but not . 

this n't  . 
with the way this thread has gone how do you tell ) .  . 
tell me what the are with a single drive on a pc 
with an  ( or or vlb ) bus. 
already gave them. you keep them ! so here are the 
on everybody again with some added info 

1 1 chip range 0 s 
range 0 s both common to the pc world difference is 
mainly in software not hardware .  . 

1 2 chip also called 2  ( 8 bit ) 4 s with 
s  . this is as 2 in 4 93 for the 
pc and at these  . not the mac , the pc .  . 

i have not seen the following for either the mac or the pc 
2 16 bit wide or fast mode 8 s with s 
2 32 bit wide and fast 15 s with s 

on the other let speak 
ranges from 0 8 . s. 
range 0 s from 4 93 
range 0 8 . s. 
is always 1 . s  ( although there are some non standard versions ) 

 ( wayne smith ) writes 
are not relevant to this group or this 
debate. i'm sure that there are some out there that can 
handle the 40 of wide n fast , but the pc n't one of 
them. 
note that i also give the average through put for 2 which holds true 
a mac or ibm pc with the correct hardware and software .  . 
and since pc are using why 
cannot we 

if we are to continue this thread state clearly which you are talking 
about 1 or 2 or over all 1 and 2 
it does make a difference. 

well maybe if the design people had their act together than maybe 
all pc 's would have built in by now. 
with pc articles like the following it is obvious that the problem is not with 
but with the people who report it ! like you. 
look at the use of in the below quote 
 ( my comments in ) 
although is twice as fast as , this is 1 with 
a 1 chip 20 than  .  .  . this is both 1 with 
a 2 chip and 8 bit 2 pc magazine april 27 , 1993 29 
the article is confused , not  . the term is a mess from use 
not because the interface itself is a mess. 

means the set of of 1 and 2 
not  1  as some people want to use it. 

to read the quote should read 
1 with a 1 chip 
although 1 is twice as fast as , one third the 
speed of  .  .  . 
or 1 with a 2 chip or 8 bit 2 
although 1 with a 2 chip and 8 bit 2 are eight times as fast as 
, 20 than  .  .  . 

note the of   by itself. this  . 

if we are to continue this thread state clearly which you are talking 
about 1 or 2 or over all 1 and 2 . 
everything into as 1 is , wrong , and  . 
1 and 2 usage is also a problem. clean it up now or have 
a mess like was several years ago because everybody and his 
  an their own is unlike 
was years ago except in  . 

from  ( joerg schlaeger ) 
subject re difference between and 
distribution world 
organization myself 
lines 24 

writes in article 

what about and a  . does the local still run at or does 
it try to run at 


brian 


hi , 
is defined for 3 cards by 
and 2 cards by 

there are designs with and 2  . 
(s .  . c t 9 . , 10 . , 11 . 

and 2 are difficult to design. 

better  ( os 2 ix ) are able to handle more than of , 
if you use bus. 
has someone experience with 
i think of  . the problem is the 
, which is unable to reach more than  . 


from  ( thomas dachsel ) 
subject quantum drive needed 
article i.d. 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 25 
nntp posting host sas . com . 

hi , 
i have got a quantum and would 
like to format it. when trying to format it ( no low level 
format , just and dos format ) , i somehow up the 
 .  .  . i had entered not exactly knowing 
what this does. 
the suggested drive type 38 the drive only to  . 
i tried type 25 , but this gives only around and not 
the nominal  . 
could i use user type 47 however , i do n't know the actual 
 ( cylinders , heads ,  .  .  . ) . could someone give me them 
and how does work together with user type 47 
please reply by email to 
thank you , 
thomas 

thomas 
internet 
thomas  ( 2 40 ) 
 ( uucp in germany , now active ) 
phone 49  ( work ) , 49  ( home ) 
fax 49 
sas institute , p . o . box . , d w 
one bad can ruin a whole day .  .  .  . 


from  ( catalin ivan ) 
subject 
summary how to make and live together 
keywords , , , , 
organization de montreal 
lines 57 

all , 

you , the net , are my last resort , or i 'll just change my job ) 
this might be a faq (e . g .  . mixing controllers ) but have n't seen any. 

sys 33 , , and your run of the mill i o card with 
and 
ex 
there are no affecting the or ( 
quantum (3 type 47 , ,  . 

i want to bring in this  ( 2nd hand , neat price ) 
( , , type 1 , manages 
the real , , 52spt ) 
western digital no  . 
 ( jumpers set 14 15 , , 
and , and other format stuff ) 

goal have the as a secondary and have both 
simultaneously working .  . being able to from the too would be 
a nice but is not expected .  . 

ultimate goal have room for et al. 
ex of scheme i have in mind from  ( hd or floppy ) and mount 
the as root .  . not from , or even from , is acceptable .  . 

i have tried numerous  ( all ! ! ) combinations to no avail. they work alone , 
or can but ca n't access the or the , 
depending on setup  . 

useful suggestions might be 
how do i tell the setup about two (i guess the 2nd 
is expected to off the same as the  . 
do i need some to make it work 
some new chip for any of these cards 
do i have to buy another to make them happy 
is is hard to find and rather  . i'm not 
rich or i  try to around , so soft are preferred .  . 
of some sort i can hold a iron , and can change 
a chip or put a ! 

also useful 
bbs or hot line of western digital .  . 
ftp archives with relevant info .  . 
expert stores in , ontario area  ( that would be a miracle ! have n't 
seen any really knowledgeable in a while ) 
any hints into inner workings of the system ... 
anything else that helped you in similar situations  ( prayers ) ) 

direct or posted replies are ok. 
many thanks , 
cat .  . 


ivan email tel  ( 416 ) 
human computer interaction machine 
de montreal et 

from  ( jon deutsch ) 
subject question ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of what state is that in 
lines 14 

i just picked up a second hand color option for the 
 . , there were no instructions , 
so i am totally confused on why it won t go in ! 

do i have to remove the print head it seems almost to fit , 
but not quite .  . 

please .  .  .  . any info would be most ! 


x x 
for my 2 , 
on i 'd pay a dollar 
x x 

from  ( lino montuno ) 
subject vs activity 
nntp posting host physics . su . au . 
organization school of physics , university of , australia 
lines 8 

this may be a very naive question but is there any basis for the 
claim that a will get when a 
job is running my friend claims that there will be little difference 
in the of an idle and a running a 
job. 




from  ( mike simon ) 
subject re please help identify this old card 
article i.d. 
organization university of cs dept. 
lines 21 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 

in article ,  ( seng , speedy ) writes 
i have an old card  ( pc at bus ) that came out of a 
workstation .  . i'm trying to identify it in order to use it on a pc .  . 

the assembly number is 00 rev 2 and it is a 16 bit card , 
1985 .  . it has an as well as a connection .  . it has 
address for the , , , and via 
 . it also appears to have a processor on board , 
presumably for  . 

the chip appears to be an , a 48 pin  . is 
this chip an equivalent to the used in some cards there is also 
a pin chip , called a link 

please e mail as i do n't think this is of general interest .  . 

my least favorite last line of a post. , it is of general interest .  . 
as i prepare to 22 myself , i'm looking for ways to 
the useful parts. 

mike simon 

from  ( cs1442au ) 
subject problem 
organization university of texas at arlington 
lines 38 

from tue apr 20 10 28 47 1993 
received from edu . by edu . 1 . 4 . 1 . eef ) 
id tue , 20 apr 93 11 27 50 edt 
received by edu . 51 . 25 eef ) 
id tue , 20 apr 93 11 20 18 edt 
message id 
date tue , 20 apr 93 11 20 17 edt 
from  ( peckham david cdt ) 
to 
subject problem. 
status or 



i am running a with dos 6. my problem , even when i had dos 
5 . 0 . , is that when i have loaded i ca n't alt del .  . if i do , the 
computer a few times rapidly and  . then i have to use the obscure 
 ( requires a or pencil ) or the power switch to  . does 
anyone have a solution to this problem 

e mail me at 

dave 


thanks , 

dave 

david s. internet 
u.s. military 



jason brown 




from  ( perry egelmeers ) 
subject re fi . 
organization university of technology , the 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host win . tue . 

writes 

i saw a posting earlier that refered to fi . directory pub 
however , when i log on to fi . i even find the pub directory 
let alone the directory ! ! ! ! can someone tell me what i'm doing 
wrong 

perhaps you should try fi . instead of fi . ! ! 
fi . is the biggest ( ) ftp site from europe , but 
the stuff available there should ( ) also be available at the other site 
of the big pool . 

perry 

from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re pin question re 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 16 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


the on the is for those systems with up problems. 
if your system fails to up , please pull off the 
block from  . this will not affect the of the  . 

this is what my manual says about  . i never knew that it was there 
but the card is a real ask in my book. it beats the hell out 
of my junk to the point that i ca n't even use above 
mode much .  .  . 
some times an turns out to be a big , like driving a 
with a that the ca n't handle .  . or and 
then finding out that your mother board does n't have a wait state 
to take advantage of the new that you just bought ! 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from  ( max brante ) 
subject on 
organization dept. of scientific computing , univ .  . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 11 

is it possible to connect a to some kind of card 

if someone have done this please let me know how. 

thanx 


l l ( ) 
l l l l l 
l l l  ( l ( ) l f r 
l l l l l  ( l ) 

from  ( paul lewis fincke ) 
subject help 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
distribution us 
lines 24 


, 

sorry if this has been covered before 

one of my pc illiterate friends asked me to help him 6 . 0 . on his 
 ( 386sx  . of course , i said no problem and went to work. 
unfortunately , the refuses to recognize the hard drive during 
, even though i am still able to off of the hard drive using 
the old dos .  . after it up i discovered it was using an 8 bit 
on a drive .  . i then 
with 6 . 0 . off of the a second time and to see if 
i could access the drive .  . lo and behold the primary 46 . 5 . partition 
was  ( created by dos 3 . 1 . no less , i did n't think you could go over a 
partition in the older  . i could be wrong .  .  . ) .  . i then tried 
to remove the primary partition , which it would n't allow me to do. i am 
of anything special that has to be done with a drive (i 
kinda expected it to work just like an drive for dos 
 . any suggestions would be greatly  ( except for 
it in the garbage and buy a new pc ) .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance , 

paul mr.  .  .  . not ! 

from  ( allen , , , ny ) 
subject re memory problem 
organization college at , , ny 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( ralph valentino ) writes 
i finally decided to my 33 's memory from 8 to 16 
two months after the parts out on the  ( anigma ) 
two months too late. it seems there 's a problem with 
one or both of the two in bank b. on i get 
a pattern test failure at address and the system 
the top 6  . the are good , i tried all of them into 
bank a. on one of the , however , the pattern test 
... deletions .  .  .  . 
failed at  . in all , the pattern that appeared was the 
same as the pattern if no was in place. this leads me to believe 
the one or two of the address are at fault and , with a 
lot of luck , might be  . 


ralph 

ralph 
hardware engineer , polytechnic institute 
center for high computing , ma 

many have to the memory banks .  . did you 
check that out 

allen 


from  ( jerry shekhel ) 
subject question 
organization molecular simulations , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
x posted from com . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 18 

folks ! 

i have an archive  ( internal 80 ) drive , which is pretty 
comparable to the 250 .  . since i have two drives in 
my system , i'm using a small card  ( not accelerated ) made by archive to 
my drive as a third device. 

the problem although the dos based software works just fine , 
both the and central point programs for fail unless 
i switch the machine to non speed  ( i'm using a 33  . since 
the dos software works , it ca n't be a hardware problem , can it has anyone 
seen similar problems any solutions thanks in advance. 


jerry j. molecular simulations inc. time just the pages 
do it .  .  .  . , ma usa in my book of  . 
... in ! guns n  


from v . 
subject re adding hard drive to original ibm pc 
keywords hard drive , ibm pc 
organization university of technology 
lines 22 

in article  ( michael schuster ) writes 
in article  ( keith goolsbey ) writes 
i have an original ibm pc  ( not an or at ) that 
has never had a hard drive .  . questions 

1 do i need new to add a hard drive 
2 does anyone sell a complete to do this 

please e mail me with suggestions .  . i only need to 
add about a or hard drive .  . 

sent by mail too. 
you need the 10 which has support for , such 
as the on a hard  . 

a 20 hard card , available for not much over 100 , will do the trick 
if you have the proper date. use or similar program to 
find out. 
you also need to set the correct switch on your 
, which can be a pain , since most pc 's do n't come with 
proper for all hardware contained inside it. 


from  ( eric j balog ) 
subject re stealth 24 giving 9 . 4 . 
organization university of 
lines 9 
nntp posting host seas . edu . 

hi ! 

when posting results , it is a good idea to give the version of 
that you used to obtain the scores , as well as the resolution that 
you tested and the version of the drivers .  . 

eric 



from  ( robert kudla ) 
subject re warning on copy ii pc board help on copying 
keywords , , , copy 
article i.d. 
lines 40 
nntp posting host edu . 

in  ( mitch ) writes 

now , does anyone know a way to back up the masters of word perfect 5 . 1 . for 
, 3 . 1 . , and 6 . 0 . so i can send another copy to my 
permanent  ( non college ) address for safe keeping students keep borrowing 
my masters , and i'm worried they 'll get up !  ( please do n't tell me 

you realize , of course , that inevitably some is 
going to come along and wag his fingers and his in that 
personal politics are more important than bold god 
 . the law bold . 

but that 's irrelevant to the problem here. came with my 
system , but on 5 . 25 .  . i hate using 5 . 25 . , so i copied 
them over to high 3.5 's using  . it worked fine. in 
fact , for a while i was changing and whatnot so much 
that i decided to try putting them on the hard  . not only can you 
copy them over with one per directory , but if you want to , you 
can simply copy them all into one directory .  . makes it a lot 
when you 're switching around. 

6 . 0 . i do n't have much experience with , but when a friend 's 
system , we from a rather than from the 
originals , and it worked fine. this would imply that a r 
c would create a workable , and if you did a full 
the first time , you 've got the whole thing. 

never played with for i'm not too big of a fan of anything 
from utah .  . 

good luck .  .  .  .  . 

disclaimer do n't copy that !  ( tm ) just say no !  ( r ) respect your ! 
for the wages of sin is  ( sic ) death and a legal bill ! do you offend 

rob 

rob keywords 's leather yes 1 . 
light blue right r . e . m .  . dan genesis in the 
, the silver , the lion takes control .  .  .  .  .  . 

from 
subject faq on 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization bbs , 's best usenet access  ( 212 9146 ) 
lines 9 


is there a faq on could anyone please repost it or 
email to me , if i missed it thanks in advance. 


... , internet 1 

blue wave 12 . 


from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject re from b drive 
organization company research 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

david wrote 
i have a 5 1 4 drive as drive a. how can i make the system from 
my 3 1 2 b drive  ( optimally , the computer would be able to 
from either a or b , checking them in order for a  . but 
if i have to switch around and simply switch the drives so that 
it ca n't 5 1 4 , that 's ok. also , b wo n't do the trick 
for me . ) . 

thanks , 

we had the same issue plague us for months on our gateway .  . i finally 
got tired of it so i the drives .  . the only 
reason i did n't do it in the first place was because i had several 
5 1 4 's and some 5 1 4 based which expected 
the a drive .  . i order all new software  ( and upgrades ) to be 3 1 2 and 
the number of stupid programs that ca n't handle an alternate 
drive are with time the ones i had are now  . and 
as for the 5 1 4 's i just cut 3 1 2 replacements .  . 

if switching the drives is not an option , you might be able to wire up 
a drive switch to your computer  . i have n't tried it but i think 
it would work as long as it is wired carefully .  . 

gordon lang 

from  ( david engel ) 
subject re wanted opinions on and 
organization data systems , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution usa 
lines 17 

sleeping  ( ong wrote 
i'm looking to buy a 17 soon , and it seems that i ca n't decide what 
i should buy .  . i have a  ( this is a  . 25 . version and it using 
a tube ) and a in mind. 

good luck finding an  . when i was looking around back in 
december , was n't producing any because they could n't get 
from  . i asked when they expected to as 
i was willing to wait a few months to get an but they said not 
any time soon. i wound up getting a and am extremely happy with 
it. 

david 

david data systems , inc. 
e. road 
 ( 214 ) , tx 

from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re 17 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 10 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i would like to hear from someone that has one of these 
that is driving it with a  . with the 
set up to run at its 1 . 72 . output mode , and driving the 
hell out of the  . just if the would fall 
apart with poor low capabilities like my  ( 3 ) did with the 
driving their off .  .  . 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from  ( gv fragante ) 
subject re card 
organization the university of british 
lines 10 
nntp posting host ca . 

in  ( ville v walveranta ) writes 

is not a video card it 's 
by  ( eden ,  . 

i know there 's a for the and there 's also a 
video card .  . this is probably not available in the us , but i am sure it is 
being in canada .  . i thought you guys over there would have heard some 
thing about it. 


from  ( joerg schlaeger ) 
subject re limit 
distribution world 
organization myself 
lines 14 

writes in article 

 ( mark ashley ) writes 

then the writer claims that can 
occur in systems with over because 
of that limit .  . that part i do n't understand 
because the is right on the  . 
so the should have no problems talking 
with the  . can anybody explain this 
the is served by on the , 
and original ca n't reach more than the first 
 ( the address space of the bus ) 


from  ( dave olson ) 
subject re how much should i pay for a  ( with 3 or 4 connectors ) 
organization silicon , inc. view , ca 
lines 21 

in  ( dan jones ) writes 
also , i seem to remember a posting saying that the calls for 
1 foot between devices on the , but most you get  ( internal ) 
do n't meet the  . 

ii draft proposal , rev. , section 4 . 2 . 1 . single ended 
, which is in the requirements section , has an 
's note should be avoided .  . 
should be at least 0 . 3 . apart. 

for the non technical , are devices .  . ) 

however , also be aware that 's notes are 
, they are not part of the  . as others have 
noted , many  ( including sgi ) violate this. indeed , the main 
point is to reduce changes , and therefore , and 
therefore   on the bus. 

let no one tell me that silence gives consent , dave 
because whoever is silent  . silicon , inc. 


from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject on a 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
reply to 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 27 


, 

i have a machine with  . currently i have 
8 of via eight 1 on the ie .  . 
both banks are full , and there is no space for more  . i am thinking 
of running on my machine and possibly with x , and i know 
that more would be helpful .  . however with , the only solution i 
can see is to sell my 8 for about , and by 4 for about 
400 used. apart from the fact that i ca n't afford the price right now , 
the entire process of selling and buying it used probably means that 
the machine might be down for a number of days which i would rather 
avoid .  .  .  . 

so my question is , do the at that plug into a free work 
well with a machine .  . i have seen some being sold used for about 
90 with 4 with space for another 's .  . if these do work , how 
do they do it is a device needed , or will the the 
extra as it does with the on the mother board i know that the 
are 16 bits and memory is 32 bits , so 
probably all of this is just wishful thinking .  .  .  . however any help is truly 
appreciated. 

eric 




subject re and 
from (a . j .  . rowatt ) 
organization university , north , new 
x reader netnews pc version 
lines 17 

they do n't have a conflict because technically does not use 
! . 
the parallel processor  ( the actual number escapes 
me ) contains a control which the chip 
to an interrupt to the interrupt as , 
then onto the main processor as  . by default the parallel 
processor does not it 's interrupt line therefore 
no 's will be from the chip , 
thus other devices to use the actual  . 

note , this applies to com also which by default do not 
route to the system , although com 's software 
usually this feature as it make com 
activity easier than the serial , thus probably 
getting the sound card confused ! . 

may be a different story .  .  .  .  . 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
subject 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
lines 24 


is the anything more than a myth i have n't heard of it 
from any source that i trust , and i sure do n't see any for 
machines in computer  . is pretty busy with the 
right now i ca n't seem them introducing their own competition .  . 

i heard the as well , but the story  . was not coming 
out with the , a from ibm was. i got this 
from a pretty good source ( has designs computer equipment , and hav never 
been wrong let , but there is a first time for everything. ) 

... i can just hear that mill turning now ... 




. 2 . 0 . evaluation copy 
2 . w net , ann . arbor . mi . us . , 1 or 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

from  ( mike sprague ) 
subject re and 
organization 
lines 20 

my solution was to switch the interrupt to 5 , which is 
in contemporary computers  ( using 5 for the 
drives went out with the ... ) 

not true. for at class and later machines , is 
for  . since it 's rare to have a second parallel 
in a pc , it 's usually a good safe choice if you need an 
interrupt .  . 

on the other hand , we just into a problem with that here 
at work on a gateway computer  ( 4dx  . it has a on , 
a on , and the other serial was set to  ( which 
normally uses the same interrupt as  . we had a real fight 
with a board when trying to use , and the problem 
was that gateway had set it up such that used  . as soon 
as we , our problems went away. ... after 
several days of trying to figure out why the interrupt did n't work. 

mike 


subject server and level ii 
from  ( wayne mcdougall ) 
organization the code works limited , po box 10 , , new 
lines 60 

facts 

a server was roughly moved to a new and left 
down for three months. 
from memory it has an 80 hard drive .  . 
and original are for level ii 
when up , the was  . a examined it and 
the drive  . 

my indicate that drive c is a type 27  ( 1024 , 9  . 
when set this way , runs happily , with 13 bad blocks .  . 

i use prepare to the one internal drive .  . 

will proceed successfully , but when i try to the server , it 
reports that the software is not for this hardware .  . 

internal examination indicates that the is present , and there is one 
drive  ( or at least one large single  . 

attempts to a second drive in result in drive not ready 
errors. 

questions 

the software is level ii and i can see on to the 
level ii  . however , to for level ii 
 ( mirrored or disks ) requires a second , yes 

so how is the server normally 

1. can i level ii as level i , or is this what 
is causing my error 
2. is the server normally with two hard drives , one of 
which has failed 
3. would this mean i can not the network software because it will not 
be for this hardware with a failed drive 
4. what else can cause a error 
5. what happens if the fails 
6. am i doing something wrong can someone knowledgeable offer some comments 
and  . 

thanks for your time. 

apology 

i appreciate that i have posted this request somewhat widely .  . as i'm 
dealing with somewhat hardware and software i'm that by casting 
my net further , i'm more likely to capture someone who has met this system 
before. i believe i can justify the groups to which i am posting. please 
feel free to correct me if you feel this is an inappropriate place to post 
this. 



this posting is definitive .  .  . 
wayne keeper of the list of shows better than star  ( trek(tm ) 
ask me about the of , 18 25 april , 1993 
i always change my mind when new evidence is available. what method do you use 


from  ( dan ts'o ) 
subject re how much memory for for 
organization college of medicine , houston , tx 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article writes 
) the documentation says that for , requires 4 m of , but 
when ) i try to it on my i get a not enough memory error message. 
i ) 've everything that i possibly could but still , not enough memory. 
anyone ) have any ideas as to why this might be happening. 

are you sure you 're not running in real mode is it 
3 . 1 . do you have a permanent built 

from m . 
subject re share your 
organization at t 
lines 33 

in article  ( john bodnar ) writes 
according to e  ( edgar pearlstein ) 
here 's another one 

5. my computer arrived with the following statement in its 
sys . file 9 , 256 .  . i changed it to 
8 , 128 and saved  . maybe it could be 
lowered even more , but i have n't tried it. 

exactly. 

regardless of what says , i have set 0 , 0 on every single 
computer i have on from a simple 16 up to 50 
with , , express 
cards , and from and  . 

not a problem yet , and the extra gained means a lot with conventional 
memory programs like and pcb .  . 

john while we liked developing 
the university of texas at austin applications , we never  . 
internet 
uucp .... ! cs . utexas . ! ! 



i remember reading somewhere  ( qemm manual , i think) that 
stack 9 , 256 is needed only for the setup program .  . 
otherwise , use stack 0 , 0. 

rich 



from  ( wallace waggoner ) 
subject fax card for sale 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 4 

i have a like new fax for sale or offer or trade ! 




from  ( mohit k goyal ) 
subject re vs 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization univ .  . of texas at 
lines 30 

how do you do on the 

by a  . ) 

seriously , have their own ability , they do n't use 
the on board  ( dma(which is much  . 

has no , so if two cards in 1 system 
try to do on the same channel the system will lock or 
crash . (i . forget ) 

their are 8 in an system. 0 7. 0 3 are 8 bit 4 7 are 
16 bit. 

the system uses 0 , a uses 1. 

i could buy a 2 video card a ha .  . 

in order for them to work properly , i would have to find out what 
channel the 2 card uses and then simply the ha to 
use a different channel for its  . 

i do n't know if multiple can go on at the same time on  . 
i'm not sure if they can on systems either. 

i do know that on systems , you can allow cards to use the 
same channel .  . 

thanks. 


from  ( will estes ) 
subject in case 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 13 

i just a 66 in a , and tried a 
on the chip .  . after about 1 2 hour , the weight of the was enough 
to the from its mount .  . it ended up a few 
on the , but the power was not on yet. i ended up 
the deeply into its and then putting the 
back on. so far so good. 

have others had this problem how do you ensure that the weight of 
the fan and do not eventually work the out of its 
when the in a case 


will internet 

from  ( anssi saari ) 
subject re and what 's the difference 
organization tampere university of technology , computing centre 
lines 38 
distribution 
nntp posting host ee . tut . fi . 

in  ( lars joedal ) writes 

except from , what are the differences between the 
various types of and 
the following is a list with what i know  ( or perhaps only what i 
think i know ! ) .  . can anybody extend correct 


true 32 bit processor .  . 
 ( cache ) 
no  . 

with a 16 bit bus. 

true 32 bit processor .  . 
internal mathematical  ( correct ) 
correct. 
internal  ( correct how big ) 
 . 
 ( extended set in any way ) 
was it instructions 

probably like  .  .  . 
without the mathematical  . 
probably like  .  .  . 

actually , the you described above is  . 
 ( there is no separate nor , either) .  . 

this is for  . does anyone have a complete 
list with and ibm products 




tampere university of technology 
finland , europe 


from  ( tracy mccracken ) 
subject for sale 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , illinois .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 7 

i have a 20 , 5 , 85  ( stacked to w 
3 . , 3.5 , 3 , 2 drive , card , no  . 
00 . or interesting combination of cash and trade .  . in chicago .  . 
please e mail to this address or call 
at  ( 312)743 )  . thanks. 



from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re date is stuck 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i ca n't imagine why someone would leave their computer on all of 
the time to start with. its like leaving your tv , radio 
and everything in the house on all of the time to me .  .  .  .  . nuts . 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 60 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( wayne smith ) writes 
this does n't answer the original question. is 2 a user 
and no mention was made of an card either. but from a data 
point of view , why does have an advantage when it comes to 
data is data , and it could be anywhere on the drive .  . can 
find it can it get it off the drive and into the computer 
does it have a better system i thought was good at 
managing a data when multiple devices are attached .  . if we are 
only talking about a single drive , explain why is inherently 
at managing data from a hard drive .  . 
you are making the same mistake i did you are confusing the drive 
interface to the data interface .  . again from my mac ibm info 
available by ftp on aim . stanford . edu . 44 . 0 . in the 
info mac report as mac ibm txt . 

both mac ibm 
only external device interface common to both mac and ibm .  . 
allows the use of any device hard drive , , , card 
mac plus only , some , and  . apple developed some 
for while ibm has no exact 
which results in added on ibm machines . 
main problem there are a lot of external devices which are internal 
which causes problems for more then two off the 
a is supposed to be only at the and at the 
end. any other set up causes problems for either mac or ibm . 
1 7 devices per  . 8 bit 1 . s 
and s base .  . 16 bit 1 requires a 
2 chip and can provide only fast 2 not wide 2 
which are both 16 bit see 2 . 
2 10 devices per in 2 mode .  . 2 is fully 
1 and tends to be as a very fast 1 since it 
needs a different interface in both hardware which tends to be 
very and software .  . are 4 s with s 
8 bit , 8 s with s 16 bit , and 15 s with s 
32 bit wide and fast . 2 in 1 mode is limited to 7 devices and 
reduced 8 bit or 16 bit fast only due to the difference between 
1 and wide 2  . 

ibm 
limited to hard drives by design or lack of development 
... 
integrated device 
currently the most common standard , and is mainly used for medium 
drives .  . can have more than one hard drive .  . s  . 

so at its lowest setting 2 interface in 1 mode 
the through put of in mode .  . in full 2 mode 
it poor out the , down the street , and into the garbage can. 
the problem becomes can the drive keep up with those through put 
and that is where the and cost of 2 comes from. not 
the interface itself but more and more from drive to use the 
2 through put .  . the cost of interface is a self 
few people buy because it is so for the pc , which 
in turn makes that mass producing which would reduce its 
cost is , and so is  . that is the effect of the 
rule of scale the more items sold the less each item has to bare the 
the cost of manufacture and so the less each item has to cost 

2 allows a drive through put to be limited by the drive while 
itself limits the through put .  . 

from  ( carlos 
subject re any problems 
organization unix bbs and email  . for info about contact 
lines 14 
nntp posting host public . com . 
keywords sound board 

in article  ( mark smith ) writes 

once in a while you have to put in a good word for something that works 
well. i have had no problems with my  . it works very well with 
dos and 2. for 2 , you do n't need to load any special drivers .  . the 
will detect that it is a drive and you are done. 

btw , it 's also very fast ! 


email 
, inc. 
phone 


from 
subject re gateway chip 
distribution usa 
organization california university of , california , pa 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( philip n .  . spiro ) writes 
george a. wrote 
in article  ( dicky johan ) writes 
it seems that there are using the chip in the 
machine .  . is that the same as the chip , which has a 16 


no , it 's not. according to the sales i spoke with last week , 
though , gateway does use  . you should be able to find the 
for about 15 and the chip yourself. minor  . 

for whatever it 's worth , my said that their would do 
14 . and was to the board. 

will someone with a recent this by inspection ! 





mine has a right on the card .  . why would you need the 
anyway from what i 've heard , when you 're , its keeps 
you from data .  . is this right 

bryan 
math  . sci .  . 
cal .  . u. of pa 

from  ( mike yang ) 
subject re 17 
reply to 
organization silicon , inc. 
lines 15 
nntp posting host wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( wayne rash ) writes 
the is for  . it powers down when the 
appears , it powers down with you turn your computer off , and it 
all of the standards. it 's also protected against from 
 . 

thanks for the info .  . 

personally , i think the is more bang for the right now. 

how much more does the cost 


mike silicon , inc. 


from  ( guy dawson ) 
subject re vs 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 35 


in article ,  ( grubb ) writes 
in pc magazine april 27 , 1993 29 although is twice as as , 
20 than , and support up to 7 devices its acceptance  .  .  . has . 
long been by problems and  . 
note what it does not site as a factor price .  . 

there is a of 200 for the  . what is nice is 
being able to run hard , drives , and of 
one channel and ! 

makes sense is you are going to load up a machine , if you just want 
a standard box for then makes sense. 

i have one loaded box that uses and run unix and one standard box 
that runs dos that uses  . 


by standard i mean , 4 , , video 

eh same article the pc would will get plug and play from the 
article it seems you get plug and play 1 only since 2 in full 
has ten not 7 devices .  . 

i beleive this last bit is just plain wrong ! 

1 is as another part of the plug and play 
program .  . 

guy 


guy group  . 
tel uk 
tel ibm austin usa 

from d. 
subject ken smith 
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

it is model number , a 14  .  . btw , if you have a 
number to contact the company , that would really be helpful to. thanks 
for replying .  . i was beginning to believe that i was never going to get 
a reply. i posted this on the netnews because the first message 
i sent to you was returned , and i did n't know if my second message would 
get to you. 




from  ( brian j schaufenbuel ) 
subject re hint 
keywords , 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
distribution usa 
lines 36 

in article  ( gary korenek ) writes 
in article  ( brian j schaufenbuel ) writes 
i am looking at buying some companion brand with 
hint  . has anybody had any experience with this board  ( good or bad ) 
any information would be helpful ! 
thanks 
brian j 


i believe that any that uses the hint 
is limited to 24 bit  ( where  real  is 32  . the 
hint has the 16 addressing of  . for this 
reason i would pass .  . i own one of these  ( hawk isa ) and am look 
to replace it for exactly this reason. 

please double check me on this. in other words , call the 
and ask them if the supports true 32 bit 
 . 

other than this , the works quite well (i am using 
mine with dos 5 , 3 . 1 . , and unix  . also with 
host  . 



network technology incorporated 
sugar land , texas  ( 713 ) 274 


you are correct ! the where i usually buy says 
that they will have this problem fixed in about two weeks .  .  .  . 

brian 
brian j there is no art which one government sooner learns 
than that of money from the of the 
ames , ia people especially college students . adam smith 

from de .  ( robert fuhge ) 
subject re from b drive 
organization university of ,  . ai 
nntp posting host uni . de . 
lines 36 

hi ! 

i think copy can do what you need. 
if you create a new for your a drive  ( that is the 5 1 4 ) , turn on 
the switch of copy. 
when you using this diskette , a message appears 

this is no system , you can 
1 ) replace with another , 
2 ) from or 
3) switch drives and  ( that is , a becomes b , b becomes a ) 
type your choice 

when you select the third item , you can from b which is now called a . 
seems to work very good , for example from the 
in 3.5 format was no problem for a friend of mine (i have only a 3.5 a drive ) 

hope that helps 
robert 

p.s. copy is , so it 's easy to get .  . version seems to be 5 . 0 . . 



robert , 17 , , tel .  . 
email de .  ( demnaechst erlangen ) 

wars are not for to see who is right , but who is left ... 



robert , 17 , , tel .  . 
email de .  ( demnaechst erlangen ) 

wars are not for to see who is right , but who is left ... 


from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re need phone number for western digital  ( esdi problem ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


western digital 1  .  .  .  . 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from  ( yamanari ) 
subject  ( complete pc ) question 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 43 


i'm trying to some software between two machines 
and i'm having real trouble .  . my own 14 . ( 
v42bis ) works fine i just talk to it 
at and everything comes out clear. this other , 
at the other machine , is a from the 
complete pc  ( the machines are in houses , 
so a direct serial link is impossible , and copying this 
much data to is a pain easier to turn the machines 
on for a few hours and go see a movie no , this is not 
 . 

i am having no end of trouble trying to set it up. it will 
and connect just fine at  . but if i try to 
set the at , 38 . or , the stupid thing 
, but just gives garbage  ( it 14 .  . 
his machine (a dx48633 ) has a , so that 's 
not the problem. 

it seems to me that the stupid thing wants to talk to 
a program at 14 . , even though it will take 
instructions at  ( and respond ok , etc. to 
other  . i do n't have a program that can 
do precisely 14 .  . 

i looked at the manual but it was  . all i know is , 
i did n't have this trouble with the it came 
ready to connect this way. do i need to it 
any way in particular 

also , it 's using v . and v . 42 .  ( and mnp5 ) when connecting 
here (i . e .  . , at , since our at are zip so far ) 
but it does n't say so there. any ideas 

 ( btw i tried the string that i use for 
my , but it just gives error on that one) 



a who taught literature in an has gone on trial 
in on the after to more than 50 sexual murders 
whose victims included children as young as eight .  . 
events in modern history , from the sunday mail , 19 apr 

from  ( david a. geller ) 
subject error system halted anyone have any ideas 
organization illinois institute of technology , chicago 
lines 28 

i recently bought an 40 .  . the says 
the board is a h. i have 4 on board. the machine 
also uses a super i o card  ( model  .  ( of course niether 
the or the i o card clearly state who the 
are ) i'm also using a card .  . 

anyway , that 's all of the pertinent info i can think of. 
my problem is that the computer often or error 
system halted messages depending on whether i set the memory error 
checking to or enabled in the setup of the  ( makes  . 
its  ( so it must be an board ) .  . 

i just took it back to the and they replaced all of the 
but i keep getting the same error  ( more frequently  . it all 
worked at the and did n't start screwing up  till i got home  . 

i 've tried to take out all of the and even re inserted them 
in reverse order , making sure that the were solid .  . 

my suspicion to this damn all in one serial 
parallel game i o card , or to the  ( god  . 

can anyone help 

thanks , peace , 
david 



from  ( bob montante ) 
subject wanted card for 
article i.d. news . 
expires 5 15 1993 
distribution na 
organization 
lines 7 

i 've acquired an old series 7 (3 button ) , and i'm told 
that this is a  . does anyone want to an old 
 ( pc clone ) card for this 

email replies to 

thanks. 

from  ( michael gerhards ) 
distribution world 
subject re modems and 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization private system 
lines 33 

ryan jeffrey wrote 
1 ) what is a 

i do n't know the exact meaning of , but i think it is something like 
universal arithmetic receiver  . normally , the older have 
a or on board. those generate an for every 
they received .  . the has an internal 16 , so with the 
right software it an every 16 chars .  . 

2 ) what does it do for high speed modems 
3) is it necessary for 14 . or higher 

if you dos , you do n't need a , because dos runs only one task at a 
time and the whole power could be used for the  . but if you are 
running a such as 2 , unix , etc. ( ) ) , the 
cannot work the whole time with one task .  . 

the result are lost characters or broken transmissions because of  . 

4 ) is it only for internal modems 

no. the only is that internal modems have the on board , 
whereas external modems are connected to the computer over a serial 
which has the on board. 

if you have any experience with or higher speed modems , please 
let me know what you think. also , any particular brand name , 
or will a do just a well 

i use a with a under 4 . 0 .  . i'm very satisfied 
with it but i think that nearly everyone is satisfied with his own  . 

michael 

michael 59 
germany voice 49 

from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re vs 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 27 

in article  ( grubb ) writes 
 ( wayne smith ) writes 
since the mac uses only 1 for hard drives yes the figure includes a 
hundred for drivers this is people and  . 

what group is this this is not a mac group. 

ok once again with the list 

why the list again we are talking on a pc , not on a mac or 
a unix box .  . and we are talking , or possibly or  . 

this n't  . 
tell me what the are with a single drive on a pc 
with an  ( or or vlb ) bus. 

are not relevant to this group or this 
debate. i'm sure that there are some out there that can 
handle the 40 of wide n fast , but the pc n't one of 
them. 

if we are to continue this thread state clearly which you are talking 
about 1 or 2 or over all 1 and 2 
it does make a difference. 

well maybe if the design people had their act together than maybe 
all pc 's would have built in by now. 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

in pc magazine april 27 , 1993 29 although is twice as as , 
20 than , and support up to 7 devices its acceptance  .  .  . has . 
long been by problems and  . 
note what it does not site as a factor price .  . 
eh same article the pc would will get plug and play from the 
article it seems you get plug and play 1 only since 2 in full 
has ten not 7 devices .  . 
1 is as another part of the plug and play 
program .  . 

from  ( stephen bokor ) 
subject re a drive won t 
organization institute of technology 
lines 36 
nntp posting host xx . au . 

 ( eric j balog ) writes 

hi ! 

i recently switched my 3.5 drive to a . the problem is , while i can read and 
write to both the new a and b correctly , i ca n't from a in a . 
i 've checked the it is set for seek at and 
order a , c . 

once , i had a that did not have the systems files on it in a . i got a 
message telling me to put a systems in the drive .  . it did n't work. 
when i do have a systems in the a drive , this is what happens 
1 ) power on and memory test 
2 ) a light comes on 
3) b light comes on , followed by a short 
4 ) light comes on for an instant 
5 ) b light comes on again , then nothing happens 

the light goes off , there is no activity of any kind , and the 
blanks .  . i ca n't even use ctrl alt del .  . 

any suggestions .  . 

have you checked 1 the setting of drive a to 1 . 44 . m  . 
2 the setting of drive b to 1.2 m  . 
3 the connecting the two drives to 
the card (i ca n't remember which 
two are , but they determine 
which is drive a b ) .  . 

i hope this is of some help ) 


steve 



from  ( will estes ) 
subject utility to switch cap ctrl 
organization mail group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 9 

being a big fan of the official ibm , i have a ps 2 keyboard attached 
to my computer .  . i want to know if there is a software utility 
out there that can be used to switch the of the ctrl and 
cap  . even better , does ibm or any third party make ctrl 
and cap lock key replacements that can be used to switch 
the as well 


will internet 

from  ( daniel j thumim ) 
subject re 20 or 21 
organization institute of technology 
lines 14 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

a quick look through the computer gave the following 
that sell 20 for less than 2000  ( pc or ps 2 compatible ) 
technology , digital technology , hardware that fits , 
ibm , , image systems , , , 
, , , designs .  . 

most of these are single , which are useless for most 
pc users. i posted requests for information in other newsgroups which 
were mostly , but i have managed to track down two 
in the 17 21 range , one 20 and one 21 . i am still 
looking into it , and i will post the results when i get more info .  . 
i am looking into a group as well. 
aniel ) 


from (c . m .  . yearsley ) 
subject re 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . ac . uk . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

i started a similar thread about a month ago , and got many replies .  . 
the summary 

14 nasty , low quality .  . avoid .  . 

15 not as good as some other makes however , cheap .  . 
main problem seems poor quality control. some reported 
 ( the problem i had ) , others poor focus , etc , etc. 

i about mine and it was 're  (i n't even pay 
shipping ) and returned to me in 2 days. 

it 's now clear , well and has no or 
at all. i'm very happy with it , and the digital 
and mode memory are nice. certainly , a 
 ( say ) would be much , but that 's well out of my price range .  . 

conclusion if you 're on a , get one and be prepared to 
send it back if it 's not perfect. it probably wo n't be when you get it , 
but has good potential. 

chris 

from 
subject wanted card with  . 
organization 
lines 18 

, 

i am looking for a pc card with the following features 

for  ( ide(at bus ) 
for 2 
 ( standard(256kb ) including feature  ( important ! ) 


there are some of this kind of card , but i have 
not found them yet. 

if you can help me , please mail to 
de . 


thanks a lot , 
martin 

from  ( roger c. pao ) 
subject re from b drive 
organization software 
lines 34 

 ( gordon lang ) writes 

david wrote 
i have a 5 1 4 drive as drive a. how can i make the system from 
my 3 1 2 b drive  ( optimally , the computer would be able to 
from either a or b , checking them in order for a  . but 
if i have to switch around and simply switch the drives so that 
it ca n't 5 1 4 , that 's ok. also , b wo n't do the trick 
for me . ) . 

thanks , 

we had the same issue plague us for months on our gateway .  . i finally 
got tired of it so i the drives .  . the only 
reason i did n't do it in the first place was because i had several 
5 1 4 's and some 5 1 4 based which expected 
the a drive .  . i order all new software  ( and upgrades ) to be 3 1 2 and 
the number of stupid programs that ca n't handle an alternate 
drive are with time the ones i had are now  . and 
as for the 5 1 4 's i just cut 3 1 2 replacements .  . 

if switching the drives is not an option , you might be able to wire up 
a drive switch to your computer  . i have n't tried it but i think 
it would work as long as it is wired carefully .  . 

i did this. i use a relay  ( radio shack 4pdt ) instead of a huge 
switch .  . this way , if the relay breaks , my drives will still work. 

it works fine , but you may still need to change the before the 
drive switch will work correctly for some programs. 



roger c. , ! ! , 

from  ( jon pastor ) 
subject re another happy gateway owner 
nntp posting host 
organization not much .  .  .  . 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( ken putt ) writes 

do n't they always of course , they 're so much more expensive than 
most other quality , 

like who , f when i bought my system  ( november ) , no first , second , 
or third could touch the price for the hardware software 
combination i got from  . 

another good thing i have read in the midst of all the gateway 
stories 

if you were selling as many systems as fast as , you 'd end up with four 
or five off too. and four or five ones. and lots 
of satisfied ones .  .  .  . 

they have an excellent return policy ! 

do n't minimize this if you buy mail order , it 's a good thing to know that 
you 'll get replacements parts , no questions asked , in a day or two , via  . 

they 're very impressive systems  ( when they work ) 

which they do in the vast majority of cases. remember that it 's only the 
people on the of the curve who are motivated to write the ones who 
love it , and the ones who hate it. you do n't hear from the folks in the 
middle very often .  .  .  . 

they have rough edges , no doubt about it but they give good value per dollar , 
and use almost all top quality components .  . 

from  ( anssi saari ) 
subject re and 
organization tampere university of technology , computing centre 
lines 16 
distribution 
nntp posting host ee . tut . fi . 

in  ( tom huot ) writes 

i would also like an explanation of this. if anyone can explain 
why the pro and 1 can share an , please do so. 

i think it 's simply because dos does n't use the for anything. 2 does , 
so with that you ca n't share the  . 






tampere university of technology 
finland , europe 


from  ( wallace waggoner ) 
subject 2 cars for sale  . 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 4 

i have 2 new cards for sale . they are brand new. 50 each 




from  ( eric j balog ) 
subject switch 3.5 to a 
organization university of 
lines 39 
nntp posting host seas . edu . 

hi ! 

i 'd like to switch my drives so that my 3.5 b drive becomes a , while 
my 5 . 25 . a becomes b . i'm having a few problems , though. 

i know that the must be switched , as well as the , 
to reflect this change , and i think that i 've done that correctly. however , the 
drives do not operate correctly in this  . from the c , if 
i type a , the 5 . 25 . drive light comes on if i type b , both the light for the 
5 . 25 . and 3.5 drives come on. 

there are some on each drive 
5 . 25 . label original  .  . i changed it to 
on off 
off on 
on on 
off off 
off off 
off off 
d r on on 
on on 
off off 

3.5 off on 
on off 
off off 
off off 
on on 
on on 
md off off 
c on on 


any help or suggestions would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks in advance. 

eric 


from  ( michael grant ) 
subject re comments video  ( creative labs ) 
organization corporation , 
lines 42 

in article , writes 
in  ( bill heiser ) writes 

in article  ( randy suess ) w 

the video does n't work with the pro , does n't work 
with system  . 

are you serious so i ca n't use a video in my 33 
what are the alternatives  ( other than removing memory ) 

get a better one. about the win tv thing 

the at the of dawn 
just who are you calling a head 
just a friend of the  . 
2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 31 , 61 , 89 , , , ,  .  .  .  . 

no good. i tv. it can run in dos and  . win tv only run in 
 . sorry .  .  .  .  . 


still no good. tv will not work on a with local video .  . 
it will not work in any high modes either. the people who 
make the card me that they will have a card available in june 
that supports both local and hi  . btw does anyone know the 
name of the company who makes tv phone bbs internet 

thanks 

michael grant 
or 











from  ( michael bitz ) 
subject re where to buy 
lines 13 
organization dakota state university 
lines 13 

has anybody bought a if so or you where i can 
buy it , please send me a e mail .  . thank you in advance. 

are not available to the general public as 
of yet. has released them to such as gateway and 
to do , etc. it 'll be a while .  .  .  . 



mike internet 
research and development 
dakota state university bitnet 


organization penn state university 
from greg 
subject re and 
distribution 

lines 12 

in article ,  ( anssi saari ) says 

in  ( tom huot ) writes 

i would also like an explanation of this. if anyone can explain 
why the pro and 1 can share an , please do so. 

i think it 's simply because dos does n't use the for anything. 2 does , 
so with that you ca n't share the  . 

that is correct. in dos you can use 7 for your you . ca n't do 
that under 2 because it uses 7 for the 

from richard 
subject what drives are out there 
x id 
x mon , 19 apr 93 16 56 10 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization , the institute , 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 14 

when sw is you will often  ( always ) get k 
if you opt for the 5 1 4 format .  . how big a 
of existing pc at 's have these low capacity drives as 
their only diskette station 
 ( o o) 
( ) 
richard , md the institute 
systems 
voice 8 46 80 00 library and 
fax 8 46 33 04 medical information center 
po box 01 21 c , 
s 01 s 01 
email 


from  ( terry clark ) 
subject re or 
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa 
lines 38 

from article , by mohammad al 

 ( clip ) i am in 
the process of an 66 computer 
 ( clip ) 
the first is and they use a  ( that 's 
the brand of the motherboard ) with chip set , the other is 
 ( formerly technology ) and they use the 
 . 
 ( clip ) 
i would really appreciate any on this. is the machine the 
clear choice does anyone know anything positive or negative about 
either company has anyone ever heard of should i 
go with just because it has the etc. 

thanks very much in advance for any information. 


mohammad al 
get back to your , or better yet the board and get 
some more info 
where made. 
 ( yeah i know but a mother to do ) 
number of , and types , and 32 bit 
any or on board 
how easy to , and of  . 


does it have a 
who 's 

these might make you feel better about either system , but i must 
agree that with 7 days of 24 tech and 2 year is 
encouraging .  . 

clark 
you want an opinion you do n't pay me enough for an opinion 


from  ( rusty foreman ) 
subject re 17 
reply to 
organization company , research 
lines 11 

has anyone taken a look at the new 17 they claim at  . 
how does it compare with the in terms of price , and quality of display 


living on time .  .  .  .  .  . 


research  .  .  . uunet . ! ! 
p.o. box phone  ( 918 ) 
, ok fax 


from  ( hal r. brand ) 
subject request for drives 
organization 
lines 9 
distribution world 
reply to  ( hal r. brand ) 
nntp posting host gov . 
keywords 


i'm looking into getting an external , reasonably fast ( access time) 
drive that supports photo , has 
output , and interface for connection to the  . does anyone 
have any comments experiences warnings they 'd like to share 
concerning the and or and or others. thanks ! 

r. brand 


from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 44 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( wayne smith ) writes 
what does a 200 400 5 drive cost 
since the is the only mac able to deal with s and hard drives start 
at i have no idea. 
for the mac i have the following these are all external 
15 
7 . 3 . 
5 . 63 . 
4 . 75 . 5 . 33 . 
4 . 67 . 4 . 90 . 
4 . 4 . 
( 3 . 4 . 31 . 
etc 

so 1 2 for the mac goes down in price as hard drive size goes 
up and i assume the same for the pc world. 

i wo n't argue that the standard makes for a good , well 
data , but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 
well is also a drive interface .  . in the mac since is the 
for any non card , non , not keyboard device the id 7 is used 
for the drive called in all  . this allows cross 
drive as fast as the , program , , , and drive can handle 
it this shows up best in the line . 
in the ibm that uses for the drive this should happen as well. 
also is not just drives but , , cards 
this showed up for the plus as the  cage  , , etc. 
seems to be mainly hard drives .  . as for nobody has given me any 
and i ca n't find any. besides the call the at interface 
make of that what you will 
is a jack of all and is a master of one. 
this alone puts above  . 2 out of the water .  . 
remember was used in high machines until about 18 months ago 
when the mac came down to earth so the rule of scale still played 
and remained high cost cheap seems to mean in the high end 
computer world at times and this more than anything else kept 
off into the price wise 
came from the high end computer world with were the 
standard for the most part. of all the interface next could have used it 
choose  . in 16 bit and 32 bit mode is a 
interface while and 8 bit are run one program 
at least the way mac use 8 bit 

from  ( holly ks ) 
subject us info wanted 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization department of computer science , university 
lines 11 

could someone please give me some info regarding the that have 
recently dropped below 200 i was going to buy a used external 
without fax for 200 but now i see the with fax is selling below 
200 brand new ! are these good modems what do they carry 

any info very much appreciated. 

kevin 




from  ( penio penev ) 
subject re  ( isa ) vs.  ( eisa ) 
reply to 
organization university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
x posted from edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 14 

on fri , 16 apr 1993 10 00 19 gmt spring wrote 

can anyone give me their opinion on which system has got the best overall 
system 

with or 
with 

66  . , among others , is such a system for  . 


 ( 212)327 )  ( w ) internet 

disclaimer all are mine. 

from  ( lee reynolds ) 
subject card wanted 
organization , incorporated .  . 
lines 4 

and again .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
title says it all. why 



from  ( holly ks ) 
subject eric where are you 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization department of computer science , university 
lines 4 

eric , send me your email address , i lost it ! i 've ! 

kevin 


subject hint 
from  ( brian j schaufenbuel ) 
distribution usa 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
keywords , 
lines 13 



i am looking at buying some companion brand with 
hint  . has anybody had any experience with this board  ( good or bad ) 
any information would be helpful ! 

thanks 


brian 
brian j there is no art which one government sooner learns 
than that of money from the of the 
ames , ia people especially college students . adam smith 

from  ( neil watkinson ) 
subject is there a hardware standard 
organization , , australia 
keywords 
lines 19 

help .  .  .  .  . 

i need to implement and on a board that i'm and i'm 
finding it to track down a definition  ( hardware that is) of 
and  . 

i have the and the fact that shares with and 
shares with , except exactly how this is done is not 
clear especially if the existing 2 does not allow  . does the 
standard allow for a different to be used and if so how. 

please answer by email to 



thanks in advance 

neil  . 


from  ( andrew klossner ) 
subject re and 
reply to 
organization tektronix color , , 
lines 19 



these , , are call devices .  . there are 
devices that requires exclusive interrupt ownership , eg .  . 
 ( i6 ) and keyboard  . there are also devices that 
does not require exclusive ownership , ie .  . it will share an 
interrupt with another device , eg .  . 

no. in a standard , the one that almost all non use , 
two separate interface cards cannot share an interrupt .  . this is due to 
a in the design. for example , if your wants 
to drive interrupt number 7 , then it must hold a certain wire to 0 
or 1 at all times , depending on whether or not it wants an interrupt .  . 
this letting another card assert interrupt number 7. 

when two or more devices in an pc share an interrupt , it 's 
because they 're implemented by a single card .  . 

andrew 

from  ( david m. todd ) 
subject drive on 
organization university of , amherst 
lines 11 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 


i have a machine with a 3.5 a drive and a 5 . 25 . b drive .  . i 
want to them so 3.5 drive is a what do i have to do 




david m. 
department of psychology , university of , amherst , ma usa 
phone fax 


from  ( chris walton ) 
subject a ... 
organization department of computer science , university 
lines 19 

i have an old type  ( that 's all the info i have apart from 
the fact that it is black ! ) .  . does anyone have any info about this 
or it reply by e mail please to 


chris e mail or or 
tel .  . or  ( at weekends ) 
write 4 2 place , ,  . 

's fourth law 
once a job is up , anything done to improve it only makes it worse. 





chris e mail or or 
tel .  . or  ( at weekends ) 
write 4 2 place , ,  . 

from  ( gregory k. ramsey ) 
subject computer , inc.  ( formerly technology ) 
organization civil engineering lab , 
lines 9 

since the net has convinced me not to try  ( if they 
were still answering their phones ) does anybody have any 
opinions on computer , their got an 
choice in the jan of  . 

email and i 'll  . 

greg 


from  ( larry henson ) 
subject ibm link to help ! ! 
organization university of north florida , 
lines 10 

, i am trying to an apple to my ibm  . 
i seem to have a problem my to accept this. how can 
you , , etc. to fit the system i tried mode , but it did 
not work. if anyone can help , post of e mail .  . thanx .  . 


abort , , format ! ! 
doctor , give me the  .  .  . 
trust me ! i'm a scientist ! 
larry 

from  ( silvio picano ) 
subject 2 routines 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 21 

newsgroups ibm . pc . hardware . 
subject 2 pin out 
distribution world 
organization university engineering computer network 

i have a  ( or 2s ) 2 that i want to 
interface to a serial of a different  ( non ibm compatible ) system. 
the is at compatible , with a  . i tried 
to reverse engineer the , but it has a inside 
it. 

if i could get the pin out , and perhaps a copy of the routines 
that support it , i could map all this into my target system 

anyone know where i might get the pin out or the routines 
are the routines published convenient 

thanks ! 


ps .  .  .  . please . send email to me directly ! 

from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re for a local  ( cached ) 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 33 

in article writes 
i would like to hear the net . wisdom . and net . opinions . on  . 
i would to get a card for my 66  . 
what are good options for this  ( preferably under  . it must also work 
under 2 and be compatible with  ( and other s  . 

i have a on an , although my machine is 
66  . i has the save rate of 0 . s regardless of 
the variations of the speed .  . i tested it with speed between 
5 . and 8 .  . not any difference. the problem is not the 
interface between the and the memory. 

my advice buy of , save 70 and enjoy  . 

computer 25 
5 . mhz ) 
drive  ( 213 mb ) 

sys . 

dos 5 no win 3 . 1 . 
sys . 

core  ( v 2 . k k k 
 ( v 5 . k k k 

i 'd still like to here from people with  . 
i still want to know what speed is used with drives .  . 
i still want to know if some  ( most ) drives can handle 8  . 

ps a friend with a 20 and a new  ( 245 ide ) drive gets 
between 1000 k  ( ca n't remember  . i think the is running 
at 8 in this case. 

from  ( liz camarra ) 
subject re 17 
organization school of and earth science and technology 
lines 20 

in article  ( the emporium ) writes 
stuff deleted 
a while. that is the only thing that is making me more in favor 
of the  ( or now also available the only difference , 
no ) .  . any experiences or opinions from people who have used 

not only do you lose , you also had to give up 
non mode , the bandwidth and the mac 
and of the  . 

personally i am not bothered at all by the two lines in 
 . 

tony @ university computer science 


stephen ,  . engineering , univ .  . of hawaii 
do n't have my own account until  . school starts  ( autumn 93 ) 
death to ! go ! 


from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject re what is a 
organization company research 
lines 9 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

andrew wrote 


is when you put your face into 
main memory. 


keep your day job. 


from  ( mark ashley ) 
subject for 
organization harris ,  . , 
lines 18 
nntp posting host harris . com . 

i'm looking for a complete sw solution 
i need an (e . g . 34f ) 
plus a drive  ( 500mb or less like archive ) plus a 
program that will work on these. 

my intended system will have so 
plain will no longer do. 
but i also hear that the world 
is not very organized .  . 

so does anybody have a setup 
like what i'm looking for please 
describe it. 

thanks. e mail please. 




subject hard drives 
from 
reply to 
organization cal state 
lines 12 

i have just a few quick questions. does anyone here have a 
system (a dx ) any problems with it 
second , how much should a 33  ( with 
no ram ) run me 
3rd .  .  . should . a total  ( like myslef ) be able to perform 
a without the aid of a , or is it 
beyond hope 
4th .  .  . i . hear that some  ( if not all ) hard drives may require 
if you switch them to another computer  ( or as the case may 
 . is there any truth to this 

any replies would be greatly appreciated. 

from  ( carl christensen ) 
subject 8 cards on a 6 card 
organization temple university 
lines 16 
nntp posting host temple . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

this may be the question of the year , but is there a 
way to   or expand a 6  ( all 16 bit ) 
to get the usual 8 my case has for 8 , and i 'd like to 
get a , but with all my other cards i'm already 'd out ! 
i'm that a simple solution exists , e.g. an that turns 
one into three. i do n't mind if it turns it into 8 bit , 
as i can put my i o card , card , and card there. 
my other cards are 16 bit  ( ide , ,  . 

if there is such an , does that up of 
everything else i 'd hate to buy a new ! ( 


, , , dept. of computer science 
temple university 
and ! philadelphia , pa usa 

from  ( mark devaney ) 
subject sorry , another gateway posting 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 42 


i never thought i 'd contribute to a gateway thread , either pro or con , but 
my could use a little  . the scenario 

1 ordered a 50 w local 
2 receive system 10 days after  ( happy ) 
3 discover inside  ( unhappy ) 
4 call gateway , receive the correct in 5 days 
 ( getting happier ) 
5 new does n't work  ( unhappy again ) 
6 call gateway again , get another in 5 more days 
 ( cooling off , the end is in sight ) 
7 this does n't work either , is bad 
 ( very unhappy ) 

gateway 's solution they will order me a new  ( 5 more days ) 
and have on site service it for me. 
but , i have to take a day off of work because the service people 
only work 9 5 m f. i say , no way i 've already blown about 20 hours 
with this , about 10 of them on hold and i do n't have the time or 
to take a day off work. also , my 30 day return period is almost over and 
i 've only been able to use the thin for about 10 minutes. so , the whole 
thing is going back .  . 
i was extremely upset when i began this post because the support told me 
that i would have to pay not only for the returned system , but also 
the two hard drive they had sent me. fortunately , i just spoke 
to customer service and they are going to have come and pick everything 
up  . the only is that now i have to order another computer .  . 

i would really like to try gateway again , i'm just very turned off by the 
of having to try and get through to customer service or tech support 
again .  .  .  . i think their products are great for the most part , but i'm 
beginning to wonder if the savings are worth the potential  . 
are other mail order as difficult to contact i know gateway is 
, and for good reason , but i do n't know if i can take it again. 
oh well , i feel better now .  .  .  . 



mark hear me now and believe me later 
institute of technology , , 
internet 

from 
subject 100 and 100 needed 
organization university of washington 
lines 24 
nntp posting host washington . edu . 

misc . , misc . wanted . , , pc . ibm . , seattle . ,  . 
 . , misc . , 
misc . computers . d . , misc . computers . pc . , misc . co . 
other . , 
distribution world 
from 
reply to 
organization 
subject 100 and 100 needed 
keywords 

i need 100 and 100 , but price should be around 17 20 piece .  . 
i am waiting for an offer .  . 


, 
seattle 
 ( 206 ) ,  ( home ) 
 ( 206 )  ( work ) 
 ( 206 )  ( fax ) 
internet 
uucp ! washington . edu . ! 


from  ( daniel m. coleman ) 
subject re pc 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin , texas 
lines 20 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( welch bryan ) writes 
my has a pc and wants to to a full  . does anyone 
know if we could use the it came with on a new machine i heard 
it 's or , but not sure which .  . also , does it use cards , so we can 
use the drive , , etc 

the only things you 'll be able to from the are the drives 
and  . the are , and the is , but you will need 
an to use it. the does not use standard cards. unless 
you 're really for cash , you should just junk the thing and buy new 
stuff. 

dan 


daniel matthew internet 

the university of texas at austin 
electrical computer engineering bitnet  . bitnet . 


from  ( welch bryan ) 
subject re extension by credit company applies to the of computer 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm , research triangle park , north 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( ken staggers ) writes 
wrote 
most , if not all , credit card offer to double the up 
to one year , namely , if you make a by a credit card , you get 
additional up to one year .  . does it apply to the of 
computers i wonder if anyone out there has used it. is there any 
thanks in advance. 

i am just about to post the results of my big computer  . one 
of the key points was the ability to use my american express card .  . i 
read the fine print between double policies of and 
 . sure , both will allow you double on computers , but 
has a claim of 250 . 00 .  . could you imagine trying to get your 
or mother board fixed for 250 . 00 . has no limit on claims .  . 

remember , if you use , you must either send a copy of the info 
to them in 30 days from , or you must call them to pre and 
then send them the paperwork within 90 days of  ( my pre 
arrived  . requires no pre  . 

ken 


i just talked to a for my at t regarding this there is no 
claim , and you only have to them of the when the 
item needs  . if it ca n't be , you get the amount you paid 
for it. 
though , the at t gold has a limit of 1000 on claims .  . 
definitely not to that card .  .  .  . ) 

bryan 


bryan welch amateur radio 
internet  ( best ) , 
everything will save love and music. 

from  ( koji kodama ) 
subject wanted your opinions on the insight 1000 or 2000 
nntp posting host 7 . 49 . 
organization motorola , austin , texas 
lines 47 


for those of you who might be familiar with insight distribution 
network , inc. and their 

i'm seriously considering buying the insight 2000 , which 
is with the drive with access time , , 
, photo capability , etc. , and with the 16 
sound card , etc .  .  .  .  .  ( if you are familiar with insight , you know the 
i  . i believe the drive is either a  ( 265ms ) or an 
 ( 280ms ) , but it is not clear to me which one is actually a part of the 
 ( at least two of their sales people could n't give me a straight 
answer as to which one ah , yes , one of the of ! ) .  . 

other questions 

excuse my ignorance , but is a in the 
market or do you think is the better drive 

bottom line is this worth the money  ( currently , for the 
1000 , and for the 2000 ) 

, i was thinking that the 2000 might be for my 
uses  ( however , i do want full capabilities , photo stuff , 
programs for my kids , etc . ) . , and considered the lower end 
1000 and using the difference  ( around 250 . to get something 
else useful , like a back up drive  . 

basically , i would just like to hear from those who have actually used 
these , and whatever pros cons you might , 
directly to the email address below. 

thanks , 



2 



by motorola ltd .  . 


note the opinions expressed 
are mine , and do not reflect the opinions 
or policies of motorola inc. or its  . 



from  ( tony catone ) 
subject re 17 
organization university of 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 15 56 06 gmt 

in article  ( rusty foreman ) writes 

has anyone taken a look at the new 17 they claim 
at  . how does it compare with the in terms of 
price , and quality of display 

i'm interested in the new 17 as well. has anyone seen one 
of these in the flesh 


tony 


from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re perfect 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 27 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 





article  ( 60704 is last ) 
from  ( rithea hong ) 
newsgroups sys . ibm . pc . hardware . 
subject re perfect 
date sat apr 17 07 13 05 1993 

a friend of mine got a of the above model and it had some , so 
he sent it back .  . unfortunately , the replacement also was  . i would 
bet it 's a common problem. the best advice i 've heard when buying 
is to actually look at the specific one you will buy  ( as opposed to model ) 
since manufacturing even from big names still tends to produce 
alot of with  . 




end of file , press return to quit 

just to name two at the top of my list of crap makers are , 
 .  . 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from ( stephen p. norman ) 
subject 250 problems 
keywords gateway 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization martin group 
distribution usa 
lines 16 

i have a memory systems 250 in my gateway 
system. i have found the capability to be 
fairly unreliable .  . in 3 cases out of 10 , i have had the fail 
at one point or another , often hanging in the middle of writing the tape. 
seek errors , drive errors seem to be most common .  . i use the 
dos software from memory systems. should i return the drive , 
get some better software , the  ( am using tapes ) 
any hints would be this stuff is to time to do over 
and over again until it  .  .  . 

steve norman 






from 
subject more problems 
organization center for and research computing activities 
lines 25 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 


okay , here is my 

33 gateway 

( drive c ) 
( drive d ) 
, with enabled 
drive 

, when i up i get the message , but it says 
something like 

drive c 
drive d 
not ! 

and i ca n't get to the drive .  . 

i go into setup , remove the entry for drive d , and , i can 
access the  . is there a way to get two drives and the 
at the same time i have sys . , but it just the system. 

brian 


from  ( barry sardis ) 
subject re date is stuck 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 39 

 ( james chuang ) writes 


when you leave your radio on at night , it may not be doing anything useful. 
but computers can do something useful even when you are not in front of it. 
just because dos and does not know how to does 
not mean that all computers be shut down every night. 

i bet starting up nt every morning means a good coffee break .  .  .  .  . 





if someone asks if you are a god , you say .  .  .  . yes ! 

in addition to time , i leave things running because my pc as 
a fax machine .  . 

however , this is off the original subject. i did n't get the replies on , 
, and dos date logic .  . all i know is that i 've been running this way 
for many months and it is only recently , the last month , that i have noticed 
the problem. as i stated , it is not always the date that 
does n't roll forward , sometimes i notice that the is several 
behind where it ought to be. 

when , the following are generally running in win 3 . 1 . 

, pro 3 . 0 . , print , word 1.1 , file , program 


a random saver is generally running too. 



home  ( 408 ) 
avenue office  ( 408 ) 
san jose , ca fax  ( 408 ) 
email or 

from 
subject question 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 

since the that sold me the hard for my computer are 
so generous , i need the info to set this drive from master to 
slave .  . any help would be greatly appreciated. please reply via e mail .  . 

, avoid a computer from in , ny .  . 


jeff 

four out of five electrons prefer holes for their 
needs. boycott  . ignore anybody who 
to be a serious user .  . support new makers 
of hardware and software .  . buy canadian music. quit  . 
take up running .  . is the of  . 



from 
subject help ! ! my gateway up 
organization electro scientific , or 
lines 25 

help ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! my computer from gateway is up on me. 
gateway tech support could n't help me. they want more on when 
it up. i did ! anyway , here it is. if the keyboard is left idle 
in dos for more than 15 , i can type on the command line , but as 
soon as i hit a return , the computer up. this will happen 
almost every time , whether i 've just up , , or finished using a 
dos program .  . everything works fine if i do n't let it sit .  . is a 
different story. if i let the machine sit while in for 15 
or more , it does not up. however , i do get frequent application 
errors that kick me out of an application , my work. 
i just do n't know if this is a hardware or software problem. any help 
in or things to try , would be greatly appreciated. 

p.s. i do not run any  ( except smartdrive ) and 
says everything is good. 


system is 33 
15 gateway 
pro  ( using build 55 ) 


thanks , 



from  ( ngo nguyen ) 
subject re date is stuck 
organization university of , campus 
lines 19 

in article  ( sam latonia ) writes 

i ca n't imagine why someone would leave their computer on all of 
the time to start with. its like leaving your tv , radio 
and everything in the house on all of the time to me .  .  .  .  . nuts . 

computers are a special case .  .  . and it 's a pretty good idea to 
leave them on .  .  . cuz you turn on a computer , you 're 
putting a of through its components .  . 
imagine you 're turning on your computer 5 or more times a day. 
you 're increasing the chances of damaging the , memory , 
etc on all the components of your computer .  . so you may save 
a few here and there in , but it wo n't 
look like much when it come time to fix your computer .  . 

my  . 02 . worth .  .  . 
n .  . 



from  ( lee reynolds ) 
subject 16 bit wanted .  . 
organization , incorporated .  . 
lines 8 

hi again ! 

okay , am getting an old at type together as well. 
anyone have a 16 bit they 'd like to sell is preferred , but 
and are fine too .  .  .  .  .  . for . that matter , almost anything 
so long as it works ! 



from  ( mitch ) 
subject thanks !  ( backing up masters ) 
keywords misled , confused , advice , ! 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 8 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


just a quick thanks to the many who explained the backing up of my 
masters .  . apparently they are not copy protected i just used a program that 
is unable to handle high  ( old  . i was surprised to hear that 
no programs on high have copy protection , which someone 
back there said. huh ! learn something new every day ! 



from  ( andy j. berkvam ) 
subject how to detect at hardware level 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 25 
reply to  ( andy j. berkvam ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


 lo all , 

i am a program that a computer for its  . 
it 's going to be run a computer up to our campus 
network.  ( actually , it already is running , it 's just not getting all 
the info i want it to yet .  .  . ) . anyway , i want to check for a  . i 
already check for a  ( using the code in 's 
 . but there is no that the is loaded when my 
program runs , or that they ever load the  . 

since i am interested in what hardware is attached to the machine , how 
do i detect is a is attached i know it can be done because the 
can do it. 

thanks in advance , 

andy 



andy few are wholly dead 
u of wisconsin point blow on a dead man 's 
cleveland and a live flame will start. 
internet robert 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject re vs 
distribution world 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( grubb ) says 

in pc magazine april 27 , 1993 29 although is twice as as , 
20 than , and support up to 7 devices its acceptance  .  .  . has . 
long been by problems and  . 

i love it when magazine writers make stupid statements like that re 
 . where do they get those numbers i 'll list the actual 
ranges , which should convince anyone that such a 
statement is absurd 

i ranges from 0 s. 
ii ranges from 0 s. 
ranges from 0 8 . s. 
is always 1 . s  ( although there are some non standard versions ) 




from  ( greg shaw ) 
subject re vs 
organization communications , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

wayne smith wrote 
in article  ( grubb ) writes 
point of view , why does have an advantage when it comes to 
data is data , and it could be anywhere on the drive .  . can 
find it can it get it off the drive and into the computer 
does it have a better system i thought was good at 
managing a data when multiple devices are attached .  . if we are 
only talking about a single drive , explain why is inherently 
at managing data from a hard drive .  . 

integrated device 
currently the most common standard , and is mainly used for medium 
drives .  . can have more than one hard drive .  . s  . 

why do n't you start with the of the first 
you can quote till you 're blue in the face , but if they 
the capability , then what 's the point 

who said was necessary or are the only worth 
investing thousands of dollars (e . g .  . a new pc 's worth of money ) in . 

who says is limited to 5 what about does anyone 
know how they perform 

you did n't read to carefully .  . uses the same connection mechanism 
as standard  . if rate is limited by , whether it 's 
to , or matters not. 

so at its lowest setting 2 interface in 1 mode 
the through put of in mode .  . in full 2 mode 
it poor out the , down the street , and into the garbage can. 
as on what system 

on mine , for one thing. out of the water , hands down. if 
has better , why is n't it used on workstations and file 


the problem becomes can the drive keep up with those through put 
and that is where the and cost of 2 comes from. not 
the interface itself but more and more from drive to use the 
2 through put .  . 

given the original question  ( scsi used only as a single hard drive 
controller ) , is it then necessary to get a drive that will do 
at least 5 , maybe 10 for the choice to make any 
what does a 200 400 5 drive cost 

no , that 's the nice thing on a , can use both drives 
at once. i 've got unix loaded on one of my  ( along with windogs ) and the can only use one of the two drives at one time. it 's pretty  . 

i just bought at quantum 240 for my mac at home. i paid for it. i 
have n't seen drives  . 

the original back in  was  . i think the original card 
 ( or ) was  . has stood relatively alone in not coming down 
in price , mainly because we 're talking about pc 's and not sun 's or 
or sgi or  ( name your favorite unix  . that is , after millions 
of pc buying decisions over the years , has had plenty of time to 
come down in price .  . 

no , actually , we 're talking about being expensive simply because 
nobody did a common interface for the pc .  . if they had a common  ( read 
easily implemented ) method of adding to a pc  ( like as in a sun or 
mac ) , then you 'd find the connection medium of choice. 

i wo n't argue that the standard makes for a good , well 
data , but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 

on a single drive , is more expensive .  . but , you bought your pc for 
, so , you 'd want to add more drives or whatever. the 
following are why i find intrinsically better than 

a  ( partial ) list 
1. you can add many different types of devices and access them 
 . 
2. a device works on many different machines (i have a mac 
and a pc at home and moving hard drives between them is very nice 
with them up and away they go ) 
3. devices work together better than devices .  . for 
instance , recently , i added an older connor 100 to a 
212  . the connor must be setup as the slave .  . it will 
work no other way. on , you set the address , check the 
, plug it in , and away it goes. 
4. i have a problem with 's exclusion i notice that 
the time it takes to switch from drive c to drive d is 
quite long as compared to the time it takes to switch from drive c 
to d on a system. under a , this is very 
, as many things can be going on at once. 

one neat thing that i 've noticed lately (a fringe benefit ) has been the 
ability to add older  ( almost dead ) drives as on a system with 
little problem we 've got a bunch of almost dead 20 drives that i 've 
added to my pc .  . i 've now got the interface full , but , it does allow me to 
have 4 20 drives , 1 240 drive , 1 drive , and 1 drive 
all on the same card .  . 

simply put , is than  . no to figure out. 

greg .  . 


you ca n't go against nature , because when you do , greg shaw 
go against nature , it 's part of nature too. 
love uunet ! ! com . ! shaw 

from  ( augustyn robert ) 
subject address 
organization university of , ontario , canada 
lines 4 

what is address and 
thanks in advance for the info .  . 
robert .  . 


from  ( david weisberger ) 
subject from b drive 
nntp posting host amherst . edu . 
organization large 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 17 

i have a 5 1 4 drive as drive a. how can i make the system from 
my 3 1 2 b drive  ( optimally , the computer would be able to 
from either a or b , checking them in order for a  . but 
if i have to switch around and simply switch the drives so that 
it ca n't 5 1 4 , that 's ok. also , b wo n't do the trick 
for me . ) . 

thanks , 



david q mr. president , do you care to say any more about the 
details of the 
the president no. 
q how about explaining to the american people why it 's 
an important issue for the united states to undertake 
the president what 

from  ( jim erickson ) 
subject bye 
organization international , ltd 
distribution sys . ibm . pc . hardware . , general . , announce . 
lines 17 

as of today i will no longer be a contact for international on the net. 
this responsibility has been taken over by another tech and i 
am moving up and on  ( mo money , money  . i just wanted to thank all of the 
netters who have supported and encouraged the participation of on the net. 
i personally feel it is important for such as to provide their 
with as easy access as possible when they have questions problems and 
being on the net is an big step in the right direction .  . i hope that other 
will follow suit  ( as and others have  . again , thanks. 




jim international , ltd .  . 
z e o o s technical support dept. 
uunet ! ! support uucp z ee o o industrial  . n . e .  . 
any opinions expressed z e o o s , mn 
are my own ! fax 

from  ( robert r. novitskey ) 
subject the 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 14 
reply to  ( robert r. novitskey ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


hay all 

has anyone out there heard of any on the  . 
i was wondering what it 's compared to the 66 and or 
would be. any info would be helpful .  . 

later 
bob 

robert  ( 216)754 ) cwru  . ohio 

computer engineer and c programmer now seeking summer jobs 


from  ( mark smith ) 
subject any problems 
keywords sound board 
organization washington state university tri cities 
lines 14 

i'm thinking about getting a and it up 
through the on a media vision pro spectrum sound board. 
does anybody have this out there if so , does it work 

for anybody in general who has the drive , have you 
had any problems door not , , door not 
 ( getting stuck or not all the way ) , 
and any other related problems. 

thanks in advance 

mark 



from k . 
subject re how to search for bad memory  . 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 29 

in article cat . uucp . cat . uucp .  ( dave ) writes 
i came upon this idea i would like to share with everyone. 

to check for bad memory 

1. create a with sys . and sys . in the 
 . 

2. the pc to create a drive as large as possible. 

3. use a utility ( i use ) .  . run it on the 
drive , yes it will run , its only a device 

4. run 1000 or so passes , they go very quick 

5. if your machine fails , there is a bad memory chip 

6. if your machine passes , there is a conflict with programs you 
are in memory. 
... 

it 's an interesting idea , but the worst case data patterns developed to 
test magnetic media are totally different than the patterns used to detect 
common in memory  . 


bob 
at t bell laboratories 


from  ( masaoki kobayashi ) 
subject drive 
organization r d , tokyo japan 
lines 24 

hi all , 

i would like to drive .  . the i would like to have is 

applicable to photo 
 ( scsi(2 ) interface 
compatible with 
does not need any 
( if possible ) 
double 

i believe there are no drives satisfying all of the above condition , 
so i would like to know all of your opinion. the above conditions 
are by my priority .  . 
i think 1 1 is a little bit expensive , but it does 
almost all of the above conditions .  . the problem is that i do not know 
the with  . has someone succeeded to connect these 
drives to i have heard a that drive is incompatible 
with  . 
any suggestions are greatly appreciated. 

thanks in advance , 
, 


from  ( tim king ) 
subject gateway 2000 from 
organization ground zero 
lines 17 
x newsreader tin 1.1 


i have a gateway with my 3.5 as drive a. i 
accidentally discovered that if a have a from one particular 
box of in the a drive when i up , rather than getting 
the non system diskette message , the machine and the 
gets  ( luckily , gateway sends a print of the standard 
with their  . this only happens with a box 
of pre that i have , no other cause this 
problem. if i re format one of the , the problem goes away. 
i did a virus  ( scan v1 . of the and found nothing. 

anyone have any idea what is going on here hardware problem a 
virus that ca n't be detected the system reading in garbage from 
the 


tim king , 

from  ( todd w anderson ) 
subject re stealth 24 giving 9 . 4 . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
lines 9 


on my with the stealth 24 i get 11 . 4 . with  . 3 . 11 . 








from  ( tony catone ) 
subject re 50 vs 50 
organization university of 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 13 apr 93 01 34 36 gmt 

in article  ( michael hamilton ) writes 

do you really need to switch to a 66 instead of a as i 
understand it , 's can have local devices  ( on the mother board ) 
but not local  . and according to what i been told , many 
systems go beyond the local standard in order to provide 
systems with a local capability .  . i have seen a 
mother board with 2 local which claimed to be able to 
support any , including the 66 and  . can someone 
some more informed light on this issue 

you will need to check with makers to see if their 
will work at 50  . some will with some  . 


tony 


from  ( daniel m. coleman ) 
subject re ca n't get to work w pro 
article i.d. geraldo . 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin , texas 
lines 26 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( keith mancus ) writes 
i am unable to get my gateway 66 to run 
in  . i ordered a pro , and i'm pretty 
sure the is really there because i can select 
 . but no matter what i do with the program 
in the 's program group , remains out. 
i have 3 . 1 . , build 59 of the drivers , dos 5 . 0 .  . the 
drivers were by gateway , not by me , so perhaps there 's 
a file missing from the hard drive .  . it runs just fine. 
i did go into the and select  . sometimes 
it refuses  ( ghosted out ) , other time it accepts it , but when i hit 
ok and re enter , it 's back to  . at no time does 
it in the main  . help ! 

maybe you need to go into and set a rate for 
 . you might need to use option. 

dan 



daniel matthew internet 

the university of texas at austin 
electrical computer engineering bitnet  . bitnet . 


from  ( lance hartmann ) 
subject re summary information on pc 's local 
reply to 
organization ibm , austin 
keywords local 
lines 21 

in article () writes 

stuff deleted 

 ( intel ) 
its not completely defined (yet) .  . 
some people think of it as a long term solution .  . 
larger  . 
not so cheap  ( complex  . 


a friend who owns a company that clones shared with me the fact that 
the is not expensive how about 12 many money 
makers , no doubt , will attempt to price the high only because it 's 
new technology. 

 ( lance 
yes , that is a ' '  ( percent sign ) in my network address. 

all statements , comments , opinions , etc. reflect those of the author 
and shall not be as those of ibm or anyone else for that matter. 

from  ( mark s. wyman ) 
subject re clones now legal in us ! ! ! 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
distribution na 
lines 12 

writes 

a friend of mine called me on the phone and told me he was 
and saw a report that the ruling prohibiting from selling their 
clones has been thrown out , making it legal for to in the us. 
can anyone out there verify this 

thanks in advance 


yep , this was on the news. great news for  . bad news 
for  . 

from  ( guy dawson ) 
subject re why local 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 48 


in article ,  ( grego filippo ) writes 
hi fellow netters , 

i have a question for you .  .  .  . i am gonna buy a 66 
with local bus. is the speed benefit that great 
would it be wise to spend on a local system  ( hd 
and card ) for normal use ( i mean i wo n't use it for a 
server ! ! ) 

also , i read an article from someone ( sorry , i ca n't remember your 
name ) and he said that even though you have a local hard 
, your wo n't be that much greater because 
of the 's ! ! ! 
so what is the use of having a fast if the ca n't 
with it 

something to bear in mind is what the v in stands for ! 

v for video the intention of the was to speed up 
the so that large memory to memory would be  . 
this is useful in data from main memory to 
video memory. 

since there are usually 3 card makers have been making 
cards to fit in the other two .  . 

how about an card move the data into the card at 
130 odd s and then wait for it to onto the net at 
just over s. 

do do however free the local for other cards 

some times you need fast and sometimes you do n't ! 


thank you ... 





guy 


guy group  . 
tel uk 
tel ibm austin usa 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject re vs 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 59 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( wayne smith ) writes 
i just bought at quantum 240 for my mac at home. i paid for it. i 
have n't seen drives  . 

a friend of mine just got a drive for 320 .  .  ( that 's 
million , or  . with the basic 20 interface , he gets 
close to 1 on his 20 .  . does your figure include a few 
hundred for drivers 
since the mac uses only 1 for hard drives yes the figure includes a 
hundred for drivers this is people and  . 

but on that point , is it this is what all this is about. do you 
get more for the money. 
ok once again with the list 
1 with a 1 chip range is indeed 0 s 
range is at 0 s. 
1 with a 2 chip 4 s with s 8 bit 
note the increase in speed , the mac uses this version of 1 
so it does exist. some use this set up too. 

2 8 bit 1 mode 4 s with s 
for those who want 2 but do n't want to pay for the 16 bit or 32 bit 
hardware or mess with the 2 software  . by 1 
devices with close to 8 bit 2 
2 16 bit wide or fast mode 8 s with s 
2 32 bit wide and fast 15 s with s 

on the other let speak 
ranges from 0 8 . s. 
again and modes with much 
range 0 s 
is always 1 . s  ( although there are some non standard versions ) 

one problem is the use of the term   in articles and by 
people. its proper meaning is the set of of 
1 and 2 
look at the use of in the below quote 
 ( my comments in ) 

pc magazine april 27 , 1993 29 although is twice as fast as , 
this is 1 with a 1 chip 20 than  .  .  . 
this is both 1 with a 2 chip and 8 bit 2 
to read the quote should read 
1 with a 1 chip 
although 1 is twice as fast as , one third the 
speed of  .  .  . 
or 1 with a 2 chip or 8 bit 2 
although 1 with a 2 chip and 8 bit 2 are eight times as fast as 
, 20 than  .  .  . 

note the of   by itself. this  . 

1 drivers are somewhat reasonable while 16 bit and 32 bit 2 drivers 
are very 8 bit 2 can use 1 drivers with little speed 
 ( degridation(the mac does exactly this . ) . 

if we are to continue this thread state clearly which you are talking 
about 1 or 2 or over all 1 and 2 
it does make a difference. 

from  ( mike gordon ) 
subject gateway card drivers needed 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 20 




hi all , 


could anybody please tell me where i might be able to find device drivers 
for a couple of older gateway cards i do n't have the model number 
off hand , but they have only a , and a for 
a  ( one has one  . 

i'm looking at using these with a 2 node copy of 10 net that i picked up 
at a meet .  . (i 'd love to do or , but i'm a poor 
college student and the price was right . ) . 

please reply via email , as i have n't had a lot of time for news because 
of and such. 

mike gordon 


from  ( mark gregory ) 
subject file format 
summary file format 
keywords file format 
organization institute of technology 
lines 21 
nntp posting host edu . au . 


hi , 
would someone please email  ( and post ) 
the  ( microsoft ) file format .  . i wish to 
do some research using this format , as there 
are available with video  . it is 
interesting because it sound and 
video .  . 

thank you 


mark  ( ph(03)6603243 )  ( fax(03)6621060 ) 
institute of technology , 
department of and electronic engineering , 
p.o. box , , ,  . australia .  . 

mark  ( ph(03)6603243 )  ( fax(03)6621060 ) 
institute of technology , 
department of and electronic engineering , 
p.o. box , , ,  . australia .  . 

from  . william robie ) 
subject ibm pc parts 4 sale 
organization university of maryland , baltimore campus 
lines 26 
nntp posting host edu . 
x user 

i have some used , but working , parts available for the original ibm 
the pc  . if you have one of these things , and 
still are using it , you may have found out that ibm wants outrageous 
for parts. i built up a supply of enough parts to keep mine 
going for a few years , and will be willing to part with the rest. 

basically , i have all the standard parts except 



power supply 

i 've got a few of the , too just ask. 

these are in very limited supply , however. i 've basically just 
a couple of old machines .  . 

if you are interested , please e mail me. 

note for those who want to convince themselves that they are somehow 
superior because they have newer and better machines , or who want to 
me that these are worthless junk , save your effort .  . i 'll 
just delete the note. those of us who bought these machines when they first 
came out still find them useful for word , etc .  .  . i'm saving 
mine as a future  . 


from 22 . fi .  ( mika iisakkila ) 
subject re 
in reply to arbor . mi . us . 's message of 5 apr 93 23 53 00 gmt 
nntp posting host lk 22 . fi . 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 16 

arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) writes 
i heard the as well , but the story  . was not coming 
out with the , a from ibm was. 

no , ibm 's chip was seen in some trade show last 
fall  ( comdex or something , i was n't  . all you people who are 
after this chip do realize that it has no , just like 
, that evil  ( ploy(tm ) from , do n't you it has 
of internal , which probably is where the saved silicon real 
went .  . because of some contract , ibm is not allowed to sell its 
to third parties , so these are unlikely to become 
available in any non ibm machines .  . of course , nothing prevents other 
from a , but nobody has n't even come out 
with a real  ( fpu and all ) yet  ( although soon  . 

memory helps structure software 

from  ( charles ) 
subject com info needed 
organization the unix box 
lines 10 


what 4 or more com are available for 
we want standard com , so no need to mention the expensive 
ones. 

they should either be able to share or be able to use 8 15 .  . 

thanks for any info .  .  .  . 



from  ( mr a. walker ) 
subject 2 sound in 1 machine 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 10 

is it possible to have 2 sound in 1 machine 
would give your the equivalent of a pro but with stereo sound. 
the way creative labs price pro 's in , the price is equal .  . 

i suppose you could set the i o addresses to and 
but what about the 
any way what is this channel does it share the 
and or something more esoteric 



from  ( dan hartung ) 
subject gateway getting v . 
summary i get garbage no matter what i try 
organization public access unix 
distribution na 
lines 29 

i have had a gateway for about a month or so now. 
actually , i had one that would n't connect to anything no matter 
what software i used , so i got a new one sent to me. this allows 
me to connect to my favorite news system with zero problems. so 
i'm somewhat .... 

but i still cannot connect to my favorite dos bbs with any kind 
of reliability .  . i have success about 1 10 calls .  . not good ! i 
would hope that the fact that this one can connect to at least 
one of my places means i just need to it. 

what i usually get is a fast of garbage , in the response 
line on the  . sometimes it will drop to full mode 
first , then i get about 2 3 of garbage .  . in both cases the 
seems to time out before connecting and drops  . 

i am using default  ( at f ) and getting this problem. i 
am using the that gateway has with 
my copy of  ( atw1 44 w0 ) and getting this problem. 
 ( they have refused to help me beyond this , claiming it must be 
the bbs or something like that. not so my work 
to this same place just fine , using a ) . 

anyone have any ideas ! 

next a update ... an ohio prison update ... a bosnia update ... a 
update ... an abortion update ... and a congressional update ... 
here on the news network. all news , all , all day 
daniel a. ask me about 

from  ( stel e) 
subject card other cards .  .  .  .  ( please ) 
organization  . , , 
lines 30 


, 

in a few days i'm going to buy a new with local  . 
it comes with a logic card which has  . 
it can do true color but i do n't know what type of card it is. 
i read that logic cards are n't exactly the around. 

my old system had a  . i was pretty pleased with it , so i 
consider buying a card .  . i 'd like to know a few things 

how is the speed in dos unix 2 
text  ( also compared to cards for example) 
what  ( including no. of colors ) does it 
support  ( text graphics ) 
how many can be and what type of 
with old 
support in software 

if anyone has any experience with this card  ( good or bad ) i 'd like 
to know. if you have a better alternative than the please tell 
me about it. 


for the people in holland 
me de in 
is het in de van ! 


thanks in advance , 

from  ( jimmy huang ) 
subject q connor pc 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 16 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

anyone who knows this answer off hand , please answer me by e mail 
quickly ) .  . 

there is a pair of on one side , and a set of 3 or 4 on the 
other end. one is labeled , , and one , and  . 

do i need to short , or to get drive to operate 
in slave mode give me a label or 
label , as they have quite a few , and i do n't try the 
trial and error method .  .  .  . 

i am using  . i think this drive is compatible too. 

jimmy 



from  ( eric bosco ) 
subject help adding a drive 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
reply to 
organization oracle corp .  . , ca 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 35 


i have a computer with a drive and a 
built into the  . i want to add a drive (a quantum 
 . i have no documentation at all and i need your 
help ! 

as i understand it , here is the process of adding such a drive .  . could you 
please tell me if i'm right .  .  . 

1 buy a  . which one i know is good , but they are 
kind of expensive .  . are there any good in the 100 i want 
it to be compatible with and unix if possible. also , i have seen on 
the net that there are and drives .  . is this true does the 
need to be the same as the drive what type of drive is the 
quantum 

2 connect the drive to the via a and the power  . 
do i have to worry about the power supply i think i have 200 and 
all i'm are two and the drive .  . 

3 setup the to recognize the drive as the second drive .  . what type 
of drive is this i do n't have the numbers for this drive .  . 

4 format and create on the drive .  . do i use format or i 
think that drives ca n't be low level  . is it the same with 
how exactly does work i have a reduced 5 . 0 . manual 
 ( clone obliges ) and there is no mention of  . ideally , i would want 
the drive partitioned in to two d and e how do i do this 

well that seems to be all. is there i'm forgetting 
any help is really , i'm lost .  .  .  . 

eric 



from aaron  ( aaron l. bratcher ) 
subject 
article i.d. mac  . aaron . 
organization university of chicago 
lines 3 

what ways are there to up to an network to use an apple 
is there a way i can use an file server also the 
less memory used the better. thanks. any help greatly appreciated. 

from  ( shirley l passman ) 
subject help with w no 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 20 

well , i was told that my last message came through without anything 
in it , so i 'll try again. 

i have a 16 with a and a friend 
game me one to replace it , but he did n't have any for the 
mother board. it 's a board with award and has a 
on it that says 1 3 3 on it. i can tell what 
most of the on the blue blocks mean. except and 
, but i have no idea about all the  . i 've replaced hard 
drives and modems and math co processes , but this is a 
bit out of my league and without the , i'm really lost. 

if anyone could give me some help on this , i 'd really appreciate 
it. i do n't get on news regularly , so if you can help , please 
e mail me at 

thanks. 




from  ( brad cain ) 
subject 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 18 

i just bought an engine 32 plus with 2  . 

i am not impressed .  .  .  . 

i have been having all sorts of problems with the board. various lock 
in , problems with the not , no in choosing 
for a , drivers , lack of , 

if anyone else has one of these cards , please e mail me .  .  .  . 

looks like i'm going to try the plus .  .  .  . 




brad cain 
white . ee . edu . university of electrical engineering 
blah , blah , blah alt . blah . 

from  ( pallis ) 
subject re shopping for a new 
lines 9 

well people , i can only the non flat , no , 
no nonsense that i have , and plus , it has the advantage of 
not having one of those new flat which are 
and and break often ! 
this is a 15   heavy duty set for those who insist on well proven 
reliable ! 

jim 


from  ( ben elliston ) 
subject possible faq question about a 
lines 25 

organization solutions , canberra act australia 

, my question is could someone e mail me the 
names of 
of the and  . i have only seen 

national are one that i know of. 

cheers , 
ben 

ben 
of engineering  ( computer engineering ) 
university of canberra 

email 

also 
uucp  .  .  . ! uunet ! ! au . ! ! root 
3 

if a train station is where the train stops , what 's a workstation ! 


origin solutions canberra act australia (3 262 ) 

from  ( kent p. iler ) 
subject comments on an video card for 
organization kansas state university 
lines 8 
nntp posting host matt . ksu . ksu . edu . 

hi , 
i am looking to buy an video card for my 50 with 
bus. i have a 14 ni  . i'm currently running 
dos 5 . 0 . and 3 . 1 . , although i'm considering 2 in the 
future. can anyone make a suggestion for a video card that would 
suit my needs how is stealth etc .  .  .  .  . 
thanks. 
kent 

from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re vs 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 15 

in article  ( richard krehbiel ) writes 

heck , if used , then you 'd hear all kinds of about 
systems with more than not working with their 
drives .  . is the addressing limit of the , and if 
did there would be trouble .  . 

there would be no problems as long as the did n't set up a 
to an area above the 16 area  ( the probably ca n't be 
programmed that way anyways , so there probably n't a problem with this) 

besides , like i said before , the uses channel 2. 
and i do n't yet believe that the  ( any of them , , , 
etc ) do n't also use  . 


from  ( marco seirio ) 
subject small pc 
lines 15 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 

i'm looking for a pc that is small and does n't break apart if you drop 
it on the  . 
it does n't have to have , text only will do 
just fine. it does n't have to be fast either , will do , i hope. 
but you must stand a pretty hard without breaking apart , 
on it or trying to use it outdoor while it is raining and so 
forth .  . i need of memory and a way of 
applications into it that i wrote myself  ( floppy or of 
) .  . 

is there a pc like that and where can i get more info 
i know of the but it ca n't stand the rain .  .  .  .  . 


in real life 

from  ( carl a swanson ) 
subject pc sound on a 
organization software lab 
lines 9 

i read sometime in the last couple of weeks , an article which how to play pc sound 
through a  . i did n't save the article and all old articles have been from 
our system here. 

would whomever posted the article detailing where to connect the please re post 

specifically , i need to know where to connect from the pc speaker to the card .  . 

in advance , 

from edu . 
subject 
organization rose institute of technology 
lines 8 
reply to edu . 
nntp posting host rose . edu . 

i am looking for a company that can make  . for instance we need 
a key that says help , main , etc which we are going to use instead of 
, , etc .  .  .  . can anyone point me to a company that does this. also 
do you have to have a special keyboard , or can i just pop off the old 
and pop in the new ones .  .  .  . 

thanks for the help 
jeff 

from andrews . ac . uk .  ( malcolm r. mcleod ) 
subject 20 help 
organization st. andrews university , scotland .  . 
lines 5 

does anybody have any info on this or the 

all help through e mail please. 

scotty .  . 

from  ( gv fragante ) 
subject what is 
organization the university of british 
lines 12 
nntp posting host ca . 

i read an article about the benefits of a  . it said that a 
true board supports , otherwise it is just as good as an 
 . 

does n't all support i just bought a 33 
and the tech manual does not explicitly state the words local 
but it said it supports master and slave modes . are these terms 


thanks. 

ps .  . please reply by e mail as i do n't read this often. 

from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject re ibm value point 
organization company research 
lines 33 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 
hi ! 
i will change my soon , and i read something about the ibm ps 
value point .  .  .  . anyone have one the video card is really a 24 bit card 
how much cost in u.s. 
and the last question .  .  .  . can the ps value point 
to a 

thank you much in advance ! 

h. 


these questions can be answered by any of ibm value points , but , i will 
provide some advice the most amusing kind of advice. 

today  ( tueday 4 6 93 ) ibm is supposed to announce the introduction 
of the local value point systems. these systems still have on board 
video and which are far better than the prior value point systems , and 
you get local for  ( future )  . we are going to buy three of 
them with 17  ( also a available ) , and one of the three will 
immediately be to and 
either the or the board. 

do not buy a  . 

my personal philosophy on policy is that it is not loss free. when 
you money you pay taxes , when you spend money you pay taxes .  . (i . e .  . they 
get you coming and  . translated this means take but large 
steps .  . you are far better off short term and long term if you avoid the 
models and go straight to the or 2 models .  . 

gordon 

from de .  ( wayne hodgen ) 
subject re future plans 
organization uni , germany .  . 
lines 48 
nntp posting host uni . de . 

in article  ( robert plamondon ) writes 
in article de . de .  ( wayne hodgen ) writes 

to sum up , when an board with  ( true 1280x1024 ) 
and a fast side is available under , i will buy one. 

me too ! 

what 's funny is , when we really can buy such a product , it probably wo n't 
seem as mouth as it does today. what no get outta 
here ! 

i can wait  cos i 've already got an card .  . it does but 
only 16  . you may mock me , but such cards will be here quickly enough. 

one of the odd things about the computer industry is that , since you can 
always wait and get something better , some people wait forever. i know 
people who have their original ibm pc for a , 
because every time they look at what 's available , they see something better 
coming down the road. i know people who 've their into the 
, but have n't replaced them , because they 're afraid it is n't the 
right time to buy .  . they just gave up using computers. 

i only wait when the difference between my current system and the new stuff 
is big enough to warrant changing .  . for instance , i 'll be my 33 
to a 2 66 , board  . the difference  ( under linux ) 
is great enough to be worthwhile .  . at the same time i 'll be buying a new 
card and new  . i 'll be buying an card  cos they 're 
fast enough , i have drivers for them and it 'll have just like 
a card .  . it will also be much  . when affordable cards 
arrive , i 'll buy one. 

personally , my system at home needs a new , a much 
larger , a super fast board by you know who , a new 
board i probably wo n't keep much more than the case and the 
 . come to think of it , i do n't like that very much. so 
when will i buy when my dream products hit the market no way ! i'm 
gonna buy as soon as i have the money ! 

over the last year i 've done much the same. but now i need a 19 , more 
memory  ( 20mb just ai n't enough ) , a gb and no space left .  .  . ) .  . oh 
well , stay single , do n't and you may afford it this year ) 


wayne de . opinions  ( c ) me 1991 
uni , ( .  .  . ! ! ! hodgen ) keeper of the , just 
3 4 , voice 49 of the net , say 
 . fax 49 his name is root . no ! ! ! 

from  ( joe zbiciak ) 
subject re from b drive 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization happy usa 
lines 25 

in  ( roger c. pao ) writes 
much discussion about switching 5 . 25 . and 3.5 drives removed 

another  ( albeit strange ) option is using a program like ii 
 ( available via anonymous ftp at many major sites ) , or 
 ( also available via anonymous ftp ) , that allows you to format 
5 . to 1 . , or 3.5 to 1 .  ( along with 
many many other ! ) so you can  ( yes , the broken 
dos ! ) the 5 . 25 . onto 3.5 or vice 
 .  .  . i use this techniques with non dos self 
game on my old 1000 , and it works .  .  .  . another program 
named  ( shareware available on many major bbs 's ) will 
also make the format , provided you have ii 
or  .  .  .  . some that wo n't 
properly can be readily 'd into the proper format .  .  .  . 
at least this is a software solution for a hardware 
, eh 



joseph 
disclaimer if you believe any of this , check your head ! 


nuke the ! 

from  ( jesper spring ) 
subject compaq and standard  ( help ) 
organization department of computer science , u of 
lines 19 


, 


can anyone out there tell me if it is possible to put ordinary standard 
 ( 70 ns ) in a compaq 4 50 or do compaq require 
special compaq  . 

please  ( also ) email me. 


thanks in advance. 




spring , if animals believed in god 
university of , denmark the devil would be a man 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject re and what 's the difference 
lines 34 

in article ,  ( lars joedal ) says 

except from , what are the differences between the 
various types of and 
the following is a list with what i know  ( or perhaps only what i 
think i know ! ) .  . can anybody extend correct 


true 32 bit processor .  . 
 ( cache ) 
no , also called  . 

with a 16 bit bus. 
it has the same as the , is a real 32 bit processor , just has 
16 bit to the outside world. 

true 32 bit processor .  . 
internal mathematical  ( correct ) 
yes , internal .  . 
internal  ( correct how big ) 
yes ,  . 
 ( extended set in any way ) 
yes , but only a few instructions , nothing noteworthy .  . 

probably like  .  .  . 
with no  . 

probably like  .  .  . 
nope .  . just another name for the  . 

frank 
computers are useless they can only give answers. 

i will not raise taxes on the middle class to pay for my programs 

from  ( ville v walveranta ) 
subject re card 
nntp posting host 
organization portal communications company 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 

wrote 
anyone familiar with this video card what does the use 
as i am in the market for a video card , what is the best among 
, logic and lab  ( ati is out of the question too expensive ) 

thanks. 

is not a video card it 's 
by  ( eden ,  . 



v. tel .  . fax .  .  .  .  .  ( 510 ) 
 . ,  . 5 from finland 1 
, ca  ( faxes automatically recognized ) 
usa email .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( timothy hu ) 
subject re hard question 
organization interactive systems corp .  . , boulder co 
lines 24 

in article  ( aovai ) writes 
hi , 

i just my old and get 2 drives hard drive and a 
drive .  . my questions are 

can i use these 2 drives as drives d e on my this 
currently has hard drive , 1 . 1 . drives .  . 

if i can , what s w or h w do i need 


i would doubt that you would be able to use the hard drive .  . drives 
usually came in or flavors .  . i bet your has drives .  . the 
two are not compatible on the same  . however , you might be 
able to use the drive with its in your  . you should be 
able to plug your drive into your existing (i 
think) .  . you might have to use the that was used in the 
 . 

timothy the intelligence  ( or lack of ) expressed 
interactive systems corporation above does not necessarily reflect 
resource solutions international that of anyone else. 
also 

from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject re more problems 
organization company research 
lines 40 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 

okay , here is my 

33 gateway 

( drive c ) 
( drive d ) 
, with enabled 
drive 

, when i up i get the message , but it says 
something like 

drive c 
drive d 
not ! 

and i ca n't get to the drive .  . 

i go into setup , remove the entry for drive d , and , i can 
access the  . is there a way to get two drives and the 
at the same time i have sys . , but it just the system. 

brian 


there is a simple answer. if my memory serves me the will only 
work as the first or second drive .  . any built in drives e.g. are 
first and then when the runs it will try to 
as the next drive .  . but if there are already two drives , then no can do. 

the solution is simple use the device and the 
 ( as it is useless in your  . it works like a ! i 
have seen a similar situation before. 

good luck 

gordon lang 


from  ( lars joedal ) 
subject and what 's the difference 
nntp posting host dk . 
organization university , denmark 
lines 31 

except from , what are the differences between the 
various types of and 
the following is a list with what i know  ( or perhaps only what i 
think i know ! ) .  . can anybody extend correct 


true 32 bit processor .  . 
 ( cache ) 

with a 16 bit bus. 

true 32 bit processor .  . 
internal mathematical  ( correct ) 
internal  ( correct how big ) 
 ( extended set in any way ) 

probably like  .  .  . 

probably like  .  .  . 


well , it 's not much , but i'm sure there is a lot of people out there 
who can add a lot of information. post or email as you prefer .  . 


j q what 's the difference between a quantum 
email mechanic and an mechanic 
physics student at the a a quantum mechanic can get his car into 
university of the without the door .  . 
denmark david 


from  ( geoffrey sherwood ) 
subject vs  ( mini review ) 
organization systems incorporated 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 


i just purchased a 17 and and  . in short , i am happy 
with the and unhappy with the card .  . i have spent a lot more time 
with the card , so that is what i am going to write about. the 
is pretty .  . the i had under on my 17 went away. it 
is n't as heavy as i thought it would be  ( 45 , i think) .  . so much for the 
 . on to the bitch and test results. 

in going with the modern trend , the card only supports 16 
in mode without a  . of course , this breaks any dos program 
which uses modes  ( like most of my  . the , 
, and f. all share this  . those 
are all cards , which means it is an problem for them  ( the uses 
a chip which also does n't support them) .  . the 
card does seem to have these modes , but i did n't run the same test cases as 
i did on the other during the brief time i had it. it was able to 
print the for the 's encyclopedia , though , which the 
cards just printed as , which is why i suspect the modes are supported .  . 

the supported really annoy me. you can do at if 
you tell the you have an  ( they only have about 
listed plus  generic  , and if you choose generic you ca n't get any high 
at  . but at you are limited to  . seems to me 
that the hardware should be able to support the bandwidth  ( if it can do 
at it sure should be able to do it at ! ) .  . higher resolution 
was the main reason i bought the card over the f. i currently have , 
and it will do as well. 

the higher modes all crash  . i just got off the phone 
with , and with the 1.1 drivers (i do n't know what i have ) he was unable 
to the problem. on the plus side , their tech was as helpful as 
he could be and up the program on his computer to verify he did n't have 
the problem. he did n't know why they limited the to 70 either. 

the board is that the for most things according to the 
program .  . this program various and reports the results 
in second .  . i do n't have the numbers for the card , but they 
were close to half of the  ( ie , slower ) but that was running in a 
, , so the numbers are n't really comparable .  . the following numbers 
were all obtained using a , 33 , air  ( umc chipset ) , with 
8 memory. i give ranges because the program reports the numbers as it 
them , and these tend to jump around a bit. 


k means thousand  ( not 1024 ) , m means million , per second 


chip 
to 
memory to 5 . 6 . 8 . 8 . 
to 14 . 30 . 
, solid 2 . 2 . 2 . 
, 
, 1 . 2 . 1 . 1 . 
, 6 . 7 . 1 . 1 . 
1 . 2 . 
1 . 

the to test takes a device independent of a face and 
it to the screen. i have no idea what is being done internally as far as 
go. the memory to takes the same face and copies it to 
the , my guess is after it has been into a that can 
just be copied to the video display .  . the to test copies that 
face from place to place on the screen. awesome ! interestingly , the solid 
and show no improvement , and  ( ie , 
filled with cross hatching ) and  ( whatever they are. 
like maybe ) are a dead loss on the  . i give two 
numbers for the , because i think they are  . 
when the are first drawn on the they are done fairly 
1 3 the speed of the  . then the speed increases  . sounds 
like programming to a to me .  .  .  .  . 

i make no claims that these numbers mean anything at all. its just what 
i saw when i them on my computer .  . i normally do n't write disclaimers , 
but this time maybe i 'd better. my is totally with my 
work (i program under unix on decstations ) is done completely without the 
knowledge , blessing , or equipment of my company .  . 

geoff 

from  ( philip sinn ) 
subject need info of id setting .  . 
summary id of 
keywords , 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 7 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

i got a with an but not the 
 . would someone tell me how to set the on 
the thanks. please email response. 

philip 

university of washington 

from  ( donald a. o'shall ) 
subject re original ibm pc 
organization university 
lines 27 

in article ,  . 
v . writes 
in article 

a hard drive with type can be added , but i recommend not trying 
a 
full 5 1 4 hard drive , as i have run into trouble with the 63 . 
supply not having the to up those big heavy  . 

one way to get the system going with one drive and one hard 
on a 63 power supply is to first the power from 
the drive than turn on the pc , you will notice the hard drive 
having a real difficult time getting up to speed , but it manages .  . 
when is finished , plug in your drive , now it will work. 

 ( ok i know this is not very user friendly , maybe you are better off 
buying a 66 with power supply or something like that ) 



the newer the drive , the less problem you will have. the old ten and 
full heights were power , but i have over twenty units that i set up 
running with half drives and or hard cards. 



 ( don ) 

from  ( christopher cannon ) 
subject re help with mode for 
organization texas , 
lines 26 

in article (e .  . wong ) writes 
i finally got the for my plus  . however , 

where did you get this  . please , please , please ! ! ! ! 
i 've been waiting months for this. 

when i tried to use this to view under mode , i get lines on the picture .  . 
with or below , the picture is fine. can someone tell me what was wrong 
is it the card , or is it the software 

thanks 
8 ) 






user 's name edward 
internet 
telephone  ( 508 ) 






from  ( mitchel soltys ) 
subject hard 
originator 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization radiation , unc , hill , nc 
distribution usa 
lines 26 


hi to all you pc ! 

i'm new to these groups and so please forgive me if my questions are frequently 
asked , but i do n't know the answer ) i 've been recently having some problems 
with my computer with a 40 hard drive .  . i find 
corrupted files , but most of the time programs work fine. are there any 
that are easily available that can help me determine whether or not the problem 
is a result of the hard drive vs an ill behaved program or some other hardware 
item are there to determine whether or not the hard drive is properly 
etc as might be expected , i would greatly appreciate any help on this 
matter. i'm considering just the and everything 
 ( and that will fix the problem ) , but i would like to have some 
of what the problem cause is. 

also , can someone give me an opinion on dos 6 . 0 . are the and 
routines good enough to consider the if i do n't have 
those routines already  ( as opposed to buying them separately ) 


much thanks in advance for any help. 






from  ( dan moyer ) 
subject re changing with 
nntp posting host 
organization corp , e m , , 
lines 40 

in article writes 
when i changed my i had a lot of trouble getting 
led , , , , , , , correctly 
 . for example switch had three and 
the connection only two  .  .  . and so on. 

does anyone know a solution to this. do i need to the 
or what is the best way to approach this. 
it is somewhat frustrating .  . i got it to work somehow but my 
switch does n't work at all. 


i just put replaced the in a system and had similar questions. 
my 2 worth 

the speaker should have two going to the speaker .  . 
a speaker being a , it 's and makes no difference 
which way you  . 

switch .  . there are three to control how you want 
to become active with the switch pushed in or the switch out. i think 
the middle wire is common .  . use an to figure out which wire 
with the common wire when the switch is pushed in , and which two 
are connected when the switch is out. place the appropriate 
two on the of the  . 

led 's  ( turbo and hd ) led 's are uni  . depending which 
way the are attached the led will not light. on my , 
if the switch are not attached to the on the 
board , the board will power up in default in mode .  . if your 
is like that .  .  .  . just the led to the board. if the led does n't 
light , power off , reverse the and try again. it should work. 

if it does , then the switch to the board. 

hope this helps .  . 

dan 



from  ( gary korenek ) 
subject re hint 
keywords , 
organization network technology inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

in article  ( brian j schaufenbuel ) writes 
i am looking at buying some companion brand with 
hint  . has anybody had any experience with this board  ( good or bad ) 
any information would be helpful ! 
thanks 
brian j 


i believe that any that uses the hint 
is limited to 24 bit  ( where  real  is 32  . the 
hint has the 16 addressing of  . for this 
reason i would pass .  . i own one of these  ( hawk isa ) and am look 
to replace it for exactly this reason. 

please double check me on this. in other words , call the 
and ask them if the supports true 32 bit 
 . 

other than this , the works quite well (i am using 
mine with dos 5 , 3 . 1 . , and unix  . also with 
host  . 



network technology incorporated 
sugar land , texas  ( 713 ) 274 

from  ( dlp li ) 
subject new card 
reply to  ( dlp li ) 
organization university , uk .  . 
lines 12 

hi , all hardware netters , 

i 've seen recently on some a new 
card call  . the ad said it 's new and . how is it 
compare to btw , which is the non 
on the market any info or are welcome. thanks in advance. 

regards , 


, uk .  . 


from  ( andrew henry ) 
subject and drive 
organization school of biological sciences , university of , uk 
lines 17 

i 've been trying to get my hard  ( circa 
1990 ) to share my card with a new one. 
i 've tried the to set the master and slave drives 
without any success without the table of hard drive from 
this newsgroup i could n't have got that far . 

has anyone else got this combination to work. the place i got the 
new one something like hmmm , nice drives , not 
very compatible .  . he 'll let me the for another brand 
but he thought it was more a problem with the  . 

so has anyone got a similar drive to work with another 
... or want to buy a and little drive 


andrew henry 


from  ( douglas a. bell ) 
subject re why local 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 15 
reply to  ( douglas a. bell ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( guy dawson ) says 

something to bear in mind is what the v in stands for ! 

v for video the intention of the was to speed up 
the so that large memory to memory would be  . 
this is useful in data from main memory to 
video memory. 


well , not to be , but the v in stands for  . 
while the v in stands for video , saying the v in stands 
for video is not entirely correct. 


from  ( wayne rash ) 
subject re 17 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 21 
nntp posting host access . net . 

 ( mike yang ) writes 

in article ,  ( wayne rash ) writes 
the is for  . it powers down when the 
appears , it powers down with you turn your computer off , and it 
all of the standards. it 's also protected against from 
 . 

thanks for the info .  . 

personally , i think the is more bang for the right now. 

how much more does the cost 


mike silicon , inc. 


i think the difference is about 400 dollars , but i could be wrong. these 
things change between press time and publication .  . 


from  ( christopher kushmerick ) 
subject how hot should the be 
organization national 
distribution na 
lines 15 


how hot should the in a 33 machine be 

currently it gets so hot that i can not hold a finger on it for more than 
0 . 5 . s. 

i keep a big fan blowing on it , but am considering using a  . 

any advice 



chris 

i found my in life , i just did n't fit in. 

from  ( ib hojme ) 
subject on dos 
keywords , dos , 
organization data a s 
lines 23 

netters , 

i have a question concerning on dos .  . 

i have a and two hard 
 ( id 's 0 and  . i 'd like to connect a , but i 
do n't have software to access it. does such a exist 
as or 

also what if i want a third i know that dos only can 
see two two physical and four logical  . will it be 
possible to use extra 

thanks in advance. 





data a s , branch , denmark 
telephone 45 75 72 26 00 
fax 45 75 72 27 76 
e mail 

from  ( nigel harwood ) 
subject and 
organization 
lines 24 

about two months ago i purchased the for use with a 
drive .  . at the time this seemed the thing to do as the documentation i 
had with my said that this is the to be used with 
drives .  . since then i have learn that this is out of date in a 
major way and that have an deal for going to the next 
(i think it 's called or  . i was n't too about this 
until i by drive from a 541 to a  . i now 
find that the mode will not work. i assume it is not being 
correctly by the  . 

so , should i for an if so does anyone know their 
fax number 

any assistance appreciated. 

regards 

btw everything else works fine , certainly seems that have caught up with 
the rest with the  . 


post , po box , australia 
phone 61 3 e mail 
fax 61 3 

from  ( sam latonia ) 
subject re needed 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 9 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


andrew , 
you can get the at key 1 part 
4 . 10 . size 1 . 89 . l x 1 . 89 . w x  . 600 . h comes with to it. 
but if it was me i would get a 12 . small fan from radio shack 
and it where it could just blow at the instead .  .  . 

gosh .  . i . think i just a virus .  . it . was called  .  .  . 
do n't copy that  . burn . it .  .  . i . just love  .  . crash .  .  .  . 

from  ( al devilbiss ) 
subject re computers 
organization division 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( matthew p. speed ) writes 
i am looking at a system from computers. i would appreciate 
if people could give me some about the quality of their products and 
customer service along with any advice about which systems people like. 
thanks in advance. 


i bought a system a little over 2 years ago , and was satisfied with 
everything about  . that computer went off to school with my son and 
i replaced it with a 66 4  ( 345 , ram ) with , 
level 2 , and , delete the  . i got a 
17  . this is a great system , fast , 
quiet , built , not a single bringing it up. tech support seems 
now than 2 years ago. i called with a question , and 
they called back 4 hours later with the right answer. i think there 's a 
slight over gateway , but imho is worth it. btw they 
have enough lines that i 've never gotten a busy signal calling sales , 
customer service , or tech support .  . now , you usually wait 5 or 10 to 
talk to someone , but at least you get in the and wait on their  . 

al 


from  ( robert king ) 
subject for a drive .  .  .  . 
organization university , boston , ma .  . , usa 
distribution na 
lines 15 

all .  .  .  . 

could some kind sole email me the for a western digital drive 

it is model a with and 4  . but i do not know the 
per track , or any of the other information i have to feed to my 
to get it up and running .  . 

thanx for any help 
bob k. 



nope .  .  .  . no sig .  . honest ) 


from  ( liz camarra ) 
subject re video changes 
organization school of and earth science and technology 
lines 19 

in article  ( superuser ) writes 

stealth 24 
16 , 256 16 , 256 , , , 16 . 16 , 256 , , , 16 . 
stuff deleted 
video 

by processor 


just a note , even though the can address 2 of , the 
stealth 24 can only handle 1 , unless has a newer 
design  ( or some special deal with  . 


stephen ,  . engineering , univ .  . of hawaii 
using a friend 's account while waiting for my new  . account 
death to ! go ! 


from  ( richard krehbiel ) 
subject re vs 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 03 02 20 gmt 
lines 26 
organization , inc. 

in article  ( the great ! ) writes 

can anyone explain in fairly simple terms why , if i get 2 , i might 
need an rather than an  . will suffer that 
much for a or so drive if i do n't have a drive or 
any help would be appreciated. 

richard 

there is a way in which a computer actually gives you 
more power then you had before , and that is with i o  . 
with i o , your can continue to think while 
are , whereas without , your 
waiting for each operation to finish and take 
an eternity , compared to a fast  . 

so , when you 've got , you want to increase by 
increasing the amount of you do. 

one way is with or  . either of these make it 
possible for i o devices to move their data into and out of memory 
without the  . the alternative is for the to move 
the data .  . there are several interface cards that allow and 
 . , however , is defined by the standard at interface 
created for the ibm pc at , which requires the to move all the data 
, with no  . 

richard 
2 2.0 will do for me until for the comes along .  .  .  . 

from  ( nelson liu) 
subject conner info please 
keywords conner 
organization dept. of , university 
lines 11 

i am looking for information about this drive .  . switch , geometry .  . etc .  . 

conner 

please reply via e mail .  . many thanks in advance ! 





from  . keith rice ) 
subject re drive 
lines 
organization university of north texas 

thanks to all who responded to my original post. i got the number for 
western digital tech support and determined that i need to the 
to the super  . it will handle hard drives with up to 16 read 
write heads and up to  . the is 15 , by 
check or money order. send to 

western digital corporation 
technical support group 
p.o. box 
, ca 

the super is for any hard drive card in the 
series .  . 

the on my system would only handle up to drives .  . 

the responses to my request for help follow my  . sig .  . warning it 's long .  . 

keith 



d. keith rice 
university of north texas 
department of computer science 
, texas , usa 





responses below 

from sat apr 3 16 45 03 1993 
received from edu . by ponder 61 . 1 . 
id sat , 3 apr 93 16 45 00 0600 
from  ( bob valentine ) 
received from edu . by edu . 1 . cns ) 
id sat , 3 apr 93 17 44 49 
received by edu . 1 . 2 . 
id sat , 3 apr 93 17 43 27 
date sat , 3 apr 93 17 43 27 
message id 
to 
status or 

to 
subject re drive 
newsgroups sys . ibm . pc . hardware . 
in reply to 
organization university , , ny 
cc 

in article you write 
i recently bought a used hard drive .  . the guy told me that 
it had been fully tested and that it was good. i took it home to 
in my compaq  ( ok , i'm a little behind in  . i already 
had an  . 

i the drive and up the system. i got a post error , . 

my is a western digital rev. c. 
as i said above , the drive is a  . 
the system is a compaq  ( circa  . 

ah , finally a question i can answer. i mess with this older 
stuff alot .  . kinda fun. 8 ) 

first problem i can is that the will not be 
with that card unless it has the right  . 

check the numbers on it. it should be the only non chip on 
the board. slightly below center , and left. the should read 
either 62 or 
62 

if the last 3 are , you got problems. 


are set as follows ( represents jumper ) 
1 2 3 
1 2 3 
1 2 
1 2 3 
1 2 3 
1 2 3 
1 2 3 

looks right. and are  ( with a trace ) between 
1 and 2 to select the primary address. 

the drive are as follows ( 8 represents jumper ) 

looks right. 

art deleted 

here are my questions 

1 . ) . are the drive and compatible w each other 

i notice you left out the table  . those are 
what control what drive the thinks it has .  . if you have 
the 62 , set it like this 

5 open 
6 open 
7 open 
8 open 
4 closed 
3 closed 
2 open 
1 open 

note those are how runs the numbers on the block. 
top to bottom .  . 's represent the  . 3 , 4 , and 8 
select the first drive setting  ( drive 0 ) and 1 , 2 and 7 select the 
second drive  ( drive  . 

if you have the 62 , it 's a , and i 'll have 
to look up how to do it .  .  .  . i do n't have the big book right here. 

2 . ) . are the on the card drive set correctly 

see above. you might have problems if the are not 
right. also , at the risk of being insulting , make sure the 
are on right and good.  . on the on the , try moving it 
to the opposite side of the drive .  . it 's one or the other. 
the narrow data goes to  . i 've thrown it on a few 
times and my head for a day .  .  .  .  .  . 

3 . ) . is my system 's in need of an 

 . ibm had to be later than 10 27  . a quick way 
to check is to dos and run  . enter 

d  ( the is the prompt ) 

this will return the date , if it 's of any use. 

keith rice 

if i any of the above , i  . it 's 
just hard to know what of person i'm talking to.  . 

bob 




from mon apr 5 06 33 46 1993 
received from ac . by ponder 61 . 1 . 
id mon , 5 apr 93 06 32 59 0500 
received by ac . 1 . 28 . 1 . 1 ) 
id mon , 5 apr 93 13 28 gmt 
message id 
from  ( prof p. piacenza ) 
subject 
to 
date mon , 5 apr 1993 13 28 49  ( gmt ) 
x mailer version 2 . 4 . 
version 1.0 
content type text plain us ascii 
content 
content length 
status or 


if you are using a twisted 34 way then move the 
on your drive to the 8 . make sure that 
the twisted is for a hard  ( and not a disk ) the 
stripe  ( pin 1 ) should be from the twist .  . 

this may also help. 


products for systems 


hard for hard drives 
reference note 1. 


, feature half size hard 
card with an interface .  . it supports 2 drives 
with up to 16 heads and and is 
for secondary addressing and default drive  . 
built in supports non standard drive types , virtual 
drive , dual drive operation , bad track and 
 . this board features a power for 
applications and it will also operate in at systems. 
please note that this card will be from 
the  ( western digital ) after march , 1989. reference 
note 2. 

gen , feature half size hard 
card with an interface .  . it supports 2 hard 
drives with up to 8 heads and  . built in 
supports non standard drive types , virtual drive 
, dual drive operation , bad track and 
 . please note that this card will 
be from the  ( western digital ) after 
march , 1989. 

, feature half size 
card with an interface .  . it supports 2 drives 
with up to 16 heads and and is 
for secondary addressing and default drive  . 
built in supports non standard drive types , virtual 
drive , dual drive operation , bad track and 
 . this board features a power for 
applications and it will also operate in at systems. 
reference note 2. 

, feature half size hard 
card with an interface .  . it supports 2 hard 
drives with up to 8 heads and  . built in 
supports non standard drive types , virtual drive , 
dual drive operation , bad track and 
 . reference note 2. 



hard for hard drives 
reference note 2. 


, feature half size hard 
card with an interface .  . it supports 2 hard 
drives with up to 16 heads and and is 
for secondary addressing and default drive  . 
built in supports non standard drive types , virtual 
drive , dual drive operation , bad track and 
 . this board features a power for 
applications and it will also operate in at systems. 
please note that this card will be from 
the  ( western digital ) after march , 1989. reference 
note 2. 

, feature half size hard 
with an interface .  . it supports 2 drives with up 
to 16 heads and  . built in supports non 
standard drive types , virtual drive , bad track 
and  . please note that this 
card will be from the 
 ( western digital ) after march , 1989. 

, feature half size hard 
card with an interface .  . it supports 2 hard 
drives with up to 16 heads and and is 
for secondary addressing and default drive  . 
built in supports non standard drive types , virtual 
drive , dual drive operation , bad track 
and  . this board features a power connection 
for applications and it will also operate in at 
systems. reference note 2. 

, feature half size hard 
with an interface .  . it supports 2 
drives with up to 16 heads and  . built in 
supports non standard drive types , virtual drive 
, bad track and  . 

note 1 at t the at t and the at t plus 
contain system that support the hard drive .  . 
when using a western digital card the system will 
not boot. to solve this problem , one of the 
must be  . to the on your western digital 
card , you must remove the at position w 3 
or add a at position r 23  ( depending on which model of 
you are  . 

2 



note 2 1000 systems the , , 
and the can be modified to operate in 
1000 series computers , models , tx and the original or 
a version. these computers an interrupt of 2  ( irq2 ) 
instead of , the ibm standard. to the or 
the to operate in these systems , you must cut the 
between pin 1 and pin 2 at position w 7. then 
pin 2 and pin 3 at the position  ( w  . to complete the 
, a must be added to position 7 of switch s 1 
 ( 2 of 8  . please note that any physical 
to your western digital hard the 
on your board. to the , or the 
for your 1000 system , a zero must 
be to position w 27 .  . this will change the 
interrupt from to  . 


for drives 


fox half for or at 
systems. four versions of the board are available 
feature supports two drives .  . 
feature supports four drives and includes 
an optional 37 pin control , data and power and 
an optional 4 pin power  . 
feature supports two drives and includes 
a that will your system to recognize 
drive that may not be supported by your at 
system  . the optional will also allow 
this card to operate high 
drives in an system. 
feature supports four drives and includes 
an optional 37 pin control , data and power , an 
optional 4 pin power and a that will 
your system to recognize drives that 
may not be supported by your at system  . the 
optional will also allow this card to 
operate high drives in an system. 


3 



products for at systems 


hard for hard drives no support 


, feature hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports 2 drives with up to 16 
heads and , 3 1  . 

, feature hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports 2 drives with up to 16 
heads and , 2 1  . the v can 
run in high speed at systems  ( 10 to 16 system  . 

, feature hard card with 
an interface .  . it supports 2 drives with up to 
16 heads and , 1 1  . 

, feature hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports 2 drives with up to 16 
heads and , 1 1 and data 
due to look ahead  . the v can run in 
high speed at systems  ( 10 to 16 system  . 


hard for hard drives and drives 


, feature hard card with an 
interface , full at form factor .  . it supports 2 
drives with up to 16 heads and , at 3 1 
and 2 drives  ( 360k and 1.2  . 

, feature hard card with an 
interface , full form factor .  . it supports 2 
drives with up to 16 heads and , at 3 1 
and 2 drives  ( 360k and 1.2  . 

, feature hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports a of 2 drives 
with up to 16 heads and at 2 1 , and 2 
drives  ( 5 1 4 , 1 . 3 1 2 , 1 .  . 
the v can run in high speed at systems ,  ( 10 to 16 
system  . 

, feature hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports a of 2 drives 
with up to 16 heads and at 1 1 and 
data due to look ahead and 2 
drives  ( 5 1 4 , 1.2 3 1 2 , 1 . 44 .  . the 
v can run in high speed at systems ,  ( 10 to 16 
system  . 


4 


hard for hard drives no support 


hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports 2 hard drives with up to 16 
heads and at 3 1  . 

hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports a of 2 hard drives with 
up to 16 heads and at 2 1  . the v 
can run in high speed at systems  ( 10 to 16 
system  . 
feature includes an optional that allows 
the user to define the drive 's  . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 


hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports a of 2 hard drives with 
up to 16 heads and , 1 1  . 
feature includes an optional that provides 
additional drive  . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 


hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports 2 hard drives with up to 16 
heads and , 1 1 and data 
due to look ahead  . the v can run in 
high speed at systems  ( 10 to 16 system  . 
feature includes an optional that allows 
the user to define the drive 's  . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 



hard for hard drives and drives 


, feature hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports a of 2 hard 
drives with up to 16 heads and , at 3 1 
, and 2 drives  ( 5 1 4 , 1.2  . 



5 


hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports a of 2 hard drives with 
up to 16 heads and , at 2 1 , and 2 
drives ,  ( 5 1 4 , 1.2 3 1 2 , 1 . 44 . 
 . the v run in high speed at systems  ( 10 to 16 
system  . 
feature includes an optional that allows 
the user to define the drive 's  . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 


hard card with an 
interface .  . it supports a of 2 hard drives with 
up to 16 heads , and 2 drives  ( 5 1 4 
, 1.2 3 1 2 , 1 . 44 .  . it also features 1 1 
and data due to look ahead 
. the v can run in high speed at systems  ( 10 
to 16 system  . 
feature includes an optional that allows 
the user to define the drive 's  . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 



hard for hard drives no support 


this card will support up to 2 
hard drives , 10 per second data rate and 
1 1  . 
feature includes an optional with 
that will the card to interface 
with all types of drives without the system 
 . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 

this card will support up to 2 
hard drives , 15 per second data rate and 
1 1  . the v can run in high speed at 
systems ,  ( 10 to 16 system  . 
feature includes an optional with 
that will the card to interface 
with all types of drives without the system 
 . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 

6 

hard for hard drives and 
drives 


this card will support up to 2 
hard drives , 10 per second data rate , 1 1 
and 2 drives  ( 5 1 4 , 1.2 3 1 2 
, 1 . 44 .  . 
feature includes an optional with 
that will the card to interface 
with all types of drives without the system 
 . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 


this card will support up to 2 
hard drives , 15 per second data rate , 1 1 
and 2 drives  ( 5 1 4 , 1.2 3 1 2 
, 1 . 44 .  . the v can run in high speed at systems 
 ( 10 to 12  . 
feature includes an optional with 
that will the card to interface 
with all types of drives without the system 
 . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 


this card will support up to 2 
hard drives , 10 per second data rate , 1 1 
and 2 drives  ( 5 1 4 , 1.2 3 1 2 
, 1 . 44 .  . this board also has a serial and parallel 
 . 
feature includes an optional with 
that will the card to interface 
with all types of drives without the system 
 . 
feature does not include the and you must 
use the drive on your system 's that must 
contain the appropriate drive  . 


7 



hard for hard drives 


a host that serves as an interface 
between the at and the bus. all necessary drivers and 
are included , permitting direct to 
the through a 50 pin and to the at 
through two  . the 
options that the address space , 
and interrupt requests to be to suit the end user 's 
application .  . the board also features word data at 4 
per second  ( synchronous ) , an on board 
and a  . please note that the 
operates using standard dos 3 . 2 . or dos 3 . 3 . only .  . 

this host card provides the same 
features as the plus additional support capabilities 
using software developed by data products. the 
will support dos 3 . 2 . 3 . 3 . , compaq dos 3 . 31 . , pc dos 4 . 0 . , 
pc version 2 . 1 . , , , and 
 . 

an host that is 
compatible with the ibm , at and compatible systems. it uses 
a 50 pin external d with a standard 50 pin 
internal  . the can be used as both a 
target and an and it serves as an excellent tool for 
 . it also provides a low cost alternative for end 
users desiring to a device such as a 
hard drive or a  . the includes an 8 bit 
board , manual , software and an internal 
 . 

 ( utility for fasst ) 
version of  . dos 
compatible , it runs with software products revision 3 . 3 . . 


hard for ps 2 model 50 , 60 , 80 systems 
 ( microchannel architecture ) 


, feature hard with an 
interface for systems. it supports 2 
drives with up to 16 heads and , 1 1 
and data due to look ahead 
 . the v can run in high speed at systems  ( 10 to 
16 system  . 


8 



, feature this card will support 
up to 2 hard drives , 15 per second 
rate and it contains a with that will 
the card to interface with all types of 
hard drives without the system  . it uses 1 1 
 . the v can run in high speed at systems , 
 ( 10 to 12  . 



for drives only 


fox half for or at 
systems. four versions of the board are available 
feature supports two drives .  . 
feature supports four drives and includes 
an optional 37 pin control , data and power and 
an optional 4 pin power  . 
feature supports two drives and includes 
a that will your system to recognize 
drives that may not be supported by your at 
system  . the optional will also allow 
this card to operate high 
drives in an system. 
feature supports four drives and includes 
an optional 37 pin control , data and power , an 
optional 4 pin power and a that will 
your system to recognize drives that 
may not be supported by your at system  . the 
optional will also allow this card to 
operate high drives in an system. 




 . l. chemistry department university of 
internet  . tel .  . 27 
internet 


from ! uucp . ! mon apr 5 12 14 06 1993 
received from stratus . com . by ponder 61 . 1 . 
id mon , 5 apr 93 12 14 03 0500 
received from uucp . by stratus . com . 1 . 3 . 12 . jjm ) 
id mon , 5 apr 93 13 12 04 edt 
received from by ma . com . id 5 apr 93 12 50 edt 
received by uucp . 5 . 09 28 87 ) 
id mon , 5 apr 93 13 24 23 
date mon , 5 apr 93 13 24 23 
from h. ! 
message id 
to 
subject re drive 
newsgroups sys . ibm . pc . hardware . 
in reply to 
organization the group , 
reply to ! 
cc 
status or 

suggest you move on drive one position. 

regards , 




h ma usa 


from  ( loran n .  . yourk ) 
subject wanted with high interrupt 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 13 


with a sound card on interrupt 5 , two serial  ( one for on , 
one for miracle on i3 ) and a on , i have run out of 
low  . what i would like is a with an interrupt of 
10 , 11 , or 12  ( which ever interrupt the ps 2 uses ) in in 
computer .  . i called technical support of , , 
 ( checked what the on the video cards can use ) 
and they all said the only possible on these cards was ones 
lower than 7. does anyone know of any board for an which will 
allow a  ( or even a serial port ) with high 

 ( 708)979 ) 
at t 

from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re vs 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 54 

in article  ( grubb ) writes 
point of view , why does have an advantage when it comes to 
data is data , and it could be anywhere on the drive .  . can 
find it can it get it off the drive and into the computer 
does it have a better system i thought was good at 
managing a data when multiple devices are attached .  . if we are 
only talking about a single drive , explain why is inherently 
at managing data from a hard drive .  . 

integrated device 
currently the most common standard , and is mainly used for medium 
drives .  . can have more than one hard drive .  . s  . 

why do n't you start with the of the first 
you can quote till you 're blue in the face , but if they 
the capability , then what 's the point 

who says is limited to 5 what about does anyone 
know how they perform 

so at its lowest setting 2 interface in 1 mode 
the through put of in mode .  . in full 2 mode 
it poor out the , down the street , and into the garbage can. 

as on what system 

the problem becomes can the drive keep up with those through put 
and that is where the and cost of 2 comes from. not 
the interface itself but more and more from drive to use the 
2 through put .  . 

given the original question  ( scsi used only as a single hard drive 
controller ) , is it then necessary to get a drive that will do 
at least 5 , maybe 10 for the choice to make any 
what does a 200 400 5 drive cost 

the cost of interface is a self 
few people buy because it is so for the pc , which 
in turn makes that mass producing which would reduce its 
cost is , and so is  . that is the effect of the 
rule of scale the more items sold the less each item has to bare the 
the cost of manufacture and so the less each item has to cost 

the original back in  was  . i think the original card 
 ( or ) was  . has stood relatively alone in not coming down 
in price , mainly because we 're talking about pc 's and not sun 's or 
or sgi or  ( name your favorite unix  . that is , after millions 
of pc buying decisions over the years , has had plenty of time to 
come down in price .  . 

i wo n't argue that the standard makes for a good , well 
data , but i still want to know why it intrinsically better 
 ( than , on an bus ) when it comes to 's when 
managing data from a single hard drive .  . 

from  ( jason chen ) 
subject please help with a 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
lines 47 

the last time i was in lab was in , using z 80 .  . 
so i do n't know a lot of terms in pc hardware .  . 

now i need to a , help me to ask the right questions. 


i need 33 with 8 , with for 8 more  . 
i would like to get two local bus. one for video , not sure 
what am i going to do with the other. 
it must be able to run unix .  . 

what are other questions that i should ask to ensure getting a 
quality stuff what are other important features 



i want a 14 non , but not sure about what brand 
to get .  . i ca n't afford or  . what brands should i consider 
touch 

what else should i ask 

video card 
i would like to run  . so i need a fast video card .  . is western 
digital worth the 20 over logic do i need more than of 
v 

one company wanted 50 more for a local video card .  . is this normal 


hard drive 
, western digital , conner all have the same price .  . which one is 
more liable which one has better 

case power supply 
given the of and , which one is better 
what is the adequate power supply 
is a general problem or a non issue 
what features should i ask for 

did i miss anything 

i am sure that there are a lot of semi pc reading this group. 

your help is greatly appreciated. 

jason 

from 
subject from to help needed ! ! ! 
organization university 
lines 27 


, 

please forgive me if this is faq .  . if there is source on this kind of info , 
please let me know. i just got a station  ( around 21 16 . 5 . 7 in dimension ) , 
and i am thinking about it to a or  . 

the station has a power supply , two drives , and the big 
case. i have , drive  ( mac ) , and maybe a 
reader  ( mac ) for it. here are the questions i have so far 
1 ) is there a at this dimension that i could use the case 
2 ) the original has the for drive and hard 
removed. can i use them to control these devices under how much do i 
have to pay for a new if the old ones wo n't work 
3) how can i make  ( scsi ) and  ( scsi ) work on this station 
i heard that there is a cheap sound board that has built in 
what 's quality of this board how much usually does a control cost 
is there any ftp sites that has or for the pc if 
i can have everything up ok 4 ) what i want is a , a sound board to make it a 
quality station .  . how much would it cost to do that is it worth the 
than just buy a new station btw , i need to buy a keyboard for it too. 

any is welcome. 

thank you. 

peter 

from jim  ( jim johnson ) 
subject run box w o cover 
organization central 
lines 25 


 ( b i am interested in getting the of this group regarding 
 ( b extended operation of my with the cover removed 
 ( b from the  . there are a of reasons i am considering 
 ( b this , including quick access to during complex i o card 
 ( b  . 

 ( b my concern is that without a complete to direct the 
 ( b of air from the fan , hot may develop on my 
 ( b or elsewhere. 

if you have an adequate supply of air moving over the system  ( most 
offices or homes have positive ventilation ) you can generally run a 
system without the cover for extended periods without a problem.  ( i'm 
talking about completely removing the cover not just leaving the 
) . however , the biggest reason you have a cover to begin with 
is  . operating a system without the full cover may create 
problems with other equipment such as your neighbor 's tv or ham radio 
station very much a no no in the eyes of the law. 


2 . 1a . remember they 're only tools , not a way of life ! 


via 

from  ( ville v walveranta ) 
subject re questions 
nntp posting host 
organization portal communications company 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 15 

wrote 
i'm in the market for all small  ( 12x12 or so ) and would 
like any comments .  . the main names i see are , , and 
 . what are the major differences any particular preference also 
what should i look for and what should i avoid thanks for any 
you can provide .  . 





v. tel .  . fax .  .  .  .  .  ( 510 ) 
 . ,  . 5 from finland 1 
, ca  ( faxes automatically recognized ) 
usa email .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( leung ) 
subject spirit ii 
nntp posting host 
organization the university of 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 22 

hi world , 

i want to buy a spirit ii data fax  ( made in u . s . a . ) .  . 
have anyone heard about it or using it what is it 's is it 
stable or not please give me some advice. 

in addition , i heard a news from local that a new 
 ( the said it will be the new 
standard . ) . for this will be produced at the end of this 
year .  . after replaced the old by this , this spirit ii can 
data at without any hardware  . is this 
new true and possible would the telephone line really able to 
at such high speed please give me some advice. 

at last , can anyone tell me how to contact with the central 
 . inc. (i am not sure whether it in u . s . a .  . or not . ) . 
please leave me a e mail .  . 

thank you very much. 

 ( from university ) 


from  ( kirtikumar g. satam ) 
subject pc 
organization  . organization . 
lines 30 


there , 

i am looking out for good  ( gray scale only , no color ) which can 
be connected to ibm pc  . also , automatic feeding is a must. 
can somebody point out good what are things that one should look 
for while a i do not want hand held  . 

my preliminary requirements are 
1. 75 to 400 
2. half  ( various patterns ) 
3. drivers for dos and 
4. standard file  ( what are they ) .  . 
5. automatic feed .  . 
6. anything more 

is there any comparative in or pc which issue 

please e mail .  . i 'll  . 

 . 




g. 
scientist , network division .  . 
national center for software technology , , bombay 400 
tel 91 22 fax 91 22 


from 
subject my computer gets locked ! ! help ! ! ! ! ! ! 
organization western michigan university 
lines 17 


a thing has happened to my computer lately , 
it gets locked  ( stops doing anything) at any instance 
without any reason  . i might be using 
edit and gets locked , or i might be at the 
at the same occurs .  . it happens almost once every 3 times 
i connect the computer , does anyone have the slight idea 
what 's wrong with it 

 ( if i try to use ctrl alt del after that , no response. i have 
to turn it off and back on again ) 

thanks. any help will be really appreciated. 

e mail if possible as sometimes i ca n't access this service .  . 



from  ( douglas pokorny ) 
subject pin question re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 33 


today i recieved a in replacement for my 
 . on the card i 've noticed a few 
changes mostly there is a new labeled  . 
 ( the card is revision 5a ) 

my work has shown that this simply 
the line on the 64 pin part 
of the bus. 

the question i have is simple 
to those people who own this revision of the , 
what does the manual claim that this does 

to anyone with an reference , what is the function of the 
line 

on a related note 
are there any ftp sites which contain a descriptive reference to 
the my manual has a simple pin to signal name 
, but that is it. 

douglas 




douglas r. 

cs major hall resident 

conveniently in the 
university of illinois .  .  .  . peoria 

from  ( michael gerhards ) 
distribution world 
subject re com conflict really 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization private system 
lines 20 

hunt wrote 
i'm kind of new at the pc stuff. my machine has 4 serial  . com 1 
and 2 4 share same  . you mean i ca n't plug a into and a 
into and expect both to work 

no , but some 's ( , etc ) are able to drive one of the in 
mode without using the  . in your example , after the 
, the wo n't work until you , because the is used by 
the  . 

if answer is no , should i change 's for com to be different and , 
does it really matter which i set the too 

yes , you can change the 's for 4 , but it depends on your other 
hardware .  . uses ,  . if you have only one 
( ) , you can change to ( normally 2nd ) .  . for , 
you can assign , if its free. as far as i know , no other can be 
used until your i o card is and access 's 8. 

michael 

michael 59 
germany voice 49 

from  ( dwayne bailey ) 
subject need help serial board 
organization strategic software , , michigan 
lines 26 

i need some help with a serial board of unknown origin .  . i'm 
someone knows what this board is , or , even better , what the various 
and are used for. 

anyway , here 's description of the card it is a 16 bit card , although 
i noticed that none of the contacts in the 16 bit extension are connected 
to anything. it has 4 in , and 4 
labeled  . there is also an external female 
with 37  . there are 8 banks of 8 , 2 banks of 4 , and 
7  . i believe that i have determined , by following traces , that 
and  ( 12 in all ) control the interrupt level for each of 
the com  . 1 4 are for , 5 8 are for , and 1 4 
are for  . the other are beyond my meager ability to follow. 

the only printed on the board is serial board 
across the bottom .  . there is a box for serial number , but it is  . 
immediately below the words serial no , but not in the box left for 
the s n , are the numbers 1990 2 8 . 

anyone have any clues your help is greatly appreciated. 


we have ways to make you  . 
, 
strategic software in the june 1989 doctor journal 
, michigan 

from  ( mike gordon ) 
subject info needed 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 19 


hi all , 

i'm looking for some info regarding an old by  ( or 
maybe oltronics ) called the  . this little beauty is an 
with a 4 or 5  ( monochrome cga ) and 2 
 . 
for serial it has 2 15  ( one is 'printer' ) 
and i ca n't figure out the for them. i also do n't know if they 
are standard com as and  . i have out 
that they 'll only work with dos 2 . something .  . 

if anyone can give me some on this one , i 'd be most 
 . please reply via email , as i ca n't keep up with news 
lately.  ( finals are coming up you know ( ) 

thanks much , 
mike gordon 


from () 
subject to opinions 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 13 



what are the current products available to the resolution 
which ones support 

any experiences with them , either good or bad 

is the quality difference really 

i'm planning on producing camera ready copy of homes .  . will the higher 
resolution be noticed for these 



from  ( guy dawson ) 
subject re 50 vs 50 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 38 


in article ,  ( volkert ) writes 

anonymous , 

i saw a posting about the choice between 50 and a 50 .  . 
i was wondering although a 50 is because of the path to it 's 
external , should n't the choice be the 50 as that one can be 
made to work properly with a local i mean , speed is one thing , 
but all your speed will be during video i o , so just get that 
 .  .  . 
i'm willing to speculate that the 50 with local will be 2 4 times 
as fast as the 50 and probably as expensive  ( or cheap ) ! 

technically there is no reason why a chip set cannot support a and 
a local bus. 

i'm waiting for the (sp ) that will be from 
the main and allow for many more due to the user of  . 

this will allow the use of ever with the same standard i o 
cards. until the next  .  .  . 


regards , 

name j v o o 
address 4 

holland e mail 


guy 


guy group  . 
tel uk 
tel ibm austin usa 

from  ( mr i coggins ) 
subject beyond , 8900 , and lots more 8 ) 
organization computing services , university of warwick , uk 
lines 48 
nntp posting host warwick . ac . uk . 
keywords , , 

hi , 

i have a few about pc 's