from  ( david sammons ) 
subject re turning off on its own 
organization 
lines 29 

in article , 
 ( gregory cohen ) wrote 

in article de . de .  ( willi ag linder ) writes 
from de .  ( willi ag linder ) 
subject re turning off on its own 
date tue , 13 apr 1993 14 21 29 gmt 
 ( k c ku ) writes 

i have a strange problem with my apple 13 which 
someone can shed some light on. 

i would be using my computer for 5 and then the would 
go as if someone has switch the off. after the 
went off , i would not be able to turn the off even if i turn 
the power off and back on. i will have to let the sit over 
night and it usually turns on , although it stay on for very 
long .  . 

anybody has similar experience with such a problem before is 
there some in the that prevents it from turning on when 
i try to turn the on , it seems that the tries to turn 
on but it prevented by some  . 

in certain apple 13 there has been a problem with 
the high  . apple knows about this problem and is 
replacing the cap at no cost if it falls into the bad that 
they got from their  . your local should know about 
extension  . 

from  ( julia hsieh ) 
subject how to reach 
distribution na 
lines 15 


does anyone know how to reach i am interested in getting some 
about what types of work with their 
card for the 30 .  . either e mail or phone number would be  . 
or if you have the answers to my questions , i 'd appreciate a reply. 

thanks. 





my opinions are not intended to reflect 
those of company .  . 


from  ( jartsu ) 
subject 
nntp posting host lk 20 . fi . 
reply to 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 12 


hi there ! 

could some kind soul tell me what is the price of 
compatible in the us nowadays the price over here 
 ( finland ) is so high  ( about each in usd ) that i 
think it is worth the trouble to try to get them  . 

thanks 




from thomas 
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x sun , 18 apr 93 20 09 41 gmt 

in article , 
writes 
, apple 's literature is not always 100 correct. a funny one i 
noticed recently is that some of the on the with 
capability refer to the feature .  . this should have read 

feature  ( as it does on some other correct i 've seen 
from 
 . since it was correct on some older , i can only guess 
that someone edited the copy , saw and thought it was a and 
changed it to the more familiar word . 

hmmm , what would that be a built into the a way of 
writing information to a ) ) 

how do you think they get the cool images on the top of 's 
anyway they gotta have something to do the top surface  .  .  . 

from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 10 

 ( david joshua mirsky ) writes 

hi. i own an and i recently heard an interesting  . 
i heard that the has a built in for a chip .  . 
is this true i heard that the is not the same as the 
 . is that true 

do n't believe the  . there is no such thing as a  . 



distribution world 
from david a. 
organization , inc. 
subject 
lines 7 

what is the value of an  ( hdfd ) 4 20 

david 

from planet , the bbs of  . the message contained in 
this posting does not in any way reflect 's official views. 


from berlin . de . 
subject re looking for free share 
originator 
x mail reader 2 . 4 . 
organization free university of berlin , germany 
distribution 
x news reader 6 . 4 . 13 . 13 
lines 14 

tokyo . ac .  ( young hong ) writes 

i am looking for ftp sites  ( where there are or sharewares ) for mac .  . 
it will help a lot if there are source codes in those ftp sites .  . 
any information is appreciated. 

f a q ! 

reference 
newsgroups sys . mac . , sys . mac . misc . , sys . mac . system . , 
sys . mac . wanted . , sys . mac . hardware . , answers . , news.answers 
subject introductory frequently asked questions  ( faq ) 

) 

from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re question x on 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 15 

 ( roy lecates ) writes 

in article  ( dale adams ) writes 
does anyone have information on x resolution on a 
using video is this even possible 

it 's most certainly possible. 

is it possible to use this resolution on the apple 16 
if so , i could probably a with the proper  . 

nope .  . the apple 16 does not support multiple  . 
it is not a  . 



from  ( ronald a. wong ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization relations 
lines 32 

in article , 
 ( kenneth simon ) wrote 

 ( brian v. hughes ) writes 

to my knowledge there is no way to fully a  . 

the program 0 . , which is , has an option called 
quick  . you can find it on the mac archives , probably 
aim . stanford . edu . or mac . archive . umich . edu .  . 

good luck ! 





simon department of 
university 



is it a hidden option i'm using 2.0  ( by mr. caputo ) right now 
and ca n't find any quick option. it definitely is on 
mac . archive . umich . edu .  cause i it ! 


ron the santa operation 408 
net segment 400 street , po box 1900 fax 
santa , ca 1900 
e mail  .  .  . uunet . ! ! 


from  ( ravikuma venkateswar ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 28 

de .  ( holger skok ) writes 

in article  ( ravikuma venkateswar ) writes 
... stuff deleted 

besides , for 0 wait state , you 'd need a anyway. i mean , 
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of note that this 
memory speed corresponds to a speed of 12 . 5 .  . 

more stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

how do you that figure i 'd assume even in personal computers 
the board would use bank switching to  ( optimistically ) 
the access speed or am i missing something here 

the previous article referred to the fact that you could only use in 
a machine , but that you could use in machines .  . i just 
pointed out that if you could only use in a machine , you ca n't 
use in anything than a 12 . 5 . machine .  . bank switching and 
were not considered in either example  ( although both would help memory 
 . 






a pun is a no  form of whit .  . 

from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re iii capable 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 12 

 ( marvin miller ) writes 

my friend recently purchased a iii and he wants to know if there is 
such a demon called for his and 
says they do n't carry them. 

does this mean iii is incapable of carrying a board 

yes. that is exactly what it means. the family of can only 
use cards. they are not able to use  . 



from  ( patrick krejcik ) 
subject file server mac 
article i.d. 
organization 
lines 3 

i saw once an article about a new line of to 
work more as file  . 
anyone know any more details 

from 
subject was re 
organization university , , , canada 
lines 47 

in article ,  ( andre molyneux ) writes 
in article , 
 ( david joshua mirsky ) writes 
hi. i own an and i recently heard an interesting  . 
i heard that the has a built in for a chip .  . 
is this true i heard that the is not the same as the 
 . is that true 

thanks 
david 


well , i also have an iii .  . the top revealed 

one for an additional 

one for a 72 pin 

one for a flat pack 

a processor direct  ( pds ) identical to the ii , but with 
an additional set of to one side  ( for the full 32 bit 
data path that the ii 

that 's it. i guess a board with a chip could be made that would fit 
in the , but that 's the only place. 

so , will it be possible to have a or , or will it 
require a logic board it would be interesting for apple to come out with 
a that allowed use of the 's , like  . but i 
guess that 's getting a bit ! 

i was wondering , since reported that were   with 
on a card .  . 

also , any word on machine or speed last i heard , the 
estimates were around 3 4 times the speed of a in native risc mode .  . i 
heard an apple something about the of machines 
at a much earlier date that 94 , but i doubt it 's true. 

finally , is the 's  course  available i saw it 
in the 's university , and i 'd like to know if it 's 
at all interesting . 





from  ( jim jagielski ) 
subject re problems 
lines 34 
reply to  ( jim jagielski ) 
organization nasa space center 

 ( noah price ) writes 

in article , 
 ( tim smith ) wrote 

attention mac owners many industry have 
concluded that mac suffer from 
from the standard  . this results in silent corruption 
of data when used with some devices , including modern devices .  . 
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault .  .  .  . 

that 's fine , but would you name the so i can try to track 
this down 

who knows .  .  .  . i just quoted what was written in director .  .  .  . 

this does n't sound right to me. do n't use the if so , the 
mac has nothing to do with the  . that 's all by the 
chip .  . 

yup .  . that 's why i'm kinda curious .  .  .  . most problems i 've encountered 
are due to  . 

i 've tried calling corp about this and have either gotten the 
response huh to yep to nah ... you would expect that a damaging state 
like this would have some data to back it up .  .  .  . 

anyone want 's phone number 

jim and he 's gonna me. so i say , 
 hey ! ! how about something , 
nasa , code 4 . you know , for the effort ! ' 
, md 


from  ( forrest howard ) 
subject re need advice  ( about tech works etc . ) . 
article i.d. oracle . 1993apr6 . 
organization oracle corp 
lines 34 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 

welch writes 

... i followed the instructions for 
returning the old , expecting to see a credit on my within a few weeks. 

well , months went by , and no credit .  . after many calls  ( almost none of which were 
ever returned arghhh ) i finally found someone who told me why we never 
received your old  . i then explained i the procedure that i had 
followed to return them , to which the person replied you mean you sent them 
us mail  ( which i had , per the original sales person 's instructions . ) . i was 
told that they their loss of us mail is not  ( come on ) and that 
i should have sent the stuff via , etc. ... 


i also returned memory last summer for credit , and the sales person warned 
me not to use us mail .  . i did  ( although i did the shipment ) , and 
apparently got it. 

my minor grip with is that they have different price lists for 
different people. i ordered memory , thinking i got their best price 
because of my  . i subsequently found out that apple was offering 
memory for less than charged , called up to complain , 
and was told i should have said i was an apple and they 
my card for about 16 of the price .  . i like quality 
and instructions  ( and they include tools ) , but 
for out of ca  ( no sales tax ) chip seems to be a bit less. 




oracle corporation 
oracle 
box 
, ca 

from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re memory 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 16 

 ( george ) writes 

does the use different memory than the newer models 
i am looking to buy a , so i need to know 
which other use the same card .  . 

i think all use the same 2 , but the 
4 and 6 are different for the than 
for the other  . 


eric smith 


, 


from  ( george michaels ) 
subject and the mac 
nntp posting host 
organization company 
distribution 
lines 21 


a question in general about through a mac .  . 

if i understand correctly , the video can display 
in a small as well as capture the data in 
format .  . 

however , if i want to use a larger , what are my options 
perhaps i misunderstood the video review .  .  .  . 

also , i am not interested in  . i would merely like to 
use my mac as a television from time to time. i have a nice 
, and i would like to use it as a second tv 
when my wife is watching on our regular tv. 

perhaps some of the video cards for the mac accept 
i have a , and i am willing to buy a  . 

thanks in advance for any help , 

george 

from robert 
subject re to fix 
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 5 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

the little blue on the is probably 
against its support , just push it down the pin so that it no longer 
it. i had a similar problem. 

rob 

from  ( iisi owner ) 
subject 
organization 
lines 4 

any new reports about to 25 , 33 
any failures 

a owner with a slow mac and an iron 

from  ( eugene e rosen ) 
subject 120 drive 
article i.d. world . 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 14 

i recently purchased a and am having difficulty getting 
my computer to recognize my hard drive  ( external ) using both the 
of  ( diskwriter ) and 's software , neither one 
will show the drive .  . the drive is the only device connected to the 
 . i find the manual to the pro 120 and seem to 
remember that it is . is there something else that i am 
doing  ( or not doing ) that does not allow my to recognize my external 
drive . 

thanks in advance for the information. 

e. rosen 
22 road compuserve , 
, ct .  . gene rosen 

from  ( robert c. sprecher ) 
subject pc on a mac 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 13 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


is it possible , ie via creative splicing or whatever , to 
a drive to a mac 

is there any difference with the of the drive or is it 
just differences 

thanks. 

rob 

rob 


from  ( vincent iannelli ) 
subject for 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization university of north extended board service 
lines 8 

the is a 3 4 week , but they are  . 



the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of 
north at hill , the campus office for information 
technology , or the experimental board service .  . 
internet unc . edu . or 2 . 22 . 80 . 

from  ( mark rogowsky ) 
subject re new apple ergo 
organization stanford university 
lines 31 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

in article , 
 ( thumper ) writes 
in  ( schizophrenia means never being alone ) writes 

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo  ( adb ii ) mine 
lives near a cat  ( true , really .  .  . ) . and up her  . from what i can tell , 
it looks like apple it shut .  . 


by the around the ball counter you can open 
the and clean it. it is n't as obvious as the i but 
it quite easily once you see what has to be done. 

geoff 

computing support , school of business 

if you do n't vote .  .  .  . you do n't count. 

i think the original poster meant the , not just 
the ball and getting to the  . i found that on the 
original , sometimes the two allowed for 
easier cleaning .  . 

if the original poster has his answer , i 'll ask how do you open the 
new by open , i mean split the two to get at 
the  . it is n't obvious to me based on the 5 minute look i spent 
with one at the office yesterday as there are no 
heads .  . 

mark 

distribution world 
from matthew j. 
organization bbs , , , australia 
return to matthew j. 
subject card for the 
lines 8 

one know price for an color card in dollars 
just wondering .  .  .  . 


the views expressed in this posting those of the individual author only .  . 
bbs number  ( 613 ) is s first bbs ! 



from  ( erik adams ) 
subject can i remove the under my 
organization college , los , ca usa .  . 
lines 26 

the subject says what i would like to do , here are the details 

i have a with the board that makes it the 
equivalent of a plus  ( system 7 and both identify it as  . 

the board onto the on the  . it also has 
a itself. periodically i have to remove the clip  ( not an 
entirely easy thing to do ) and clean the legs of the  . 
larry 's book asserts that this is a problem with 
snap on the 's legs will , causing 
unusual system errors. 

well , that 's me. 

so , i would like to do something permanent , and i think it would be 
fairly easy to put a in where the currently is , and 
the board to plug in. what i'm not 100 sure of 
is whether it will work. it seems to me that the two are n't 
acting independently so removing one should n't have any effect on 
the of my mac .  . i'm about sure. 

will someone provide the extra 3 





from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 56 

 ( university bookstore ) writes 
 ( monthian 1 ) writes 


does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for regarding 
in all mac price lists i 've seen , every has the message 
optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this newsgroup that all 
have the built in except the 4 80  . why would 
they be so about this issue in their price list 

i think this is mostly the fault of the people who write up the 
literature and price lists being confused themselves. since there are 
two possible processor and one of the them does n't have 
an it does seem to be an option , even though it really is n't .  . 

i'm planning to buy the 8 230 pretty soon , but i'm now getting 
confused with whether it comes with or not. 

well , then allow me to end your confusion. the only come with 
an in the base 4 80  . if you are not getting this 
then you are getting an  . 

why say optional if it 's built in 

good question. i have been wondering that since feb .  .  . 

if you get the with , you are getting a mac with 
a processor that has built in math support .  . my 
understanding is that the optional refers to your option of 
the 4 80 without or one of the other with  . 

this is possible , but an option is something that you are supposed 
to be able to request when you want it. what apple has done is given the 
a choice between and not an option. 

apple does not offer an from the non system to become an 
system. and , it is whether the  processor on the non system 
(a 68lc040 ) can be replaced with a by another  . 

this is not at all. in fact apple has included in the 
of those machines with code to recognize the presence of the full 
's and use it. thereby making the as easy as switching 
 . you pop the out and pop in a full  . 

apple did send a out at one point that the , which only 
comes with a non processor cannot be to support an 
the pin of the two apparently do not match so you cannot 
one for another  ( again , according to apple 's  . 

they did i think i would double check this. it has been stated 
countless times in this newsgroup by two of the hardware 
that the and the full  are pin compatible and that 
the can be to a full  . 




from  ( the news system ) 
subject re dead 
organization college , ca 
lines 1 



from  ( gene naftulyev ) 
subject for sale board 24 bit 
article i.d. 
organization u of m 
lines 26 
x id slip 1 6 . edu . 
x mon , 5 apr 93 04 29 34 gmt 
nntp posting host slip 1 6 . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 

gene 's stuff for sale .  .  . new . ! ! ! 

the following items are for sale 

 . description list price 


1 t 24 bit t 750 . 00 . 00 . 
this card is ! selling for 675 
it up to 19 in. with 28 x 28 
virtual  . , hardware , etc ! 
this quick sale price includes free 2nd day air ! 

1 430 3.5 in 2  . old 00 . 675 . 00 . 

note all hardware is in normal working order. do not include 
 . all items  ( usa ) or pre paid  ( anywhere ) 

sold 
1 card with 00 . 115 . 00 . 

for any items please contact 

gene 

or call  ( 612 ) 

from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject re 
organization university of washington 
lines 8 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

i have read one report of a soul who the 40 and a higher 
speed 's through a double switch to allow different 
 . there was no mention of any attempts to switch on the but 
if the uses loops anything like a for its 
drive , switching will  . a must after having its 
speed changed or it will be unable to properly access its 
drive .  . 


from  ( mark h. nodine ) 
subject re problems 
keywords 
organization mit for computer science 
lines 9 

i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your 
message , but i definitely had problems between my 
and my 10 
drives .  . my solution was to get  . none of 
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives 
in fact the only loop that worked was the 
software loop  ( whatever that  . 

mark 

from  ( tng hou ) 
subject and help ! 
organization institute of systems science , 
lines 13 

help ! ! ! 

i have an which i want to connect to my 
 . unfortunately , the has only one and 
it seems i would have to give up my  . 

please , can someone help me i want to use the as well as 
the  ( and the keyboard of course ! ! ! ) .  . 

thanks in advance. 


singapore 

from  ( doug ashley ) 
subject re 
organization com . 
lines 31 

writes 

in article ,  ( william g. wright ) writes 

anyway , i was someone knowledgeable 
about mac could set me straight is it simply 
impossible for a mac to print , or could 
someone armed with enough info and a little pro 
experience something up that would 
the 's capabilities 

to use the features , i believe you need a mac 
with  . i was told this somewhere or other , but it 's 
not mentioned in apple facts  ( guide for apple sellers ) , in the 
press release or in the technical  . 



i think you will find that the mac can print images , loaded 
with the proper software .  . however , the mac cannot display on 
its or any attached video because that ability is not in the  . 

so , while you might be able to print , you 'd have a hard time 
seeing the image you want to print .  . 

doug 

this signature under construction 

's information system 
 ( 804 ) 627 , , to 

from  ( ingemar ragnemalm ) 
subject re stereo sound problem ( ) on mac games 
organization dept of ee , university of 
lines 45 

steve writes 


enter game  . the sound and current sound are 
for making games. 

the sound is pretty ok , since it 's fast .  . sound used by the 
book is useless . of sound as soon as sound has 
is out of the question for games with  .  ( it 's too slow . ) . 

the sound is so much than sound  . unfortunately , 
system 7 supports it poorly , making programs crash  . 

the more of the story is to t cheat ! 
really , i am absolutely , not allowed to do what i am about to 
do , 
but i'm going say it anyway. 
stop on sound ! 
really soon , you will be sorry , as even those without external speakers 
will be with your sound on future hardware .  . the period 
is about to end. 
the sound is understandable now , and works pretty well and will 
work 
even better soon , so use it. 

well , i want my code to work on old systems too. i do n't know about sys 7.1 , 
but at least on 6 . 0 . 7 . , there are in the sound that causes 
to  ( with no error  . this when i keep a 
channel open for long periods necessary for and play many 
sounds , stopping sounds  . seems not to be reliable .  . 
then only way i can safely tell if a sound has stopped playing is to 
private in the channel  ( qhead , i think it was ) , and the 
only way i have found to tell if a channel is is to an 
flag and it. 

am i happy with this nope .  . i consider writing to simply to get 
rid of the  . 

any better suggestions  ( silent games is not among the e solutions . ) . 



dept. of electrical engineering ... ! uunet ! ! ! ! 
 .  .  . 
university of , 

from peter 
subject re 72 pin , where 
x tue , 20 apr 93 08 41 49 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 13 

in article , 
writes 
i am looking for a 8 72 pin for my  . where is the 
best place to one  ( stock , , warrenty ) , and if 
possible , phone numbers so that i can order one as soon as possible. 

try  . they make them , and they are available immediately in mac 
 . i ordered a pair from  ( 8 variety ) and 
they work like a charm .  . i 've had them for two weeks. 

peter 
bell northern research 


from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re question 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
lines 39 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 

daniel writes 

i have a question regarding  . i have tried to find info on this 
but i could not get precise answers. 

on one hand , we have a with a 16 , which is capable of 
32 bit color .  . how much does it have 

to display millions of on a 16 you need of 
in the  . 

on the other hand , we have a with a 16 , which is capable 
of 8 bit color only , so it must have of  . 

correct. this is the amount of on board that the comes 
with. 

i would like to take for the and put them in the so that 
both machines have 16 bit color capability .  . 
is it possible , and if yes , how many should i take from the 

yes this is possible. technically , you only need to take out 2 of 
the but leaving in the other two will not get you anything 
because the cannot really do anything with 1 . of  . it only 
knows and  . 

from the documentation i have , the must get 1 to have 
16 bit color , is that correct 

yes , this is correct. you get to by putting 2 
into the on the 's  . 

question where do hide from the documentation , they 
seem to be behind the power supply .  . do i really have to take off the power 
supply to access the 

yup .  . you have to take off the power supply .  . it 's only a couple of 
so you should be ok. just make sure that everything is 
from it and watch out for  . 

from  ( joseph a. pellettiere ) 
subject designs double up 
article i.d. usenet . 
reply to 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 8 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i am looking for any information about the designs 
double up board. all i can figure out is that it is a 
hardware board that works with , but 
i am not sure about this. also how much would one cost 

joe 


from () 
subject hi could i join 
organization national university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 7 

hi 
does anybody known how much about to buy an card for mac 
besides , where do i buy . if . i buy it by mail order , which brand is suitable for mac  ( se(the network is thanks . a lot. 
could anybody tell me what to do thank you. 




from  ( glenn sueyoshi ) 
subject pro 600 memory  ( 4 8 ) 
summary apple provide free 
keywords apple , memory 
article i.d. network . 
distribution world 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 25 
nntp posting host network . edu . 

i 've got the official word on the pro 600 memory 
 . 

i just got off of the phone with the quite friendly 
at apple customer assistance .  . she tells me that those who 
purchased the pro 600 in a 4 megabyte  ( 300dpi , no 
greyscale ) should contact their original 
who are supposed provide the 4 memory  . for those 
who do n't know , the extra 4 will allow printing at 
or  ( at  . 

if the have questions , they should be directed to their 
hardware support numbers and or apple customer assistance 
1 , 408  ( corporate  . 

regards , 

glenn 

p.s. personally , i'm at our school bookstore .  . they 
really have an to provide this information to all 
of the who purchased the 600 in the original 
 ( they have the records .  .  . that . 's why they ask for 
things like a phone  . when i get my , 
i'm going to write apple and complain. 

from  ( david salmon ) 
subject re help on mac 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 16 

according to the official documentation , failure to use the 
can not only affect but can also damage the bus. 
whether this is your problem or not i do n't know. i have had 
problems with my since i bought it. (i cannot connect more than three 
devices , fourth one causes major  . 

first thing to do is to try to your drive on someone elses system. 
if you continue to get errors it is probably the drive .  . if it fine 
then i would try to format it on your system with no  . if this 
fails then the on your needs replacement .  . 

hope this helps .  . 


david c. 


from  ( bill johnston ) 
subject re apple under system 7 . x . 
keywords , , 
nntp posting host me . edu . 
organization university of 
lines 22 

in article  ( david sachs ) writes 
in article ,  ( curtis generous ) writes 

i need to get an apple working under 
sys 7 . 0 . x . , but do not have any drivers software to access the device. 

retrospect  ( dantz ) works nicely with this combination. 

i also use retrospect , but i noticed that central point software 's 
also supports the apple drive under 7 . x .  . 
the apple drive is quite slow , so the of retrospect 
relative to the simpler are less significant than 
might be the case for someone backing up a large server to a drive .  . 

used apple drives are going for 100 , so it might make less 
economic sense to pay an extra for retrospect when 
is and includes other worthwhile  . 

retrospect is nice , though , and i'm probably going to to 2 . 0 .  . 

bill 
38 street , de  ( 302)368 ) 1949 

from  ( andrew nielsen ) 
subject 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

world , does anyone know of a for a 
size , which is generally via a 
replies by e mail very received this is 
proving to be quite a tricky one. 


andrew d. internet 
advanced systems 

adelaide tel 61 9 
australia fax 61 9 

any opinions expressed are my own , not those of my employer .  . 

from david anthony 
subject math option 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution usa 
lines 21 


sorry if this is a faq .  . i do n't normally read sys . mac . hardware .  . 
i am a couple of 's .  . i the systems 
as follows 

eight  ( 8 ) 

1 
math option 

my told me about the math option and sent 
me the apple summary documentation to prove it. i ordered the 
option , but i'm really not sure that we needed it. i thought the  chip 
had a math built into it. has apple had a math chip 
to keep up with the speed of the  chip in the 
i am concerned that i may have set up a hardware  . please send your 
responses to david anthony i will summarize if there 
is enough interest .  . thanks ! 

david , 
internet david anthony 

from  ( jose l. pino ) 
subject re wrong in 
organization u. c. berkeley 
lines 53 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

here is the article describing the situation. 
 ( w o permission .  . i hope that is ok ) 

jose 

bad brings some down.  ( random access memory for apple 
duos ) 
,  ( feb 15 , 1993 )  . 

publishing l . p .  . 1993 

by cohen 

austin , texas some third party memory cards for 
depart from apple in ways that could cause , data loss 
and other problems. 

technology works inc. , a and network based here , last week 
issued a warning about three problems it said it had found in 
products from some competing , which it declined to identify .  . 
other and an apple confirmed that the problems exist. 

self  . the require a kind of called 
, which can itself while the system  . but 
technology works said some have sold cards with 
, which can cause the system to lose data or fail to 
wake from sleep .  . 

most memory include the letter v in the part 
number on their self 
instead have an l , according to  . the chip label , however , may 
not tell the whole story. newer technology of ,  . , said it uses 
but its own to keep them 
while the  . 

speed .  . some card have put 80 on 
cards rather than the 70 type the 230 requires , technology 
works said. however , some labeled as 80 or 85 are 
by the to run at a higher speed .  . 

technology corp .  . of fountain ,  . , said it 
cards with 80 , but only for the , which is 
compatible with the  . 

space .  . technology works charged and apple confirmed that 
some third party cards are too large to fit properly , forcing the corner 
of the keyboard up and preventing the system from starting up normally 
when in a  . 

lifetime memory products inc. of beach ,  . , said it 
originally cards with this problem but has since offered all 
free to cards that fit. 


from  ( andre molyneux ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( andre molyneux ) 
organization pyramid , mt. view , california .  . 
lines 34 

in article , 
 ( david joshua mirsky ) writes 
hi. i own an and i recently heard an interesting  . 
i heard that the has a built in for a chip .  . 
is this true i heard that the is not the same as the 
 . is that true 

thanks 
david 


well , i also have an iii .  . the top revealed 

one for an additional 

one for a 72 pin 

one for a flat pack 

a processor direct  ( pds ) identical to the ii , but with 
an additional set of to one side  ( for the full 32 bit 
data path that the ii 

that 's it. i guess a board with a chip could be made that would fit 
in the , but that 's the only place. 


insert your favorite disclaimer here 

pyramid technology corp internet 
n .  . first street 
san jose , ca packet 
 ( 408 ) 428 ca . usa . na . 


from  ( mathew scott smith ) 
subject serial good or bad 
organization university 
lines 26 

hi ! 

i'm looking into buying a serial , because while my mac has 
two serial , i have , a , a , , and a sound 
 .  ( 2 ! 5 , unfortunately . ) . 

specifically , i'm looking at the electronic , because it 
seems to be fairly cheap .  .  ( about 128 at ) . 

does anyone know anything about it i 've heard that with most of these 
things you can still only use 2 serial at a time , it just prevents you 
from physically  . although i 've also heard that programs 
that use the may be able to use as many serial as they 
want does anyone know if this is true with the 

finally , if the , or if you 're using something else that you 
think is good , i 'd be interested in hearing about other products. i would 
like to spend under , if possible. 

please reply through mail i'm not a regular reader of this newsgroup .  . 
if there 's interest , i can post a summary of replies .  . 

thanks a lot ! 

m. scott smith 


from  ( hillel y .  . sims ) 
subject how often are bad  ( mail order ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 19 

hi everyone. just the other day , i ordered a chip for my new from 
mac connection .  . they sent it overnight  ( very nice ) and i got it , 
and we found that it did n't work properly. when you put the computer in 
thousands mode , the bottom of the  ( using the new chip ) is all 
and fuzzy .  . so i called them up and i'm going to return it for a new one. 

my question is , how often does such a thing happen with in general 
do you often find when that a large portion are bad is this 
a this is the first chip i 've ordered so i have no other experience 
in this area. i'm just curious if anyone else has had the same type of 
experience. 

that 's about it. please email me , and if people want , i can post a summary .  . 
thanks all. 

polytechnic institute 

is 13 forward or 
anonymous 

from  ( john m. chung ) 
subject for 's 
organization college , , nh 
lines 10 
x posted from 

hi , 

i'm in the market for an internal color video for my 145 .  . i 
was wondering if anyone has used the made by 
 . if so , can you tell me how feel about the speed and 
of it i might also be interested in other by 
etc. , so if you have such a board please e mail your opinion of 
it. thanks in advance. 

john 

from  ( frank siebenlist ) 
subject after 18 seconds help ! 
nntp posting host ac . 
organization home  . organization . 
distribution 
lines 20 


a few days ago , my starts to after  . 18 seconds of  . 
it alive as long as a program is actively running or as long as the is moved .  . 

did anyone experience similar problems 
any known 

please reply by email as i ca n't read this newsgroup normally .  . 

regards , mike 


frank 
research fellow 
institute of manufacturing technology  ( gimt ) 
university  ( ntu ) 
avenue 
singapore 
tel 65 fax 65 


from  ( charles hobbs ) 
subject color for 
organization quake public access , ca 
lines 9 

i know that makes for the and 
ink in several  .  .  . but . are pre filled 
in color available from anyone  ( or do i have to use up one 
before i have a chance to print in color ) 

also , are in process  ( cyan , , yellow ) available 
to 

thanks in advance .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( ibaa oueichek ) 
subject card for 
nntp posting host 
organization institute , university of , france 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 20 

i'm looking for a card for my  . i can spend 250 for it , 
what i need is 64 with a and a dual  . 
or at least a through so i can keep my card .  . 
i need your advice about the best card i can buy .  . how much 
increase i should expect , does the increase between the 
32 and 64 the price difference . and what 's the best 
price i can get for such a card (i really need to spare each possible 
) .  . 
i have an card for the with  . i do n't think it would 
work for the but the is  . do you think i can take the 
out of the card and put it in the empty . would it work 
at 20 . if not , how much should i pay for an extra . 


 ( sham(u ) tha  ( s)seif(u )  ( yaghib(i )  . 
 ( jamal(al )  ( majd(i )  ( fi(l )  ( kutub(i ) lab de  . 
 ( kablak(i )  ( t)tareekh(u ) fi ,  . 
 ( baadak(i )  ( sh)shuhub(i ) 46 ,  . ,  . 



from  ( daniel cohen ) 
subject re interesting behaviour on 
nntp posting host yale . edu . 
organization yale university 
lines 20 

in article 
 ( lawrence d , university ) writes 

i 've noticed an interesting phenomenon on my  . if i the 
keyboard and and plug them in again without turning the power off , 
the suddenly to about half its normal movement speed .  . i check 
the control , and there 's no change in its setting there it 's 
still on full speed , the way i like it. the machine the 
normal speed .  . 

by the way , it happens with both the newer style that came with the 
, and the older style from my at work. thus i do n't think 
it has anything to do with the resolution setting in the it 's 
definitely a of the interface  ( either hardware or software ) in the 
itself. 

i have noticed this exact same phenomenon occurs with my  . perhaps it is 
a of the new machines 

dan 

from  ( operator ) 
subject 
nntp posting host admin 
reply to 
organization corp .  . , foster city , ca 
lines 27 

do the make a lot of difference 
as i understand , there is and  . 

does help out with the and 
the photo 

is combination of both practical 

i have a mac  . what kinds of can i use 








@ 
 .  .  . 

0 0 







from  ( terry thiel ) 
subject re help ! how to test 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 13 

state . edu .  ( yih wu ) writes 
, 
i just got some , at least one of which does not work. i do n't know if 
there is a software that can test thoroughly or i could just rely on the 
test performed by my computer during the start up. when i a dead 
into an or an ii , there would be a strange music and no display on 
the screen. why i need your help ! thanks in advance 

state . edu . 

there is a that i think is called  . it is 
available at most ftp sites such as umich and  . 


from  ( jurgen botz ) 
subject to 
organization mount college 
lines 11 
nntp posting host edu . 

i have a that has disappeared completely from the 
network , i.e. it 's name does n't show up in any  .  ( you can print 
to it from it 's serial interface , tho ! ) i have seen some discussion 
here about changing the a is in .  .  .  . including some ps code 
that lets you change the  . is there maybe some ps code you can 
use to have it go back to all its default i have 
a feeling that 's what needed to heal ours. 

, machines should respond to a finger 
south , ma , usa request with a list of all items currently 
unix is dead , long live unix available for  .  .  . 

organization university of system 
from jon 
subject re for 
lines 30 

in article , ( 
christiansen ) says 

has anyone out there in any experience with 
for i am interested in 
speed up rate ( or compared to e.g. 30 ) 
need for new  ( speed in ns ) 
after 
(i am mainly using framemaker ) 
can i use an additional , big b w  ( 15 to 21 ) 
can i the myself  ( no soldering ) 
price where to buy 

i have no experience with this particular hardware , but 
just about every month in there is an add for 
an combined video board. this item 
for about 1000 and comes with a pair , 
eight , and a 21  . 

this into the 's lone 
and thus no  . you will however , need a long 
to get the case open  ( but that 's not really 
a big  . 

does that sound like what you were looking for 

jon jon 
 93 
1993 ! how about those 42 1 2 black bears ! ! 
m a i n e go blue ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

from  ( jon wtte ) 
subject re position of  b  on  . keyboard 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 21 
nntp posting host nada . 

in de . de .  ( frank probul ) writes 

however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught 
to write  b  with my right hand. is this a difference between 
and american typing , or what 

in germany you usually use the left hand for the  b  

same in  ( the keyboard is great , but ! 
the rests do not fix to the keyboard they just sort 
of rests against the table .  . too bad when you have the 
keyboard in your knee .  .  .  . 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 
you never hide the bar .  . you might go about and change the color 
of it to the color of the background , but you never hide the bar .  . 


from 
subject by la 
organization univ of miami 
lines 52 

approximately four months ago , i purchased a quantum from la for 
 . after two months , the drive started having problems. first , there were 
, then corrupted files and resources , then 
5 . 41 . would n't even recognize the drive .  . so i got an from la and 
the new drive for a one. 

well , about a month has passed now and the second drive is having problems. 
often , when i up my i get the question mark. sometimes , if i 
then insert the program i can get it to recognize the drive 
by making it over and over for drives .  . at that point i can the 
and from the  . i 've called la again and they 've given me 
another  . their tech support people tell me that if does n't see 
the drive there 's a definite hardware problem. 

given that this is the second bad drive in four months , i asked la to send 
me a new one , but they said no. also , within three weeks after i purchased 
my original drive , la dropped the price on it by over 100 .  . 

i can accept that a drive  ( or two ) may be bad. and i know that hardware 
make a practice of sending replacements when they do  . and 
i understand that the nature of the computer industry lends itself to sudden 
price  . nevertheless , taken together , the of these 
facts events have left a bad taste in my mouth. (i should have added above that 
when i asked la to the contents of my current drive to the one 
they will send i think the data is still in good shape and i 'll have to again 
everything from they said it would cost me 250 for data 
) . 

it seems to me that hardware should be sold as at a 
discounted price , and that replacements for new hardware gone bad  ( still 
covered under a 90 day warranty ) should be new. 

i feel a little helpless about all this. i do n't mean to necessarily flame la 
their support have always been friendly and sometimes even helpful .  . 
but  . sometimes a little extra customer service goes a long way. (i sent 
a letter to la 's customer service when the first drive was returned and i 
asked them for a credit on the price difference since i had purchased the drive 
three weeks before they the price .  . i told them i would like to apply 
the credit the of another la product .  . they did n't even 
have the courtesy to reply one way or the other . ) . 

what 's the moral of this story i'm not sure. but i do know i wo n't buy any 
other products from la in the future. 

bill 


ps please do n't email or post about how good your la product and service 
has been. i'm not suggesting that they are not a good company or anything like 
that. all i'm saying is that i 've had a experience with them and 
i 'll be taking my business elsewhere in the future. 


from  . maurice riggins ) 
subject card 
summary 
nntp posting host 
organization air force institute of technology 
lines 4 

anyone seen any press or heard any of a card 
for the , now that it has the full data on the 

maurice internet 

from  ( dave hollinsworth ) 
subject 2 questions about the 's 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester  ( rochester , ny ) 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

with a little luck , i could own a sometime in the near future , and 
so i was just wondering if someone could clear these two questions up for me 

1. what speed does the need want (i know that it needs 
 .  . not . sure for the main ) . 

2. i 've heard two stories about the total of the 
's  .  . and  . which is true  ( perhaps another phrasing 
would be better does the 8 version come with all 8 on the logic 
board , or 4 a 4 ) 

just wondering .  .  .  .  . 


dave o 
it 's astounding time is madness takes play 
its  . , picture show ! 
disclaimer they 're my opinions. are they yours 

from  ( mark rogowsky ) 
subject re 
organization stanford university 
lines 45 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

in article , 
 ( chung yang ) writes 

in article , de .  ( christian bauer ) writes 
in article , c. stephens 
wrote 

what is the difference 
i want a double spin drive by may 

looking into and apple , only 
what is the best 

and  ( apple ) nearly deliver the same speed .  . 
as apples are very low  ( compared to there simms ) 
you should buy what is  . but think of revisions .  . 
it is easier to get from apple than from every other 


christian 

de . 


i thought and mechanism have an average 
access time of less than 200  . while the apple 
drive has an access time of for the models .  . 



the has a access time , the has a access 
time , right around the apple .  . access time is , of course , 
somewhat important , but not as vital in the case of as data 
rate .  . 

all the drives are double speed drives with data 
of second .  . any is a good choice. apple 's is very cheap 
when included with new and i agree with christian 's comment 
about drivers .  . 

plus , apple 's is on the and  . a very nice 
feature if you need to system software .  . i do n't know if the 
or are on those machines .  . 

mark 

from  ( jim burmeister ) 
subject re card for 
organization harris ,  . , 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host harris . com . 

in article ,  ( peter a. bidian ) writes 
hi , i bought a while ago a card w from  . it was . 
i think that was the i ever saw. 

as of last week , mac 's place had the applied engineering card 
 ( 32k , one , for fpu ) on sale for 00 .  ( without  . 
regular price is  . 

no idea if this is still going on , but i can get the phone no. if anyone is 
interested (i found their ad in  . 

jim  ( no relation to mac 's place except as a satisfied customer ! ) 


from  ( steve howell ) 
subject re 700 sound 
organization university of , australia .  . 
lines 23 



the 700 goes thru extensive routines of its hardware , 
read 's , obtains all info from last including the volume 
setting , and then the sound procedure for the sound , and 
wait 's on the to respond to the up code. 


if the produces an error , or a cannot be read from a device , 
or the device that address data or control , then if it is 
possible , the to another sound that produces the 
 sad mac  sound. 


this is a general of the start up procedure of a typical mac .  . 
if you cannot control the volume of the , even at up , then i feel 
there is something incorrect with the logic board. 

my 700 does not show the problems you are having .  . 


steve h 


subject re mac on a ! ! ! 
from keith 
x mailer , i mean , test version 
lines 45 


in article , you write 

wrote 
 ( donpaul c. stephens ) 

kind of would n't you say ) who is going to all that to 
the 
side and get the mac for 

not quite the point to be here ! 
fact if when apple release system 7  ( or what ever is current at the time 
of release ) then you will see shortly afterwards apple no longer producing 
hardware .  .  . look . at next with their to see what happens. 
who is going to pay apples when they can get the same thing 
else where !  ( heck we can get a sun workstation than a , and 
infact we have a number of times ! ! ! , it all comes down to ) 

if apple released this before 3 . 0 . was released i 'd be behind 
them , 
they missed the  . so why is apple continued development .  . will it 
support the to its capabilities run than 
it 
must do something better than and to 
being released .  . 


no the continued is because there is less and less 
profit in hardware , so the next step  ( no pun intended .  .  . well . sort of ) , is 
to make the money in software  ( look at if you think it ca n't 
happen ! ) , after all you can sell multiple pieces of software to one 
hardware  . 

as you also said is a for , so will the 
to sell system 7 to a couple of million dos users be too much 
for apple !  ( 50 million copies @ 100 is serious money ! ) .  . 







be that we dont get all the government we pay for ! 


from  ( scot salmon ) 
subject email 
organization john , nh 
lines 9 

does  ( or anyone at nutek ) have an email address 

if not , why not ) 



good things books by robert heinlein , music by , computers by apple , 
humor by dave , thursday nights on nbc , and scotland .  . 


from mel 
subject for 
lines 51 

does anyone know who makes a or that is wired according to 
apple 's that forces the external output on 's and the 's 
and 230 into a true style output signal the does 
not do this since their are they just route the signal into 
the correct but do not switch the output into mode .  . 

do i have to make one of these or does someone already have one made up 

the following is the apple for the  . i'm assuming 
that the will work with the same  ( adapter ) 


to 

the can supply a x , signal for use with 
by using an  . the standard supports to 
16 , and with the optional , the is supported 
to 256  . 

note the capable of driving level 
 . however , some low do not work 
with the  . 

to connect a to a , you need to make an 
from the video to the  . following is the 
description for the 


video pin signal name 

1 6 red ground 
2 1 red video signal 
5 2 green video signal 
6 7 green ground 
9 3 blue video signal 
13 8 blue ground 
15 13 
12 14 
14 10 ground 
7 , 10 nc together 

are identified by pin 7 to pin 10 on the 
video  . the grounds pin 7 on its video , which 
results in down pin 10 and gives the correct id for a 
 . 


this message was created on bbs a supported by 
new mac user group national home school user group 
the views expressed in this posting those of the individual author only .  . 


from 
subject problems info please ! 
x id 
x sat , 17 apr 93 22 48 46 gmt 
nntp posting host demon . co . uk . 
organization sound 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 33 

anyone out there have a 

i have one , and it 's very nice , however if i run it in 16 mode , the 
picture wo n't 
go very big .  . i end up with about 1 gap either side , and  . 5 . top 
bottom .  . i suspect 
an internal would fix this. anyone tried it 

another problem is sub areas that are meant to be black  ( or 
off the main 
raster ) are not very black .  . the real is quite when the 
is blanked .  . 
this is not too severe , but it is just not as good as other 
i have 
used. if i turn the down so that the is not 
, the 
real image virtually ! 

the size is just right if i use , but is a bit too 
much ! 

oh , and i am using a card .  . 


thanks 




tel 
fax 
i used for a week once , but i feel better now 


from  ( nathaniel sammons ) 
subject price drop on within 2 months 
article i.d. 
organization state u. engineering college 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 

i am going to be getting a soon , but i t want apple 
to come out with the and the in a month 
and have the price drop on the system i want. i have a 
good deal with a for a 8 80 and i would like to jump on it , 
but , again , i do n't want the price drop to me. btw , the deal 
i have is a 8 80 with for  .  .  . does anyone know of a better 
deal 

thanks , 




from  ( richard ross ) 
subject with a math 
keywords , math , 
lines 9 


i really want to buy a and would like one that can run 
 . so i need a but i can not afford a  . 
 ( who can ) is it possible to put a in a the guy at the 
bookstore says no but i did n't think he had too much of a clue .  . 

please respond by e mail 

thanks in advance , richard 

from  ( david horton ) 
subject re ! buy a pc ! 
nntp posting host 10 . 26 . 
organization motorola inc. austin texas 
lines 7 

in article  ( robert horton ) writes 

! post a real message ! 
) 

presumably is the size limits of his email account. 
that 's for those who missed it. 

from  ( gordon lang ) 
subject please help find video hardware 
article i.d. 
organization company research 
lines 19 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

article from sys . 
author was gordon lang 
posted on 5 apr 1993 23 25 27 gmt 

article from sys . ibm . pc . hardware . 
author was gordon lang 
posted on 5 apr 1993 23 19 01 gmt 

i need a device  ( either an board or a subsystem ) which will 
take two video and them according to a  . 
the can be as simple as a rectangular with signal 
one being used for the and signal two for the  . 
but i beleive may also exist which i do not want 
to exclude from my search .  . i know this sort of hardware exists 
for , etc. but i need it for  . 

please email and or post any leads .  .  .  .  . 

gordon lang or 

from  ( hillel y .  . sims ) 
subject what size is this 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 20 

hi everyone. i recently posted about how i received a bad chip for my 
new , and someone responded that it may not actually be bad , but it may 
be a chip , and thus does n't work properly with my computer .  . so 
i'm wondering if anyone can interpret these codes for me , so i can figure 
out what type of chip sent me. 

each chip says 


on the back of the card , it says 

i believe from the numbers that means it is an chip , but i ca n't figure 
out what the size is supposed to be. if anyone can help , i 'd be grateful. 
please email me your response. thanks a lot ! 


polytechnic institute 

is 13 forward or 
anonymous 

from james jim 
subject 5 . 25 . track 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 8 

on an standard 5 . 25 . , how many 
are there per track  ( or revolution ) , and how many per 


thanks , 

jim 


subject mac to 
from  ( richard osterberg ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 12 


i have a friend who has a mac  ( lc or ii i think) , and her family has an 
extra sitting around. is there any way to connect these 
two and make them work without a she told me that a 
random friend of had mentioned something about some software 
that could do the translation .  .  .  . 




mail center cambridge , ma usa 


from 
subject 
article i.d. 
organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
lines 11 

does anyone have any experience using with do they get along ok 
i have heard that the is not suitable for , but i have not heard 
e say anything definitive about and if you have had experience , 
at interface have you used anyone used software in this setting 
please e mail .  . i will summarize .  . 

thanks , 

jerry 
peoria , 


from  ( david kantrowitz ) 
subject can you share one w 2 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 6 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i have a want to get an ibm machine as well. 
to save space on my , i would like to use one 
for both , with a switch box .  . does anyone know of a way to do 
this 


from  . someone ) 
subject question 
article i.d. blue . 
organization pre ee 
lines 2 


art 

from  ( russ snyder ) 
subject re internal 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 10 

in article  ( buz owen ) writes 
i hear that the is really an with an internal  . can 
the part be obtained and in an it would be nice if it 
were actually a internal , but that might be too much to hope 
for. 

i believe you were misinformed .  . i checked out one of the 's at 
last week. the is external data with send only fax .  . 



from  ( dale leonard ) 
subject re wise to remove fan in classic 
organization real time communications 
lines 22 

in article  ( hans granqvist ) writes 
is it wise to even think about removing the fan from my 
classic i have no to  . 

and where do i get a to fit in those funny 

, data corp .  . , , my opinions only 
to every complex problem there exists an easy solution that 's not correct. 

the are and the tool is n't to hard to find .  . it 's a 
matter of finding one with a long enough to do the trick. 

no it is not a good idea to take that fan out. why because it will 
cause stuff to over  . internal hard drives ,  .  . you . name 
it and this can cause damage. i 've known people to have hard drive 
failures because of that did n't work right .  .  .  .  . 


leonard 's  .  . from dogs .  .  . 
to cats to baseball and many many other subjects 
austin , tx for stamp information call tony leonard at .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 ( 512)834 )  ( my number ) (512) 837 this is a business only number ! ! ! 

from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re help with 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 22 

 ( robert c. sprecher ) writes 

can someone please help me understand the current situation 
regarding 

sure. i can give is a shot .  .  .  . 

i have a which i will probably keep for another 2 years. 
i would like to add more memory , ie go from 5 to 17  . 
i know that i will need 4 x , or  . 
which , 30 pin or 72 pin 

you need to get the 30 pin  . 

would the i get today be in 2 years with a 
newer , more powerful system 

if you mean in a newer , more powerful mac system then the answer 
is no. apple has stated that all new will use the 72 pin and 
no longer use the 30 pin  . 



from monty  ( monty solomon ) 
subject 4 40 
expires mon , 26 apr 1993 00 43 13 gmt 
reply to monty solomon ! 
organization 
lines 8 

the 4 40 with fax data is available thru 's 
catalog for 00 . 19 . s h (  . 

the is data , fax  ( send  . 


monty solomon po box , ma 
monty 

from  ( dale leonard ) 
subject trade mac system for color mac 
article i.d. 
organization real time communications 
lines 31 

ok i want to get a color mac i do n't care if it is an or a mac ii or 
what but i want to go to a color machine .  . i 'd prefer to trade my 
present mac system plus some cash or other equipment for the color 
system as right now i'm not full of the to buy a color system 
outright .  . 
here 's what my mac system has .  .  .  . 

mac 4 20 with internal drive 
20 external 
external drive 
ii with 4 color 

stuff that can go with it .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
i 've got 3 modems and i 'd be willing to give 1 of the 's and the 
with the system 

ii  ( 9600 data fax ) 
u.s.  ( 9600 data ) 
 ( normally will connect at only as highest 
but it will do if connected to another microcom ) 

the and the are both brand new 

if interested send me e mail at 



primary 's  .  . from dogs .  .  . 
to cats to baseball and many many other subjects 
secondary for stamp information call tony leonard at .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
(512) 837 this is a business only number ! ! ! 

from 
subject death mac plus 
lines 22 
organization university , ma 

i have a  ( very old ) mac and a mac plus , both of which 
have the same problem. 

their out , sometimes after a minor physical 
 ( such as inserting a in the internal drive ) , sometimes 
all by themselves  ( computer left to itself just goes  . 

i have replaced the connecting the logic and the 
video board , because it seemed at first that the 
made the come back on. this worked for a while , but the 
out has returned .  . 

can i do anything do i need a new power supply a new 
a new computer 

thanks for any advice .  .  .  . 



university 



distribution world 
from 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
subject re a ii question 
lines 13 

i just read an article on the  . one thing me the article says the 
is a serial only device. does that mean i 'll have to my 
each 
time i want to print something 

no. the on the mac is also serial .  . it has the same interface as 
the ii. 


system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 



from  ( aaron swiers ) 
subject re increasing the number of serial 
organization control data systems inc. 
lines 16 

 ( steven langlois ) writes 
does anyone know if there are any devices available for the mac which 
will increase the number of serial available for use 
simultaneously i would like to connect up to 8 serial devices to my 
mac for an application i am working on. i must be able to access each 
one of the independently .  . 

applied engineering makes a card called the which is 
a board that contains 4 serial , which i believe can be used 
simultaneously .  . i'm not a user of one of these , but i have 
a couple for people at work  ( i'm a  . hope this helps .  . 


aaron 
control data corporation , mn 
electrical engineering student , u of 

from  ( gregory dudek ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 28 

in article writes 

a while ago i posted a note asking for on the 700 , and opinions on 
the of a vs. an card .  . so far no that 
i 've noticed. please let me know what you think of these possible 
cost , , pros cons , etc .  .  . thanks ! 

complete are best obtained from your or some recent 
copy of or  . my memory suggests that the most relevant 
comparison factors a a are as follows 

25 
16 data path  ( do n't recall this for sure , but it 's 
than q style machines for  . 
card on board 
in out 
4 on 
4 
2  . 
more build in video than the  . uses  . 

in comparison , a with an wo n't give you 
or or the same video options .  . 
with a , can be comparable but i 
think it ends up costing more. 

greg 

from  ( eric ivancich ) 
subject re 14 
in reply to 's message of wed , 31 1993 20 39 45 gmt 
organization university of michigan department 
distribution na 
lines 37 

in article  ( fred g martin ) writes 

part of posting removed 

the has better video than either of the 
other two  . it can display apple , , 
 ( though this has 56 flicker ) , and apple  ( 75 
no at  . it might be able to display apple 's 
, but i'm not sure about this , and the would be real 
small anyway so it might not be that useful. 

note that with either , you will need the proper , 
which both the video properly , but also the 
video hardware of which display mode to use. 

part of posting removed 


fred martin  ( 617 ) 20 ames st.  . 
epistemology and learning group , mit media lab cambridge , ma usa 

i'm assuming that the tells the mac , at , what kind of 
is connected .  . now i think i 've seen in popular mac 
for products  ( i'm not sure if it 's just a , just a 
video card , or a of both ) that allow you to change 
on the  ( w o the  . 

if you were to buy a , would it be possible to switch back and 
forth between apple and apple without the 
mac is this strictly a hardware function , or can software 
intervene , or does the mac hardware the 
setting and switch automatically 

thanks , 

eric 


organization university of system 
from jon 
subject pin map for din 
lines 26 



1 2 3 
facing 
female plug end 4 5 6 


7 8 



anyone recognize this it 's my little of a eight pin female plug 
used for many mac  . 

problem problem problem 
 ( cheap ) using this switch a couple of 
between one end and the other. i want to use cheap for an 
a b box .  . anyone know which get reversed so i can do some 
creative editing on the of my box any help would be 
greatly appreciated. 


jon jon 
 93 
1993 ! how about those 42 1 2 black bears ! ! 
m a i n e go blue ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

from  ( bruce t smith personal account ) 
subject hard drive in 
organization connect public access unix 
lines 31 

the internal in my disappeared for a day last week , and i 'd like to 
hear any  ( reasonable ) theories folks can suggest for what happened. 

it is an , with of and an internal drive , running system 
7.1 , with a few devices in a  ( so far as i know) properly 
 . 

i had shut down the system for a day i was out of town and we sometimes 
have this time of year and upon got a 
question mark. i from a and saw that my external seemed 
okay , but there was no sign of the internal .  . 

i a system on the external and was , indeed , able to 
from it. i tried things like first aid and , to 
about the internal drive .  . they either could not find it or got errors in 
trying to talk to it.  ( silverlining claimed it was a connor drive , but it 
is a quantum .  .  .  . ) 

well , i 'd backed things up , so i was able to work. but , at some point i 
noticed that the internal had  . now , first aid says that 
all 's well , etc. things seem to be fine. 

but , what happened was this a warning that something  ( the internal 
or something else ) is about to die i'm definitely nervous .  . 

and , if this is a signal that the internal is sick , is it true that i 
can only put up to a drive inside an some folks have claimed 
there 's a in the  ( other'n size or power ) while others  ( and 
that includes , over the phone ) say anything that fits is okay. 

thanks for answers. 

from  ( kelley boylan ) 
subject re death mac plus 
originator 
reply to 
organization ibm austin , 
lines 29 


i have a  ( very old ) mac and a mac plus , both of which 
have the same problem. 
their out , sometimes after a minor physical 
 ( such as inserting a in the internal drive ) , sometimes 
all by themselves  ( computer left to itself just goes  . 

i have replaced the connecting the logic and the 
video board , because it seemed at first that the 
made the come back on. this worked for a while , but the 
out has returned .  . 

can i do anything do i need a new power supply a new 
a new computer 

i had the same problem with my a long time ago. 
the on the  ( all of them) fixed it. turns out 
that continuous heating and caused  ( ring shaped ) 
to develop in the , effectively cutting the video 
off. if you 're not a you might want to 
have someone else do it i took mine to an electrical engineer 
buddy but it was a 20 minute job ,  . 




thomas , , ibm austin , 

i buy and pay for my own opinions 

from  ( peter cohen ) 
subject re comparative 
originator 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the electronic foundation 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 12 

kurt wrote 
could someone direct me to information on for each mac 
 ( max , etc . ) . 

on a or is about 3 . 3 .  . 
on or or equivalent is about 1.4 
on machines is  . 


peter a. cohen no , i do n't reflect my employer 's opinions. 
heck ! my employer does n't even know i'm here ! 


from state . edu .  ( jt ) 
subject help need info for 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 10 


hi .  .  .  . what alternatives to the express do owners have  ( if 
they want to go at least baud ) 

every place in town says they are back ordered , and part of the reason 
i want a mac is so i can use it as a remote terminal from 
wherever i am , but i really would hate to have to wait 2 months to get 
a in or have to with  . 

thank you , 

from j .  . pilon ) 
subject re my wo n't turn on .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 7 

i 've changed the in the thing  ( shortly after the problem first 
happened ) and i 've noticed an number of errors lately .  .  .  . 


t . j .  . 



from  ( william g. wright ) 
subject 
keywords , , select 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 32 


i just bought a select and home to print 
some pictures for my kids , when i discovered that 
 ( grayscale(and photograde ) are not available if you are 
using an  .  . even . if you are running with an   . 
you wo n't see this in the 's , and the apple 
did n't mention it to our users group either. it seems 
that wo n't support those features . okay , i 
guess i should have somehow known that this was the case. 
let the beware , huh apple 
be that as it may , i have been thinking about the 
problem and i'm  . why ca n't a in the 
be made up for in software .  . i write software for a living 
 ( on unix platforms ) and i do n't understand the it just 
ca n't be done responses i 've gotten from those i have 
asked so far. is n't , or piece of soft 
, just such a fix .  . 
anyway , i was someone knowledgeable 
about mac could set me straight is it simply 
impossible for a mac to print , or could 
someone armed with enough info and a little pro 
experience something up that would 
the 's capabilities 
also , how does one know if one 's mac can 
support the and that the select 
is supposedly capable of ( short of buying the 
and trying it out like i did) 
thanks for your help. 

bill 



from  ( kelley boylan ) 
subject re at success story 
originator 
distribution usa 
reply to 
organization ibm austin , 
lines 17 


folks .  . back in september or october  i posted instructions 
on how to the to by  a little  . 
people than me have reported that they 've done the same 
procedure , but put in a instead of 50 .  .  ( thus running 
the at instead of 25 . ) . so i tried it and i 'll be if 
it does n't work. 

has anyone tried or does anyone know if this procedure will work on 
an 30 mine 's old , slow , and in need of either death or power. 




thomas , , ibm austin , (512) 



from  . w . i .  . sellers ) 
subject re vs.  ( was re iii capable ) 
organization the university of 
lines 42 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

bill beam wrote 
in article ,  ( brian v. hughes ) writes 
 ( marvin miller ) writes 
my friend recently purchased a iii and he wants to know if there is 
such a demon called for his 

the family of can only 
use cards. they are not able to use  . 

ah , but why can some technically hip tell us what the 
difference is between and 

is it impossible to make a that into and ends in a 
card cage at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to 
one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for 
this 

i think that there do exist  ( i'm sure i 've seen 
them occassionally ) , but i think that the main problem is that 
they cost much more than the difference in price between say a and 
so unless you need lots of its not worth the bother .  . 

 ( of course , it may be that these extra boxes are so expensive because 
no one buys them because they are so expensive .  .  . ) . 

technology is n't a special apple thing (i have this 
feeling that it is from texas ) so there 
is no problem building an box .  . 

the difference between and is that is a clever interface 
with lots of neat built in to make sure that lots of cards can work 
together on the same computer .  .  ( processor direct slot ) is just that 
here are all the to the processor .  . you can do anything with 
this and it is as quick as it can be , but there 's no  . you 
may be able to get double but you try 2 
video cards in , and just watch them conflict ! of course , the extra 
in a makes it more expensive , so 
guess why apple does n't put it in it 's machines 

so , money and takes choice. 

bill 

from  ( jon w tte ) 
subject re  ( across product line ) 
nntp posting host nada . 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 26 

in  ( dave steele ) writes 

the color computer apple makes is the 
 ( drumroll please )  . and the color classic ranks right up there with 
the line. the line in comparison .  . 

does anybody know the differences in these computers that explains the 
in processor 

i think you are suffering from some or color 
table or whatever problems , if a color classic is as fast 
as a to screen. 

what card you use does of course matter much  ( built in 
video is almost always than nubus ) 

or you measured scroll entire where the color classic 
had a 10 in 4 bit color and the had a 
21 24 bit on ) 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 
this sig less than 3 lines improve the usenet s n ratio ! 

from  ( steve liu) 
subject re 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 89 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 

in article  ( chung yang ) writes 

in article , de .  ( christian bauer ) writes 
in article , c. stephens 
wrote 

what is the difference 
i want a double spin drive by may 

looking into and apple , only 
what is the best 

and  ( apple ) nearly deliver the same speed .  . 
as apples are very low  ( compared to there simms ) 
you should buy what is  . but think of revisions .  . 
it is easier to get from apple than from every other 


christian 

de . 


i thought and mechanism have an average 
access time of less than 200  . while the apple 
drive has an access time of for the models .  . 




i have the a technology drive with the mechanism , and it is 
supposedly the fast and best now. it has an access of and a data 
rate  . it is photo compatible .  . it is 
available from for , the technology one , and comes with two 
mail in for two free  . i'm not sure if the 's are good , since 
i 've only had the drive a little less than a month and had the 's 
to my home address in california instead of here in maryland .  . the 
technology drive has a separate power supply separated from the drive , 
which supposedly gives it a longer life , and keeps it with no fan to 
attract  . a brand drive is also available , but i think the 
technology is better , since you get the same mechanism , and at a slightly 
lower price with two free  . 

the apple drive , mechanism , is around a access time i 
think , and a data rate of  . i know it is the of the 
three mentioned here. it is not widely available , except through the apple 
catalog , which is bad at a price of only  . it is also photo 
compatible .  . i think the external model comes with 7 free , some of 
which are pretty good. 

the drive has been out the longest .  . it has an access time of and 
a data rate of  . it is available from many around 
600 dollars , including  . it was n't photo compatible 
before , but i hear that the current version that is is. owners of 
the older drives can get an  . it does not come with any free 's 
unless you buy it in a  . 

of the three drives above , i think the best choices would be the 
apple drive and the  ( technology(toshiba ) drive .  . the apple drive for it 's 
with apple products and the  ( technology(toshiba ) for it 's 
speed and  . 

btw , the models of the drives are 

apple or  ( internal ) 

technology  ( the brand name model i'm not sure , but it 
is also something like with 3401 ) 

74 


i'm very happy with my drive .  . and have had no problems 
whatsoever. if i am wrong about any of the above , do correct me , but i am 
pretty sure of myself , even when i think i'm not. 

also , some of you out there might notice that i have the same last name as 
the president of technology which happens to be in southern california , 
my  . however , i am not a relative nor do i know the guy. is 
just a common chinese name , especially in southern california , with the 
enormous chinese community. besides , one of my doctors in california has 
three steve 's as and another steve comes to my school and 
lives in the next  . this is to show that is very common .  . 

steve ) 

steve i wish for a better  . sig . 
suggestions are very welcome ! 


from  ( robert horton ) 
subject re ! buy a pc ! 
nntp posting host cbs . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 3 


! post a real message ! 
) 

from  ( grubb ) 
subject mac ibm info version 1 . 7 . 7 . 
organization new mexico state university , , 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

send follow to sys . mac .  . sorry about the but the 
here does not let one easily change the and i gave up after a 
year of trying .  . this is also available by ftp on aim . stanford . edu . 
44 . 0 . in the info mac report as mac ibm txt .  . 
mac ibm info version 1 . 7 . 7 . 

the reason for this general data is to and the 
information out there , so that people in both camps can be clear and accurate 
about what they are saying about their machines .  . since computer technology 
is always changing there are always going to be points in which the will 
be lacking or incorrect on information. so , please just do n't say the 
is incomplete or incorrect but also give me clear and concise information to 
make the needed corrections .  . all are in us dollars .  . 
to keep this data organized please provide , if possible , article 
for the information provided or and keep the opinions to 
a minimum. as this is a general data , keep the info provided simple so 
i can understand what is being talked about and can explain it to others. 
finally , keep the information relevant to the section for example , 
code in is software contained in hardware , so no more of the  but it 
is supported in software  data for the hardware section , please . 
thank you. 
note for proper reading off line this document should be in 9 point  . 

special thanks to  ( chihuahua charlie ) , 
 ( andrew klossner ) , bell  ( peter bell ) , 
 ( bill coleman ) ,  ( carl b jabido ) , 
 ( jon wtte )  ( ephraim vishniac ) , 
 ( faisal jawdat ) , 
 ( gabriel sidler ) ,  ( julian harris ) , 
, , 
 ( matt healy ) ,  ( mark allerton ) , 
 ( john h. kim ) ,  ( mel 
martinez ) ,  ( nan zou ) , us . oracle . com . , 
s ,  ( wolfgang strobl ) , 
, , 
,  ( jay c. beavers ) , lewis 
,  ( bradley lamont ) , 
( , joseph a ) ,  ( mel park ) , 
 ( jeff logullo ) ,  ( robert 
irlbeck ) , and for providing some of the information that made 
this list possible. 
contents 

hardware 
support 

operating system 
number 
printing 

the 
note i am only showing motorola used in mac and most ibm pc 
machines .  . for example , since apple never used the motorola and 
in the mac these are not listed .  . years only appear with dead 
and indicate first to last year used as a  . 
note both ibm and mac use external to the  . these external 
increase the speed of the but are not a part of it. in most of 
the present there are external built in while with ibm they are 
optional though machines are generally sold with them . since 
there are many different external mac and ibm , video , 
and mac , each having a different effect on , and 
they are machine in , , and , 
card in some or cards go up to 
dependent , i have decided to leave them out of the list. 
note is industry 's de facto standard for bit  . 
ibm external features 
address notes 
 ( 8088(6 ) 16 16 8  ( 16 ) 20 none 9 9 
16 16 16 20 none 9 
16 16 16 24 none protected mode 
32 32 32 32 none 32 bit protected mode 
32 32 32 32 one 
32 32 32 32 one 
32 32 32 32 one internal rate 
being  . 20 60 , 25 75 , and 33  . 
32 32 64 32 code , chip with risc like 
5 data features , 2 issue , 
p 5 write back , 64 bit 
path , speed 
64 . 5 . 
56 . 9 . 

chip with 32 bit internal 16 bit external  . 
and can address to  . 
low with built in power  . used mainly on 
 . 
ibm with a on chip added  ( john h.  . as far as 
john h. kim knows it is only used on ibm models .  . 
neither of two that have this name have a  . basically 
in with and improved integer math speed .  . ibm 
equivalent to the except it has a on chip  . 

ex .  . for 50 , chip runs 50 rest of machine runs at 25  . 
 ( pc week 04 12 93 pc 4 27 93 138 ) the latest in a line of 
 ( pc 4 27 93 110 ) samples released march 22 , 1993 , but machines will not 
be until at least may 1993  ( pc week 2 08  . 1000 a systems 
and up  ( pc 4 27 93  . 

mac external features 
address notes 
16 32 16 24 none 1984 1993 limit 
32 32 32 32 256 code 1987 1992 parallel 
32 32 32 32 two 256 , mode 
32 32 32 32 two 
32 32 32 32 two , , , 
internal rate 
development in favor of 
32 32 32 32 branch a better , 
target , 
line , equivalent 
capabilities to 


includes data and code  . the , , 
have built in for both. 
mac designs created a limit .  . 
the has 2 , an internal processor that is of 
external which is the one used to rate the 
 ( bradley motorola data  . some compilers produce programs 
sensitive to the and so they act as if the was a 
chip , but this very and program dependent .  . maybe written 
to allow programs to take advantage of the 's in the 
future. as it is now , studies such as one in a article which showed 
25 50 and roughly 50 are very dependent on the machine , , 
and programs tested and as such are not representative of general  . 
motorola claims  ( pc week 09 07 09 14  . 

as the are to be in both ibm and mac machines i have listed them 
to eliminate  . they are motorola risc  . 

external features 
address notes 
32 32 32 64 speed 50 
32 combined 80 
i d 
low power for systems. out by end of 1993 .  . 

high for high end machines .  . out by 1st q 1994. 

64 64 32 64 out by mid 1994. 
32 combined 
i d 

 ( pc week 04 12 93 pc 4 27 93  . select were sent 
by motorola 2 93  ( pc week 2 08 93 ) , and some 
containing early samples of have been given to apple 's a list 
 ( pc week 12 7 12 14  . 
 ( pc week 4 12  . systems with 2000 versions 
out by mid  ( pc week 4 12  . 

comparison list 
as a general rule of motorola are than at the 
same 25 33 25 50 , but has at 
higher than motorola , so this out. the bible 4th 
ed .  . supports the comparisons between and motorola for the 
and above. 

16 bit vs 16 24 32 bit chip data path address 
lines data address . the limit on the brings it 
down to the and lower , otherwise it would compare to the  . 

hardware vs. 's 32 bit and these 
come have no built in unlike their , . the 
hardware 's protected mode is used by 2 1.0 and 3 . x .  . 
the use of the hardware and their 16 bit nature put the between 
the and in features and the 's 16 bit data path the 
comparison .  . 

two 32 bit with , and protected memory. a 3 . 0 . 
is at present the only mac to use the 's protected memory feature for 
 . system 7 . x . uses this feature to protect a created by the 
memory control but this is supported only on and  . 
the color classic and 16 bit hardware data makes the in them 
comparative to  . 

same as and without the used as a low cost 
solution for people who do not need the  . only with programs sensitive to 
does the behave like or a  . 

two 32 bit with built in , , 
internal  ( which is implemented as two in the and one in 
the  . only with programs sensitive to does the 
behave like a  . 

both are to be but both have 
problems. these may against the  ( pc week 3 08 93 
4 12 93 pc 4 27 93 110 ) , earlier released  ( pc week 12 7 
12 14 pc week 2 08 93 ) , less producing degrees f for 
 ( pc 4 27 93 118) , and partly to  . 

this line is to run programs from dos , 
3 . x . , 2 and mac on top of a 4 . 0 . unix and later 
pink by using or , if necessary , the themselves in 
a  shell  a . k .  . how or 2 does dos .  . 

hardware 
in an effort to remove the  the system almost every time you 
add something  requirement for add in cards , drivers , video , and operating 
systems in the ibm world , , and 12 other hardware and software 
are working out  plug and play  standards  ( pc week 03 08  . 
color support display 
mac 30 . 24 . standard. all present support the use of 
32 bit color through 32 bit color in  . 32 bit color 
allows an almost capability to display and edit x bit images in y 
bit color and all the of y bit color where x and y 
independently are 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , or 32 regardless of resolution 63 
12 color to 94 or type including 
, and with ranges including 66 . 7 . 
and 35 and only a hardware video  ( macuser 
1992  . older machines that supported color 30 , ii , , and 
had only 8 bit color in and needed a software patch to use 32 bit 
color  ( macuser special 1993 28  . 
to keep costs down and speed up most have only 8 or 16 bit display 
capability built in , but most of those can be expanded to display 24 bit 
color .  . presently is for 72 display 
will change this. 
in addition , allows , in with a , more then one 
to be used in any combination , from two showing the same 
thing to multiple acting as one large large with any degree 
of of the pictures .  . 
video  . standard for present non mac 's handling of 
built in video from a 32 bit color . provided runs a 8 bit 
color display to 16 bit color or a 8 bit display .  . 
sound output standard in all since the  . stereo sound became 
standard with the 30 .  . 

ibm even though have definitions of how the operating system 
interacts with the video hardware  ( nan zou ) , the use of drivers 
, video see super below and 
of have left resolution of video display hardware , and program 
interaction up to the and video hardware in question  ( faisal 
 . in addition , ibm and makers never bothered to provide a 
standard hardware mechanism for software to determine what display mode is 
actually present  ( matt healy ) nor a drawing like 
mac 's . as a result the must be very well written to detect some modes , 
especially with some third party cards or to use them at present 
things are so dependent on the interaction of the program , , print 
and card that editing 32 bit pictures regardless of color mode , , 
and type card combination as one can do on the mac is impossible with 
an ibm .  . for example , one cannot edit a 32 bit color picture done on a 2 
with a on a with 18 bit color and dos 5 . 0 . 
and still have all the one started out with . 
later ibm machines will have integrated , 
, and and may have built in sound cards , 
, and  ( pc week 12 14  . 
display 
original character video mode , no , text. 
color 
4 or b w , 16 color , bad for the eyes. 
enhanced 
16 from 64 color and some lower some versions 
could run at 256 , on the eyes. 
video 
at 256 , at 16 , and some others , these two are 
the most commonly used. all modes have a , from a 
18 to 24 bit ibm or a 32 bit mac color  . 25 . 
 ( mel  . use , incompatible with 
from etc. 
color 
subset of that provides all the features of , but lacks some 
and modes , like  ( dictionary of computer terms  . 
common on the initial ps 1 implementation from ibm and some ps 2 models .  . 
super 
this is not a standard in the way the others were , but instead was a  
all  category for a group of video cards. as such , with each 
using their own implementation scheme , was chaos with people 
as to what is and what is not. in an effort to make more of a 
standard was established and is used in the newer units , but things 
are still a mess. video is either 1990 or today , resolution 
of and at 16 and 256 are common , newer ones since 
1990 have the , giving 15 bit 32 , at , 
some of the very newer ones 6 can do 24 bits per usually 
at . , too much , some very slow western digital 
paradise based , for example , some very fast based , for example , 
some are so so like , a very popular . some limiting 
factors overcome by 's address mapping were 
8 . 33 . , at where the looks at the card through a 
, etc. 
other non standards 
a 
ibm 's own standard , with functions 
like , fill , etc. in hardware .  . some 
from are the video available today , though some models do 
not have  . 
high end co , usually 1000 , some 
do 24 bit , up oriented like  . 
extended 
newer and than a , only available for based ps , clones 
are coming out soon. , , and  . resolution at 
, same as a , also some 16 modes .  . 
2 
functions up to 20 times than standard in 
and 2 , including line , bit and block , area 
fills , and x y addressing .  . has an intelligent way to detect and co 
exist with other 2 cards , so multiple like on the mac may not be 
far away. since this is an , its resolution and color depth 
is n't fixed ibm only 16 bit 65 , color , while other 
can have 24 bit color through ibm technical . 
up to 75 , free , solid images to reduce 
, and is compatible .  . up to on 2. 
some types by mac see mac section above for specific details. 


both mac ibm 
only external device interface common to both mac and ibm .  . 
allows the use of any device hard drive , , , card 
mac plus only , some , and  . 
main problem there are a lot of external devices which are internal 
which causes problems for more then two off the 
a is supposed to be only at the and at the 
end. any other set up causes problems for either mac or ibm . 
1 7 devices per  . 8 bit 1 . s 
and s  . difference is due to 1 software 
drivers .  . fast 1 is a for 8 bit 2 in 1 mode 
see 2 for details . 
2 10 devices per in 2 mode .  . 2 is fully 
1 and 8 bit 2 tends to be implemented as a very fast 
1 since it does not require the different in 
hardware and software that 16 and 32 bit 2 do. are 
4 s with s 8 bit , 8 s with s 16 bit , and 
15 s with s 32 bit wide and fast . since 8 bit 2 can 
use 1 software drivers and hardware at 8 bit 2 and as such 
is limited to 7 devices sometimes it is mistakenly called fast 1 . 
16 bit fast 2 requires a 2 software and 2 
but can still use the 1  . wide 16 bit and 32 bit 2 require a 
different , , and software from 1 which 
makes them more expensive than other . 
mac 1 built in standard since the plus .  . even though 
apple developed some for , the 
needs to be to take full advantage of the features of both 
 . as a result present 2 use 8 bit 2 as a fast 
1. presently are the only with a 2 
chip built in  ( digital review , 21 , 1991  ( p8(1 ) 
though they lack some other parts of the hardware , like the wide 2 
interface .  . since other require a card to use 2 , older 
had a due to the speed of the and  . some 
june will come with a wide fast 2 standard 
and have a  . 
ibm 1 is not too wide spread yet , generally not with 
systems , except as add on and local . 
like the mac , 8 bit 2 is used as a very fast 1 by most 
out there. unlike the mac , ibm has no exact 
which results in added for  . 

mac 
memory with a few exceptions the mac has used non 30 pin 
8 bit memory since the plus .  . while 32 pin 9 bit 
could be used in these , only special could make use of the 
feature by both types are called 32 pin . the 
used 64 pin  . the iii , and all use a new 
72 pin that is by 32 bits at a time and is used in  . 
the mac does a complete memory check at by writing reading every 
memory if something is seriously wrong with a the mac will 
not and give a sound indicating what the problem is. 
since made before feb 15 , 1993 managed memory on data path , 
had to be in pairs 16 bit or in sets of 4 32 bit . the 
and eliminate this with a new memory setup that 
allows memory to be one at a time. if the are the same 
size are used then the memory is   across the two resulting 
in a 10 15 boost on access  ( macworld apr 93  . 
, , and modems built in standard. 
interface and sound built in on most present  . 
available in all present non  . 16 bit , 
, , ii , classic line and 32 bit. operates at 's  . 
through put data path in 's 
4 s 4 s . with 
the and designs .  . with an one card can be used in 
and  . problem some cards have which 
through put down. 
mac ii 32 bit , 10 , 1 to 1 cycle ratio , 
and , hand at 10 s 
s. built in on all except the series , , and 
400 .  . the 30 could be adapted to use this and there was even a 
mac plus  . supports every possible from to 
to  . 
90 mac ii back  . , 
s mode s. future card designs will be 7 instead of the 
old 12 . 
a peer to peer used in parallel with 90 .  . apple 's 
is identical to that of  ( byte 10  . 
mode s  ( byte 10  . in development .  . 
either through the or the  . unlike , 
cards example rocket allow use of multiple at 
the same time. this is like having two or more in the same box able to 
dual task or process depending on the card or software involved each 
card needs its own memory but most cards of this type come with 
on the card standard . 

ibm 
memory , non some newer models do a mac 
like memory check , or a dozen or so different types of memory  . 

limited to hard drives by design or lack of development 
modified , run length limited 
only used with smaller hard drives .  . 
integrated device 
s and 8 . s  . 
currently the most common standard , and is mainly used for medium 
drives .  . can have more than one hard drive .  . 
enhanced small device interface 
1 . s  . generally considered better interface than 1 in 
many ways but not common enough for practical consideration .  . outside of 
hard drives , device choices are very limited compared to 1. 


new  plug and play  and cards may have problems working 
with old cards  ( infoworld pc week 03 08 93 4  . 

8 16 bit common .  . has 24 bit data path limit which produces a 
limit for which there are software  ( pc 4 27 93  . 
1 . 5 . s  ( byte 3 93  . uses , ca n't share them , 
hence comes the conflict .  . limited capabilities , some cards 
are n't bandwidth limited com , , game , card , etc. 
while others are video and . dominant factor , but it 's 
showing its age. most designs are 16 bit 
 ( pc world feb 1993 5 ) . 
channel 
ibm 's 16 and 32 bit allows use of more than one in a computer 
 ( dct ) and anything can talk to anything , as fast as the two components 
involved can handle it. never took off because it was incompatible with 
and  . to be interface of ibm  ( carl  . 
mac ii is mac equivalent 
32 bit , 8 . 33 . , mode s. it also has the ability to 
self cards like and allows multiple masters , 
interrupt and and multiple use. 
local sometimes mistakenly to as 
local standard. runs at rate , modes 130 s 32 bit 
250 s 64 bit  ( byte 10  . limited to three but allows 
and will with either or  . ideal for 
video and i o .  . has filled a claim that this violates one of 
their  ( mel  . 
apple 's s version of 
 ( byte 10  . might show up in some ibm and machines 
 ( byte 10  . in development .  . 

's version of local that is intended to totally replace 
 . in development .  . 

assumes full print drivers , , , etc. 
and multiple application use. 
mac 
to of and hardware commands have been put into  . this allows 
apple to control its machine by putting key hooks for the mac , 
commands , print , , sound drivers , etc in , which require 
makers to use the chip or read on to which requires 
access to the proper mac since different have slightly different 
plus vs classic for example. with key hooks for the support 
interface in , do not have to worry as much whether the 
has the necessary hardware commands or that those commands are and 
therefore can write smaller programs. this also allows apple greater control 
over hardware software standards and that the can be smaller and , with 
some of the command code in , with lower requirements then a 
totally based  . use which is as fast as  ( jon 
 . 
6 . 0 . 7 . single program usage base requirements 1 and , 
base requirements and  . 
features a , cooperative , standard program 
interface , standard stereo sound support . network receiving part of 
software is with the  . has a and is a 
24 bit  . some third party products allow of virtual memory as long as 
real is below  . 
6 . 0 . 8 . 6 . 0 . 7 . with 7 . 0 . 0 . print drivers .  . 
6 . 0 . system 6 for some that require system 7 . 0 . x .  . 
7 . 0 . x . base requirements , hard drive , and de facto standard 
to run all features well , hard drive , and lowest present 
non mac . using up to 10 . this is everything on 
system of hard space this has 6 . 0 . 7 . features plus program 
within and between computers , built in server capabilities 
can be used by older using software and can be 
by 10 4 5 is more speed practical , requires 7 . x . , 
virtual memory in machines with 1 . 6 . times real for least 
speed , and drop , built in 
support .  . supports sound and for most present 
machines .  . can access up to of true and of virtual memory and is 
both a 24 and 32 bit  . to use real beyond it must be in 32 bit 
mode and on older machines requires the  mode 32  extension .  . apple 's last 
 free   . 
7 . 1 . 0 . 7 . 0 . 1 . with support , , and less usage than 
7 . 0 .  ( macweek 8 24 9 14 pc week 9 7  . to run in 32 bit mode 
on older machines it requires the  mode 32  or  32 bit  extension .  . 
marks the start of apple its mac instead of allowing free 
with new machines , 49 for 7 . 0 . x . , otherwise . 
the has a bug that when it may keep some old system 
from the previous system inside the system file. this can eat up any 
benefits and cause other problems. apple itself removing all 
from the system file. 
a 3 . 0 . unix needs 12 suggested , hard drive , and 
a or equivalent to run. this 32 bit preemptive 
is large due to being unix and translators between it and the mac 
 . price  . 
note sound output was supported in 3 . 2 . to 6 . 0 . 5 . by many 
including the following , wave , , , , , , , and 
 . in 6 . 0 . 7 . the sound was for the sound standards   
and which causes some problems for the old , though most 
still play .  . 

ibm 
have little code , data , and hooks present in hardware for 
to work with , so most of the coding must be provided in the  . 
since hard were slow the code is read into  . in addition , 
what little code there is also read into a process called 
this results in implementation since is then or 
 . having most of the code on has the advantage of being able to 
better the code given a certain piece or collection of hardware which 
is harder with a based system due to the   needed .  . in addition it 
reduces the need for and size of if a major revision of the hardware 
support is needed .  . 
side note the charged that formed a trust by not providing 
all feature documentation for its to outside and 
its and dos to fail under 2 ( ) and 
there is deliberate code in nt which causes the to 
abort if 2 is present  ( gregory , info digest 
 . due to a conflict of intrest by one member the vote of the 
judicial council for action against was a tie which resulted in no 
action. the will the matter , likely to the point of 
choosing a new member or whole new council .  . in addition the government has 
turned down 's of which would allow it to charge 
a fee for using their hooks  ( pc week 03 08  . 

dos 5 . 0 . has a with its own memory , a 1 
with third party memory  . this 16 bit requires that each program 
must provide its own print drivers and be 16 bit programs need to be dos 
protected mode interface  ( dpmi ) and running on a 32 bit 
protected mode to break these . contains the shell present in 
dos 4 . 0 .  . 
dos 6 . 0 . dos 5 . 0 . with the added features of a built in file , 
, for the sys . file. it needs a 80 for 
cost 50 through 5 93 , after that 129 . 
 ( byte april 1993 44  . 
dos 7 . 0 . 32 bit dos .  . in development  ( pc week 04 05  . 
3 . 0 . runs on top of dos .  . breaks and but still has to 
deal with dos file structure .  . base requirements , and to 
run well , hard drive , and fast display 8 bit . has the 
equivalent of mac 's called device interface . 
this does not have a consistent application interface like early mac 
programs  ( 1984 1985 ) nor a very large program base compared to dos and 
still tends to slow the machine down  ( info digest 186 ) with speed 
is more dependent on the display then on the  ( bill  . 
programs tend to be and memory compared to their dos 
 ( byte april 1993  . 
3 . 1 . a version of 3 . 0 . with better memory  . base 
requirements 1 , hard drive and a to run well , hard drive ,  . 
apple plans to release its print drivers for this  ( pc week 12 28  . 
for to run well and  ( pc world feb 93  . 
between win 3 . 1 . and nt .  . it is basically 3 . 1 . 
with built in peer to peer support .  . 
nt release takes about of space including the 
file , and are notorious for usage especially in 
the interaction between code and program , hence the 
reports of requirements . released version supposed to need 
but , himself now  ( pc week 04 15  . 
this 32 bit has protected mode , , 
, a file system , and 32 bit  . has built in 
that is and can handle up to of  . even 
though some people see a 4 release date  ( infoworld 16 92 ) , 
is that the final version will not be available before 1993 
 ( infoworld may 25 6 07 08 92 ) or 4th 1993 
 ( pc week 09 28  . will be , otherwise 
 ( pc week 04 15 03 15  . 
other 
pc dos 6 . 0 . ibm 's version of dos 6 . 0 .  . it runs much then dos 
6 . 0 . due to file i o and video handling  ( infoworld feb 1 ,  . 
dr dos 6 . 0 . same as dos 5 . 0 . with some like built in data 
and memory  . still has  . a later 
version dos of this may use a version of the mac and apple 
file system  ( pc week 12 14 dec 14  . 
2 2.0 unix like features and unix like requirements 8 , 
uses 17 hard drive , and  . this 32 bit , 
can address up to of but has to use a fast file 
to use more than 16 on systems using direct memory access . 
ibm plans to use 's oops in future versions of this 
 ( infoworld 26  . 
aix ibm 's unix system , to be a subset of and  . 
unix to provide next features on ibm machines .  . out , final 
version to be out by may 25 , 1993 .  . 
for a  . a 32 bit with 
and , built in capabilities with 
tools to allow remote and features , and 
 . , 50 users server 1 , , users 
server 5 ,  . software , hardware  . 
mac 7.1 working name star apple had system 7 . 0 . running off 
and is looking at making a 7.1 version available for ibm 
 ( computerworld 2 03 22  . at present this is to run 
on top of 's dr dos , require a or equivalent to run and that 
will need to be  ( macweek 03 22  . viewed as 's answer to 
nt .  . the complexity of pc hardware set is one reason for slow 
progress this seems to apple ibm 's way of to the line out in 
late 1993 early and pink in late early  . 


ibm will build its by late 1993  ( infoworld june 8 15 , 
7 13 pc week 3 15  . it will have and 
video  ( carl b jabido ) , and will run native version aix and mac  ( pc week 
3 15 93 ) there have been no comments on of dos or  . 
apple 's machine is to be out jan 24 , and 
to have 50 , 4 , a 2 . 8 . drive and expected to 
sale near line 2000 , down from of 3000  ( macuser 
9 146 ) 
 ( macweek 3 22  . 
a 4 . 0 . a 32 bit to run on 
and 40  ( macweek 7 13  . 
 ( see mac 7.1 above) .  . base requirements , , hard 
drive  ( macweek 4 19  . ahead of could be out by mid 1993 .  . 
this could be the for ibm 's which is due by late 1993 .  . 
pink expecting in  ( wall street journal 1 12 92 ) 
and may have some parts in 2 and aix in 1993 and mac and 
with the  ( macweek 01 25  . 
nt possible  ( macweek 04 05  . see ibm section for details. 
version of this sun unix to run on the 
power in  ( macweek 04 05  . one of the few to directly state 
that it will run dos programs. ibm section for details 
possible see ibm section for details. 

number  ( mel park ) 
mac 
arithmetic is done in a consistent environment sane or standard 
apple environment . floating point numbers are bits long when an 
is present and 80 bits otherwise. exceptions , such as by zero or 
taking the square root of a negative number , do not cause an abort but are 
in a logically consistent manner. 1 0 produces the internal 
representation for infinity  . 1  ( 1 0 ) produces zero .  . the above treatment 
of 1  ( 1 0 ) occurs in an machine even when sane is and 
the programmed directly .  . 

ibm 
floating point numbers are 80 bits with a hardware , 64 bits when 
 . the way they are is dependent on the coding of whatever 
or assembler was used for a program .  . on older dos 
exceptions could cause program 1 0 and 1  ( 1 0 ) would abort to the dos 
at the point where they occured .  . most present compilers handle this 
better. result there is little consistent handling of numbers between dos , 
and 2 programs nor between programs for just one  . 

includes printing 
printing can be a problem with either mac of ibm machines especially 
if one sends to a older style  . 
mac 
hardware built in network and a built in  . 
has moderate 4 . s) requires special for 
each machine ( 15 and up ) and can be run off of either the to 
include very old or the network standard today . built in 
is becoming common but many older require a or card at 
about 150 for each machine .  . these cards provide three and 
thick , thin , and for  . 
the family and some models includes 
interface on , with available. has been a 
network option since 1989. 
software the of protocols standard with mac , which can 
use variety of media types .  . software included with the 
as well and can connect to file such as , 3 open , 
, dec , apple 's , system 7 file 
machines , and running on variety of unix hosts .  . allows 
typical communications  ( telnet , ftp , nfs ,  . a later version 
will have unix x open transport interface  ( xti ) built in by the end of 1993 
 ( macweek 04 12  . third party software to connect to nfs  . dec 
provides support .  . peer to peer file software 
built in to system 7.1  ( see  . full server software is extra .  . 
printing requires connection of the and the being in 
the  . changing is by a different name in the 
 . the same is true of connecting to  . 
printing is different then the  . 
is suppossed to fix this and similar problems. 

ibm 
hardware not widely used , , and  . 
software , , , work groups , 
protocols , and subset of . 
each of the dos are , in general , totally incompatible 
with the others. once you have chosen one , you are pretty much locked in to 
that product line from then on. work groups is a little more 
forgiving and removes some of this problem. is the biggest , 
80 percent of the market .  . and in general is more powerful and 
better control security than , but it 's also more 
complex to set up and  . this will change due to the use of the mac 
and file system by  .  ( pc week 12 14 12 28 
dec 14 3 22 93 ) 
printing very dependent 
dos if it 's a single user , then you plug the into the parallel , 
and do n't worry about it may be needed with poorly written 
software . network printing is not controlled by the system , but is mostly 
implemented by the actual program , therefore varies from one 
software program to the next .  . 
3 . x . supports standard drivers and can do a good job of showing jobs 
in the print , but it always lists as active ... even if they 
are not. this becomes a problem if there are several incompatible 
on the same net , because there 's no way for software to determine 
which is active right now. for is more mac like 
and intelligent about this. 
2 mac like the deals with , with making calls to the  . 
printing due to poor some programs for all the above do 
not have printing .  . this is the fault of the programs in question and 
not that of the involved. 

price issue this is very with mac providing more build in features 
than ibm and ibm being more  get only what you need  then mac and price wars 
by both worlds .  . 
the ibm machines  nature prevents any kind of true hardware 
, which in turn requires and programs to be very complex to 
handle all the in hardware .  . when one all the standard mac 
hardware features to an ibm built in output sound support , , , 
built in support , built in , standard interface , and 
90 in higher machines the mac tends to be then an equivalent 
ibm machine especially since some ibm can be used with 
which cuts some more of the mac 's cost  ( macuser 1992 176 ) . 
some using some of the info in this and april 1993 .  . 
all below come with a , , and 1 built in. except where 
noted , is extra and a built in interface is provided no card 
needed except for 24 bit color display . 
ibm a 1 , 200 model with a hard drive and color 
 ( macweek 8 17 92 ) sounds like a color classic without 1 , 
sound support , built in network support , , built in to 
16 bit color , etc . 
color classic 1 , with 16 bit data 
equivalent , 4 80 , , and built in  . 
1 , equivalent , and 4  . 
2 , depending on the program 40 or 
  20 40 equivalent , 8 230 , built in , , a 
90 and for 16 bit color .  . 
depending on the program 50 or 50 
equivalent with a and 3 90  . 3 , , 8 80 
3 , , 8 230 3 , , 8 230 , , for 16 bit 
color 

bibliography notes 
  is available in the digest directory by ftp on 
aim . stanford . edu . 36 . 44 . 0 . 6 . and was by last issue april 93 .  . 
 info digest  back issues are available from army . in 
directory archives . 
 dictionary of computer terms 3rd ed . ' .  ( isbm 0 5 ) 

these are the facts as they were known to me on 4 15 93 and may be changed by 
new developments , , or corrections .  . corrections to the 
information are welcome. 
please email corrections to 
compuserve id , 

internet 

final note since there is no sys . ibm . pc . group this has been 
posted to the relevent groups , 
, and sys . ibm . pc . misc . . also since some mac vs ibm 
articles have been showing up in sys . mac . hardware . i have included that 
newsgroup in the posting. do n't site the sys . mac .  . faq as a reason not 
to post to sys . mac . hardware . , since the faq itself does not follow 
internet , especially the de facto all the faqs for a 
should be posted to all newsgroups in the standard. 

eliminate the impossible and what ever remains , no matter how improbable , 
is the truth sir through in the 
of the , the of the , sign of 
four and the of the bruce plans. 

the computer is your friend 

from  ( jim bailey ) 
subject re 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 26 

 ( brian v. hughes ) writes 

 ( jim bailey ) writes 

b  ( brian clark ) writes 

is a popular of , which has a 25 
processor .  . the has a 33 , and some local buses on the 
run  . 

the video is different also. the can run a 13 and i believe a 16 
in 16 bit color without a  . 

actually , you could put as much into a as you want and you 
still wo n't be able to get 16 bit color , on any  . it 's not part 
of the on board video .  . the , however , can use 16 bit video on 
up to 19 with of  . 




yes , but if you the in a you get 24 bit color .  . so 
you really do n't care. my point is that out the box the has 
more video capability for the same size  . the can 
do 24 bit with both 13 and 16 , does n't support 19 , and 
does 8 bit on 21  . 

from j .  . pilon ) 
subject my wo n't turn on .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 14 

anyone know what would cause my to not turn on when i hit the keyboard 
switch the one in the back of the machine does n't work either .  .  .  . 
the only way i can turn it on is to the machine for a few , 
then plug it back in and hit the power switch in the back immediately .  .  .  . 
sometimes this does n't even work for a long time .  .  .  . 

i remember hearing about this problem a long time ago , and that a logic 
board failure was mentioned as the source of the problem .  .  . is . this true 


thanks , 
t . j .  . 



from  . a speckman ) 
subject re 
article i.d. reed . 
organization reed college , , 
lines 36 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( kevin b. hayes ) writes 
you can find that is within the price of a keyboard of 
 . 

i would be very wary of selling as cheap as ! 
i went for a , actually mail order  ( cda computers ) , because its price 
was better the campus computer  . i found out why later on when i 
tried to get a done at an apple center the was a 
 . the serial number had been removed and replaced with a non standard 
number  ( probably from  . consequently , the apple man could 
not do any  . so i ended up with just a from 
over the apple  . boy , was i ed ! moral of the story , 
 . 

apple does not sales through mail order. as a result mail order 
have to obtain their machines by the grey market .  . 

this market is with machines from who have 
more machines than they can sell .  . they come into this state of affairs 
by either accidentally or to get a better 
price from apple .  . in either case they often obscure the serial 
to protect their identity .  . as a result the is  . 

you may save on sales tax but you have to pay for  . 

i should also point out that mail order cannot get lower 
the high volume unless they buy below 
cost .  . as a result the only way they can sell is by cutting costs 
and trimming  . they dont seem to be doing too well. 
the lowest i have been quoted do not the lowest 
available from local  . 

they are even further away from  . 



from  ( university bookstore ) 
subject re ghost on apple 12 color user insane ! ! 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 42 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( jonathan betts ) writes 
dear netters , 

my sister has an apple 12 color display up to an  . 

problem there is an , , ghost like stripe that 
about once per second .  . it is about 1 high. 
she is in grave danger of going insane because of it. 

any ideas of what it might be and how i might it for her 

joe 


ps if i pick up the display (i thought it might be from the lc ) it 
seems to get worse ! 


this can be caused by two one of two things. the first and easiest to fix is 
interference from something around the , such as another or 
other electrical device. try moving the system to another to fix 
that problem. 

second , because of the rate of the , it tends to with 
room and can cause the interference you are seeing .  . try turning off 
all in the  ( room(s ) around the system and see if that helps .  . if not , 
try moving the system somewhere else. 

a third solution would be to get a 14 apple color display it should not 
have the same problem the 12 color is more to. 

you can try calling apple 's new support number  ( in the u . s . ) . at 1 apple .  . 
this number is for anyone who has questions regarding setup and 
and just went into effect for this extended support on monday , 
april 5 , 1993 .  . 

good luck 


kevin , , university book 
university of washington , seattle 
apple computers for education program 

from  ( laura lemay ) 
subject recommend me a ps 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 



i'm in the market for a laser  . used are fine , non apple 
are fine , but whatever i get must fit the following 

required features 





memory to 

the , the better. i 'd prefer under 1000 .  . 


nice things 

anything over 4 pages per minute 

output for a 





do n't care about 

level ii 

 ( its just for me , and always will be ) 

color 


i know about freedom of press , but i 've also heard that its slow .  . 
i can tolerate about 4 , but anything than that and i'm not going 
to consider the price savings worth it. i 'd be curious to hear people 's 
experience with it , tho .  . 

i also infinitely prefer laser over ink i used to use in 
my last job and was n't impressed with the quality .  . i'm a laser bigot 
and the first to admit it. ) 


i 'll be using the to pages of a book i'm writing. the 
page will include multiple , ps , line art and 
maybe pictures  ( not sure  . the quality does n't need to 
be , but it needs to be clear and  . 


i 've been looking at 


used the plus , the nt , the  . its my understanding that 
only the has a out for a  . true 

personal  ( ls and  . i have access to the apple 
discount (i work for one of apple 's spinoffs ) , so i can get these reasonably 
 . i 've heard bad things about the ls comments i'm 
towards the personal , cause it has a nice small  . 

select  . i hear it does n't have , but i have n't 
seen anything for sure. i heard once about a  . 


used  . i 've worked with the ii and on another , and 
they were slow .  . are they that bad on the mac 

i 've seen for an ps that is running quite cheap .  . 
any comments on this i hate the  ( too many trays ) , 
but if its a decent i 'll consider it. 


thanks for any comments .  .  .  . 






writer of in and blood 



from  ( brian hall ) 
subject re new with processor here 's why 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 31 

 ( travis grundke ) writes 

why would apple release a with a processor of its own 

here 's why people have apple for a with a processor 
in it. apple ca n't deliver that right now because the too much 
power , far too much , and is too large for a  . how 
does one get around that without a new use existing 
technology to your best advantage .  . the gives apple a 
unique ability to give users that power in a semi fashion .  . 
by the into the , you 've got power at your desk. 
on the road , that should be able to handle most of your needs. 
okay , not the best solution , but its an answer to a no win situation. ) 
so , does this mean one will be able to use the 's processor in 
parallel to the 's processor okay , we 're getting really hypothetical 
now .  .  .  . 

it would also be great for another reason when not , it could serve 
as an server to the large internal , your email , etc. in 
a , you would also have two machines , instead of 1 . 5 .  . 

if they could couple that thought with , and let you use both the 
 on the and the  on the , it would be a mighty powerful  . 



brian hall 
mark space 
america 

do not disturb i'm on a mission from  . 

from de .  ( frank probul ) 
subject re position of  b  on  . keyboard 
originator de . 
organization , germany 
lines 27 


in article ,  ( thomas martin widmann ) writes 
so far i have only seen pictures of the new keyboard , 
but it seems that the  b  is placed on the left part after the split .  . 
however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught 
to write  b  with my right hand. is this a difference between 
and american typing , or what 

thanks a lot in advance ! 


in germany you usually use the left hand for the  b  

yours 



frank 
 . 17 , d 40 , germany 


internet de . 

university of technology 
department of computer science 
germany 


from  ( david joshua mirsky ) 
subject re and keyboard 
organization 
lines 32 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 

in article  ( terry thiel ) writes 
got a new keyboard to go with my new and have a 
problem doing  . i hold down the command and option and 
but nothing happens. the are set the right way and the 
command and option seem to work on anything else. i'm running 7.1 btw. 
anyone know what the problem is 



i am this message because my news program may have the first 
time. 

, i recently bought an and a  . i do n't 
remember trying to the with it , however it did give me 
a strange problem. when i held down shift during to 
all , nothing happened. i tried it with another keyboard , using 
the same and it worked with the other keyboard .  . 
the shift key on the keyboard worked well otherwise. i checked 
the and they are fine. try your and tell 
me if it works. 

i am with  . i sent them the keyboard in the mail for 
inspection replacement .  . the on the phone said they 
have a 10 14 day turn around time meaning you should receive the 
keyboard in that time. well , they have had the 
keyboard for over 3 weeks and i still have gotten very little info 
from them about it. it 's because it cost me 12 to send them 
the keyboard and their technical support line is not free. tell me 
if you have a similar experience with them. 

david 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject opinions 
lines 6 

i'm thinking about my to the  . has anyone 
had any experience with the , and if so what do you think 
any problems , what are the results , is it much than 
the basically , i 'd appreciate hearing all about this product .  . please 
respond via email , and i 'll summarize if there 's a big response. thanks 
in advance , andrew 

from  ( jeff sullivan ) 
subject question 
organization usc 
lines 10 
distribution 
nntp posting host edu . 


if you get teh , does it include a new to 
cover the with a 




jeffrey a. research scientist et al. 
 ( internet ) information sciences institute 
, 402  ( compuserve ) university of southern california 

from  ( rod cerkoney ) 
subject , 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , , co 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 5 . 
lines 15 






regards , 




37 email 

east harmony  . 
, co 


from  ( eric behr ) 
subject buying a high speed v . everything . 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( eric behr ) 
organization central illinois club 
lines 26 

just a quick summary of recent findings re .  . high speed modems .  . top three 
seem to be at t , , and us  . has the 
biggest cult following , and can be had for under , but i ignored it 
because i need something with mac software , which will work without any 
 . 

the at t nearly praises for reliability .  . they are 
at the moment , probably because of the special price in 
effect until may .  . its fax capabilities are worse than that of the other two 
modems .  . warning at t say that the comes with a mac  ( cables 
all ) , and has lifetime  . this applies only when you order 
directly from ! i called  ( one of the distributors ) , and 
they wanted to charge me 16 for , and gave only 1 year  .  .  . 

for the mac is also highly  ( but not as highly ) recommended 
it 's only 250 from , and if you are willing to roll your own 
and do n't care about the software , you can get the generic model 
from pc for  . 

all this assuming that you do n't have a rich , and ca n't afford a 
motorola  .  .  . ( i ended up the we 'll see how 
it works in two weeks or so. 


eric , illinois state university , mathematics department 
or  ( please avoid ! ) 

from 
subject re price drop on within 2 months 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization university of houston 
lines 19 
nntp posting host protein . uh . edu . 

in article 
 ( nathaniel sammons ) writes 
i am going to be getting a soon , but i t want apple 
to come out with the and the in a month 
and have the price drop on the system i want. i have a 
good deal with a for a 8 80 and i would like to jump on it , 
but , again , i do n't want the price drop to me. btw , the deal 
i have is a 8 80 with for  .  .  . does anyone know of a better 
deal 

thanks , 


is that the low end if it is , it has the  ( no fpu ) , as 
opposed to all the other with a  ( has an  . be sure 
you know what you are getting before you buy ! ! ! the is around 
400 right now , if you intend to it from a  . 



from ( scott sherman ) 
subject re computer engr vs. computer science 
distribution usa 
organization products division  ( an at t company) 
lines 20 

in article , writes 
i am a freshman in college and ca n't decide whether to major in computer 
engineering or computer science. any advice or suggestions will be 
appreciated. 

thanks , 
mike 

a professor of mine once said the difference between a computer engineer and 
a computer scientist is about meaning the engineer makes more than 
the cs .  . 
seriously though the main difference is that most cs people write programs that 
people will use , i.e. , , word , etc. , while an 
engineer writes for machines or control systems , i.e. the computer in your 
car , a control system , computer devices , etc. in other words 
cs writes software while writes  . 
these are but for the most part that is what the difference is. 

p.s. the is not just a joke 
scott 

from  ( bob brickman ) 
subject re when is apple going to 's 
nntp posting host big geek . com . 
organization er e , clinton , nj .  . opinions solely the author 's , not the company 's .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 27 

in article , wrote 

in article 
 ( rodney jacks ) writes 
i would really like to get one of the new 
drives for my , but my local apple does n't know 
when they will be available. he does n't even have a part 
number yet. does anyone know what the part number 
for this drive is and when it will be available 

my apple suggested i buy one of the external 
drives , but i do n't want to pay extra for a case power supply 
i'm not going to use. 

rodney 


while there may not be a part number for the drive , i have seen 
a part number for the (a new front with the in it 
through which you insert the  . the document  ( which i got from the 
2 10 93 announcement at our apple office ) states the drive and 
are separate items and the has an of the  . 
the external may be a better deal after all. 

bob 
disclaimer the represent my personal opinions and do not 
reflect the opinions , policies , or practices of my employer 

from  ( bill roberts ) 
subject memory 
organization high , boulder co 
distribution usa 
lines 8 

i have one of the original 's  ( with of ram ) and find 
that is a when trying to do my work. so , what is the best way 
to get the for this , and what 's it going to cost me 
i'm i can get the latest and best info from real users by posting 
to this group. 

thanks in advance , 
bill 

from  ( travis grundke ) 
subject new with processor here 's why 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 22 
reply to  ( travis grundke ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


well folks , after some thought the answer me flat in the face 

why would apple release a with a processor of its own 

here 's why people have apple for a with a processor 
in it. apple ca n't deliver that right now because the too much 
power , far too much , and is too large for a  . how 
does one get around that without a new use existing 
technology to your best advantage .  . the gives apple a 
unique ability to give users that power in a semi fashion .  . 
by the into the , you 've got power at your desk. 
on the road , that should be able to handle most of your needs. 
okay , not the best solution , but its an answer to a no win situation. ) 
so , does this mean one will be able to use the 's processor in 
parallel to the 's processor okay , we 're getting really hypothetical 
now .  .  .  . 

digest your 1 source for information , 
contributing editor , news of software and the 
digest industry in the community. reply 
for more information on digest .  . 

from  ( daniel s. chen ) 
subject re buying a high speed v . everything . 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 2 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

what is hardware and when do i want to use it dan 


from  ( farul a ghazali ) 
subject cards for the 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
organization university 
lines 8 


are there any cards out there that specifically take 
advantage of the 's 32 bit data path and speed if 
they exist , are they than the versions 

 . 
university in the city of new york .  . 


from 
subject converting keyboard for mac plus 
organization illinois state university 
lines 35 


i have an old mac plus .  . a couple of years ago i bought a new  . 
it came with apple 's new keyboard  ( with  . i replaced it with 
a mac pro plus extended keyboard  ( which i thoroughly enjoy , thank you 
very  . 

well , i have this extra keyboard which i would like to use on the plus 
but there 's a little problem. the plus uses an 11 jack for keyboard 
and the new do n't .  . i got an extra from my 
local apple  ( they 're such nice people ) , but they could n't tell 
me the order of the  . 

there are four in the black , white , red , tan .  . i know 
one 's a ground , one gets the serial signal , one 5 , and 
i forgot what the fourth one does. anyway , if you them up wrong 
you 'll a board and i really do n't want to do that . 

if any souls out there have done this before , please e mail your 
experience directly to me. i would greatly appreciate it especially 
since apple 's original keyboard is not . . . correct. 

btw , i did take apart my new keyboard to see if i could find the 
correlation between the for the 11 jack and the since it 
has both , but no such luck  ( the are inside of 
little  . oh , well . . . 


the blink of an eye , the of a , 
from the of health , to the of death , 
from the , to the in the , 
o , why should the spirit of be proud 
william 




from  ( jonathan betts ) 
subject ghost on apple 12 color user insane ! ! 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 16 

dear netters , 

my sister has an apple 12 color display up to an  . 

problem there is an , , ghost like stripe that 
about once per second .  . it is about 1 high. 
she is in grave danger of going insane because of it. 

any ideas of what it might be and how i might it for her 

joe 


ps if i pick up the display (i thought it might be from the lc ) it 
seems to get worse ! 


from  ( phil jimmieson ) 
subject problems 
organization computer science , university 
lines 23 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 

has anyone had any problems with their not the 
properly 

when i first got it , the would come out of the a couple of 
when , and i had to pull it the rest of the way. nowadays  ( and i 've 
had the system for 4 months ) , the does n't come out at all despite 
the fact that the mechanism makes all the appropriate , and i have to 
hold of it and pull it out myself. is there a simple fix for this , or 
do i have to return it to my apple , where it will for weeks 
while i have to make do with no display , no , no or 
etc. 

 ( btw , it 's not that the is locked into the it just does n't 
want to slide out any  . 



, 
computer science dept. , janet 
university , internet 
po box 
i was head over in love until i got 
 ( uk ) 

from  ( george michaels ) 
subject and 
nntp posting host 
organization company 
distribution 
lines 0 


from 
subject 
organization university , , , canada 
lines 15 

a quick for 
tom , in a post on alternative options 
mentioned that there exist 3 versions of their 
a 2.5 hour one  ( m5545 a ) , a 2 . 8 . hour one , 
 ( m5545 b ) and a 2 . 9 . hour one  ( m5545  . anyone out there 
know how to determine which of these a is i looked at my 
and there is no obvious indication .  . i 
tom who had gleaned the information from and he 
did n't know either. anyone out there know the answer 
thanks ! 



btw , if you can reply via email i would be grateful. i do n't 
often read this newsgroup .  . i will post a summary of answers. 

from  ( david paul peak ) 
subject for sale 2 
organization kansas state university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host matt . ksu . ksu . edu . 

i have two 4 that i am trying to sell .  . i 
had them in my  . i would like to get 100 for 
each one. they are only three months old and have a 
lifetime  . they are  . i will also 
consider other reasonable  . please e mail me. 

dave 

internet 




from  ( users ) 
subject re re re x video on 
in reply to gene 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 18 06 15 gmt 
organization illinois institute of technology , chicago 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 17 

this does not make  .  . why . would the work but the not 
work .  .  . it . is the 
same without and digital  .  . works . fine at 
with 
 .  . what . 's the deal .  .  .  . anyway . you can get a 14 with  . and 

for at  .  . are . you that it probably would work while a 
600 wo n't 
the has a rate of , so driving it 
at 60 . to get x on the mac is way beyond the tolerance the is ed at , so going 60 . is only 5 6 above 
the guaranteed figure .  . 

i too doubt if the would to a mac at x  . like most things , you get what you pay .  . that 's the deal. 

john  . 

p.s. i would n't have posted if i was n't sure. 

from thomas 
subject mac numbers 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 90 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x mon , 19 apr 93 21 15 37 gmt 

here 's a list of numbers i have compiled from other sources .  .  .  . 
anybody got anything to add 

it 's for , and looks fine for me , so do n't complain if it 
does n't look good to you. 



1 
fax info 1 
1 
1 408 
1 
1 
 ( apple assoc ) 
apple computer 1 408 
apple customer 1 
non tech assistance 
1 
 ( alliance sys ) 
1 
fax 1 
berkeley systems 1 
systems 1 473 
ce software 1 
1 408 
1 408 
software 1 
compatible systems 1 
computer c . a . 1 408 
1 
1 203 
1 2000 
1 
1 
dr . mac . 1 
generation 1 
1 408 1990 
simulations 1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
mac 's place 1 
1 
1 490 
1 
1 
general 1 
sales and services 1 
then 
1 technical assistance 
2 university 
1 
silicon beach 1 
1 
the mac 1 
chip 1 
computers 1 
1 
delta research labs 1 
1 541 
1 
etc 1 
 . 1 
mac modems 
lifetime memory 1 
1 
usa 1 mac 
1 mac 
megabyte memory 1 
products 
memory international 1 
memory plus 1 plus 
electronic tech 1 
newer technology 1 
1 
1 
1 733 
computers 1 
1 
south coast 1 
1 
technology works 1 
texas 1 mac 
third wave computing 1 
third wave 1 
1 

1 directory assistance for 1 numbers 

from  . a speckman ) 
subject what is video 
article i.d. reed . 
organization reed college , , or 
lines 11 

in the article on the new and machines mentioned 
that the and the , and not the , had video .  . 

it did n't seem to make much difference in their test. 

what is it i do n't recall seeing it in adams post. 



p.s. could someone tell me if 's posts on video and memory are 
somewhere. 

from  ( michael antolovich ) 
subject re card that uses a rose 
organization charles university , , , australia 
lines 11 

in article aaron mac 1 . edu . aaron  ( aaron bratcher ) writes 
does anyone know if there is an card that takes advantage of the 
a rose extension 

hey what does the a rose extension do anyway 
michael 


michael in , a great place to be be .  .  .  . 
or 


from state . edu .  ( stephen richard lewallen ) 
subject for sale absolutely never used 
organization the ohio state university computer science 
lines 14 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cis . ohio . state . edu . 


i have a new 25 motorola that i am willing to sell if i get 
a good enough offer .  . it is still in its free  . 

if i do n't get a good enough offer , i will use it to replace my  . 

any 

supposedly you can get one of these for  . however , at the moment the 
demand is higher than the supply so i think 400 is a good round number .  . 
i will pay , of course. 

all should be send to state . edu . 


from  ( julian vrieslander ) 
subject re for media wanted 
organization theory center 
lines 21 
nntp posting host theory . edu . 

in article  ( jon wtte ) writes 
if you have no friends , buy a 128 

huh if i buy a , i might lose my friends why do they 
smell bad 

) 


and stop worrying about wear  ( bernoulli ) or  ( syquest ) 

on a serious note , i have heard the tales about failures .  . but i 
am curious about jon 's comments on wear for the the  . 
can someone elaborate is there a general consensus that the 
are the most reliable i am mostly concerned about media failures , as 
opposed to drive mechanism failures .  . 


behavior , hall , university , ny 
internet bitnet 
uucp  .  . ! ! 

distribution world 
from us .  ( anthony d. saxton ) 
organization bbs 702 . 
subject re how long do 's last 
lines 10 


does n't a 1 have about 8 moving flip 

they do n't move , to anybody much bigger than an ) 

and they 're more like charging in a 
) 

anthony d. saxton 
creations 

from  ( avery wang ) 
subject serial line connection between and pc 
organization , stanford university 
lines 41 

in article writes 
i have tried almost everything under the sun to get a null connection 
between a mac and a pc .  . i have used and on 
the mac side. i have used , , and  ( on 2 ) on 
the pc  ( or ps ) side. i have used non hardware and hardware 
 . and know my hands are from the effort .  . nothing 
has allowed file from the mac to the ps .  . 

 .  .  . 

could i hear from someone that they can really information 
out the serial of a fast like via a or via a 
sys ex dump 

could anyone with a help me out i am going absolutely insane .  . 
i know if the problem is my , or all , or all , 
or just me. 



hmmm .  .  .  . sounds similar to a problem i had a long time ago when i was 
trying to use  . i was building a serial connection between my 
and my next .  . i think the problem was in the  . basically , you need 
to make sure that the is the same on both sides. a safe 
place to start is by no on either end. one problem is 
that the serial chip seems to get if you talk to it 
wrong , and only a will clear it. i do n't know the  . but this 
could be a that up your attempts at the system. 
it could very well be that you are doing things right eventually but one 
wrong move  ( like trying a bad protocol ) can up any further 
correct actions , until the next machine  . i have my mac and also 
my next that way. 

now i can send files back and forth between the and the next without any 
problem , and at pretty high too. 

i do n't know what kind of chip the pc uses , but i think the is 
pretty standard. 

hope this helps , 


from  ( larry p anthropology ) 
subject re question 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 11 
nntp posting host unm . edu . 

in article utexas . edu .  ( billy , jr . ) . writes 
 .  .  . the . last time i looked , 
were n't all that cheap , ( 30 per 1 . 40 . per megabyte , 60 
per is 1 . 36 . per  . 

have been available since the beginning of the year at 25 
per ( 1 . 20 . per megabyte ) , and i have seen them 
in at 20 ( 1 . 00 . per  . for someone on a 
, the fact that the minimal dollar for more is 
less 25 versus 60 sometimes matters. 


from  ( steve liu) 
subject source for ink  . 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 21 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 

could someone please e mail or post a cheap source for ink for the 
original are preferred , but i will for 
third party brands if they are of good quality .  . 












ee ee 
steve 
ee ee  .  .  . 
v  .  .  . 



from  ( gregory nelson ) 
subject thanks apple free on my ! 
article i.d. apr . 6 . 12 . 05 . 34 . 1993 . 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 26 


well , i just got my yesterday. it took just over two 
weeks from the order. the  ( rutgers computer store ) 
because apple made a on my order. i ordered 
the one without , but they one with  . 
he wanted to know if that would be with me ! ! ! they must 
be on w out so they 're just them 
with ! 

anyway , i'm very happy with the with a few exceptions .  . 
being , i decided to open it up before it on for the first 
time. the to the hard drive was only connected 
 ( must have come loose in  . no big deal , but i would have been 
if i tried to it and it would n't come up ! 
the hard drive also has an high  . i 've 
heard apple will exchange it if you complain , so i might try to get 
it  . 
i am also by the lack of soft power on off. this 
was n't mentioned in any of the literature i saw. also , the 
of the is awful .  . having keyboard control for 
these functions was much more convenient .  . 
oh , and the seems in a way on power up. 
i 've seen this mentioned by others , so it must be a .  .  . feature .  .  .  . 
anyway , above all , it 's fast .  . a great machine at a great price ! 



from  ( johnc ) 
subject your opinion of the select 310 
reply to 
organization the society for putting things on top of other things 
lines 10 

this model is one of the two low cost laser that apple just 
introduced .  . i'm thinking of getting one to use at home. have any of you 
had any experience with this does it have level 2 
if you 've bought one , are you happy with it 


john email 
university of chicago hospitals john 
office of facilities s. maryland , 
f w c g k s e h p chicago , il 

from  ( rick roy ) 
subject 8 24 card questions 
organization , inc. 
reply to  ( rick roy ) 
x mailer release 1 . 
lines 31 

i'm considering buying one of these to the internal video 
in my and to get 24 bit color capability on my 13  . what 's 
the deal on them 

1 ) do they come with of if so , what is the 
and how much do i need for x x 24 bits 

2 ) what bit depths are supported one , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , and 24 

3) are all these cards or just some is it true that 
modern video cards are  ( at least in general ) what 
bit depths are , all or just 24 bit i 've heard that some 
applications actually run with this card if they write directly 
to the  ( or something like  . is this a frequent problem 
how much is it 

4 ) did n't i read  ( when system 7 first came out ) that the card was 
incompatible if so , how was this  ( finder patch , some , 
or other ) has it been kept compatible with 7.1 are there many other 
that it is incompatible with  ( games or important (i . e .  . , non 
microsloth ) , for example) 

5 ) if you have a strong opinion on it 's value for someone in my position , 
let me know what you think a reasonable price is to pay for it. 

thanks a lot for you input. 



roy usenet america 
disclaimer my employer 's views are to these. 
the early got worms .  . 

from  ( james b. sheire ) 
subject for sale 
organization university of virginia 
distribution usa 
lines 6 

i have a strange piece of equipment to  . it is a interface .  . 
apparently , it can be into a and from there to an  . 
that way you save a  .  . well , i assume you people know more about it , 
so , judging by the price new , i 'll ask , say , 75 anybody interested 



from j. 
subject 30 hard drive problem 
content type text plain us ascii 
content 
organization university 
version 1.0 
content length 
lines 33 


i have an 30 with a 80 which dates back to april 1989. when i 
originally purchased it , i experienced the failure to problem. this 
was fixed soon after by a on the hard drive .  . 

lately a similar problem has been  . when the computer is 
on the light a few times and then i am given 
the no to from  . however , upon the 
computer off and on again the drive always up just fine. 
furthermore , if instead of turning the power on and off i press the 
the same problem occurs .  . but , as i said , turning the power 
off and on always works. 

this problem is different from the 1989 problem in that before 
it often required several power off and to get it to boot. 

does anybody have any suggestions as to what the problem is or how 
it can be fixed 

i'm wondering if it 's getting old and requires more time to 
come up to speed now. is there a or setting that 
allows me to tell the computer to wait a little longer before 
trying to access the 

thanks ! 


j. 

university 
computer science dept. 



from  ( marvin miller ) 
subject iii capable 
organization , inc. ann arbor , mi  ( account info 1 4562 ) 
lines 21 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 



forgive me if this has been asked before .  .  .  . but here goes 

my friend recently purchased a iii and he wants to know if there is 
such a demon called for his and 
says they do n't carry them. 

does this mean iii is incapable of carrying a board 

much , 
marvin 

the more i deal with hearing 
editor in chief co of people , the more i understand 
the terrorism .  . 
22 a year for 11 by 17 marvin 
monthly newspaper 
(e mail me for a above quote does not apply to 
copy today ! ) all hearing people , though. 


distribution world 
from david a. 
organization , inc. 
subject 
lines 9 

does anyone know exactly how digital does their someone was 
suggesting to me that some may not be able to perform at  . is this 
true , and if so , how does deal with that 

david 

from planet , the bbs of  . the message contained in 
this posting does not in any way reflect 's official views. 


from  ( jon wtte ) 
subject re ii  ( ergo ) when 
distribution 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 16 
nntp posting host nada . 

in  ( jeff sullivan ) writes 

when is apple supposed to start the new 
ii with all sold 

as far as i know , they did my new mac came with one yesterday .  .  .  . 
 ( and i got my keyboard , on order for three months , the 
other day , too ! ) 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 

on a clear , you can seek forever. 

from  ( kenneth simon ) 
subject re new info .  . 
summary you do n't know the products 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 27 

 ( alain waha ) writes 

 ( edgardo nazario ) writes 
the info i am about to give is not a , it 's the truth. the new 
coming in the second , will have a of their own. 

excuse me but .  .  .  . have not all got a ! ! ! 




get your facts straight before you post something like this. the 
does not have a of its own. it is a station with 
connecting various components , including the 
with its own  . i guess these new have a built in 
to perform functions of their own. interesting ! if they 're not 
compatible with the current models , i think you 'll be hearing a 
lot more by apple  . imagine a company 
 ( ooh , a new verb ! ) a virtually brand new computer .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

ken 



simon dept of , university 
internet bitnet 


from  ( andy cohen ) 
subject re my wo n't turn on .  .  .  . 
organization w 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article , j .  . pilon ) wrote 

anyone know what would cause my to not turn on when i hit the keyboard 
switch the one in the back of the machine does n't work either .  .  .  . 
the only way i can turn it on is to the machine for a few , 
then plug it back in and hit the power switch in the back immediately .  .  .  . 
sometimes this does n't even work for a long time .  .  .  . 


this problem is most likely the same that all users are experiencing .  .  .  .  . 
thanks to one very usenet reader  ( sorry i ca n't remember the 
guy 's name ! somebody please post it .  .  .  . he . deserves the credit for saving 
us all ) it is easily fixed , if it is the same problem .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


best i can figure it is due to time , and repeated cool in 
the power supply .  .  .  . i . e .  . , bad in the power supply 
card .  . go get a tool from radio shack , a low iron and some 
good and the lower left of the 
card with the ac facing away from you .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . or . get someone to do 
it for you. it took me less then 10 and saved me at least for 
a new supply ! 

from  ( steven seeger ) 
subject another question ! 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 14 

i asked a question a week or so ago about getting more  . on my  . i have a 17 and am wondering what video cards it supports .  . also , does anybody have 's email id  ( if there is one) or maybe a phone number please reply by email as i do n't read much news. 

thanks , 
steve 




d 

string , he 's going to blow us out of the sky ! 
then why do n't you your behind out the and blow him out of 
the sky string , ) 


from  ( joseph m. kasanic ) 
subject re how do you like the apple color 
article i.d. usenet . 
distribution world 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 19 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x tue , 6 apr 93 03 36 54 gmt 

in article , 
writes 
we 're all set to buy one of these for the office , to use for in 
color and for character recognition .  . we 've played 
with 
the original and were very pleased. is the color 
model 
comparable in quality 

also , what brand of software would you recommend we 're 

 . any better ideas thanks. 

i work in a campus bookstore and we had the opportunity to the color 
one 
 . i found it to be very impressive as well as affordable  ( with the 
discount of course ! ) .  . note also that it comes with 
software 
which is sufficient for our needs. 

from  ( eric gailloux ) 
subject a ii question 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization 
lines 3 

i just read an article on the  . one thing me the article says the 
is a serial only device. does that mean i 'll have to my each 
time i want to print something 

from and . ac . uk .  ( tony davie ) 
subject re faces apple s wrath  ( article ! ! ! ! ! ! ) read 
nntp posting host and . ac . uk . 
organization andrews . university 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( theodore chen ) writes 


there is n't any equivalent of the doctrine , 
but there 's something kind of similar. to show , one 
element you need to show is that the copied from your work. 
if you 're lucky , you 'll have direct evidence of copying the 
gun. normally , you do this through circumstantial evidence , by showing 
evidence of access from which one might reasonably infer copying .  . 
this evidence of access is considered along with the similarities 
between the two works in whether you copied .  . however , if 
the similarities are so strong as to be , an inference of 
copying may be drawn even without any evidence that the had 
access to your work. 

in that case , the burden will be on the to rebut the inference 
of copying .  . for example , evidence that he 'd been on a desert island for 
the last ten years and had no contact with civilization .  . 


wow ! now we know why lawyers are rich and computer scientists are poor ! 
lawyers have to  ( sound as if they ) understand this stuff. 



from  ( christopher wood ) 
subject re how long do 's last 
organization , , nj 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( noah price ) writes 
in article , 
(j . e .  . king ) wrote 

does n't a 1 have about 8 moving flip 

they do n't move , to anybody much bigger than an ) 

is not based on flip there 's basically a single 
and to each bit ! is based on 
flip , and is much more expensive and much less  . and 
neither has any parts that move , if electrons and thermal 
are ignored .  .  .  . 



chris 


chris wood 


from  ( tom jenkins ) 
subject vs. 
organization people net , 
lines 8 

title says it all. i 'd be particularly interested in the 
difference. just how much  ( 50 ) is the over the 

tom 

uucp ! ! ! 
arpa ! ! ! 


from  ( tsuyoshi mori ) 
subject i want use on 
organization ltd .  . , , japan .  . 
lines 15 
distribution 
nntp posting host cs . co . 

i used with orange ls on 0 . 5 .  . 

but now i update system 6 . 0 . 5 . to with talk 7.1 , 
then i can not print by my  . 

is the ls old 
can i use on 

please tell me how to use on  . 

thank you 


from japan 


from  ( robert c. sprecher ) 
subject help with 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 22 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


can someone please help me understand the current situation 
regarding 

i have a which i will probably keep for another 2 years. 

i would like to add more memory , ie go from 5 to 17  . 

i know that i will need 4 x , or  . 

which , 30 pin or 72 pin 
would the i get today be in 2 years with a 
newer , more powerful system 

any insight would be appreciated. 

thanks. 

rob 

rob 


from  ( sylvain louboutin ) 
subject in an  ( probably a question .  .  . ) . 
organization dsg , dept. of computer science , trinity college dublin 
lines 11 

is it possible to fit an in a mac  ( not a 30 , but the plain 
old se ) if possible , would i get any speed increase what would be 
the reference of the chip 

thanks in advance , 



r . y .  . , phone ( 1)7021539 ) , e mail 
system group , o institute , room f . 35 . , fax ( 1)6772204 ) 
department of computer science , trinity college , dublin 2 , ireland ask 18 

from 
subject all power 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting may contain no views at all 
news software usenet 3 . 1 . 
lines 21 

could someone please do one of the following 
1. point to an that allows me to turn off power on my 
 . 
1. write an that would allow me to turn off all power on 
 . 
2. point me to documentation on power so that i can write such 
an  . 
3. explain to me why such an is totally or impossible. 

ideally , of course , i would like to be able to turn in on and off on the 
fly. 

surely such an would be very helpful to owners who want to 
do  .  .  . i cannot imagine why it is not possible to do , unless it requires 
apple to some secret. and if that is the case , the surely apple 
could write the  .  ( unless apple brings out new models so fast these 
days that even they do n't know how they  . 

scott 



from  ( jim bailey ) 
subject re what to put in internal bay 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 24 

 ( brian v. hughes ) writes 

 ( tim smith ) writes 

 ( jim bailey ) writes 
yes , you get internal mixing of the with 
the mac generated on the mac  . also you can 
the using the sound control by on the options 
next to the  . 

how do you click on the options i 've never seen it  . 

the latest word on this is you have to the 
on the  . then the is supposed to un dim .  . 




sorry , i assumed that the the various new machines with the internal 
bay worked the same as the  . obviously they do n't .  . 
i can use any of three by changing the radio under 
the sound on my , , external , and  . i 
always leave the in  ( even though i never use 
it) .  . 

from  ( frode lundemo ) 
subject apple 13 
nntp posting host 
organization regional college 
lines 4 

my apple 13 has over the past few months gone and 
and the are not as rich as before. has anyone out there 
encountered a similar problem anyone happen to know what this problem 
may be due to 

from  ( david c blume ) 
subject cannot move data fast enough ! 
summary network card 
keywords , , , 
organization 
lines 43 

i want to achieve an overall rate of around 5 
for very large data  .  ( around 5 ) . 

i have a  . 
i have a network card that can data in to mac memory at 8 . 5 . s. 
 ( using block mode transfers ) 
i have a high speed  ( no calls ) that can 
achieve 6 . 8 . s. 

let 's say all go from to to network card .  . 

it is not enough to first all the data from the to , 
then all the data from the to card .  . 8 . s then 8 . 5 . s 
result in an overall 3.8 s. too slow ! ) 

so i tried the following scheme for an n megabyte , 

step 1 load the 1st from to  . 
step 2 send 1st out card , load the 2nd from to  . 
step 3 send 2nd out card , load the 3rd from to  . 
... 
step n send the n 1 out card , load the from to  . 
step n 1 send the out card .  . 

even though the code apparently does execute the card , 
and the card does not use the mac at all ,  ( it is using the , tho' ) 
each of the steps 2 through n take as long as if the two were 
executed one after another. so there is no improvement in the rate .  . 

why 

is the mac dual  ( so the card and the can both 
access data at the same time . ) . 
is the problem that the two devices , card and , both have to use 
the same to mac 

is there anything i can do 

david 

david i get tired thinking of all the things i 
do n't want to do. , 


from de .  ( christian bauer ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host christian . uni . de . 
organization university of 
lines 18 

in article , c. stephens 
wrote 

what is the difference 
i want a double spin drive by may 

looking into and apple , only 
what is the best 

and  ( apple ) nearly deliver the same speed .  . 
as apples are very low  ( compared to there simms ) 
you should buy what is  . but think of revisions .  . 
it is easier to get from apple than from every other 


christian 

de . 

from 
subject re problems 
organization university of houston 
lines 32 
reply to 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 

in article 
writes 
finally got my computer fixed and i 'd like to sum up. 

about hard drive the original drive that was bad  ( bad 
or something ) was an ibm .  . the new one is a quantum .  . is the 
supposed to be with is there a quality difference 
apparently ! ) 

second , about hard drive position. i 've put the on its side and 
the new has had no problems at all. i 've even switched back and 
forth between and and there are no problems. as far 
as i'm concerned i do n't believe position is important for drives up 
to , in any computer .  . do n't know about , though. 


just like everything else in life , the right ends in half a 
 . 

 . 


, 

its not a good idea to have a hard in a 
position. if the drive is in a position , it can 
not completely for the pull in a position. 
i'm not saying that your hard will fail tomorrow or 6 months from now , but 
why take that chance if you want more detailed info on the problem , please 
mail me at . 



from  ( bill johnston ) 
subject re problems 
keywords 
nntp posting host me . edu . 
organization university of 
lines 19 

in article  ( mark h. nodine ) writes 
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your 
message , but i definitely had problems between my 
and my 10 
drives .  . my solution was to get  . none of 
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives 
in fact the only loop that worked was the 
software loop  ( whatever that  . 

i doubt this is a specific problem. i had to get 
rid of my 20 last year  ( with enough 
purchased at 90 each to make the whole thing 
worth more than my whole computer ) .  . the tech support guys 
at suggested that some third party drivers 
might fix the problem in my case the would n't 
format mount partition for a  . 

bill 
38 street , de  ( 302)368 ) 1949 

from 
subject re problems 
x id pc 316 . stanford . edu . 
x thu , 15 apr 93 03 12 01 gmt 
organization stanford university 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 18 

finally got my computer fixed and i 'd like to sum up. 

about hard drive the original drive that was bad  ( bad 
or something ) was an ibm .  . the new one is a quantum .  . is the 
supposed to be with is there a quality difference 
apparently ! ) 

second , about hard drive position. i 've put the on its side and 
the new has had no problems at all. i 've even switched back and 
forth between and and there are no problems. as far 
as i'm concerned i do n't believe position is important for drives up 
to , in any computer .  . do n't know about , though. 


just like everything else in life , the right ends in half a  . 

 . 


from  ( joe dropkin ) 
subject re apple announce 3 new  ( versions of the 400 ) 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 12 

in article ,  ( not a boomer ) writes 
apple that it will start selling three new of its 
400 .  . the new machines will have built in modems and software .  . 

the new models will be the , 430 and  . 

are not set by apple , but by the  . the of the 
new machines are expected to range from 1300 1900 .  . 

what kind of post is this if you have something substantial to tell the world , 
then at least give us details ! so what if they are coming out with new , 
they always do that .  .  .  . what 's new about these models etc .  .  .  . 

from  ( dale adams ) 
subject re help on 
organization apple computer inc. 
lines 23 

in article 
 ( jason titus ) writes 
i had asked everyone about problems a 4 
and an 8 in my , but the folks at the 
local apple called the folks in and found that 
you ca n't have of different in one machine , even 
if they are both fast enough ie my 80 8 and 4 
were  .  .  . just thought people might 
want to know .  .  .  .  .  . 

there 's absolutely no reason why differences in the access time 
alone would cause an  . there would have to be another 
difference between the for there to be a problem. i 've often used 
memory of different with no problems whatsoever. as long as it 's 
as fast  ( or faster ) than the minimum requirement you should be fine. 

just out of curiosity , did you actually try this and see a problem , or 
were you told it would n't work and so never tried it also out of 
curiosity , do you know exactly who in you talked to  ( as 
i 'd like to find out what they 're basing this  . 

adams 
apple computer , inc. 

subject need advice  ( about tech works etc . ) . 
from 
lines 19 



! ! 

i planning to my mac 

(1) from the present to 
and (2) add a math  . 

technology works , of austin  ( texas ) comes quite highly recommended by 
some mac  . i was just if anyone could share with me 
anything about tech works  ( both good and bad experiences ) or give any advice 
about other mail order that i may consider .  . 

your reply would be very much appreciated. thanks in advance. 

sincerely 
peter 


from  ( david lau ) 
subject re the  .  .  . ) 
nntp posting host michigan . org . 
organization the corporation , ca 
lines 17 

also , if someone would recommend another 
for the , i 'd like to hear about it. 

thanks for any time and effort you on this ! 

karl 

try looking at the for the plus .  . i believe it is 
the best solution because of the and price .  . why spend 
a computer that is only worth 
the is around  . it up the internal 
speed to  . that may not seem like much but it also up 
 . i think that feature is unique to  . 
check it out. 

david 


from  ( csp1dwd ) 
subject re can i get more than x on 13 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 12 

in article , 
 ( debra carson ) writes 

would a virtual of larger size be of use to you i have been 
using out v . for some time. it still is working now on a 
with system 7.1 , minor problem with at right  . 

what 's the latest version of out that works ok with 1 . 





from  ( ravikuma venkateswar ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 46 

 ( michael ameres ) writes 

i believe it goes or will go 




not quite .  . 65 , 57 . 
50 , 80 . 

note that is more important for most real world applications .  . 




as far as the 66 goes 32 , 16 . 






in a article in one of the i think a was 
slightly than a  . but , this is using a system designed 
for the  . so , it stands to reason that a system designed for an ie 
quadra ) would do better. so overall i 'd figure 2.5 or so. 
along the same lines the new stuff is supposed to run the system 
at the level of a fast , but system 8 or whatever will allow 3 times the 
speed of a in the based systems. and wait for the  . i think 
it the  . 

have traditionally been than their motorola 
although the significance of chip speed in real world application 
is something that is highly  . 

pro life pro women 




michael internet 




a pun is a no  form of whit .  . 

from  ( edward m. tecot ) 
subject re computer engr vs. computer science 
organization cs department , stanford university , california , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

a professor of mine once said the difference between a computer engineer and 
a computer scientist is about meaning the engineer makes more than 
the cs .  . 
seriously though the main difference is that most cs people write programs that 
people will use , i.e. , , word , etc. , while an 
engineer writes for machines or control systems , i.e. the computer in your 
car , a control system , computer devices , etc. in other words 
cs writes software while writes  . 
these are but for the most part that is what the difference is. 

p.s. the is not just a joke 
scott 

for the most part , this is a bunch of bunk .  . i 've got a computer engineering 
degree , yet i 've spent the last 7 years writing software that people actually 
use. moreover , the distinctions are incorrect i received 3 job 
upon the two jobs that actually used my hardware experience were 
year lower ! my advice is to decide which classes and most 
interest you , and pick the major that allows you to take them. 



from 
subject re help on 
organization sophomore , engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 22 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . sys . mac . misc . 5 apr 93 re help 
on  .  . by jason 
from  ( jason titus ) 
subject re help on 
date mon , 5 apr 1993 20 05 51 gmt 

i had asked everyone about problems a 4 
and an 8 in my , but the folks at the 
local apple called the folks in and found that 
you ca n't have of different in one machine , even 
if they are both fast enough ie my 80 8 and 4 
were  .  .  . just thought people might 
want to know .  .  .  .  .  . 
jason .  . 



oh boy am i confused , i thought the entire point of the 72 pin was 
that you could use size so you could avoid having to use 
sets .  . all stories not  . 

a. 

from peter 
subject re help 2 internal in mac ii 
x tue , 6 apr 93 11 16 56 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 54 

in article kurt , 
writes 
is it possible to a 2nd 3 1 2 100 in a mac ii with a 
5 1 4 40 
can i us a 50 pin with 3 for the internal 
and the 2  . the first is nt 

the second will be. 
about the power supply .  . where can i connect a 3 1 2 
to supply my 3 1 2 

it is very possible to connect another internal hard in any 
if you can find the space to put it. i have a that came 
with a quantum 80 drive .  . when i into space problems , i in 
another 40 quantum that i had sitting on a shelf .  . here is what i did. 

first off , i was concerned about space .  . since both drives are quantum 
drives , i finally decided that the logical place for them 
was one upon the other. fine , they fit  . (i have not had a 
problem with yet , and these drives have been running together for 
over two months. 

the next problem was connecting the drive .  . if you have a spare internal 
hard power as i did , then half of your are over. just 
in the extra so that you get one square 
and two hard power  . if you do n't have a spare 
, you will have to buy the and which can be found 
in any good for about 10. i would suggest properly 
the to reduce the possibility of 
or bad  . 

next , you need a connection .  . again , i had a spare hard 
, and i wanted to be careful in case this did n't word so what 
i did was a on 50 pin that gave me another 
male in the middle of my spare  . the part cost 10 again , 
and is easily attached with any good wood vice .  . the theory behind using a 
on is that if this does n't work , my original is not 
, and i can go back to the original setup .  . 

having done all that , i could n't be bothered to check the notes for 
power so i it in and it works like a charm to this 
day. 

in a mac ii , everything should work the same. be careful with the id 's of 
the drive , and ensure that the on both drives are 
 . i did not try this without the but it 
seemed logical that if i am the , that the signal 
should be at all the ends. 

let me know if you have any more questions. 

peter 
bell northern research 


from  ( jeff lian ) 
subject for 
keywords 
organization , inc. 
lines 27 
nntp posting host sgi . com . 
originator 


hi folks 

i'm planning to buy a but need advice on choosing a  . 
what do people recommend for a decent 14 15 

i v looked at some and the for and the price is 
within my , but could be able to use the various 
available on  ( specifically the resolution ) does only 
support one resolution 

also any for a reliable mail order place for or 
does anyone have experience with the following mail order places 

express  ( houston , tx ) 
usa  ( bloomingdale , il ) 

thanks , 

jeff 



jeff or 
, inc. 
n .  . 
p.o. box m s 

from  ( john komp ) 
subject re price drop on within 2 months 
article i.d. 
organization at 
lines 36 
to sys . mac . hardware . 
posted date tue , 6 apr 93 16 32 51 
received date tue , 6 apr 93 16 32 52 


writes 

i am going to be getting a soon , but i t want apple 
to come out with the and the in a month 
and have the price drop on the system i want. i have a 
good deal with a for a 8 80 and i would like to jump on it , 
but , again , i do n't want the price drop to me. btw , the deal 
i have is a 8 80 with for  .  .  . does anyone know of a better 
deal 

i do n't know how to say it best but you are that the 
price of the is going to drop this year .  . this week 's 
reports that apple is probably planning a drop in august .  . my guess 
is that it may come sooner if apple decides to change the price 
structure upon release of the units this summer .  . 

your price looks pretty good at about 50 more then i for 
mine last month .  . i would have rather waited for one of the new 
machines this  ( like the cyclone ) but the value of my 
would have not been by then. thus , forced me 
to now. i'm happy with the machine and wo n't feel 
betrayed at all when apple cuts the price to less then 1000 next 
week  . 

line if the does what you want , buy it. if you wait 
until the come out for a price break then you might as 
well wait for the to come out for another price break and 
then the units which follow them. you may save some money but 
you 've lost a lot of time when you could have been using the 
computer .  . face it , apple 's are going to be in a continuous 
state of  . at least they are n't going to try them 
again  . 

john 


from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject re half page hand 
organization university of washington 
lines 12 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

the 32 is a nice , and effective it will 
bring in with surprisingly good quality .  . note that its effective 
resolution in grey scale mode is only about 72  . if you do n't intend 
to a , it works fine. a true 256 level gray would 
work better for images .  . 

i 've seen the go for as little as 100 used. it is a reasonable buy 
at that price .  . higher end hand are almost as expensive as used 
flat  . here is seattle , the paper shows occasional good 
in the  . used color flat have been seen as as lately. 
grey scale come in around  . 


from  ( forrest howard ) 
subject re 230 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
organization oracle corp 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 33 

add me to the list of 230 owners .  . 

i had a bunch of problems regarding sleep with the 230 when 
i first got it , both with and without the  . finally it died , 
would n't start , until i opened the door  ( which open ) and 
the machine came up fine , but with the a few decades off. apple 
replaced the processor board. 

now , 
twice the machine has frozen  ( no action ) 
twice the machine has refused to wake up. acutally , the 
came on , and the when the power is in 
 ( but not with a good  . 
the first time this happened removing both power and 
for 1 minute brought the machine back .  . 
the second time this happened the machine would n't wake up until 
down for about 30 minutes. the had what looked 
like red lines it. 
both the file fax preferences has been corrupted 
according to  . 

i have removed all the fax and software , and the third party memory , 
and am waiting to see if it happens again. 






oracle corporation 
oracle 
box 
, ca 

from  ( ingemar hulthage ) 
subject dead 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


my died. i it and determined that it is 
the , that senses the click , that is stuck in the depressed 
mode .  . this the following questions 

1. is it easy to find a that i could into the 
place of the old switch 

2. i have old  ( max , mac 512ke ) , can they be used with some 



from  ( marc donovan ) 
subject re i want use on 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research ltd .  . , ottawa 
distribution 
lines 30 

in article  ( tsuyoshi mori ) writes 
i used with orange ls on 0 . 5 .  . 

but now i update system 6 . 0 . 5 . to with talk 7.1 , 
then i can not print by my  . 
is the ls old 
can i use on 
please tell me how to use on  . 
thank you 

from japan 

i currently use an with ls 1.0 , 
and it works on  . course , i only use the 
and that came with it , due to the size 
requirement to print to the  .  ( ie must have definition 
to print a font ) when i , i talked to orange 
, and they state that 1.2 of ls definitely 
works with  . however , the was us 40 , so i 
passed .  . 

hope this helps 





voice  ( 613 ) fax  ( 613 ) 
disclaimer i am the only one responsible for my opinions. 


subject  . any . opinions 
from keith 
distribution world 
organization apple source bbs 
x mailer , i mean , test version 
lines 16 


has anyone use or or any other similar 
software . any . comparisons on these products would be very much 
appreciated. 

thanks in advance for your help 

cheers 






be that we dont get all the government we pay for ! 


from  ( douglas mcpherson ) 
subject laser writer 
organization institute of technology 
lines 15 
nntp posting host xx . au . 

could someone please tell me what a 

is. 

its a small box , which has a it , seemingly 
containing 6  ( look like roms ) and a manual .  . 
the instructions are most and say , in full , 
this product must be by an apple  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

so what does this do at first i thought it might be a nt to 
, but i thought that required an entirely new board. 

any info appreciated. 

doug .  . 

from  ( peter haase ) 
subject re memory 
organization los national 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

in article , 
 ( bill roberts ) wrote 

i have one of the original 's  ( with of ram ) and find 
that is a when trying to do my work. so , what is the best way 
to get the for this , and what 's it going to cost me 
i'm i can get the latest and best info from real users by posting 
to this group. 

well bill , there are on the logic board and in the 
giving you  . the only thing you can do to to 
the is to remove the and a , 
giving you a total of which is the on a  .  .  . you . can try calling 
, or any other memory out of ,  .  . etc .  .  .  .  . 


peter internet 
network los national 

subject 
from  ( jan vandenbrande ) 
distribution na 
organization m e  ( division of eds ) , ca 
nntp posting host 49 . 
lines 13 

i am looking for one of those color you 
place on an and control the 
with a mac .  . 

can you recommend me a particular brand 
what price are we talking about 

thanks , 

jan 
 ( new address ) 
 ( school address , forwards ) 
uucp uunet , ! ! jan 

from 
subject re card for 
news software ibm 2  ( nr 2 ) by o .  . and r. 
lines 18 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm lab 


as of last week , mac 's place had the applied engineering card 
 ( 32k , one , for fpu ) on sale for 00 .  ( without  . 
regular price is  . 

no idea if this is still going on , but i can get the phone no. if anyone is 
interested (i found their ad in  . 


can some people with cards please post numbers they get 
with the cards. i have only one report , which seems to indicate that 
a card gives you only about a 1 ! ! access to memory takes 
longer when you have a  ( card(and get a miss ) thus a small card 
of may be worth 0. i do n't know what kind of numbers cards get 
you. also i found it interesting that you can the cards 
via  ( software(read about it in the mac tech notes from ftp . apple . 

so is a good deal or not , i still do n't know. 

from  ( jeff ) 
subject re mac plus is constantly ! 
article i.d. 
organization university of network services 
lines 25 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 

in article  ( russ 
hodes ) writes 
wrote 

basically , the mac are constantly themselves , as if 
the 
were being pushed .  . sometimes the mac is able to fully 

and display the , but it is only a matter of time before it 

again. at times , the is as high as several times a minute. 

i wonder if your mac has those little 
 . they are plastic devices that push on the which 
are inside the mac .  . or those are bad and need 
replacing .  . 

this problem is usually a low 5 from the power supply , there is an 
for this on the supply .  . if the is still or low 
then the culprit is probably a bad at  . 

jeff 
computing center 
u of 


from  ( chris ellens ) 
subject re setup partition  ( was ok to set 54 on top of 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research 
lines 21 

in article , 
 ( mike feldman ) wrote 


now if i can figure out if there 's any hope using the partition 
on the hard setup utility  ( do i dare just try it and see what happens ) , 
then maybe i can divide up the wealth among the family members a bit more 
 . the getting more information section of the manual suggested 
trying other before calling apple , but did n't mention the net. 

mike , motorola computer group ,  ( 217 ) , fax  ( 217 ) 
east university avenue pager in il  ( 800 ) ,  ( 217 ) 
urbana , il  ( mcdphx uiucuxc ) ! ! 

the partition in apple 's setup lets you set up a and other 
types of  . it won t let you create more than one normal mac 
volume .  . you need or something similar to do that. it will , 
however , allow you to take advantage of some possible unused space on your 
hard , if you do n't mind the whole thing. 

chris 

from  ( jon w tte ) 
subject re what is video 
nntp posting host nada . 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 18 

in berkeley . edu .  ( james wang ) writes 

addressing modes .  . commands that do fills should be slightly 
since the new instructions 2 at a time versus one. 

even the can two at a time. 

the new in the is which 16 
at a time instead of 4 which the has that means 4 
instead of one. 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 

this article printed on 100 electrons .  . 

distribution world 
from jim 
organization ! 
subject re got a spare cover 
lines 21 

anyone have the replacement cover needed to use 
with an i or can i fool the into 
working without its own cover by a suitable 
into its cover 

thanks for any help , 
ralph 


the trick will work. be careful when you apply the white to the 
, it tells the where the is and it can come 
off. 

jim 


! 
bbs  ( 604 ) voice  ( 604 ) 
the views expressed here are of the individual author only .  . 
from  ( firstclass(tm ) by  ( lite(tm ) from north vancouver , canada 


from  ( christopher yale lin ) 
subject mac power 
summary what are they 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 9 


i own a mac and am considering  ( cards , hard drive ,  . 
can you tell me what the power are for 1 ) the 
and 2 ) the hard drive power feed .  . secondly , can you tell me if there 
is a separate limit for each , or if instead , there is a single limit 
for both combined 

, a new reader of sys . mac . hardware . 


from berlin . de . 
subject re when is apple going to 's 
originator 
x mail reader 2 . 4 . 
organization free university of berlin , germany 
x news reader 6 . 4 . 13 . 13 
lines 18 

writes 

the  ( external ) is already and has been for 
quite now. 
demand for the units are high , so they are pretty rare .  . 

, i 've got my drive since  . 

i 've also heard that they are with a couple of 's , 
but i ca n't it. 

indeed , are with it. 
you usually get with of applications , games , , etc. 

i have compiled a list of these and posted it to alt .  . 
i will post an updated version of this list  . 

) 

from b  ( brian clark ) 
subject re high resolution for mac ii 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 28 

in article b clark , b 
 ( brian clark ) wrote 

i do n't know about the  ( though i plan to check them out ) , 
but you need to be very careful checking the and s n ratio of 
many of the 16 bit out there. the ni are very clearly 
in terms of , s n ratio , accuracy , etc and the 
and have all the range and freedom from 
that you 'd expect from a good , true 16 bit  . this is 
not true for the , for example. 

to reply to myself , i found i did have the information 
already. the  ( to use the term loosely ) are as follows 

a d 16 bit , with 14 bit accuracy to 100 , 12 bit accuracy to 
200  . no for s n , ,  . there are 8 
the single a d , so that all are not samples at the 
same time , and in the above conversion the all channel rate 
must be used. thus , for two , you only have 14 unknown quality bits 
at 50 per channel .  . this is poorer quality than the national 
, at the same rate .  . 

d a 16 bit  . no for s n , ,  . each of 
the 4 output has its own  . 

the price for the external box  ( the itc 16 ) , the interface 
board  ( the mac 23 ) , plus c software and 's is  . rather 
 . 

from  ( eric behr ) 
subject en devices 
reply to  ( eric behr ) 
organization central illinois club 
lines 31 

i just up my mac to a relatively old  ( 1 year ) en 
 . the t connection works like a charm .  . i the 
drivers from 's ftp server .  . 

the problem begins when i one more device to the 
specifically a drive .  . i power up the drive , then the mac .  . the mac 
memory , etc. just before the happy mac face normally shows up , the 
power light on the en goes out , and the process stops .  . so i can use 
the network , or the external drive , but not both at once. this makes the 
box pretty much  . 

it does n't look like a purely electrical problem , because if i turn 
on the drive just a second or so too late , so that it does n't get noticed 
during the initial , the mac normally and the 
works , even though the hard is on and connected .  . the mac has 
never once failed to from its internal drive up to now  ( and i 've had 
it for over a  . 

here is what i tried changing the id 's of the en and the 
several changing the order of devices , i.e. the en at the 
head or tail of the with an external 
 ( both devices have internal ones ) , i.e. removing internal 
from the hard trying another en box trying another 
identical drive trying several different  . 

has anybody seen this more importantly , does anyone have a solution 
thanks a lot. e. 


eric , illinois state university , mathematics department 
or  ( please avoid ! ) 

subject re vs. in 
from  ( bruce hoult ) 
lines 16 

t. smith writes 
 ( per ejeklint ) writes 

, maybe i'm missing something , but the has the  with  . 
at least the ones here in europe .  . 

you are indeed. the 4 80 model  ( shipped here ) definitely does not have the 
 . i own one i know. 


no , he 's not missing anything. you 're right that some models of the in 
the usa without or  . per is also right all , i repeat , 
all 's sold here in new and , i assume , europe have the 
and  . 

i know. i bought a 4 80 and it has both and  . 

from  ( wayne chen ) 
subject re by la 
nntp posting host slip . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
organization 
lines 6 
x id 
x tue , 6 apr 93 05 56 22 gmt 

in article wayne , 
writes 
industry .  . after all it does sound unfair to me for someone that 
has 

oops , i meant fair , not unfair .  . 

from cameron lewis 
subject re video resolution switching 
organization research , 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host who . gov . au . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x mon , 19 apr 93 23 23 23 gmt 

in article john 
john , john writes 
as the author of on the i can tell you that there is no way 
for a 
card to know what resolution its connected will actually 
support .  . that 's why we have these silly  . the just 
identifies 
that as supporting a given resolution .  . 

therefore the software will support any  . i 've heard 
that 
has a similar program for the  . 

is this software available either or public domain if so 
where 

cameron lewis email 
air division ) . 61 3 
research d . s . t . o . fax 61 3 646 
, ,  . , australia , 

from d. 
subject re , 
x thu , 15 apr 93 01 02 42 gmt 
nntp posting host 4 . 42 . 
organization college 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 42 

in article , 
writes 
i'm in the market for a post compatible laser writer. my needs 
are pretty so , 4 pages a minute would be just fine. 
my is also pretty , so would also be good. 
it will be working from a single mac , but would 
probably be a good investment for the future. 

with that in mind .  .  .  . 

1 ) anyone have comments about the quality value of a 


i just recently purchased the and i really like it. my 
needs 
are much the same as what you describe .  . in addition , i wanted to get one 
that 
i could access via , so that eliminated the new line of 

from apple .  . the print quality is good to excellent based on 
what 
you 're using and what paper you use. i'm still with 
different papers , but a medium grade laser paper seems to work 
fine. 

printing , , letter head , or other single feed 
jobs is 
very easy .  . there is an , automatic , guide on top of 
the 
which the paper properly  ( and does n't feed a 
from 
the , as some  . 

(i have no with , just a satisfied customer . ) . 



d. department of mathematics 
college 
 ( 616)957 ) grand , mi 



from  ( terry thiel ) 
subject re and keyboard 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 15 

 ( michael smith ) writes 
similarly , i have trained myself to hold down the right hand pair of 
command option for  . 

i tried the right set and it did n't work. i'm on the phone to their 
tech support right now and the guys does n't know what a 
is ! ! ! he 's got me holding for someone else .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
and holding , and holding , and holding .  . 

ok they finally got back to me and said basically it should work . 
well it t and they do n't know why. guess it will go back to 
and i 'll buy something else. i 've got better things 
to do than play  . 



from  ( ben chuang ) 
subject  . 
organization university of michigan itd and support services 
lines 27 
nntp posting host itd . umich . edu . 

here is the story 
i have a network with 4 on  . one of them has an 
card , and is currently connected to a next  ( do n't laugh 
i got it for the price of a mac  . the next is connected 
to the internet over slip running on a  . 

currently , we can from the mac w to the next , 
and then out again to the rest of the world. 

what we want to know is if there is some sort of hardware that 
will route from the to the next 
via the mac .  . from what we have heard , air does n't do 
the trick. 

software solutions would be good too , but my impression is that 
there are n't going to be any. 

our immediate interest is to be able to get to the next and 
out again. the slip connection does n't allow us to assign numbers 
to machines , so everyone shares that 1 number .  .  . oh . well .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance. 


benjamin s. itd university of michigan 
 ( consulting here ) 
 ( unix and long messages here ) 

from () 
subject where can i get the price 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 9 

hi all 
does anyone know where i can get the price for 
the gold fax by 
any answer will be highly appreciated. 
thanks in advance. 

regards , 

 . 

subject put ex .  . in 
from 
organization kansas city , computer science 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 17 

i remember reading a thread a few days ago that mentioned removing an external 
drive from its case and dropping it in the internal drive of a  . 
. . i was going to do that with my , but had a couple of questions. my 
drive has a wire from the drive to an id switch on the 
outside of the case. where do i connect this switch can the computer just 
tell with internal drives 
i noticed that the drive will over part of the (i 
did n't look closely , but i seem to recall it over the that 's 
onto the would that cause problems 
one last question ! is there anywhere to order a cover 
the drive 's front is smaller than the space left in the case  ( the 
drive 's is the same size as the 's cases) .  . should i just 
cut a hole in the plastic that is currently holding place 

ans are ! thanks ! 
keith 


from  ( pushpinder singh ) 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
organization m . i . t .  . media 
distribution 
lines 27 

when the computer is set for 256 and certain are done , 
particularly through a , white lines 
appear on the  ( which generally but not always spare open 
 . these lines as the operation is continued .  . if a 
is moved over the involved area of the and then moved away 
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not 
observed if the is for 16 or a 14 apple 
with 256 is used. 

i suspect a bad video chip but cannot be certain .  . the problem has 
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse. 

i'm having exactly the same problem. again , it 's fine when i switch to 16 
or a smaller  . my is 

model with 4 80 , , no cards 
with 16  ( for resolution of 624 ) 

i just discovered the problem a little while ago after in my 
new  . it seems to appear either when through a 
or when using or word and i enter return . 

my guess is bad as well. i really hope it is n't a design flaw .  . is 
anyone at apple listening 




from  ( david paul peak ) 
subject for sale w send fax 
organization kansas state university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host matt . ksu . ksu . edu . 

i am selling my w send fax .  . it 
to the mac through the  . the software for sending 
is included. i am asking 90 .  . however , i will consider other 
reasonable  . please e mail me. 

dave 

dave 
internet 




from  ( david claytor ) 
subject re when is apple going to 's 
organization , ann arbor , mi 
lines 43 
nntp posting host umich . edu . 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( derek a fong ) writes 

interestingly enough , the that came with my has 
only 8 

1. system 
2. photo 
3. alice to 
4. titles 
5. application 
6. 
7. 
8. apple 

has anyone else noticed that they got less than everyone seems to be 
getting with the external what i really feel i missed out on is what 
is supposed to a games  . 

i have heard that people have gotten up to 9 10 with their drive .  . 
i assume they get the 8 titles above plus and the games  . 

any comments and experiences should i call apple to complain ) 







what i did not get with my drive  ( cd300i ) is the system you 
listed as 1. any ideas about how i can get one i bought my 8 120 
from direct express in chicago  ( no at all good price good 
 . 

btw , i 've heard that the system can be used to the mac 
however , my drive will not accept a is the machine is off. how can 
you with it then 

dave 





from 
subject changing size in 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting may contain no views at all 
news software usenet 3 . 1 . 
lines 21 

some kind soul told me that i could change the serial size 
of via  . he did not tell me how i could change it using 
, and i have lost his e mail address. 

could he or any one else please tell me what to do 

i assume that the relevant resource is , but i do not know , and 
i have no for that resource .  . if you have a for the correct 
resource , i would be to receive it. that way , i could play around 
a bit and maybe get my to do something useful with its serial  . 
 ( other than  . 

btw , i believe that when the says that in is 
, that that means increasing the will help , if you are 
using hardware  . i can text data pretty fast into my , 
and can that is being lowered , but the never gets beyond 
 ( out of 4096 )  . makes sense to me. 

scott 



from  . plastique ) 
subject help ! 2 . 21 . bombs my !  ( crashed internal hd ) 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 30 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


help ! 

i just received my 2 . 2 . 1 . from spectrum today. 
my is running sys 7 . 0 . 1 . with of  . like the instructions said , i only 
2  ( the program .  .  . no . start up or  . 

i just from ftp . apple . com . like it said , and 
it in my system  . i the mac an hour later , and it 
would n't completely off the internal  . i get the happy mac , then it 
, only to and repeat the cycle continuously .  . i never even 
get the welcome to message. fixed about 12 new 
problems , but the same thing still happened. 

what do i do 

please e mail to 


thanks in advance ! ! ! 


victor 



victor r. try to imagine all life as you know it , 
aka mr. stopping , and every 
univ .  . of southern california in your body at the speed of light 
internet , from 

from  ( ray fischer ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
organization netcom .  . san jose , california 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

 ( ravikuma venkateswar ) writes ... 
 ( ray fischer ) writes 


how about some numbers here some kind of 

are for and  . ok , if it will make 
you happy , the is than the  .  . both 
are then end of their lifetimes .  . and especially with the 
good  . 

besides , for 0 wait state , you 'd need a anyway. i mean , 
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of note that this 
memory speed corresponds to a speed of 12 . 5 .  . 

the point being the processor speed is only one of many aspects of a 
computers  . speed , processor , memory speed , 
, i o systems , even the application program all contribute 
to the overall system  . 

and roughly , the is twice as fast at a given 
speed as is the  . 

numbers 

look them up yourself. 


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth 
than lies .  . friedrich nietzsche 

from  ( ken linger ) 
subject 32 bit system 
organization university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 32 

a week or so ago , i posted about a problem with my 30 i have 20 
or true , yet if i set my to use a large amount of memory 
 ( total of all extensions ) then my system will crash before the 
comes up. what i meant was having a large amount of load , or 
sounds , or huge with a control other than apple 's 
memory control  . apple 's is at , mode 32 is on , and 
so is 32 bit addressing .  . all work by themselves or with the 
others until i increase the memory used by some of them  ( with methods 
mentioned above) .  . 

well , here 's my latest followup .  .  .  . i system and got 
this information 

memory info 

physical size  . 
logical size  . 
size of low memory area  . 
virtual memory  . 
addressing mode mode in use. 
32 bit system absent .  . 
not capable .  . 
system true. 
temporary memory support present. 
memory support real and  . 

note that 32 bit system is absent .  . could this be the problem 
how can i turn this on any ideas 

can anyone help 

ken 

from  ( les ferch ) 
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message 
organization the university of british 
lines 22 
nntp posting host ca . 

in  ( monthian 
1 ) writes 

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for regarding 
in all mac price lists i 've seen , every as the message 
optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this newsgroup that all 
have the built in except the 4 80  . why would they 
be so about this issue in their price list 

perhaps the reason is simple maybe the people who put together 
the and price lists were n't clear on the issue. 

, apple 's literature is not always 100 correct. a funny one i 
noticed recently is that some of the on the with 
capability refer to the feature .  . this should have read 
feature  ( as it does on some other correct i 've seen from 
 . since it was correct on some older , i can only guess 
that someone edited the copy , saw and thought it was a and 
changed it to the more familiar word . 

hmmm , what would that be a built into the a way of 
writing information to a ) ) 

from  ( gene wright ) 
subject mac problems not 
organization jack 's amazing capitalist 
lines 18 

i just recently bought a 4 card for my original mac 
 ( backlit ) and have since had some bizarre  . it happens when i put 
the machine to sleep and wake the machine up. sometimes it will just 
the and lock the machine up forcing me to push the 
switch .  . other times it will give me the usual bomb box with the error 
message of co processor not . 

i know one solution is not to put the machine to sleep , but does anyone 
have any ideas on what could be causing this or better yet what might fix 
it the memory card is and goes into the  . that 
probably into the problem. the is king memory  ( not 
kingston ) from , ca .  . they say the problem is in my machine .  . 

any ideas gene  . 


 ( gene wright ) 
net .  ( 615 ) 

from  ( noah price ) 
subject re problems 
organization  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 
lines 24 

in article , 
 ( tim smith ) wrote 

attention mac owners many industry have 
concluded that mac suffer from 
from the standard  . this results in silent corruption 
of data when used with some devices , including modern devices .  . 
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault .  .  .  . 

that 's fine , but would you name the so i can try to track 
this down 

this does n't sound right to me. do n't use the if so , the 
mac has nothing to do with the  . that 's all by the 
chip .  . 

yup .  . that 's why i'm kinda curious .  .  .  . most problems i 've encountered 
are due to  . 




hardware design 
... ! sun , ! apple !  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 

from  ( timothy mark collins ) 
subject here 's what 's in it. 
organization polytechnic institute , , ma 
lines 42 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 

i went to in , ma , today , and the info on the 
 . 
for a mere 00 . , you get 

25 
of 
hard 
1 . drive 
built in support for 256 , to 32 , 000 
1 
keyboard and 
14 display 
0 . 29 . pitch for extra text and 
x 
and speaker 
system 7 software for computers version 7 . 
at , pc exchange , and software 
fax , send fax only 

service and support 
1 year limited 
1 year of in home service 
free help line support 

pre software 
works 
best of collection 



the dictionary 
correct grammar 
apple special edition of american with free trial membership 
electronic bill software 

scrabble 

editor 's note the i have list 's the as a , 
but i that. did n't want to confuse anybody .  .  .  . 

tim 


from  ( mick mueck ) 
subject re ok to set 54 on top of 
reply to 
organization devices , inc. 
lines 14 

i had the same question for my  . the apple guy said that 
their 16 is ok to put of the and had no 
beyond that. i was going to just put the on the box but then i got to 
thinking the has a small base so maybe the weight 
would be more than with apple 's (i do n't know the area of the 
base of their  . , the drive is in the middle .  . 
so i cut a piece of 3 8 thick wood to about 16 . 25 . x 12 , covered it in a 
cream covered cloth , and used it as a between the 's top 
and the ! ! 



i hate s 


from 
subject re re problems 
x mailer  ( version 3 . 
organization mac exchange bbs 
bbs 46 31 , fax 46 31 
, s , 
lines 5 

the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives 
format mount partition for a  . 
mark 

disclaimer mac exchange bbs cannot be held responsible for the contents of this message 

from 
subject mount ,  . 
organization govt. systems ,  .  . 
lines 16 

here 's a good one does anyone know of a product that allows 
me to mount my  ( or maybe if i blow some more 
money .  .  . ) . my application is music , and would like to be 
able to it around  ( would probably plan to get an drive 
or something so i do n't have to depend on an internal fixed 
hard drive i.e. , may be pretty rough on an internal  .  . ) . 

i'm in the san francisco bay area , if that matters. 
also , anyone have any info on 's and and , would anyone 
care to email me with the price they paid for their or if 
there 's a price list faq , never mind .  .  .  . just curious about the 
difference between the best and the local university 
 .  .  . 

thanks , jeff adams 


from  ( debra carson ) 
subject  ( q ) buying advice 
keywords mac buy advice stack 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 22 

does anyone have a version of which mac do i buy 
that is later than v 1 . 3 . 1 . 

i no longer have access the mac , 
through compuserve , to check for myself. 

which mac .  .  .  . is a stack that 
in decision making based on , features , and 
main software used. 

please let me know if you can help me out. 
from compuserve should not cost much if a higher speed 
is used. stack , , is about 

thanks for any help .  .  .  . 




. 



from  ( sidney w. kitchel ) 
subject re rumours about new ! ! ! ! ! 
article i.d. 
distribution sys . mac . hardware . , sys . mac . 
organization data parallel systems , 
lines 27 
nntp posting host com . 

(j . e .  . king ) writes 


since we are on the subject of chip power , 

i heard  ( from a very reliable source ) that the dec chip uses 
1 2 the power that 's chip does , and it still 
the 's butt. makes you wonder why ever made 
a chip to begin with ! 

would n't you like a running about cool idea .  .  . 


! ! sorry wrong. it would be an 
extremely hot idea .  .  . at . least with the current  . the available 
run up to 200  . but they produce quite a bit of  . in 
fact so much that they need special with extra large 
 . 
also apple looks pretty commited to the route instead 
of a deal with dec .  . 



w. , 
data parallel systems , inc. 
e. drive  ( 812 ) 
, , usa fax  ( 812 ) 

from  ( bruce tulloch ) 
subject re 230  ( looks like apple bug ! ) 
nntp posting host su . au . 
organization university computing service , , , australia 
lines 47 

 ( lowell b. reiter ) writes 

my 230  . 

i close the  . it  . then i open it press a key .  . 
the pattern. you can make on top .  . , although there are no words on the bar .  .  . why 




i need a  .  .  . now ! ! ! 
university 
internet account 


i have the same problem and was about to post this .  .  .  .  . 

owners  ( and apple technical people ) 

i have a new 230 which appears to have a problem up from 
sleep when running on power. when  ( usually for the second 
time) after sleeping , the wake fails and the appears with a 
corrupted image of broken lines and control can only be 
with control command or the key at the back of 
the machine .  . the problem occurs even when the system is stock standard 
 ( no , no virtual memory , a fully charged new , system 7.1 
 . i have not had the problem when the machine is in to ac .  . 
i 've checked that the is properly  ( it appears to be  . 

what 's going on here anyone else had this problem is it software or 
hardware 

if you have a 230 and a bit of time , try repeatedly sleeping and 
the machine on power and let me know if you see the same 
behaviour  ( and let apple know too ! ) .  . 

many thanks to anyone who can clear this one up for me. 

bruce 






bruce australia 
complex problems have straight forward , easy to understand wrong answers 

from  ( zhihua xie ) 
subject re 230  ( looks like apple bug ! ) 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 2 

this is a test 


from (c .  . m. miller ) 
subject re vs. 
article i.d. news . 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 29 

in article  ( tom jenkins ) writes 
title says it all. i 'd be particularly interested in the 
difference. just how much  ( 50 ) is the over the 

tom 

uucp ! ! ! 
arpa ! ! ! 


when apple came with their to iowa state , i got a chance to run 
1 . on some of the new  . both machines were running 
1 . , had a 14  . do n't know what the were set to. 
neither machine had an it appears that the is quite a 
bit than the iii 



13 . 01 . 6 . 
15 . 67 . 7 . 
2 . 22 . 2 . 44 . 
math 25 . 57 . 10 . 19 . 

p . r .  . 12 . 91 . 6 . 

so , there is a comparison .  . there is definitely a very speed 
difference between these two machines according to 1 .  . 



from  ( vincent fox ) 
subject what can i do 
organization deep , institute 
lines 14 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 

there 's this old here. it 's got the older style that 
me of a house  . a instead of the 
i usually see. anyway , the makes this loud due 
to  . if i remove the and the front 
from the back , it down. i can only assume that the fan housing 
from this thing is the back of the case and 
against it. 

anyway , any suggestions for where to get replacement and how to 
stealth this guy your experiences welcome .  .  .  .  .  . 


if everything had gone as , everything would have been perfect. 
on 3 2 93 , regarding failed attempt in tx .  . 

from  ( dave bell ) 
subject i need selection help !  ( especially vocabulary ) 
organization university 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

i 've recently ordered a and need to decide on which to 
buy .  . i'm pretty sure i want to get a fax data that can run at 14 . , 
but is it worth it i 'll primarily only be   over compuserve or 
some other link to the internet , but i'm not sure if those systems can 
supply me with data at 14 .  . another question i have is in some of the 
out there. i understand , but what does 4 . and 
mean i could really use some suggestions as to what a good 
for around would be , and why it would be a good choice. 

thanks for your time. 

dave bell 


those who forget the past are condemned to re live it. 

from peter 
subject re help 2 internal in mac ii 
x tue , 6 apr 93 11 17 54 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 54 

in article kurt , 
writes 
is it possible to a 2nd 3 1 2 100 in a mac ii with a 
5 1 4 40 
can i us a 50 pin with 3 for the internal 
and the 2  . the first is nt 

the second will be. 
about the power supply .  . where can i connect a 3 1 2 
to supply my 3 1 2 

it is very possible to connect another internal hard in any 
if you can find the space to put it. i have a that came 
with a quantum 80 drive .  . when i into space problems , i in 
another 40 quantum that i had sitting on a shelf .  . here is what i did. 

first off , i was concerned about space .  . since both drives are quantum 
drives , i finally decided that the logical place for them 
was one upon the other. fine , they fit  . (i have not had a 
problem with yet , and these drives have been running together for 
over two months. 

the next problem was connecting the drive .  . if you have a spare internal 
hard power as i did , then half of your are over. just 
in the extra so that you get one square 
and two hard power  . if you do n't have a spare 
, you will have to buy the and which can be found 
in any good for about 10. i would suggest properly 
the to reduce the possibility of 
or bad  . 

next , you need a connection .  . again , i had a spare hard 
, and i wanted to be careful in case this did n't word so what 
i did was a on 50 pin that gave me another 
male in the middle of my spare  . the part cost 10 again , 
and is easily attached with any good wood vice .  . the theory behind using a 
on is that if this does n't work , my original is not 
, and i can go back to the original setup .  . 

having done all that , i could n't be bothered to check the notes for 
power so i it in and it works like a charm to this 
day. 

in a mac ii , everything should work the same. be careful with the id 's of 
the drive , and ensure that the on both drives are 
 . i did not try this without the but it 
seemed logical that if i am the , that the signal 
should be at all the ends. 

let me know if you have any more questions. 

peter 
bell northern research 


from  ( dennis cheung ) 
subject 5 
organization the network , long island , new york 
lines 15 


anyone have any with 's 5 

please contact me if you had  ( or have a for a really good 14 . 4 . 
with 14 . 4 . fax for the  . 

via v1 . 35 . (c net amiga ) 


t. 
the  ( dtc(tm ) corporation of america 
america 
internet 

disclaimer you never read this message this message does n't exist. 

from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re adding to 
keywords 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 15 

 ( w stuart jones ) writes 

i want to go from to on my  . how many do i 
need to buy 

none. you need to buy 2  . they cost about 30 
each from your favorite memory  . 

is the current on the board or do i need to take out the 
current before i add more 

the is to the logic board. there are 2 for 
 . 



from tokyo . ac .  ( young hong ) 
subject looking for free share 
nntp posting host 
organization dept. of information science , univ .  . of tokyo , japan .  . 
distribution 
x 
lines 14 

hi ! 

i am looking for ftp sites  ( where there are or sharewares ) 
for mac .  . it will help a lot if there are source codes in those 
ftp sites .  . any information is appreciated. 

thanks in advance. 

s. young 
dept. of info .  .  . 
univ .  . of tokyo 
email tokyo . ac . 


from  ( gene wright ) 
subject sound recording on mac answer  ( or lead ) 
organization jack 's amazing capitalist 
lines 7 

whatever equipment will work on a mac plus or a mac will work fine on 
a mac  . it does n't have a sound , but there is equipment 
that works fine with those models mentioned in  . 


 ( gene wright ) 
net .  ( 615 ) 

subject re shut down on 13 hi 
from  ( steven adams ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 34 

just my luck. i did however call my local apple and he said that 
the he thinks the serial numbers of the machines that are covered begin 
with either 70 or 53 56 , and maybe one other. he also told me that apple 
had extended the service on these serial numbers for another year ! ! ! 

so there is still hope get those in ! ! 


 ( jeff ) writes 
in article 
writes 
there is a defect in the 13 hi , bring it to a and 
they will replace the for free , i think. 


i just heard of this problem at work today and we are fixing 
them for free. 



o r r 

the service notice on the 13 hi 3 23 93 after this 
date apple will not service for the fix  ( replacement 
of the hi  . all you folks that have been putting up with 
without getting it to your service missed 
out on the  . it was in force for a year .  . if you got it free after 
3 23 , you got a deal .  .  .  . 
jeff 
computing center 
u of 




from  ( nga shaygiy ) 
subject memory 
organization space sciences lab 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 


excuse me if this is a frequent question , i checked in 
several faqs but could n't really find anything. 

i have a with the standard 5 memory and i want 
 ( need ) to add additional memory. but i'm on a  . 
i really do n't need more than 10 , so what is 
the best  ( performance wise ) and most economical way 
to do this someone told me that i should only use 
of the same amount of memory , that is 4 1 , 
4 2 , etc. what if i just wanted to buy just 1 4 
and use the rest of what i already have the manual 
has n't been very helpful with this. 

thanks. 

 ( respond via e mail if it is n't worth the bandwidth . ) . 

common human laws and interests i would n't exactly call it a 
and emotions have no validity a happy dogma , but it makes me 
or in the vast feel better about not 
at large .  .  .  . getting laid .  .  .  . 
r. 







from  ( murray altheim ) 
subject re to fix 
organization california state university 
lines 53 

in article writes 
the on my no longer in the direction .  . when i 
called the apple service person i was told that it probably 
needed replacing and that would cost me over 150 ! ! 
can anyone recommend a less expensive way to fix this problem one strange 
of the problem is that when i take the ball out of the and 
a light into the hole i can make the move by moving the 
wheel with my finger , it works fine that way but wo n't work if i turn off the 
light. any suggestions or comments 

ben roy  .  .  .  .  .  .  . just . a poor college student .  .  .  .  .  .  . internet . 


ben , 

since you 're obviously enough to understand how the works , 
the only thing short of it that i can think of is a 
cleaning of all the parts , and then checking for the proper of 
the little blue  . since they are n't fixed in position on their 
, you might try them into a slightly different 
position. on my 100 , i can slide them almost completely out of 
contact with the  . in fact , one of the notes from on fixing 
the advocates the so that its contacts the 
ball , not the center area. 

i 've done this with my , and it does seem to improve the feel , but 
needs to be from time to time. i just open one of our 
office 's , and while there is n't as much for movement , one 
could still the slightly .  . if your is the same it might 
help. 

i would suspect the most likely culprit to be a slippery blue  . if 
you can take it out , clean it with a mild solution , or 
 . also , be sure the ball is free. 

if you drop the ball in the , roll the ball and see 
if it is actually causing the to spin .  . 

if all this still does n't solve it , then maybe a new one is in order. ( 
it could be an electrical connection , in which case replacement would be 
necessary. but my experience with both and has been that 
has been the normal problem , not an electrical  . 

hope this helps , 





m. l de , d un l , 
la d un , la face 
, un 
un , d eau  . 

from  ( jason titus ) 
subject re help on 
organization university of virginia 
lines 8 

i had asked everyone about problems a 4 
and an 8 in my , but the folks at the 
local apple called the folks in and found that 
you ca n't have of different in one machine , even 
if they are both fast enough ie my 80 8 and 4 
were  .  .  . just thought people might 
want to know .  .  .  .  .  . 
jason .  . 

from  ( university bookstore ) 
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 37 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( monthian 1 ) writes 

hi there , 

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for 
regarding in all mac price lists i 've seen , every 
has the message optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this 
newsgroup that all have the built in except the 4 80 
 . why would they be so about this issue in their 
price list 
i'm planning to buy the 8 230 pretty soon , but i'm now getting 
confused with whether it comes with or not. 
why say optional if it 's built in 
please , anybody help me understand this game. 

regards , 

 . 

if you get the with , you are getting a mac with 
a processor that has built in math support .  . my 
understanding is that the optional refers to your option of 
the 4 80 without or one of the other with  . 

apple does not offer an from the non system to become an 
system. and , it is whether the  processor on the non system 
(a 68lc040 ) can be replaced with a by another  . 
apple did send a out at one point that the , which only 
comes with a non processor cannot be to support an 
the pin of the two apparently do not match so you cannot 
one for another  ( again , according to apple 's  . 

hope that helps .  . 

kevin 
university book , university of washington 
for the apple computers for education program 

from  ( buz owen ) 
subject internal 
lines 10 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

i hear that the is really an with an internal  . can 
the part be obtained and in an it would be nice if it 
were actually a internal , but that might be too much to hope 
for. 







from andrew 
subject video problem help 
organization memorial center 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host org . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x thu , 15 apr 93 16 05 44 gmt 

we have recently obtained a and it has developed an unusual 
video problem. 

model with 8 230 , , no cards 
apple 16 

when the computer is set for 256 and certain are done , 
particularly through a , white lines 
appear on the  ( which generally but not always spare open 
 . these lines as the operation is continued .  . if a 
is moved over the involved area of the and then moved away 
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not 
observed if the is for 16 or a 14 apple 
with 256 is used. 

i suspect a bad video chip but cannot be certain .  . the problem has 
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse. 

we were wondering if anyone has seen anything like this , and if so , how 
to fix it. please also respond to thank you 
for your help. 

andrew 
molecular biology program 
memorial center 

from peter 
subject re vs 
x tue , 20 apr 93 08 39 46 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 24 

in article , 
writes 
can anyone tell me what the difference is between a chip and a 
i need the former (i think) to add memory to my 
ls .  . someone is offering to sell me he removed from an , but 
i have a feeling this may not be the correct form of memory. the 
in the look like they want the  ( there 
are 4 , each with , as i recall , 20 , in two of 
 . 
believe it or not , i 've never actually seen a  . help appreciated. 

a chip is a 256 chip whereas a is a 256 
memory  . the is a pcb with a 30 pin 
and on the are 8 256  ( making the total memory 256 
 . 

you are correct assuming that will not fit into a  . 
apple either require 64 pin like those in the mac or 
special memory  . contact your apple to find out exactly what 
kind of you need. 

peter 
bell northern research 


from  ( rich rubel ) 
subject ps 2 card question 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization university of north extended board service 
lines 17 


i have a chance to buy a used ps 2 card to create a network with 
my home machines .  . however , the guy who has the card tells me there 's a 
9 or 15  ( ca n't remember now ) on the back of the card , rather than 
the 8 pin  ( or 4 pin ) din that i expect. this sounds more like a 
card .  . should there be a on it , like on the 
what would be a reasonable price to expect to pay for one of 
these cards , keeping in mind that it 's channel , which 
means take your best guess and double it. 
email replies would be , to here or to 
thanks. 


the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of 
north at hill , the campus office for information 
technology , or the experimental board service .  . 
internet unc . edu . or 2 . 22 . 80 . 

from wo . navy .  ( paul montanaro ) 
subject re 
organization 
lines 44 

in article , 
 ( gregory dudek ) wrote 

in article writes 

a while ago i posted a note asking for on the 700 , and opinions on 
the of a vs. an card .  . so far no that 
i 've noticed. please let me know what you think of these possible 
cost , , pros cons , etc .  .  . thanks ! 

complete are best obtained from your or some recent 
copy of or  . my memory suggests that the most relevant 
comparison factors a a are as follows 

25 
16 data path  ( do n't recall this for sure , but it 's 
than q style machines for  . 
card on board 
in out 
4 on 
4 
2  . 
more build in video than the  . uses  . 

in comparison , a with an wo n't give you 
or or the same video options .  . 
with a , can be comparable but i 
think it ends up costing more. 

greg 

actually , an such as the 33 is than 
to a  ( 25  . the costs about 1400 whereas 
the costs  ( just quoted from my  . however the 
gives you very fast built in video that supports up to 21 
with 8 bit depth and up to 16 at 24 bit depth  ( with additional  . it 
also has a capable of a much than the , which 
makes a big difference if you have a fast hard drive .  . 

if the improved video and features are important to you , you 're 
better off getting the , otherwise save some money and get an 
 . 

paul 

from  ( syg ) 
subject re ad conversion 
organization city college of new york science computing 
lines 33 

i am working a data and analysis program to data 
from sensory  . 
another alternative is the use of the sound  . 

can you really make due with the non existent range of an 8 bit 
, of probably dubious and , and perhaps 
ac coupled as well 

it would depend on the requirements of the poster 's data , for some 
purposes 1 256 resolution  ( with or without  . 


otherwise the other possibilities would be 

1 ) get a digital with serial output connect to serial 
on mac , data with some communications program .  . 

2 ) buy an a d chip from devices , brown , etc , connect to 
a parallel to serial , use serial for 
 . too much and trouble shooting ) 

3) get a board from national , data translation , , 
 . the solution , but possibly the most  . 



to the original poster if the signal is too large , why not 
use a two , cost very cheap .  .  .  . 


george 

212 

from  ( brian cherkauer ) 
subject re question 
distribution 
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science 
lines 18 

in article  ( jeff sullivan ) writes 
if you get teh , does it include a new to 
cover the with a 

i ca n't say for sure with the , but i wondered the 
same thing when i ordered my iii  . turns out the 
is actually an entire any drives .  . you pull the and 
hard drives out of the old one , stick them in the new one , and you 've got 
an iii .  . 

the may be the same thing. 

it might be something to look into for those people who are unhappy that 
apple only pre with the drives .  . of course , the price 
is quite a bit higher without the trade in .  .  .  . 

( brian 


from  ( eggert thorlacius ) 
subject and video cards for 30 
lines 24 
nntp posting host hi . is . 


all. 
i am thinking about buying an external for my 30 and was 
wondering if anyone out in has any advice for me. 
i am mostly thinking about a 14 color and an 8 bit card that 
can switch between and something higher  ( like  . i read an 
old report on a card from that could do this , but could not use the 
external as the main  ( with menubar ) which to me is a major draw 
back .  . has this perhaps been fixed or can any other cards do this  ( like the 
xceed ) 
also which should i buy at the moment i am towards 
the , or  ( what exactly is the difference between these ) 
but are there any other good cheap i should know about does n't the 
have to be to support cards that can switch 

please send me e mail and i 'll summarize .  . 

i would also greatly appreciate getting the e mail addresses of any mail order 
that sell or cards. 

thanks in advance 


university of 

from  ( barash isaac ) 
subject on iii 
organization tel university center 
lines 16 

a friend of mine has problems running on an iii .  . 
his is 

iii , system 7.1 
video extension 1.0 

i would if i can get any negative experience with this 
setup .  . 

thanks , 







subject re to 
from robert 
organization university 
x mon , 19 apr 93 08 03 45 gmt 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 21 

in article , 
writes 
i have a that has disappeared completely from the 
network , i.e. it 's name does n't show up in any  .  ( you can print 
to it from it 's serial interface , tho ! ) i have seen some discussion 
here about changing the a is in .  .  .  . including some ps code 
that lets you change the  . is there maybe some ps code you can 
use to have it go back to all its default i have 
a feeling that 's what needed to heal ours. 

the following works for 's with version 2 

! 
0 begin 
true 
begin 
add 
pop if loop 
quit 

rob .  . 

from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re in a 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 55 

 ( scott truesdell ) writes 

this is an aside to brian 's  ( please , let 's lose the names 
everybody ) posting about adding memory to a  . 

what names my name is clearly in the , and i 
the post with my account name. if you have a problem with that , 
then you will have to get over it. i 've used this account name for over 
10 years and the people who have been reading newsgroups for the last 7 
generally recognize as my account name. i have no intention of 
changing the way i post. 

i a couple of in my and was somewhat 
by the general complexity of the operation compared to , for example , the 
designed iii .  . it me when apple refuses to tell how 
to do it in the user 's manual so you have to guess at how to 
the devise in question  ( it 's the same for adding memory to 
pro  . 

it is n't apple 's responsibility to tell its how to fool 
around with it 's hardware .  . that is what apple service get paid to 
do. i personally like the design of the , and apple for 
coming up with a good way to make use of the front space for all of 
those drive  . i like it a lot better than the design , except 
for those people who need drive  . i do , however , agree with you 
about the pro design. 

the operation is n't very complicated if even a minimal amount of help were 
offered but apple leaves you working blind .  . 

again , its 's not apple 's place to make it easy for non 
service people to fool around with apple hardware , even if they did buy 
it. of course you are free to do what you want to your mac , just do n't 
get upset when your apple service tells you that your is no 
longer valid .  . 

after the memory was i was that the top of the 
came into contact with the plastic case frame .  . mine actually the 
with quite a lot of pressure enough so that the assembly of 
the board back to the proper position was rather difficult and required 
some force. i could have filed a little excess material off the top of the 
but chose to let it stand as is. i have not had problems with 
yet so i will consider the problem but not  . 

this sounds like the kind of problem i had when i 
into an , back before low were readily 
available. the standard would contact the top of the case and 
make it a bit difficult to close the , but it did close and work just 
fine. one of the nice things about logic is that they are 
generally quite and can a fair amount of pressure .  . 






from b  ( brian clark ) 
subject re or other cards for 's , anyone 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 16 

in article de . , 
de .  ( thomas koenig ) wrote 

we are doing heavy duty image with some seriously 
mac 's  ( mac , for example) .  . most of the time is 
burned in doing 's .  . 

what cards are out there which would allow us to take away that part 
of the load from the any or cards out there , 
for example they 'd have to be from think pascal , to 
replace the one and two dimensional 's routines in an already 
existing program .  . 

check out the national  . this uses the texas 
chip , which is a true 32 bit floating point  . it 's 
, however. 

from  ( joe schwartz ) 
subject re faces apple s wrath  ( article ! ! ! ! ! ! ) read 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ny 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( david p. alverson ) writes 
i believe apple has a on the features of  . a mac 
would have to implement regions .  . this is why apple 's comment was 
that 
they believe it is not possible to make a mac without infringing 
on their  . they may have other like this. 

apple has patented their implementation of regions , which presumably 
includes the internal data structure  ( which has never been 
documented by  . apple cannot the concept of a  . 

i'm that either reverse engineered apple 's internal data 
structure for regions (i if this would hold up in court ) , or they 
came up with their own data structure .  . if it 's the latter , then they 
wo n't be able to draw files containing regions .  . besides files , 
there are n't many places where regions are on  .  ( quicktime 
, perhaps ) as long as the is n't being on and 
transferred from a mac to a  ( or vice versa ) , it does n't 
matter if uses a completely different internal data structure .  . 

i remember reading that apple also has a on their hardware , 
and that the clones would therefore be lacking an  . what 
other does apple have on the mac 

joe e mail or 
corp .  . 
200 these are my own opinions. any similarity to the 
, ny opinions of corporation is purely coincidental .  . 

from 
subject 60 terminal 
reply to 
organization dept of info sys and sci , national university of singapore , singapore 
lines 6 

is there a 60 terminal or a available on the 
net somewhere 

thanks. 



from  ( drew asson ) 
subject  . hard drives for my 30 
organization space science institute 
lines 20 


i'm interested in getting an external hard drive for my 30 .  . i 've 
got an internal that 's pretty full , even with s w. 
alot of people talk about , what 's a good ratio i'm thinking of adding 
either an 80 or a 100  ( or  . what brands would people suggest finally , 
places to buy from are more popular mail order places better to order from 
or the places that just sell hard drives (e . g .  . ones that in the back 
of and  . 

thanks in advance. if e mail replies are sent , i 'll them and post 
them. 




j. space science institute 
ai software engineer san martin drive 
advance planning systems branch baltimore , md , usa 
internet  ( 410 )  ( fax ) 


from  ( fred g martin ) 
subject re put ex .  . in 
organization mit media 
lines 54 

i 've just a 5 . 25 . in my lot of the issues 
are the same. so , to answer your questions .  .  .  . 

in article writes 

my drive has a wire from the 
drive to an id switch on the outside of the case. where do i connect 
this switch can the computer just tell with internal drives 

you probably want to hard wire the id with  . put 
it at a convenient number like 1 . you could cut a hole in the 
back of the machine to route the id switch , but why go through the 
you probably wo n't be to frequently change the id of 
your internal drive .  . 

i noticed that the drive will over part of the (i 
did n't look closely , but i seem to recall it over the that 's 
onto the would that cause problems 

yeah , when i first the drive i was a little concerned 
too. but it 's no problem , the device is designed to fit just fine 
with the  . it should n't reach back beyond the 
, though. 

one last question ! is there anywhere to order a cover 
the drive 's front is smaller than the space left in the case  ( the 
drive 's is the same size as the 's cases) .  . should i just 
cut a hole in the plastic that is currently holding place 

you can special order parts to mount the device from your local apple 
 . the relevant parts are 


i.e. , generic 5 . 25 . device 

note apple 's unfortunate choice of name for the slide in to 
mount a 5 . 25 . device. the service i talked to said , oh sure , 
we stock those .  . of course they were thinking of the to 
hold a when you stick it in the drive .  . 

as far as i can tell , apple does not sell a already 
cut out for a standard 5 . 25 . device.  ( why not they 
these machines as being able to accept any standard device in the 
5 . 25 . bay , why not provide the ) they do sell a for 
their drive  ( of course) , but that 's of no use. 

i'm going to hack up the extra i ordered to make a for my 
drive , which is a standard 5 . 25 . device. 

good luck with your  . 

fred 



from  ( shawn fitzgerald ) 
subject w out  .  . right. 
organization , ann arbor , mi 
lines 11 
distribution world 
nntp posting host umich . edu . 

is there a fix for this we have a that will not finish 
unless there is a connected .  . this would be no problem , but since 
we 're running it as a file server , there is no need to have a 
connected all the time. 




 ( u of m computing club ) michigan 
whether you are quiet and alive , or 
quiet and dead makes no difference to  . 

from com .  ( jamie cox ) 
subject re serial problem 
nntp posting host harris . com . 
reply to  ( jamie cox ) 
organization harris govt. systems division 
keywords serial , 
lines 41 

in article writes 


a friend asked me to build a to connect an heart 
to a  ( se  . no problem , i. 

... 
i wanted to it on my , it wo n't work ! 

the has been used running and using both internal and external 
modems so i do n't think it 's the per  . 

when i send a 51 to the it responds with 55 aa a test of the serial 
 . it works on the 30 but not on the  . 

i thought that the 30 is connected to earth ground and so is the  . so i 
connected from the of the to the  ( ground ) still 
 . 

any thoughts 

devices like the are sometimes more sensitive to 
serial  . i had trouble with connecting my mac plus to an 
 . everything else worked okay on that , but not the  .  ( it runs 
on two  . it turned out that the plus  ( by accident or by 
design flaw ) was putting a 4 bias on the serial that was doing 
things to the  ( which has only ! ) .  . the worked fine when 
connected to the  . 

does your get dim or anything when connected to the device have you 
tried using the 

good luck. 




phone 1  ( work ) 
harris space systems corp .  . 1  ( home ) 
2 ,  . the meeting and drinking society 
, florida usa speaking only for myself. 

from  ( zhihua xie ) 
subject for the poor owner of 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 16 

, 3 40 ,  . 
works well at , however , does not work with 
and even though it can read write 
 . interestingly , basically the fighting 
between the and the system so that never be reduced below 8 no 
whether the is on or off. this is pretty useful when you 
use the virtual memory of system 7. 


5 . 0 . 6 . 0 . 8 . 0 . 8 . 
 . 6 . 72 . 8.56 11 . 07 . 9 . 19 . 
1 . 44 . 1 . 50 . 1 . 56 . 1 . 49 . 
math .  . 5 . 72 . 11 . 9 . 36 . 8 . 

1 . 


distribution world 
from ken m. 
organization , inc. 
subject re question 
lines 11 

the has a single , that can be either or , but not 
both together. the card lies parallel to and above the and 
requires an to do this. there are and cards. 
thus , what kind of you have depends on what kind of card you 
have. with the exception of the rocket , all cards i know of work 
in the  . and thus cards are mac specific , thus not all cards 
work in all  . 

from planet , the bbs of  . the message contained in 
this posting does not in any way reflect 's official views. 


from  ( josip loncaric ) 
subject re 230  ( looks like apple bug ! ) 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 7 
nntp posting host orbit . umd . edu . 

i do not have this type of problem , but at one point an apple 
told me that 's system file version 1 . 0 . 1 . some 
kind of sleep related problem. you may want to investigate this .  .  .  . 





from  ( derek a fong ) 
subject re when is apple going to 's 
organization institute of technology 
lines 26 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 


interestingly enough , the that came with my has 
only 8 

1. system 
2. photo 
3. alice to 
4. titles 
5. application 
6. 
7. 
8. apple 

has anyone else noticed that they got less than everyone seems to be 
getting with the external what i really feel i missed out on is what 
is supposed to a games  . 

i have heard that people have gotten up to 9 10 with their drive .  . 
i assume they get the 8 titles above plus and the games  . 

any comments and experiences should i call apple to complain ) 






from  ( dominic cheng ) 
subject re box 
organization university of 
lines 7 

you will need 3 . 5 . 2 . to work with  . you can 
it from bbs 1 




computer science , university of , ontario , canada 

from  ( jartsu ) 
subject good hard for non apple drives  ( sys 7.1 ) . 
nntp posting host lk 20 . fi . 
reply to 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 14 


hi there ! 

what is your for a good hard software for 
non apple drives i would mainly need it for a media 
drive , but maybe for some normal drives too. 
i have heard and seen good things about , but do n't know 
any  . it does not need to be fancy , filled with features .  .  .  . 
i more like it affordable .  . 

thanks 




from  ( archon fung ) 
subject wrong in 
organization institute of technology 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

a few posts back , somebody mentioned that the might crash if it has 
the wrong kind  ( non self refreshing ) of in it. my 
sometimes after sleep , and i am wondering if there is any software which 
will tell me whether or not i have the right kind of  . i 
had thought that the problem was the connection .  . 

thanks in advance , 



from  ( david kantrowitz ) 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 21 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


from  ( pushpinder singh ) 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
date sat , 17 apr 1993 03 17 45 gmt 

when the computer is set for 256 and certain are done , 
particularly through a , white lines 
appear on the  ( which generally but not always spare open 
 . these lines as the operation is continued .  . if a 
is moved over the involved area of the and then moved away 
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not 
observed if the is for 16 or a 14 apple 
with 256 is used. 

i suspect a bad video chip but cannot be certain .  . the problem has 
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse. 

etc. 

has anyone not had these problems in the given 
 ( that would help eliminate design flaw as the explanation ) 

from  ( johnc ) 
subject how do you like the apple color 
reply to 
organization the society for putting things on top of other things 
lines 13 

we 're all set to buy one of these for the office , to use for in 
color and for character recognition .  . we 've played with 
the original and were very pleased. is the color model 
comparable in quality 

also , what brand of software would you recommend we 're 
 . any better ideas thanks. 


john email 
university of chicago hospitals john 
office of facilities s. maryland , 
f w c g k s e h p chicago , il 

from  ( gersham william meharg ) 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
distribution 
lines 16 

i also suffer from these video . my is a 
, 4 , with a  . it only happens at 
, in with virtual memory off during  . this 
occurs when the are as well as removed. 
it seems that the does not like  . 

does anyone not have these problems in the above mentioned 
conditions 


canada .  . 


vancouver canada 



from  ( jerry sy ) 
subject how to from on power on 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 12 
reply to  ( jerry sy ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


i have an external hard drive i wish to use as  . 
problem is , when i switch on the mac , it on the internal , 
but when i  ( warm boot ) the mac , it from the external .  . 
how do i make it directly from the external 

please email replies if possible. 

thanks in advance. 

jerry 


from  ( dominic cheng ) 
subject impression 
organization university of 
lines 15 

i have been playing with my for almost a week now. i must say 
this machine is really fast ! the hardware turn on feature is , but 
i got from circuits and it works like a charm .  . 

however , i still have a few 
when i the machine every time , the image  ( the 
pattern ) up and down for a few times. 
the quantum drive is 

overall , i highly recommend it it is fast , affordable and looks great ! 




computer science , university of , ontario , canada 

from  ( nathaniel sammons ) 
subject re vs. in 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state u. engineering college 
lines 4 

i also use to edit , and do work. 




from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re 2 questions about the 's 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 10 

 ( peter d. engels ) writes 

according to the  ( seen several times ) postings from adams of apple 
computer , both the and the require not 60  . only 
the requires 60  . 

you 're correct , except that 's not  . 




from  ( victor p. panlilio ) 
subject re this thermal on quantum drives 
summary thermal on hard drives 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization the university of , 
lines 36 
nntp posting host ca . 


in article writes 

whether the drive is up to the computer or not , the 
makes a seek every 20 seconds .  . this is consistent 
and will continue as as the drive is up. even if 
i the drive from the computer , this drive activity 
continues at 20 second  . 

someone tried to tell me the drive was doing a thermal . 

not knowing about the internal physical workings of the 
drive technology .  .  .  .  . i guess i might believe anything. 

the on this drive activity every 20 

i can only comment on thermal in general. some new 
drives perform it in order to increase overall of data 
writes .  . basically , the the to perform 
a test to see if the data are within a certain physical 
tolerance , since when the media up or down , some 
track is inevitable , and the drive has to it. this 
becomes especially critical at very high recording , and 
so was used primarily on very large capacity mechanisms , but it 
seems to be finding its way into more smaller drives as a way of 
the drive 's long term reliability and  . 

i first became aware of thermal when it was pointed 
out that the conflicts with write times when 
, say , or video to hard  . some 
explicitly state that drives with thermal are not 
to be used for applications that have writes .  . 

hope this helps .  . 

victor 

from  ( michael ameres ) 
subject  ( how do they compare ) 
organization node 1 not even odd , ny 
lines 26 

i believe it goes or will go 










in a article in one of the i think a was 
slightly than a  . but , this is using a system designed 
for the  . so , it stands to reason that a system designed for an ie 
quadra ) would do better. so overall i 'd figure 2.5 or so. 
along the same lines the new stuff is supposed to run the system 
at the level of a fast , but system 8 or whatever will allow 3 times the 
speed of a in the based systems. and wait for the  . i think 
it the  . 

pro life pro women 




michael internet 

from  ( scott leapman ) 
subject re half page hand 
originator 
reply to 
organization ibm austin 
lines 8 


i have a pro 256 hand  . it came with editing 
software , software , and some plug in for et al. the 
was a on the side ( 480 ) , but the are incredibly 
accurate , in 256 level ,  . it also has and line art 
when is n't desired .  . great software , easy to use. i 
frequently write letters to my , and include a image 
in the note. hope this helps ! 

from  ( zia manji ) 
subject help and plus hand 
article i.d. 
organization university 
lines 43 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 



edited and by the announce . 
please respond to the originator by email also what he 
needs , besides a that works , is a phone number and 
address for and a and a on the 
back .  .  .  . ) 


please , i beg you. if you know anything about the plus 
hand , please read and solve my problem. i will be 
for the rest of my life ! 

the problem is that my plus hand will not 
connect to my  . the on the will not fit into 
the on the  . 

i then got a assembled to adapt the original to fit the 
 . this , however , turned the computer into mode and treated it 
as a hard  . 

i have asked an engineer in london to assembled a new  . the idiot , 
out of laziness has taken 14 weeks and has yet to solve the 
problem. 

i am aware that co .  . in the us have a solution .  . 

do you know of a that will solve this problem. please help me if 
you know the solution .  . i will be forever to you. 

my e mail address is 




wrong side of the road  ) 

for us , that 's 


you in advance , 

 . 

distribution world 
from thomas n . a .  . 
organization bbs , , , australia 
return to thomas n . a .  . 
subject re will be slow ! 
lines 9 

yes ! what you are saying is true , but what you fail to mention is the 
fact that the uses the new 72 pin which allow 32 bit access to 
each  . in the case of the iii , it only has one , but will 
be 32 bits  . 

the views expressed in this posting those of the individual author only .  . 
bbs number  ( 613 ) is s first bbs ! 



from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject re adding  . hard drive to 
organization university of washington 
lines 15 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 
keywords mac , internal , hard drive , 

yes , it is possible to add a second hard drive to a mac internally .  . this 
is definitely not a recommended procedure by apple but i have done the equivalent to my after it to a 700 .  . the power supply is still the 
stock 's and it was able to power two quantum drives , a 
, a 24 bit video board , , 
new and 20 of simultaneously .  . 

i added a new mount for the drive by attaching angle brackets to the drive 
 . the internal was changed to a longer flat onto 
which i added an extra about  . the final was internally 
and the drive between the and final had its removed. has not been a problem and no problems 
occur with either the or into the two 
internal hard drives .  . 

it works very well for me , but proceed if you wish to do the same. 


from 
subject more general questions .  .  .  . 
distribution usa 
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa 
lines 8 

i have two questions 

1 ) what would be required to create a pc network 
including laser , line , etc. 

2 ) what would be bare minimum to create a network for 
the primary purpose of a laser by 
 . 3 mac 's 

from  ( kurt tiedtke ) 
subject comparative 
article i.d. news . 
organization college , ca 
lines 8 

could someone direct me to information on for each mac 
 ( max , etc . ) . 


kurt 


please email. thanks ! 

from  ( david a. hughes ) 
subject sound recording for mac 
reply to  ( david a. hughes ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 14 


does anyone know what hardware is required and where i could find it for 
sound recording on the mac  . 

thanks 

david 

national capital 

from  ( jim bailey ) 
subject re  ( was re what to put in  .  . ) . 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 28 

 ( lawrence d , university ) writes 

in article ,  ( brian kendig ) writes 
 ( jim bailey ) writes 

yes , you get internal mixing of the with 
the mac generated on the mac  . also you can 
the using the sound control by on the options 
next to the  . 

what 's this my with an internal does n't have any 
 .  .  . 

i ca n't find any such option on my either. on the other hand , i 
do n't see why i need one. if i try recording sound with the built in 
with an playing in the drive , i get the 
in with the sound. 

and i guess if i the , then i 'll get 
 ( admittedly at 8 bits through a d a d  . 

sorry about the misinformation .  . i made a bad assumption about 
the new machines behaving like a , see previous 
post. about the though , have you tried it i 
found the to be really bad. like it needed a filter or something. 
much worse than i expected .  . i the in the 
myself so maybe i missed something. everything else 
works great though. 

from  ( peter haase ) 
subject seeking fax for network access 
organization los national 
lines 9 

i am seeking for a fax .  . it would 
mainly be used for outgoing fax 's from mac 's on our net. the ability 
to fax from other would be a plus .  . interface would 
be but would suffice .  . can anyone provide any info 
thanks in advance , peter 


peter internet 
network los national 

from 
subject apple . 
organization govt. systems ,  .  . 
lines 19 

in article , writes 
...  . i 've also heard that they are with a couple of 's , 
but i ca n't it. 



i 've got two 's .  .  .  . the first one i ordered jan 15 , and i received it feb .  . 20 .  . 
the second one i ordered jan 20th , and i just got it april 2nd or so. anyway , they 
both come with 10 misc .  .  .  .  . things like a intro to , a 
of pictures , from alice to (a story of a woman who across 
austrailia ) , 3 from apple , a games , an applications , and a titles 
 ( have n't checked most of these out  . also some thing for kids , 
a of something or others , etc. etc. etc. if someone 's super interested , 
i 'll make a list of the exact titles and post them. they are all in the category of 
interesting , but probably fairly useless .  .  .  . . it was that the earliest 
units with some  ( it may have ) , but neither of my drives had 
that. 

jeff adams 

from  ( robert r. novitskey ) 
subject help me buy a mac ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 16 
reply to  ( robert r. novitskey ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


hey everybody 

i want to buy a mac and i want to get a good price .  .  . who . does n't so , 
could anyone out there who has found a really good deal on a 
send me the price .  . i do n't want to know where , unless it is mail order or 
cleveland , ohio .  . also , should i buy now or wait for the power pc .  . 

thanks. 
bob 
reply via post or e mail at 


robert women is similar to one 's head 
against a  .  . with . less opportunity for reward 


from  ( fred walsteijn ) 
subject re built in video problems on mac ! ! ! ! 
organization physics department , university of , the 
lines 24 

in  ( fred walsteijn ) writes 

i 've seen the following problem three mac machines 
all with 17  ( 70 or 80  . 

if the contents of a are being calculated and updated 
a lot of strange lines are temporarily generated 
on the screen. the lines translate to the top of the and 
have a slightly lower than their surroundings  ( they 
are a few  . 
i admit that they are vague , but they can still be clearly , 
especially if the environment (i . e .  . the rest of the room ) is a bit dark .  . 
applications which produce this effect are 
the of 1.2 (i . e .  . 1 . 
2 . 1 . 1 . 

another program which produces this effect is 
2 . 1 .  ( while a big  . 

thanks for any information about this problem , 

fred internet 
institute for and research fax 31 30 
university , the phone 31 30 

from  ( peter newton ) 
subject re card for 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 64 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

can some people with cards please post numbers they 
get with the cards. i have only one report , which seems to indicate 
that a card gives you only about a 1 ! ! 

ok. i have a record that shows a with and without a  . 
it 's small enough that i will it. 

i have also measured some real programs with and without the 64 
 . the varies a lot from to , from 0 to 
40 . i think an average of 20 25 is about right. the subjective 
difference is not great , but is sometimes  . a simple 
card certainly does not a into something 
better. i do not have an  . 

the conventional wisdom says that cards from all of the makers 
offer about the same and that there is not much difference 
between and  . i bought mine from third wave for well 
under 150 .  . i have had absolutely no problems at all with it. 

if you get complete runs for a , i 'd like to 
see them. let 's check the conventional wisdom ! the so called 
numbers by themselves are of no interest .  . 

cheers .  . 

 ( this file must be converted with 4 . 
, ! 9 ! ! ! ! ! !  a ! ! ! ! ! a ! ! ! !  ( cfgigfh(h 
ghq ) ! ! !  ( @squu(qscfphghl(h kjqtu)ldh)hbl ) ! 
hcakr9spij)qrq)quj )  ( n(j ! u s ! ! s ! u dl3j ) uu)quubut ) ! 
! s ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! c4acsl'd)l)d ) ! ! ! ) ! ! 
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! j ! i ! ! ! ! ! !  ( j ) i b ! p us ) , b 21z ) 
k ! , , l , , 
6 !  ( 9ln@eap@rei8(vipiqkfdk b 9  ( t5lkc0xz6lghf(ik 
a  ( p  ( gesp(ejn !  ( qh'lr`e26c2(qbqsrmm 
pa  ( k()jpgxqcpr2ryr9eyd0 ) , , ha 
 ( trafa(qka`pg8jks  ( @fe1mcbikfqc ,  ( 9k u h  ( bddt(i 
g j 
 ( vf , ! 
q 1f0rg`jm0rjtcymi4b1kbb'pubq)pu9'q ) 
1  ( dinq'mqjza ,  ( mimq(kc9@@  0 
 ( f'y4u5exb  ( 6t8d@6(r3ae ! ! h , ! p 
ti ) ! s ! ej ! q ! ! ! m49m9idhhm2fruq2ek))g3e ) vi ) 
c ` m e ! r 339`'9hy46)tr ) ! 
! zmef)iyi ) cc)xl ) 
 ( sc2jh 
rb th3 h   ( uy1'ju53jy@5p(rcdpaxafrl y 
9  ( xn0(k5c91'r@)4qb9c5ke1h ) v  ( nta`b9(yyl5tm5 
, ! !  , , 
 ( 3qpjiteram0 ! ! cab5dk)jkrq0r ) c !  ( krd 
!  ( nr)3frchypk(r1chjjij )  r , , 
! ! ! !  ( k5hrx(f4ix4irnykb m j 
 ( 4(pei2rfhy0 j  ! p s)h ) ! ! b ! , s 
q  ( q(8@i8 ! , 
, , b t23l)rdf'a13x ) ' ! ! 
f f  ( f(j)pqxjnlyrlpq3c ) , cxz6`)b ) 
mpvs0)p3y@xtb5f5qasr ) , q ! 
 ( qlchvc(duajj  ( 6ndih 
p , z f 
, 3 e  ( c`3@lkqrh0 
, ! ! ! ! ! 3 ! ! ! ! !  ( 6@0s9(0 ) 
jjt`b ) 33 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! , ap ! ! ! 


peter newton 

from  ( mark rogowsky ) 
subject re was re 
organization stanford university 
lines 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

in article , 
writes 
in article ,  ( andre molyneux ) writes 
in article , 
 ( david joshua mirsky ) writes 
hi. i own an and i recently heard an interesting  . 
i heard that the has a built in for a chip .  . 
is this true i heard that the is not the same as the 
 . is that true 

thanks 
david 


well , i also have an iii .  . the top revealed 

one for an additional 

one for a 72 pin 

one for a flat pack 

a processor direct  ( pds ) identical to the ii , but with 
an additional set of to one side  ( for the full 32 bit 
data path that the ii 

that 's it. i guess a board with a chip could be made that would fit 
in the , but that 's the only place. 

so , will it be possible to have a or , or will it 
require a logic board it would be interesting for apple to come out with 
a that allowed use of the 's , like  . but i 
guess that 's getting a bit ! 

i was wondering , since reported that were   with 
on a card .  . 

also , any word on machine or speed last i heard , the 
estimates were around 3 4 times the speed of a in native risc mode .  . i 
heard an apple something about the of machines 
at a much earlier date that 94 , but i doubt it 's true. 

finally , is the 's  course  available i saw it 
in the 's university , and i 'd like to know if it 's 
at all interesting . 





, publicly , that they could provide a based 
rocket for existing  . it would have the plus of and 
the of no true off the , 
to video and other i o .  . 

apple , it seems , will not with third parties here except 
perhaps for not yet available like , where a 
might be  . look for and such to make 
 . 

one potential problem with any , though , is that it will 
need a companion and apple has only , with 
, to use any of its code. 

apple is , between the lines , trying to let us know that 
will have logic due to the nature of risc 
and that these should be much to build than those in 
existing  . perhaps , then , we 'll see 
in mac logic board , much the same way we 've seen 
much high this year .  . 

first generation , , will also have 
so that they 'll be chip to a year later. 
this should be possible in much the same way that can be 
for  . if there is too much technical baggage  ( which 
i doubt since the external are the same size width ) to do 
this , perhaps we can have , a la , as 
standard to facilitate better  . this is an area where 
apple has fallen far the based world. perhaps 
is in order. 

by the way , last week 's pc week had an excellent story on , 
, , dec  ( the big four on the 
front for the  . worth reading for  . 
also , the latest pc has a cover story on  . read it , and all 
the other stories about how is and 
right now. 

once anyone is this secure , they are due to fall .  . 's market 
position will never again be as dominant as it is today  ( especially 
if gets the go ahead to sell its this week as it appears it 
 . the competition from all is up for an awesome 
battle .  . apple users should be that , while not 
guaranteed dominance , is a guaranteed winner , even if its one of 
several .  . 

mark 

from  ( noah price ) 
subject re what to put in internal bay 
organization  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( jim bailey ) 
wrote 

 ( brian v. hughes ) writes 
 ( tim smith ) writes 
 ( jim bailey ) writes 
yes , you get internal mixing of the with 
the mac generated on the mac  . also you can 
the using the sound control by on the options 
next to the  . 
how do you click on the options i 've never seen it  . 

the latest word on this is you have to the 
on the  . then the is supposed to un dim .  . 

the will simply select the when the is removed. 
i do n't believe the un , since there 's nothing to select .  . i 
have n't down a to check this on though. 

sorry , i assumed that the the various new machines with the internal 
bay worked the same as the  . obviously they do n't .  . 

yup , i made the same mistake several months ago when this issue came up 
before ) 





hardware design 
... ! sun , ! apple !  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 

from robert 
subject re to fix 
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 7 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

of course , if you want to check the honesty of your , take it in 
knowing what 's wrong , and ask them to tell you. ) 

of course he 'll probably know right a way , then charge you a 20 service 
fee .  . ) 

rob 

from  ( zia manji ) 
subject help e mail address of corporation 
organization university 
lines 19 


i'm looking for the e mail address of the corporation .  . 
their address is 

corporation 
100 cooper court 
los 


if you know the address o have access to find it. please could 
you send it to me. 

my e mail address is 



you in advance , 

 . 

from  ( anthony s. kim ) 
subject 150 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 3 

i remember someone mention about a  . has anyone else 
heard anything about this i 'd be interested in the cost per megabyte and the 
approximate cost of the drive itself and how they compare to the 150 .  . 

from  ( eric choi ) 
subject re mac vs. 100 answers ( ) 
organization node 1 5 . association mac bbs , grand mi 
lines 8 

can the internal hard drive of the to larger capacity what is the a 3 1 2 drive model 

is there any third party greater than with fax option 

p.s. i notice the are thru the apple catalog .  . 


eric internet 

from 
subject the  .  .  . ) 
lines 15 

we 're about ready to take a bold step into the around here by 
our rather large collection of stock computers. yes indeed , difficult 
to comprehend why anyone would want to a , but that 's another 
story. it to say , we can get easier than new machines .  . 
hey , i do n't make the rules .  .  .  . 

anyway , on to the purpose of this post i'm looking for info on 
 . so far , i 've found some on the and the 
 . both look acceptable , but i would like to hear 
from anyone who has tried these. also , if someone would recommend another 
for the , i 'd like to hear about it. 

thanks for any time and effort you on this ! 

karl 

from  ( art beattie ) 
subject re problems 
organization stratus computers , inc. 
lines 63 
distribution world 
nntp posting host az . stratus . com . 

in article  ( katinka van der linden ) writes 
i would like more info on this if anybody has it. our 
has never been working from the  . 
we have been trying it since september 1992 , replaced , 
, i do n't know what all. all the industry we 
 ( the , our apple , the software 
dealer ) all say it 's our fault , or they do n't know. the last 
thing they said was that we needed a special 
( ) .  . anybody know more thanks , 

in article , 
 ( mark h. nodine ) wrote 

in article ,  ( bill johnston ) writes 
in article  ( mark h. nodine ) writes 
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your 
message , but i definitely had problems between my 
and my 10 
drives .  . my solution was to get  . none of 
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives 
in fact the only loop that worked was the 
software loop  ( whatever that  . 

i doubt this is a specific problem. i had to get 
rid of my 20 last year  ( with enough 
purchased at 90 each to make the whole thing 
worth more than my whole computer ) .  . the tech support guys 
at suggested that some third party drivers 
might fix the problem in my case the would n't 
format mount partition for a  . 

all i know is that the worked perfectly on both my 
mac plus and my  . it was for this reason i assumed 
the problem had something to do with the  . even with the 
, they mostly worked ok. the problem occurred when i 
a from a drive it would start up boxes 
saying this must be with 
even though there was no in the drive .  . 

mark 

i have been using the  ( sony ) 3.5 drive and now a color 
using standard and standard 20 on my  . 
no problems. if you were using a , that might be another story. 

make sure there is only one in the and it must be at the 
end. some boxes have internal some can be switched out and 
others are  . these count. if the box with internal 
cannot be put on the end to terminate the , they have to be 
, ie , switched out or out of their  . if you have 2 
boxes with internal , the in one box has to be 
 .  .  .  . , etc. i am sure that this has been covered by the . 

my experience with boxes that connect to the mac indicates that they 
must have some software for the mac to  talk  to them. my 
drive and has one for each .  . 

good luck. 

art 

i only speak for myself. 


from steve 
subject re stereo sound problem ( ) on mac games 
x v1 . 1 . 
x mon , 19 apr 93 19 34 37 gmt 
x id 
organization apple computer , inc. 
lines 

in article doug p. book , 
writes 
hi. i think i have a problem with the stereo sound output on my 
, but i am not totally sure because my roomate has the same problem 
on his  . any info or experience has would be 
greatly appreciated. 

when i my up to my home stereo system , the following types 
of sounds  ( mono , as far as i can tell ) all play fine through both 
speakers 

system  ( already provided ones such as and ones i record ) 



ho ! 


but , the following games only play out of the left channel 


out of this world  ( awesome game , btw) 
4 . 0 . 



but still , stereo system do play in stereo , through both speakers .  . 
 ( the one i'm specifically to is beginning , which 
my from some ftp site  ( sumex  ) 


all of the symptoms are the same on my  ( he ca n't run 
because he does n't have  . 

we 're both running system 7.1 



does anyone with or the other three games i mentioned above get 
sound out of both speakers on a mac ii class , , , 
or 
greater , , 30 , etc .  .  .  .  ( stereo ) machine 

i used to have a mac ii , and i sort of playing in 
stereo on that machine , not just on the left channel .  . (i could be 
mistaken , though. if there were a problem with the quad 's and 
's , i am wondering why the system still play in stereo if 
there 
is n't a problem with our machines , i wonder why the 4 games above are 
written to support only one channel of stereo when they 
could just use sounds so the sound would at least come out of 
both speakers  ( like , etc. do ) 

's and 's have the same  ( to my knowledge ) , 
so maybe this is a problem  ( if so , though , why would n't system 7.1 
patch over this problem ) 




thanks for any help you can provide ! 

in article jon , 
writes 
mac sound hardware is some play in stereo and 
mix the output  ( the 30 for instance ) while others play in 
stereo but only has the left channel for the speaker , while 
some are truly  ( like the lc ) 

know that stuff played in the left channel is 
guaranteed to be heard , while the right channel is n't .  . some 
send data to both , some only send data to the left channel 
 ( the first is , of course) 

okay , i guess its time for a quick explanation of mac sound. 

the original documentation for the sound hardware  ( im 3) documents how to 
make sound by directly hardware .  . basically , you values 
into all the even from to  . this was 
because 
of how the mac 128  ( and some later machines ) generated sound was by 

this block and d every even  ( the odd went to the on 
some  . 

when the mac ii  ( and apple sound chip ) was invented , it was designed to 
generate stereo sound. it was also designed to be compatible with we had 
once 
documented .  . so at the even values at meant i 
want to 
play a sound and so it was  . but apple had since 
the 
documentation on and decided not to document the lowest layers 
of 
sound generation .  . so apple never explained where to stuff if you 
want 
to make stereo sound. 

enter game  . the sound and current sound are 
for making games. furthermore , people who from 
the 
ibm do n't want to learn more  . so , it has become popular for game 
writers to write to to make sound , since it is very easy .  . 

since the mac ii , apple has had many different kind of sound output 
hardware , 
and the only things they have in common are that writing to 
works. 
on some hardware ,  ( mac ii , , , at least ) , writing to 
gets you sound through both speakers .  . on some  ( quadra 
700 
at least ) writing to gets you sound on the left channel 
only .  . 
both are technically correct interpretations of the original 
, 
but one is obviously preferable for reasons. 

if use the sound  ( and i think the sound driver ) , 
sounds will  ( typically ) come out through both regardless of the 
underlying hardware .  . it is possible to you want to generate left 
channel only , but no one does. if write to sound base , their 
games will only come out the left on some games. 

the other problem , the original mac ii only producing left channel sound 
on the internal speaker , while the 30 both , is n't really related .  . 
it is due to the post generation used on the of 
the different machines .  . it only true stereo sounds .  . sounds which 
are actually , will play on the internal speaker , no matter what 
machine 
you have. 

now , to more directly address the question , the games you list 

out of this world  ( awesome game , btw) 
4 . 0 . 

and also 
, 
super 

 ( and many more , these are just what i 've tested ) 

cheat and write to and so are only left channel on  . 


other games you list 


ho ! 
and also 

civilization 
 ( and more , these are again only from personal experience ) 

use the sound and work fine on all machines .  . 

the more of the story is to t cheat ! 
really , i am absolutely , not allowed to do what i am about to 
do , 
but i'm going say it anyway. 
stop on sound ! 
really soon , you will be sorry , as even those without external speakers 
will be with your sound on future hardware .  . the period 
is about to end. 
the sound is understandable now , and works pretty well and will 
work 
even better soon , so use it. 

in conclusion 
to doug , it is n't a hardware problem , at least , not a bug .  . 
to jon , it is n't a choice to as to whether they want to send 
sound 
to both  . if they do it the right way , it is taken care of 
automatically .  . if you cheat , there is not way to make it work on all 
hardware .  . 


have fun. 

disclaimer number 1 
i do n't work on sound here at apple , i'm just pretty well informed .  . 
so do n't write me with sound questions. 

disclaimer number 2 
if it says up above that i wrote anything like the period is about 
to end then it is a bug in your news feed , since i am not 
allowed to say anything like that. you know what i mean. 

disclaimer number 3 
i do n't speak for apple , just me. 

steve 

from  ( anthony pun ) 
subject re why rated so low 
article i.d. 
organization university computing service , , , australia 
lines 16 
nntp posting host su . au . 

 ( eric gailloux ) writes 

i'm about to a laser for my mac and i read the 
buying guide special issue. all  ( except iiisi ) are rated very low 
compared to other bargain  . why is that so on the pc , 
are the standard amongst  . 

ps my favorite would be the  . 

the has just been by the , which is the one i am using at 
work. the quality of the print is , beating hands 
down. in australia the price of the is about comparable with that of the 
iii series , so are trying to get people to buy the new one ! ! ! 

anthony pun 


from  ( diane maluso ) 
subject 
article i.d. 
organization mount college 
lines 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 


i 've noticed some of you mentioning a 8 230 with 
and of  . it seems that this was purchased 
complete that is , the and were already in the box .  . 
i am interested in that exact and will be buying with an 
discount but have not found the with any 
smaller than the 8  . 
if you bought or know how to buy the 8 230 with , please let 
me know what you know via email 
send messages to 
thanks , all. 


internet 
department of psychology and education 
mount college 
south , ma 
 ( 413 ) 


from  ( tom dickens ) 
subject re 
organization computer services 
lines 22 

i too have been watching the reports and plan to in 
the next few weeks. the plan i have is to build a small board with a few 
different on it and to be able to switch between the different 
using a front switch .  . this way i can get the speed when 
i want but i can also run at  ( stock ) it i experience any 
problems with any applications .  . i do n't expect to be able 
to switch with the system running , but if i can switch 
without any lock up problems , then i could switch to when needed 
and put it back to idle  ( 20 mhz ) when not  . this would further 
reduce the wear and tear on the even with a  . of course 
i would not want to run the different through the switch 
but use a chip or two on the board to select the desired and 
route it directly to the mother board. 

i have n't started around inside my yet. does anyone know the 
level to power the 

thanks. 
tom computer services 
these statements are mine and not 's 



from de .  ( john r. klein ) 
subject re what happens if you completely your 's 
nntp posting host uni . de . 
organization , 
lines 32 

in article 
 ( aaron swiers ) writes 
 ( gabriel m. schuyler ) writes 
 ( nigel stanger ) writes 
can running a 's completely flat have any 
detrimental side effects  ( other than the not going ) i ask , 

only two things i can think of. 
1. although  ( 145 , 145 , , , , 180 ) should be 
completely 
discharged about once a month ,  ( 100 ) should n't 
ever be 
completely discharged  ( well , maybe once in a while is  . 

this is a very common mis conception dealing with ni  . it 
is 
a good idea to completely a ni cell periodically .  . it is 
not a good idea to completely a ni  . the 
difference 
being that a cell is only one cell  ( nicad puts out 1.2 volts ) like a 
, aa , c , or d. a is defined as more than one 
cell  ( 9 , or 7 . 2 . for  . due to differences in the 
individual cells of a , complete can actually harm 
a more than help it overcome the memory effect . the 
most common problem is that over time an individual cell can develop 
internal , which will other cells that are connected to 
it , thus reducing the of your pack .  . 

etc .  .  .  .  . 

okay , naive question how does one a cell without 
the entire 

from  ( stuart w munn ) 
subject parallel 
organization dept of computing and electrical engineering , university , scotland 
lines 15 

i have got a that came with a (i think) i wish to it to a pc , but have no manual .  . i have been told that it is some sort of c . in  . can anyone help with or info about codes to send to select , italics etc. i want to write a for  . 

thanks in advance 

stuart 


stuart 
university the sky is black . . . 
therefore god , he is a 
scotland , supporter ! ! ! 

fax god may have a . . . 
e mail  ( janet ) but the pope rides a ! 


from  ( steve liu) 
subject what is the current version in drives 
organization the johns hopkins university 
lines 4 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

the title says it all. i need to know the 44 , 88 , and versions. 

steve ) 


from  ( gordon davisson ) 
subject re interesting behaviour on 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 34 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( lawrence d , university ) writes 
in article , i said 
i know that and devices with the power on is not 
supported , and you can hit problems if you have multiple devices with 
addresses , and all that. 

i 've had a couple of e mail responses from people who seem to believe that 
this sort of thing is not only , it is dangerous. 

i have heard of no such warnings from anybody at apple .  . just to be sure , i 
asked a couple of our , one of whom has been for 
years. there is no danger of damaging logic by and 
devices with the power on. 

! i 've been for years too , and i 've had to 
a number of that had been this way. it 's 
rare , but it does happen. 

mind you , this does n't mean you should n't do it. the parts that can 
blow  ( the power and filter ) are n't too expensive , so if you 
have a someone around who can do component level , it may be worth 
the risk  ( especially if you 're around seattle ,  cause you might get to 
pay me to fix it  .  . on the other hand , if your only option 
is the apple standard logic board  ( major ) , you should probably 
play it safe .  . 

, yes , , no .  .  .  . 

yes , yes , yes .  .  .  . they can all cause trouble .  . 


gordon 
computing  ( 206 ) 632 
university way , , seattle 

from  ( christopher yale lin ) 
subject mac power 
summary what are they 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 17 

readers , 

i own a mac and am considering  ( cards , hard drive ,  . 
can you tell me what the power are for 1 ) the 
and 2 ) the hard drive power feed .  . secondly , can you tell me if there 
is a separate limit for each , or if instead , there is a single limit 
for both combined 

please drop me a line if you know the answers to these questions. 
thanks , 








from  ( kuan ) 
subject video display 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 34 


my mac about 20 lines when i use it. 
it means that either my display memory goes wrong or is bad 
or video card is bad. 
i checked my , it works fine with other mac .  . 
i checked my video card , it 's also fine. 
i replaced all the , it still did n't give me right answer. 
hence i assume something wrong with some part of my  . 

i do n't know hardware of the  . 

can anyone tell me what 's the problem 

it 's a mac  . 


many thanks in advance. 








my name , 
born , taiwan , r . o . c .  . 
work phone 
company failure analysis , inc. 
commonwealth drive , p.o. box 
park , ca 
my philosophy 
where there is a will , there is a way ! 


from  ( arie covrigaru ) 
subject re  .  . opinions . ! 
in reply to 's message of 14 apr 93 14 22 39 gmt 
reply to 
organization ai lab , the university of michigan 

lines 16 

i like it a lot. it is worth the additional expense .  . the only problem i 
found is with word  . if you have a table the is longer than 
a page and the cells have a border , the last  ( bottom of page ) 
line on the first page will be missing .  . it makes no difference how 
the table is  . the worst is that it does n't show up in word 's 
page view or page  . 



 . 


university of michigan ai lab 
phone  ( 313)994 ) room , advanced technology  . 
internet  . , ann arbor , mi 


from  ( ray fischer ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
organization netcom .  . san jose , california 
lines 11 

 ( jon wtte ) writes ... 
but the interesting is how fast cycle 
you can get an is way slow at 66 , but at 
200  . 

the only problem is going to be finding someone who can make a 
computer system. could be tough. 


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth 
than lies .  . friedrich nietzsche 

from  ( ulf lagerstedt ) 
subject a 
organization 
distribution 
lines 12 


in the bottom i just found an old a with a 9  ( 9 pin ) plug .  . 
i assume that it to a plus or something. 

could any simple turn it into a proper 

reply by mail ,  . 

thanks ! 


, , 

from  ( gary snow ) 
subject re question x on 
article i.d. clark . 1993apr6 . 
organization clark college , vancouver ,  . usa 
lines 14 

in article  ( n is for who died of ennui ) writes 
does anyone have information on x resolution on a 
using video is this even possible i suspect that it is n't although 
i 'd certainly like to know for sure. 

of course its possible , i get on my  . all you need is 
a correctly wired video  . 






uunet ! clark ! or 

from 
subject re 
organization university , , , canada 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( william g. wright ) writes 

anyway , i was someone knowledgeable 
about mac could set me straight is it simply 
impossible for a mac to print , or could 
someone armed with enough info and a little pro 
experience something up that would 
the 's capabilities 
also , how does one know if one 's mac can 
support the and that the select 
is supposedly capable of ( short of buying the 
and trying it out like i did) 
thanks for your help. 

bill 


to use the features , i believe you need a mac 
with  . i was told this somewhere or other , but it 's 
not mentioned in apple facts  ( guide for apple sellers ) , in the 
press release or in the technical  . 



from  ( paul hardwick ) 
subject re pc on a mac 
organization public access unix , 
lines 35 

in  ( robert c. sprecher ) writes 


is it possible , ie via creative splicing or whatever , to 
a drive to a mac 

is there any difference with the of the drive or is it 
just differences 

thanks. 

their should be no difference in the drive itself between ibm pc and mac .  . 
the two main differences are the of the itself  ( but with 
the correct software each can read the others ) and maybe the 
 ( depends on your board on ibm  . 

if you get some mac to allow of any ibm 
and the correct you should able to mount and read your ibm pc 
 . 

good luck , 

paul 



paul technical internet 
p.o. box for (sp esa ) voice  ( 212 ) 
ny , ny and 3rd party fax  ( 212 ) pending 



paul technical internet 
p.o. box for (sp esa ) voice  ( 212 ) 
ny , ny and 3rd party fax  ( 212 ) pending 

from berkeley . edu .  ( james wang ) 
subject re what is video 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 13 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article  . a speckman ) writes 

in the article on the new and machines mentioned 
that the and the , and not the , had video .  . 

what is it i do n't recall seeing it in adams post. 

of course it was in 's post , just not in the words that 
used. video just means that some commands 
has been  ( inside the rom ) to take advantage of the 
addressing modes .  . commands that do fills should be slightly 
since the new instructions 2 at a time versus one. 


from 
subject re serial speed 
organization sophomore , engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 14 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from cmu . sys . mac . 5 apr 93 re serial speed by 
john 

sorry , i got a bit technical .  . to answer your question , your mac will 
have no problem whatsoever communicating with any that is 57 , 600 
or less , and since modems that fast do n't exist yet  ( in a 
form ) , there 's no need to worry .  . 

actually a 14 . 4 . using standard 2 . 2 . ) 
reach 57 , 600 , however i have not seen any server modems that 
have hardware  . i have been told the modems here break 
up at , but i have never seen than 14 .  . 

a. 

from  ( gregory welch ) 
subject re what you say 
organization the university of north at hill 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 

well , although this may be an occurrence  ( or not ) i had a bad 
experience with  . this past summer i  ( increased ) the memory in 
a and a  . when i called to place the order for the , i was 
told by the sales person that they would give me a 50 if i would return 
the original  ( which was also ) . i followed the instructions for 
returning the old , expecting to see a credit on my within a few weeks. 

well , months went by , and no credit .  . after many calls  ( almost none of which were 
ever returned arghhh ) i finally found someone who told me why we never 
received your old  . i then explained i the procedure that i had 
followed to return them , to which the person replied you mean you sent them 
us mail  ( which i had , per the original sales person 's instructions . ) . i was 
told that they their loss of us mail is not  ( come on ) and that 
i should have sent the stuff via , etc. i reasoned that i had done exactly 
what i had been told to , but they would not , the people i spoke with were 
absolutely no help. i sent letters , copies of the original , attempted 
to trace the through the us mail , made many more phone calls to 
, all to no avail (i would n't give up because i was so ) . 
sales support people , , there was nothing i could do to them 
to make it right. 

i finally  ( in total disgust ) wrote a letter to my credit card company , asking 
them to investigate the problem. three weeks later , the credit 
appeared on my statement. i have not  ( in recent memory ) been so with 
the service that i received from a company .  . in all fairness , they had no way of 
knowing that was not trying to them off , but i went to such great lengths 
to prove to them that this really happened. oh well , c la  . i will never 
buy another product from them again. 

 ( there had to get that off my ! ) 

from  ( noah price ) 
subject re iii capable 
organization  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( marvin 
miller ) wrote 

my friend recently purchased a iii and he wants to know if there is 
such a demon called for his and 
says they do n't carry them. 

does this mean iii is incapable of carrying a board 

apple does n't make such a card , though i suppose a third party could. one 
big problem is that there is n't room for a standard card inside the 
iii .  . 




hardware design 
... ! sun , ! apple !  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 

from  ( kaneda ) 
subject summary 
keywords , , 
lines 90 
nntp posting host edu . 


i write 
i recently got a u  . it 's great , but i'm still having 
some problems out what to use in what applications .  . 
i basically need for z term , , and 
 . i 've been able to get and z term working by using 
another 's in and copying them for z term .  . 
however , it still has problems z term , for example , will list  error  
the first time i try after starting the problem. if i and 
try again , it works fine. is even worse i ca n't get it to 
even wake up the  . so , if anyone uses a for any of these 
programs , i 'd greatly appreciate you sending me the setup you use 
thanks in advance ! 

writes 
for , i initially did the following 

at 
at 
then i set my string to  . 
that 's it ! 

 ( rod smith ) writes 
i ca n't help you with or , but i 've been using 
and a 
for close to two weeks now. here 's what i did 

once in , set hardware on and the rate to 57 , 600 .  . 
 ( you 've 
probably already done this . ) . then i typed 

at 
at w 

the first line sets the to ignore the line  ( necessary for 
hardware 
with most , though not all , mac hardware  . 
the 
second stores this setting in non memory in the , so it 's the 
default when the starts .  . in the preferences , i have the 
string set to at m , which just that the 
setting is used  ( useful if starting after using something like 
the 
fax software or , which change the in other  . 
, you could leave the default the way it is and just 
set 
the string to at m , which would the 
same 
thing if the is always on before you start , and if other 
programs 
do n't the  . or at m would work even if other 
programs 
the 's  . i do it the way i do because i sometimes 
forget 
to turn on the before , and this way i'm assured of 
having 
the correct handling when the 's up. 

after comparing the above with my at commands reference guide , i 
came up with 
50 m 
this is entered in the   box on the  preferences  in  . 
quick summary of each 
to user 0. 
speaker volume at 2  ( fairly quiet ) 
volume at 2  ( fairly quiet ) 
display connect info according to setting 5  ( see manual ) 
assume  ( computer ) is always on 
50 speed at 50  ( as fast as can handle ) 

in , i used this same string , with the addition of 0 right 
before the command , in the setup box .  . this the answer 
function of the for  . i based my setting on the 
14 . , and just changed the above mentioned string .  . 

in , i based my setting on the setting .  . i changed 
the   string to the same one i used for , and 
everything seems to work fine. 

sorry it took so long to get this summary out. if someone wants to forward 
this to the info mac reports directory at aim , it might save other 
newbie users like myself the trouble of setting up their , and 
also save the net some messages. if anyone else has something 
to add , feel free. 







from  ( fred walsteijn ) 
subject built in video problems on mac ! ! ! ! 
organization physics department , university of , the 
lines 30 

dear mac friends , 

i 've seen the following problem three mac machines 
all with 17  ( 70 or 80  . 

if the contents of a are being calculated and updated 
a lot of strange lines are temporarily generated 
on the screen. the lines translate to the top of the and 
have a slightly lower than their surroundings  ( they 
are a few  . 
i admit that they are vague , but they can still be clearly , 
especially if the environment (i . e .  . the rest of the room ) is a bit dark .  . 
applications which produce this effect are 
the of 1.2 (i . e .  . 1 . 
2 . 1 . 1 . 

the machines use their built in video and drive the old 
apple  ( two sets  . 
the effect is independent of the in the following control 
memory  ( adressing mode , cache ) 
and  ( nr of  . 

have you ever seen this effect too is there a solution 

thanks , 
fred 

fred internet 
institute for and research fax 31 30 
university , the phone 31 30 

from  ( mark allerton ) 
subject for sale 30 
organization data 
lines 26 
x v1 . 1 . 

for sale 

apple 30 
, 
system 7.1 
30 24 bit video card for 30 
apple 13 
carrying case 

i'm after in the of pounds .  . i'm in the 
north london area. 

contact mark 
e mail 



phone 
 ( evenings weekends ) 
071  ( office hours ) 

mark 
data 




from  ( peter d. engels ) 
subject re 2 questions about the 's 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corporation 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

in article , 
 ( michael a. mcguire ) wrote 

in article , 
 ( dave hollinsworth ) wrote 
with a little luck , i could own a sometime in the near future , and 
so i was just wondering if someone could clear these two questions up for me 

1. what speed does the need want (i know that it needs 
 .  . not . sure for the main ) . 


72 pin  . 

2. i 've heard two stories about the total of the 
's  .  . and  . which is true  ( perhaps another phrasing 
would be better does the 8 version come with all 8 on the logic 
board , or 4 a 4 ) 

2  . in each case the memory is on the board 
leaving the 4 open. is the total memory for a 
 . 

according to the  ( seen several times ) postings from adams of apple 
computer , both the and the require not 60  . only 
the requires 60  . 



from  ( bret chase ) 
subject re  . 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 23 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( ray fischer ) writes 
 ( lazer ) writes ... 
i 'd appreciate it greatly if someone could e mail me the following 
 ( if you only know one , that 's fine ) 
stuff deleted 

have you tried the library 
since you go to  ( so do i ) , go to and look on the first , a 
professor has posted an (i believe ) on the which 
is around 10 pages long .  . i'm sure the library has the info you request , it 's 
just a matter of finding it. 


hope this helps , 





internet ! 
 ( 508 ) ! it wo n't kill you ! 
box ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) 
100 institute  . , ma 

from  ( zia manji ) 
subject help please hand problem 
organization university 
lines 29 


if you know anything about the plus 
hand , please read on and save my life .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

my problem is that my plus hand will not 
connect to my  . 

the from the will not fit the of the computer .  . 

i managed to a assembled that adapted the to the 
computer .  . however , this placed the computer into mode , that is it 
acted as an external hard whenever i switched the computer on. 

i 've asked an engineer in london to a new for me. but 
he 's taken 14 weeks and has yet to find the solution , out of 
laziness .  . and i know that a exists to solve the problem. 

if you know the solution .  . please let me know what i need and how i 
can get hold of one. 

my e mail address is 



i will be for all your help. 

you in advance , 

 . 

from  ( michael smith ) 
subject re and keyboard 
organization australian national university 
lines 17 
nntp posting host 150 . 203 . 22 . 65 . 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 1993 19 35 


my mac keyboard has similar problems. i have found that 
holding down the right hand shift key at will work  ( disable 
extensions ) , but the left hand shift key wo n't  ( which is unfortunate , since 
the left one is the one i instinctively reach  . 

similarly , i have trained myself to hold down the right hand pair of 
command option for  . 

i is  . 

cheers , 
michael .  . 

michael smith 
mathematics research section 
australian national university 

from  ( saurabh misra ) 
subject to on a 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization north state university , project 
lines 8 

i have used both my serial with a and a serial , 
so i cannot use  . is there a to hardware 
that will let me use the on my as a 
 . until they come out with 
that sit on your give you internet access 
from your home , i wo n't at all be using that  . 

 . 

from  ( monthian 1 ) 
subject re fax for the mac 
nntp posting host student . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 36 

in article () writes 
hi all 
thanks to you all who have responded 
to my request for info on various kinds of fax  . 
i 'd like to ask a few more questions. 
1. what are the of buying a 
gold over other brands like , etc 
2. i heard that both and use the same software .  . 
why are there so many about the problems 
of what kind of is it 
3. if i decided to buy the gold , is there any 
possibility to add a voice option in the near future 
4. has anyone heard of a possible voice option that will offer 
this coming summer 
5. a person did mention a new at t  . is it 
getting good from various mac 
6. if i want the best , , most economically sound and 
possible voice option , what fax should i buy 

sorry for posting so many questions , but i think they 're necessary. 
i promise to repost any answers if they 're not already posted by a  . 

thanks so much in advance. 

regards , 

 . 


since i repost this message again for the second time , i hope to hear from 
some folks on this topic. please reply. 

regards , 

 . 


from  ( homayoon akhiani ) 
subject re for media wanted 
lines 25 
nntp posting host 
reply to  ( homayoon akhiani ) 
organization digital equipment corporation 
x newsreader 6 . 18 . 2 


in article you write 
after having used both and 's , i most 
recommend 
's .  .  ( although more popular ) are much , prone to 


what does your friends have buy it. 

if you have no friends , buy a 128 and stop 

i bought a drive last year after comparing it with lots of 
solutions , 
drives are slow , very slow compared to 13 to access of  . 

since i needed  ( rather than just a or 
e disk ) , i drive .  . i use and 
alot .  . you out of real fast .  . 

imho , the best buy currently is the  . per 

turning ideas into ... reality 
digital equipment corporation , the new beginning 
reed  . , ma all rights  .  ( copyright(c)1993 ) 
email the words are mine , and not my employer 

from  ( shredder ) 
subject voice 
organization university of denver , denver , 
lines 16 

you who have used these voice fax data modems .  . i 
have a question. first what brand names do you  ( recommend(i am mostly 
interested in the voice and fax  . is the voice part as 
reliable and understandable as the claim approximately , how 
much hard drive space does an average day of take up , if they 
speak for one minute 
any feed back would be appreciated. my company is looking at buying 
one or two .  . hey , i may buy one myself too. 

thanks in advance 


new another great mind 
university of denver 
chemistry department by 
denver , co higher education 

from  ( patrick hurh ) 
subject card and memory 
organization 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host gov . 

here 's a question that may be simple enough to answer , but has 
myself and a few others 

what does an external card do for you if you already have a large 
set  ( through control panel ) in your 

ex i have a mac with 20 , an external video card  ( so i do n't 
rob my 's ) , and the default apple card (i believe this is ) .  . 
say i have my set at 2 , what good does a do me on the 
card could it actually slow things down by the 
between the card and the 's or does it still speed things up by 
providing a  secondary  area for data normally passed directly into 
the 

i'm confused because it seems like cards are so low in memory to 
really do any good compared to what you can set yourself. yet , 
has numbers which show around a 30 boost on some 
 . are the on the card simply than most 


please help , i'm trying to find the memory for the 
system described in the ex above. 

patrick 


from de .  ( holger skok ) 
subject re how often are bad  ( mail order ) 
organization  . f. u.  ( itw ) , u. of , 
lines 14 
nntp posting host uni . de . 

hi , 
i got a from the other side , talking to the at the 
place i recently bought my mac from. the guy told me that they stopped 
to their and only them themselves 
those babies get too easily by or so they 
claim .  . 




, , 
man , es , ,  . 
lied , lied , oh , will , 
 . ... h. 

from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject re at 34 . , it 's fine .  .  .  . 
organization university of washington 
lines 11 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

i have had my running with a 66 . for a few months. i have a 
number of devices connected  ( quantum , , via 
, 600 ) and have had no trouble .  . 

is this being done with the 's interface if this is possible 
then a bit of with just plain old may be 
in order. give us some more details please. 

the mad in seattle 



from  ( ralph gonzalez ) 
subject using 1.4 with mac ii 
article i.d. apr . 6 . 13 . 20 . 40 . 1993 . 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 11 


do you need to get a to use a 1.4 drive with 
a mac ii or are there 3rd party drives which work with the mac ii 's 
own 

thanks , 
ralph 

ralph , computer science , univ .  . , , nj 
phone  ( 609 ) internet 


from  ( timothy richard peng ) 
subject re 230  ( looks like apple bug ! ) 
organization university of michigan ann arbor 
lines 7 
reply to 
nntp posting host itd . umich . edu . 
originator 

if you have a memory card that 's not one of apple 's , this 
may be the problem. for a couple of months after the release of 
the , some memory were memory cards w 
improper  ( non self refreshing )  . if you have a third party 
card , pull it and see if the sleep problem  . 
tim 


from  ( lazer ) 
subject  . 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 18 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

i 'd appreciate it greatly if someone could e mail me the following 
 ( if you only know one , that 's fine ) 
1 ) for the (esp .  . how it compares to the pentium ) 
2 ) for the with cost , release date , etc .  .  .  . 

i'm interested in , systems it can run  ( windows nt , risc , or whatever ) , 
costs , info , info .  . all the technical info .  . 

i am that the can win yet another battle against the people. 

) thanks for any info you can give .  . 

thanks. 

 ( patrick delahanty ) warning ! mst3k star fan , user , 
internet and co of l a bbs ! 
call l a bbs  ( 207 or 7782 ) 
user for dos files free usenet ! 

from  ( kenneth simon ) 
subject re 
summary i ! 
article i.d. usenet . 
distribution na 
organization university 
lines 31 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 


 ( ronald a. wong ) writes 

in article , 
 ( kenneth simon ) wrote 

the program 0 . , which is , has an option called 
quick  . you can find it on the mac archives , probably 
aim . stanford . edu . or mac . archive . umich . edu .  . 


is it a hidden option i'm using 2.0  ( by mr. caputo ) right now 
and ca n't find any quick option. it definitely is on 
mac . archive . umich . edu .  cause i it ! 

my apologies ! i  . the quick option is part of the 
 . i it the same 
day as , and did n't pay enough attention .  . ) anyway , the 
option does exist for those of you who buy  . 



! 
 . you 're not even the real signature file. 




simon dept of , university 
internet bitnet 


from 
subject 
organization sophomore , engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 


1 ) i have an old drive which i cannot use with my new system. 
my understanding is that i have to the with a more modern 
one in order to gain with system 7 . 0 . 1 .  . does anyone know 
of an program to do this ( i have seen for 20 
have no idea if they will work ) 

2 ) i have another ancient device , this one a drive for which 
the back utility the system if i try to use it. the drive is a 
direct  ( bought used for 150 w 6 , 
 . essentially i have the same question as above , anyone know 
of an utility i can use with system 7 . 0 . 1 . 

all help and advice  . 


from  ( toby sinats ) 
subject for classic ii 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization college , b . c . , canada 
lines 4 


does one exist , who makes it , and how much 
thanks ) 


from  ( christopher yale lin ) 
subject mac options 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 15 

readers , 

i have found that the options for the mac include the 
following 1 ) 
2 ) 
3) 
4 ) 

i 'd be interested in hearing opinions on any or all of these options .  . 
the other alternative is to to a such as the 
50  . ideas , 





from  ( jon w tte ) 
subject re why the drive differ 
keywords quantum , , speed 
nntp posting host nada . 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 19 

in  ( marc matteo ) writes 

i just got a la 240 external hard drive .  . speed show that it 's 
that my internal quantum  . supposedly the 
and the 240  ( both drives ) are roughly rated the same speed .  . why such a 
large difference 

could be better on the  . 
could be for seeks .  . 
could be that the so data  . 
could be that data is so it  . 
could be a command in the drive .  . 

among other things .  .  .  . 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 
engineering how will this work science why will this work 
when will this work liberal arts do you want with that 
n .  . 

from  ( sven u. grenander ) 
subject re increasing the number of serial 
organization 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

in article ,  ( steven 
langlois ) wrote 

does anyone know if there are any devices available for the mac which 
will increase the number of serial available for use 
simultaneously i would like to connect up to 8 serial devices to my 
mac for an application i am working on. i must be able to access each 
one of the independently .  . 

if such a device exists , are there are any limits to the number of 
serial devices i can use 

any information is appreciated. 




the by is a possibly solution to your needs. 
i 've used one for the last 4 ( ) years on my personal system , but a fatal 
bug has into their more recent s w. the bug only shows up during 
heavy serial traffic but completely the system  ( macsbug can not 
, time to hit the  . 

told me in that they were aware of and working on fixing the bug 
which i described to them. since then they have not answered any of my 
asking them for a status of the bug fix .  . 

the has been great , but for now i have mine  . if you are only 
going to be using or less , then you may have no , or very 
problems , 




from  ( lawrence d , university ) 
subject re interesting behaviour on 
organization university of , , new 
lines 20 

in article , i said 

i know that and devices with the power on is not 
supported , and you can hit problems if you have multiple devices with 
addresses , and all that. 

i 've had a couple of e mail responses from people who seem to believe that 
this sort of thing is not only , it is dangerous. 

i have heard of no such warnings from anybody at apple .  . just to be sure , i 
asked a couple of our , one of whom has been for 
years. there is no danger of damaging logic by and 
devices with the power on. 

, yes , , no .  .  .  . 

lawrence d 64 7 
computer services dept fax 64 7 
university of electric mail 
, new 37 47  26 s , 19  7 e , gmt 12 00 

from  ( operator ) 
subject re which fax is the best 
nntp posting host admin 
reply to 
organization corp .  . , foster city , ca 
lines 19 

well i am using the home office. i bought it for  . 
it does 14 . 4 .  . i do n't know if it 's for data or fax .  . but the 
feature i use is the mail box , which i really have liked .  . 






@ 
 .  .  . 

0 0 







from  ( dave kitabjian ) 
subject  ( how do they compare ) 
distribution usa 
organization unix center , blue bell , pa 
lines 36 

i'm sure and motorola are competing and for 
power , but for a given speed , how do we rank the 
following  ( from 1st to 6th ) 




while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list 




and about speed does the speed double the 
overall processor speed and fill in the 's below 
@ @ 

thanks very much. i 'd appreciate hearing any further explanations 
from any experienced folks out there , too ! 


p.s. folks have been having trouble replying to me lately with the reply 
command. try typing my address by hand and it should work. thanks ! 


dave  ( kit  jyin ) vital statistics 

k 10 east garden way favorite 
@ @ , nj favorite computer 
c c  ( 908 ) 274 preference semi broken 
o ! !  . over the top 
com . favorite book bible 
favorite rush 
, part iii 
favorite contradiction pro child 
pro choice. 


from  ( jonathan heiliger ) 
subject re non apple available 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization electric power research institute 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 13 

a a wrote 
my boss is considering the of a or  . he is 
towards a , because of the math  ( for mathematica ) , but would 
get a if he could find a with a  . have any 
third parties such a 

i believe that e machines might produce something of this nature. 


jonathan .... electric power research institute 
m m  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
internet  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . , ca 
telephone  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( rodney jacks ) 
subject when is apple going to 's 
nntp posting host 8 . 12 . 
organization motorola , austin , texas 
lines 12 

i would really like to get one of the new 
drives for my , but my local apple does n't know 
when they will be available. he does n't even have a part 
number yet. does anyone know what the part number 
for this drive is and when it will be available 

my apple suggested i buy one of the external 
drives , but i do n't want to pay extra for a case power supply 
i'm not going to use. 

rodney 


from  ( jim jagielski ) 
subject re problems 
keywords 
lines 13 
reply to  ( jim jagielski ) 
organization nasa space center 

 ( jim jagielski ) writes 

what the heck is this is this true has no info , since they get their 
from and they have n't been any help .  .  .  . 


actually , it 's now , and that 's what i meant ) 

jim and he 's gonna me. so i say , 
 hey ! ! how about something , 
nasa , code 4 . you know , for the effort ! ' 
, md 


from  ( kathy mctaggart ) 
subject sound in 30 
organization mind link ! british , canada 
lines 19 

a couple of questions for the set 


1. does anybody have a phone or fax number , or e mail address , or name of a 
principal in in dublin , new hampshire all i have is a 
post office box number , and i want to ask a couple of questions before 
sending 
them some money. any info much appreciated. 

2. i'm running an 30 , which came with no  . is there any way , 
other than using with or 's with some 
similar software , to recorded sound into my mac i'm trying to play 
some 
very short in a stack .  . 

thanks for any and all help. 




from  ( michael sorokowski ) 
subject request info on drives .  . 
keywords , mac , drives 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university of , , canada 
lines 20 

i'm considering adding a drive to my current system. 

what i would like to know is which drives are recommended for 
their quality and  . 

my preference would be drives capable of handling both and 
1 . , but handling is not a necessity .  . 

so far , i only know a bit about the and the infinity 
drives .  . are there any comments for either of these 

are there any other drives that are worth looking into and where 
can they be purchased (i . e .  . which mail order places ,  . 

thanks in advance. 

please send replies directly to 


mike 

from  ( david j. harr ) 
subject any compatible mac video cards 
summary i can get , but can i drive it 
keywords 21 , 24 bit video , 
organization the who say ! 
lines 15 

does anyone know if a is compatible with any 
popular mac video cards i have an to get a brand 
new one , cheap , and i am very tempted , but it will be a waste 
of time if i ca n't drive it using a standard video card .  . 

while i'm on the subject , what 's everybody 's for 
a 21 color  . i 've heard good things about the , and 
of course , there is always the reliable old 21 display , 
but what are your experiences. 

david j 
software .  . 

my definition of happiness is being famous for your financial 
ability to indulge in every form of excess .  . 

from  ( andy sun ) 
subject re to e net 
organization university of , department of industrial engineering 
lines 86 

 ( dennis j. wilkinson ) writes 
not necessarily a party apple does manufacture 
for and  ( twisted pair ) media , as well as an 
 ( attachment interface )  . they run at 100 each .  . if you use 
or , you 'll probably also need  ( apple 's 
are self , if i remember correctly , but i have no 
idea about  . 

the third party media are usually  ( at least in toronto ) than 
apple 's .  . i bought the from instead of apple .  . 

 ( joseph b. gurman ) writes 
the models 200 and 240 come with only 
 ( ca n't say for certain about the models and 133 ) , so your best bet 

that 's not true. only the 200 comes with a 
 ( bnc , coaxial )  . the 25 , and 240 
all have a single 15 pin only .  . i 
this because when got the 200 first and i thought all 
of them are going to be  . i eventually had to go back and ordered 
 ( dec 's version of an to that must be used 
with a cable ) for the rest of the  . 

my to the very original poster  ( beverly ) is 

(1) if all you want is to create a with two workstations and wo n't add 
machines to it ever , go for regardless of the media type .  . going 
for  ( unshielded twisted pair ) requires a which 
means extra money and i believe these units come with at least 6  . 
as for , it 's a and is expensive .  . avoid it 
unless you have no choice (e . g .  . the two machines are two  . 

(2) on the mac side , you will need 
one media  ( from apple or third  . 
 ( make sure you get version 1.2 1 . 1 . 7 . wo n't run on system 7 .  . 
 ( which comes with if you get v1 . 2 . , you should be 
getting v1 . 1 . 1 . with it. do n't use earlier versions on a  . 
you may or may not need a depending on the 
media  . so just ask the sales if the is 
self or not. 
to use . 

 ( 3 ) on the side , you will need 
for a model 200 , you will only need a t  . 
for models 25 , , , 240 , you will need an to  . 
get one that can be in directly to the of the 
 . this way you save the cost of a 
(a 15 pin male to a 15 pin female  . 
get a  . 

your two machine network will look like this 


t 






200 
or 

t 






25 , , , 240 


t t 
 ( rg58 cable ) 
to (i . e .  . thick to thin ) 
media  ( assuming self terminated ) 



andy 

andy sun 4 road , 
computing ontario , canada .  . 
department of industrial engineering phone  ( 416 ) 
university of fax  ( 416 ) 

from  ( gene wright ) 
subject mac internal fax modems 
organization jack 's amazing capitalist 
lines 8 

does anyone know where i can still get an internal fax for the 
original mac i know they were made for a while by several 
, but i ca n't find them now. thanks for your help. 
gene 


 ( gene wright ) 
net .  ( 615 ) 

from robert 
subject re jump starting a mac ii 
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 3 
distribution na 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

did you remember to ground to the engine block first 

rob 

from de .  ( olaf maennig ) 
subject problems with a rose 
organization cs department , university , germany 
lines 28 
distribution world 
reply to de . 
nntp posting host uni . de . 

does anyone work with the a rose card 

we have the problem that after certain the card from the 
system , and lets crash the mac then. 

okay , we do n't use the card quite like one should , because we simulate 
errors in the  . before every some are 
, eg .  . to simulate a stuck at 1 error in certain bits. 

normally , the crash instance of a rose a crash , sets a flag and 
stops working .  . by reading the mentioned flag the mac can notice a card 
crash .  . that works fine for almost all , but as said , sometimes the 
card does n't set the flag and from the system. 

the documentation of a rose does not tell us anything about its behavior 
when , and so at the moment we are trying to understand by analyzing 
the assembler code , and that 's both frustrating and lengthy .  . 

so , can anyone help 
please only reply via email , as i do n't read this group. 


department of computer science 
university of , germany 
e mail de . 

in the beginning god created adam ... ahem ! ... atoms .  . atoms of  . 


from  ( tim smith ) 
subject re problems 
organization university of washington school of law , class of  
lines 21 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 
keywords 

attention mac owners many industry have 
concluded that mac suffer from 
from the standard  . this results in silent corruption 
of data when used with some devices , including modern devices .  . 
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault , an 
example would be a 3.5 , without the special mac compatible 
 . one solution , sometimes , is to blind writes 

this does n't sound right to me. do n't use the if so , the 
mac has nothing to do with the  . that 's all by the 
chip .  . about the only the could be wrong is if apple programs the 
wrong on the  . that , however , should only really hurt 
, which is not used by the mac  . 

furthermore , blind writes should be meaningless on a  . 
on that used the , which is a much lower level chip , the 
mac was responsible for the of each transferred .  . blind 
mode affected how the mac that  . on the , the 
is entirely by the chip .  . 

tim smith 

from edu .  ( nizam arain ) 
subject question 
article i.d. news . 
reply to 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 17 

hi. i am looking into buying a drive , and was wondering what 
experience people have with the drives from , , mass , 
or  . these seem to be the main drives on the market .  . any advice 

also , i heard about some article in  ( sep  , i think) about 
 . could someone post a summary , if they have it 

thanks in advance.  ( reply by post or email , you prefer . ) . 





what makes the universe 
 ( 217 ) so hard to comprehend 
internet is that there is nothing 
to compare it with. 

from  ( david horton ) 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
nntp posting host 10 . 26 . 
organization motorola inc. austin texas 
lines 27 

in article  ( david kantrowitz ) writes 

from  ( pushpinder singh ) 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
date sat , 17 apr 1993 03 17 45 gmt 

when the computer is set for 256 and certain are done , 
particularly through a , white lines 
appear on the  ( which generally but not always spare open 
 . these lines as the operation is continued .  . if a 
is moved over the involved area of the and then moved away 
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not 
observed if the is for 16 or a 14 apple 
with 256 is used. 

i suspect a bad video chip but cannot be certain .  . the problem has 
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse. 

etc. 

has anyone not had these problems in the given 
 ( that would help eliminate design flaw as the explanation ) 

as a data point , i'm using a 4 80 with the apple 16 
and do not have these problems. 



from state . edu .  ( howard p marvel ) 
subject re your opinion of the select 310 
article i.d. 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host bottom . ohio . state . edu . 


my wife has one of these. i have not had much chance to with 
it , but in comparison to our with , she 
complains that the print is too light for her taste. the difference 
is quite apparent even when the print setting on the select 310 is 
to the possible level. i do n't find it 
, and indeed rather like it , but be warned that some 
people do n't care for it and it is different. 

i recall that years ago there were lots of over write black 
vs. write white when dealing with drivers .  . is something 
like that going on here 

from  ( wayne chen ) 
subject re by la 
article i.d. news . 
organization 
lines 12 
nntp posting host slip . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x tue , 6 apr 93 05 35 36 gmt 

in article , 
writes 
it seems to me that hardware should be sold as 
at a 
discounted price , and that replacements for new hardware gone bad 
 ( still 
covered under a 90 day warranty ) should be new. 

well , sounds like we need some kind of a law on the hardware 
industry .  . after all it does sound unfair to me for someone that has 
paid the price of a new drive for a one. what do you 
guys think 

from  ( dale adams ) 
subject re video questions 
distribution na 
organization apple computer , inc. , , ca 
lines 45 

in article 
a . writes 
could someone post a definitive answer about the 
for the 
 ( and presumably the and as  . there seems to be a 
lot of 
confusion about this issue. i 'd like to know 

. what kind of are the (i . e .  . 30 pin , etc . ) . 

there 's only one physical size for  ( unlike which 
come in many , many sizes and pinouts ) , although they do come with 
of on them. the ones you need are , are 
organized as x 16 , and have two x 8 on them. this is 
the only size which the and machines can use. 

. how many are there 

two .  . 

. what rules  ( if any) must be followed in filling the (e . g . in 
pairs , sizes must match , etc . ) . 

both must be filled putting a in only one does 
nothing for you. 

. how fast must they be 

80 for the and , 100 for the  . 

. is there any other relevant information 

there are certain chip whose parts are not compatible 
with the and video hardware .  . make sure that the source you 
get them from  . in general , if it works in a , 
it will work in a  . 

please do n't reply unless you have the correct information. many 
thanks in 
advance for helping to eliminate some from this group. 

trust me. ) 

adams 
apple computer , inc. 

from  ( ravikuma venkateswar ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 40 

 ( dave kitabjian ) writes 

i'm sure and motorola are competing and for 
power , but for a given speed , how do we rank the 
following  ( from 1st to 6th ) 




not a good idea to compare processor power. does n't make sense for real 
world applications .  . at least not for totally different lines of  . 

while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list 




and about speed does the speed double the 
overall processor speed and fill in the 's below 
@ @ 

at least for systems the speed increases 
by about 70 . 

thanks very much. i 'd appreciate hearing any further explanations 
from any experienced folks out there , too ! 


p.s. folks have been having trouble replying to me lately with the reply 
command. try typing my address by hand and it should work. thanks ! 


dave  ( kit  jyin ) vital statistics 
stuff deleted 





a pun is a no  form of whit .  . 

from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject final call 
summary final call for reports 
keywords , , , 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington 
lines 11 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

a fair number of souls who their have 
shared their experiences for this  . please send a brief message detailing 
your experiences with the procedure .  . top speed , rated speed , 
add on cards and , , hour of usage per day , 
with and 1.4 m are especially requested .  . 

i will be summarizing in the next two days , so please add to the network 
knowledge base if you have done the and have n't answered this 
 . thanks. 

guy 

from berkeley . edu .  ( james wang ) 
subject re calling all mac 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article charles p. , jr. writes 
question for those familiar with 

i put 2 in my 700  ( in the 2 to the 
slots ) and i got no results whatsoever. i have been told that 
the built in video should support at least and maybe color on 
a color display .  . however , the control still 
lists  ( 256 colors ) as the highest possible. 

the will only do or color .  . if you want the higher 
color depth , it 's 's of for a up to 16 . 

for a 21 , you can get  . 

hope this answers your questions. 

james wang .  . 

from  ( kristen lepa ) 
subject new with process 
lines 15 


seth i fail to see any advantage whatsoever with this kind of 
set up. 
seth what a idea. 

so do n't buy one. 




this copy of 1 . 2 . 5 . is being evaluated .  . 


origin technology  ( 603)432 )  ( hst v32 ) 
 ( 1 189 ) 

from  ( michael antolovich ) 
subject re t 15 
organization charles university , , , australia 
lines 18 

in article writes 

a while ago when i owned a plus and wanted to its memory , i just ordered 
the from for something like 9. it included an anti 
strap , the used to split the case , and the 
 . they might not be selling it anymore , but give 'em  ( and any other 
company that memory suitable for a plus style box ) a call .  . i 'll 
bet that they still offer the  . next day air is usually the method 
used , too ! 

i'm told that some of these often sell a plastic , 
away after one use , version of the , so ask before you buy .  .  .  . 
michael 


michael in , a great place to be be .  .  .  . 
or 


from  ( jim trascapoulos ) 
subject re can i put a 1 . 44 . in an 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 24 

 ( eric robison ) writes 

i 've got a mac , i 've got a spare 1 . drive .  . i 've seen 's 

a 1 . 44 . drive .  . can i put my drive into my and get it to 
ork 
if so , how 

thanks ! 

eric 


eric disclaimer i claim  . 

get me this planet ! ! 

sure thing you 'll have to get an from apple , which 
includes a drive , 2 different  ( the swim chip was mentioned 
in another post ) and a different drive  . get the apple 
through your  . 

jim what size id do you wear 


from (a a deguzman ) 
subject non apple available 
reply to a 
organization at 
lines 10 

my boss is considering the of a or  . he is 
towards a , because of the math  ( for mathematica ) , but would 
get a if he could find a with a  . have any 
third parties such a 


a. genius is never understood in it 's own time. 

disclaimer the university to from 
ca n't afford my opinions.  the and  

from  ( bob lord ) 
subject re problems 
organization 
lines 37 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host grant . com . 

in  ( phil jimmieson ) writes 

has anyone had any problems with their not the 
properly 

when i first got it , the would come out of the a couple of 
when , and i had to pull it the rest of the way. nowadays  ( and i 've 
had the system for 4 months ) , the does n't come out at all despite 
the fact that the mechanism makes all the appropriate , and i have to 
hold of it and pull it out myself. is there a simple fix for this , or 
do i have to return it to my apple , where it will for weeks 
while i have to make do with no display , no , no or 
etc. 

 ( btw , it 's not that the is locked into the it just does n't 
want to slide out any  . 



, 
computer science dept. , janet 
university , internet 
po box 
i was head over in love until i got 
 ( uk ) 


also , has anyone heard any that the new  ( the ones with the 
) will be better designed that this first i love my , but 
cards in the is not much fun. 

bob 

bob lord 100 south room 
network chicago il , 
group , 


distribution world 
from david a. 
organization , inc. 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
lines 11 

the real question here in my opinion is what motorola running system 
7 on a mac are comparable to what running on a pc i 
recall there being a conversation here that a 25 running 
at about the same speed as in system 7. i do n't know if that is 
true , but i would love to hear if anyone has any technical data on this. 

david 

from planet , the bbs of  . the message contained in 
this posting does not in any way reflect 's official views. 


from  ( les ferch ) 
subject re when is apple going to 's 
organization the university of british 
lines 5 
nntp posting host ca . 

note that if you get the external for your or you will 
miss out on the sound mixing feature unless you are willing to run a wire 
from the sound to the stereo output on the  . 
connecting to the sound on the back of the computer wo n't do 
unless you can live with  . 

from  ( mark beale ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization research center 
lines 7 
nntp posting host edu . 

about this 700 , has anyone heard 
of anything like it for the 

please reply e mail , i do n't get to the news very often. thanks ! ! 

mark 
edu . 

from  ( dan keldsen ) 
subject  ( 24sx(si ) for sale ! update ! ! 
article i.d. geraldo . 
reply to  ( dan keldsen ) 
distribution usa 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 64 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
originator 

fellow humans , and other net creatures .  .  .  . 

if you 're at all interested in this merchandise , please e mail me 


i'm my system and moving to a single system , so i have 
two and cards for sale .  . nothing at all is wrong with these pieces , 
i'm just wanting to space , and get all of my info from one 
screen. 

i 'd prefer to sell to people near austin and surrounding areas  ( within 
driving distance like an hour away perhaps ) , but i can to you if you 
do n't live near here. only problem is that i did n't keep the original boxes 
for the , but i'm confident that my few months of full time service 
in the room will me to safely the and 
flip it in your direction .  . 

details 

full page display  ( monochrome ) w card 


sold 

14 color 

what 's to say it got top in last year 's report. it 's a , 
, arguably the best  ( but i 'd rather not argue that  . 
it 's a great , in great shape , but i'm going to a bigger , 
and although i 'd like to keep it , do n't justify it. 

still selling for at  ( where i bought it originally not 
including shipping ) , will sell for  ( plus  . again , make an 
offer if that sounds unreasonable .  . 


 ( 24 bit , hardware , 4 ram ) 

the a few months after i bought it , this board is for 13 
, providing 24 bit , hardware , mode 
 ( you can plug it into something like the video and output 
ntsc ) , and 4 that use 1 or 4 for , or a 
 . software included for such functions .  . 4 of included  ( 1 
 . 

selling for at bottom line  ( without the add 100 ) , i'm asking 
 ( shipping included this time , it 's just a  . original box and 
 . i 'd actually prefer to sell the and this card 
together , so if you want both , drop me e mail and make a offer 
for these items. 



cheers .  . 

dan 



dan are you now , or have you ever been 
a. a college student 
univ .  . of texas , austin b. a member fan of death 
music composition , c. a programmer 
m m  ( ask ) d. a think c programmer 

from 
subject video options 
x id pc 316 . stanford . edu . 
x fri , 16 apr 93 02 14 01 gmt 
organization stanford university 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 11 

there was a discussion a couple of weeks ago about using different 
to 
achieve different on the and series .  . a 
company that sold the was mentioned. can someone please e mail me 
the name , address , etc , and any other info that may be relevant 


just like everything else in life , the right ends in half a  . 

 . 


from  ( lex van sonderen ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host 
organization philips interactive media of america 
lines 19 

in article writes 
as i said i know a is necessary if you do more  .  .  . 
but what if it is just a drive and do a second 
do you need one for that too 

if you write a second time to a you need to have capability to 
read the second session. whether it is or just data or whatever. 

here is a way of looking at it 
the first has the directory structure burned at some  . the 
second has a newer directory structure , but the first directory still 
exists , because you cannot change , only add .  . so if you put that in a  normal  
drive and it will only look to the first directory and think it has found all 
data .  . means that the drive will look for the last 
directory written to the , older systems look only for  the  directory , not 
taking multiple into account. 

lex van 
philips interactive media 

from  ( timothy richard peng ) 
subject re apple 14 
organization university of michigan ann arbor 
lines 4 
reply to 
nntp posting host itd . umich . edu . 
originator 

this must be a faq from the very first days of the 13 ! ! ! ! 

and as for a better for your , well , the are 
pretty nice .  .  .  . 

from  ( mark rogowsky ) 
subject re vs.  ( was re iii capable ) 
organization stanford university 
lines 42 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

in article , 
 ( bill beam jockey ) writes 
in article ,  ( brian v. hughes ) writes 
 ( marvin miller ) writes 
my friend recently purchased a iii and he wants to know if there is 
such a demon called for his 

the family of can only 
use cards. they are not able to use  . 

ah , but why can some technically hip tell us what the 
difference is between and 

is it impossible to make a that into and ends in a 
card cage at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to 
one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for 
this 


o ) ' ' , , ' , 
) ( ) ( ) ! 
( ) ( ) 
bill national 
bitnet 
internet 

second wave makes card that work on the of at 
least three the 30 , and  . they have not , to 
my knowledge , such a device for the , but they could 
make one ,  . 

the card that goes to the cage simply needs the 
present on  . 

why , though , does anyone care about this has a three 
for the  . they will soon have one for the  . 
is better than for most people in most applications .  . granted , 
there are more cards. but , most applications that require a 
card  ( like full motion video capture ) should n't be done on an 
anyway. 

mark 

from  ( arthur greene ) 
subject vs 
organization node 1 6 . not even odd , ny 
lines 9 

can anyone tell me what the difference is between a chip and a 
i need the former (i think) to add memory to my 
ls .  . someone is offering to sell me he removed from an , but 
i have a feeling this may not be the correct form of memory. the 
in the look like they want the  ( there 
are 4 , each with , as i recall , 20 , in two of  . believe it or not , i 've never actually seen a  . help appreciated. 


internet 

from  ( michael s kluskens ) 
subject re problems 
organization research 
lines 39 

in article , 
 ( mark h. nodine ) wrote 

in article ,  ( bill johnston ) writes 
in article  ( mark h. nodine ) writes 
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your 
message , but i definitely had problems between my 
and my 10 
stuff deleted 

i doubt this is a specific problem. i had to get 
rid of my 20 last year  ( with enough 
stuff deleted 
might fix the problem in my case the would n't 
format mount partition for a  . 

all i know is that the worked perfectly on both my 
mac plus and my  . it was for this reason i assumed 
the problem had something to do with the  . even with the 
, they mostly worked ok. the problem occurred when i 
a from a drive it would start up boxes 
saying this must be with 
even though there was no in the drive .  . 

mark 

the problem mentioned last is a known problem , it was 
discussed last year and an apple pointed out that there was a 
one error in the for the 's  ( at least the 
700 
and  . system 7.1 should not have that problem , for most people the 
solution was to get an updated from the drive  . in my 
case mass wrote a new which fixed the problem on my 

700 , all that occured early last year .  . 

michael s. 

opinions expressed are the author 's and not those of his employer .  . 

distribution world 
from e. 
organization seattle mac 
return to e. 
subject 100 to non apple 
lines 8 

is there a which will me to print to a from my 
100  ( actually i'm going to a which will have an card in 
the ! ! !  . is there some hardware which will me to 
this easily  ( kind of plug and play ! ) .  . 

thanks , 
this message was sent by a member of seattle mac 's exchange bbs 
po box , seattle , usa  ( 206 ) 

from bay . org .  ( michael peirce ) 
subject re sales of slowing down .  .  .  . 
reply to bay . org .  ( michael peirce ) 
organization software 
lines 27 
x mailer release 1 . 


in article sys . mac . ,  ( jean martin ) writes 
first , this is not an april 1 joke. 

a in my town told me that the do n't sell as they use to sell .  . 
the guy told me that apple is having the same problem it has when the 
mac was too expensive the are too expensive in comparison to what 
you can get on the dos side. what do you think of this do you feel the same 
thing about it just curious. 

sounds about right. 

if there is high demand for a product there is little incentive to 
cut  . once the demand fall off a bit , then is the 
time to start getting aggressive with  . waiting too long can 
really hurt your business though ) 

the have sold very well up to now , if they are slowing 
down apple needs to come out with some lower versions  ( the 
only reason i own a is that i could spring for a , 
the rest of the is way to for  . i 'd bet they 'll 
be coming out with more power versions too. 

michael bay . org . 
software , place 
san jose , california usa 
makers of voice  ( 408 ) fax  ( 408 ) 
america 

from 
subject re ad conversion 
organization oxford university vax 
lines 36 

b  ( brian clark ) writes 

in article , 
wrote 

i am working a data and analysis program to data 
from sensory  . 

 ( stuff deleted ) 

another alternative is the use of the sound  . 

can you really make due with the non existent range of an 8 bit 
, of probably dubious and , and perhaps 
ac coupled as well 

it clearly depends on the type of questions you are asking but in many 
cases it will do fine. the critical information from the is in 
the firing  ( maximum about 100 action per 
seconds ) , and not in the of the signal or in details of the 
signal shape .  . so the resolution of about 0 . 4 . you get with an 8 bit 
is more then sufficient .  . 

ac does not have to be a problem either , since in many cases 
you are not interested in the level. my pre is ac coupled 
also. the critical point is the lowest that will pass .  . if 
the cutoff point is to high , the action will be slightly 
 . but even that normally does not matter since it is the 
occurrence of the that is important. 

however , i do want to know what exactly i can expect before i start 
with the to get it going .  . as yet i have no clue were 
to start looking for the technical  . 

peter .  . 


from van der 
subject re problems 
x mon , 19 apr 93 13 30 08 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization university 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 10 

i would like more info on this if anybody has it. our 
has never been working from the  . 
we have been trying it since september 1992 , replaced , 
, i do n't know what all. all the industry we 
 ( the , our apple , the software 
dealer ) all say it 's our fault , or they do n't know. the last 
thing they said was that we needed a special 
( ) .  . anybody know more thanks , 

van der 

from  ( dale adams ) 
subject re adding to 
organization apple computer , inc. , , ca 
lines 13 

in article 
 ( w stuart jones ) writes 
i want to go from to on my  . how many 
do i 
need to buy is the current on the board or do i need to take 
out the current before i add more 

you need to add two will not work in any 
of the or machines .  . there is already of 
to the logic board. you add the two to this to give you a 
total of 1  . 

adams 

from  ( joseph m. kasanic ) 
subject re 14 
article i.d. usenet . 
distribution world 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 16 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x tue , 6 apr 93 03 29 12 gmt 

in article daniel s. , 
writes 
i'm interested in getting a 14 color for my new  . 
unfortunately , i'm really quite confused with the  . 
could someone please compare the , and the apple 14 
thanks. dan 

just thought i would mention that no longer the 
because of several manufacturing flaws .  . the new model is now the 
, which just like apple 's new claims to be 14  . 
i'm not sure of the details on the , but i work at our schools 
bookstore 
and can tell you that nearly half of them were returned with some kind of 
defect or another. 

just my two worth .  . 

from 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
organization sophomore , engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 40 
distribution 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to lab . media . mit . edu . 

from  ( pushpinder singh ) 
subject re video problem i'm having it also ! 
date sat , 17 apr 1993 03 17 45 gmt 

when the computer is set for 256 and certain are done , 
particularly through a , white lines 
appear on the  ( which generally but not always spare open 
 . these lines as the operation is continued .  . if a 
is moved over the involved area of the and then moved away 
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not 
observed if the is for 16 or a 14 apple 
with 256 is used. 

i suspect a bad video chip but cannot be certain .  . the problem has 
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse. 

i'm having exactly the same problem. again , it 's fine when i switch to 16 
or a smaller  . my is 

model with 4 80 , , no cards 
with 16  ( for resolution of 624 ) 

i just discovered the problem a little while ago after in my 
new  . it seems to appear either when through a 
or when using or word and i enter return . 

my guess is bad as well. i really hope it is n't a design flaw .  . is 
anyone at apple listening 






try finding an called basic color  . this should clear 
up some with 's and type  . i know it 
exists , somewhere i have a copy , but i do n't know where and 
never got around to it. i have this problem on my  . 

a. 

from  . a speckman ) 
subject re vs.  ( was re iii capable ) 
article i.d. reed . 
distribution usa 
organization reed college , , 
lines 26 

in article  ( mark rogowsky ) writes 

second wave makes card that work on the of at 
least three the 30 , and  . they have not , to 
my knowledge , such a device for the , but they could 
make one ,  . 

the card that goes to the cage simply needs the 
present on  . 

why , though , does anyone care about this has a three 
for the  . they will soon have one for the  . 
is better than for most people in most applications .  . granted , 
there are more cards. but , most applications that require a 
card  ( like full motion video capture ) should n't be done on an 
anyway. 

mark 


is a much more system for system for multiple 
cards without problems. i know that when i was checking 
into options for an there were a number of video cards 
that would not work with dual  . 



from  ( nathaniel sammons ) 
subject vs. in 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state u. engineering college 
lines 28 

i would like to know what people 's opinions are about the 
real world differences are between a with and without 
a  .  .  . 

i do n't use anything like , , etc. i do n't use 
 ( at least no sheets with complicated anything) , i 
do n't use 3d  ( although i used to) , 

i do use 3d , extensive communications , i run a bbs , 
i write software , i write papers , etc .  .  .  . 

btw , just for kicks , this is what i was told by my local apple 
about a to a on a 
well , apple built in an extra for the chip .  . 
that way , you just plug in the , and it works. 
i then laughed and up the phone. 

thanks , 




o o 
i hate quotations .  . this message brought you by 
tell me what you know. , and the number 42 .  . 
ralph 
o o 


from  ( monthian 1 ) 
subject why does apple give us a confusing message 
nntp posting host student . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 18 


hi there , 

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for 
regarding in all mac price lists i 've seen , every 
has the message optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this 
newsgroup that all have the built in except the 4 80 
 . why would they be so about this issue in their 
price list 
i'm planning to buy the 8 230 pretty soon , but i'm now getting 
confused with whether it comes with or not. 
why say optional if it 's built in 
please , anybody help me understand this game. 

regards , 

 . 


from de .  ( holger skok ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
organization  . f. u.  ( itw ) , u. of , 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host uni . de . 

in article  ( ravikuma venkateswar ) writes 
... stuff deleted 

besides , for 0 wait state , you 'd need a anyway. i mean , 
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of note that this 
memory speed corresponds to a speed of 12 . 5 .  . 

more stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

how do you that figure i 'd assume even in personal computers 
the board would use bank switching to  ( optimistically ) 
the access speed or am i missing something here 



, , 
man , es , ,  . 
lied , lied , oh , will , 
 . ... h. 

from  ( ralph durtschi ) 
subject re 
organization state university , 
lines 47 

hi , i have been getting a lot of requests for this information so i thought 
i would post it for those interested parties .  .  ( sorry for  . 

to increase the speed to or the must be changed 
from to or respectively .  . 
this is done by going to a free work station or putting some 
down to work on. 
1. open up the by lifting the at the back of the case. 
2. remove the hard by the power and , 
spreading the , and lifting the drive out. 
3. remove the drive .  . 
4. remove the power supply by spreading the tab in front and lifting 
the supply straight up and out. 
5. remove the fan by the ears together at the back , bottom 
side of the fan and lifting straight up and out. 
6. remove the mother board by spreading the on the left and 
right side of the board and the board forward then 
lifting the board out.  ( all on the back of the 
board must be removed first ) 
7. the  ( the one to the memory  . 
this is not easy even for a  . 
8. get an ic with the round and remove four of the 
by pushing them up from the bottom with long nose  . 
9. put the four in the holes by the and 
them in. 
10 . insert . a or  . 
11 . put . large power 's on the processor chip and 
the other large chip just to the right of the processor and 
figure some way to hold the 's in place. i made a 
simple by putting a four up through the hole 
in the board between the two  . mount the using 
 . a cross member down over the 
's to hold them in place. do n't use too much pressure .  . 

12. put it all back together and go for it. 

disclaimer this is only the procedure i used and is not by anyone. 
you are on your own for this procedure .  . i'm quite sure it will 
your  . 

bye for now , 

ralph  ( 208 ) 
state university 
email 



from  ( james macphail ) 
subject re at 34 . , it 's fine .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization computer using of b.c. , canada 
lines 15 

in article de . de .  ( rainer menes ) writes 

i wonder why nobody has ever tried to replace the only , like on a 
mac  . 

i have had my running with a 66 . for a few months. i have a 
number of devices connected  ( quantum , , via 
, 600 ) and have had no trouble .  . 

i am using the stock facilities , i considered adding a fan , 
but do n't feel they are necessary  ( for my box  . i have a on 
order and plan to do some measurements when it arrives in a few weeks. email me 
if you want to see the results. 

james  ( on , try 

from  ( thomas martin widmann ) 
subject position of  b  on  . keyboard 
organization computer science department , university , denmark 
lines 12 

so far i have only seen pictures of the new keyboard , 
but it seems that the  b  is placed on the left part after the split .  . 
however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught 
to write  b  with my right hand. is this a difference between 
and american typing , or what 

thanks a lot in advance ! 



thomas 
in 

from  ( andrew e page ) 
subject using  ( setwutime( ) with a 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 16 


i seem to be having some trouble with this .  .  .  . 

i can get the mac to go to sleep , but i ca n't make seem to 
make it wake up with  . i am aware of the error in 
the files and im  . i am setting the time to be 
about two , then putting the mac to sleep , but it does n't 
at the time .  .  .  .  . 

does it require a call to in order to make sure that 
everything is setup 


andrew e. page  ( warrior poet ) decision and effort the and arrow 
mac the difference between what we are 
and technology and what we want to be. 

subject word printing to 
from  ( gary 's news ) 
organization marshall university 
lines 39 

we have a user that has word 5 . 0 . and is using symbols such as and 
other , plus doing , etc. 

the document shows up on the with no problems , looks fine. 

when she tries to print it on a the changes to an down 
, and several other symbols change to double quotes at bottom of 
character , plus some little circles appear between words of the 
instead of  . 

this happens on a laser  . tried it on and two 
different 's .  . 

fine on an nt and laser  . 

what 's wrong 

thanks for any help in advance , 








university computer center 
400 
, west virginia 

phone  ( 304 ) 
fax  ( 304 ) 

internet 
bitnet 
net 




from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject reports 
summary request for 
keywords , , , , chip 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington 
lines 18 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

i am continuing to user results to produce a more comprehensive 
report on  . i you have attempted the 
please drop me a note with details of your experience. the more reports 
obtained , the more accurate the numbers i will generate .  . 

if possible , please include the following 
1 ) top speed achieved 
2 ) system at top setting 
a ) speed of the  ( the last two printed on ) 
b ) presence of additional 
c ) cards used 
d ) drive on both and 1.4 m 
3) damage incurred during 
4 ) damage due to higher speed use 
5 ) average length of time the is on. (i . e .  . 8 hours a day ) 
6 ) unusual other to the usual procedure 

guy 

from  ( operator ) 
subject photo 
nntp posting host admin 
reply to 
organization corp .  . , foster city , ca 
lines 23 

i have a and a color  . 
i a picture at 600  . when i try to print 
it on my color , after 10 of 
making , the mac  . i would need to it. 
what does this mean do i need to buy more memory i have 
5 . 0 . now. i also have about 50 of free , and the 
picture is about 12  . 






@ 
 .  .  . 

0 0 







from  ( matthew t. russotto ) 
subject re interesting behaviour on 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 22 
nntp posting host tea . eng . umd . edu . 

in article  ( gordon davisson ) writes 

mind you , this does n't mean you should n't do it. the parts that can 
blow  ( the power and filter ) are n't too expensive , so if you 
have a someone around who can do component level , it may be worth 
the risk  ( especially if you 're around seattle ,  cause you might get to 
pay me to fix it  .  . on the other hand , if your only option 
is the apple standard logic board  ( major ) , you should probably 
play it safe .  . 


yes , yes , yes .  .  .  . they can all cause trouble .  . 

, some of us get lucky i 've and and 
quite often , and never blown anything. i blew out the by 
the , though. 


matthew t. 
some news readers expect disclaimer here. 
just say no to police searches and  . make them use force. 
 ( not responsible for bodily harm resulting from following above advice ) 

from matt bbs . corp . apple . com . 
distribution na 
organization awareness group in canada 
subject re internal , how 
lines 9 

but apple says unable to a suitable drive on ... 
what 's he doing wrong 

apples will only format a hard drive that apple sold .  . you need to use 
a third party like or  . 





from  ( chris magnuson ) 
subject precision color video card 
organization division 
lines 22 
nntp posting host com . 

i have a precision color video card for the mac that fits in a 
 . the card has 3 of on it , which means that 24 bit color 
is possible on the card ! the card supports just about any 
rate you can think of (i used it at , and , but it 
can go  . you can switch and depth on the with a 
software control  . 

this is the version of the card , which means all 
calls are not executed by the but taken over by the video card , 
up the mac processor for other  . 

the i could find this card for when i called around last night 
was at mac 's place. i will sell it for  . it is just 
over a year old and never been any problem. it comes with software and the 
original  . 

! 

chris 

company 
 ( 719 ) 

from  ( gary snow ) 
subject re warning ! do n't break 
article i.d. clark . 1993apr6 . 
organization clark college , vancouver ,  . usa 
lines 20 

in article bay . org . bay . org .  ( michael peirce ) writes 

surprised should n't be. almost always end up 
the u.s. in the long run. same with  . they way 
to build a strong economy is n't to it off from the tough outside 
world , but rather to in the market place  ( and do n't 
come when the world does n't always want to play by our house 
 . 

tell that to the japanese , their local market is protected by 
the japanese government. its one very tough to crack .  . in fact 
the only current way to break into it , is to do it with a japanese 
company as a in the venture .  . 






uunet ! clark ! or 

from  ( lowell b. reiter ) 
subject iii ,  ( printing(non appletalk ) with 
lines 25 
organization university , ma 

how does one print to a non using stuff. 

i'm using the serial does  . i  saving a and then tried sending with 0 . and it says ca n , 
then some not  . i'm using and one  . should i use a null help .  .  .  . 




i need a  .  .  . now ! ! ! 
university 
internet account 















from chris 
subject re question 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x fri , 16 apr 93 21 04 15 gmt 

in article utexas . edu . , 
writes 
is , of course a different technology , and does n't enjoy the 
long 
term data of  . and the last time i looked , 

were n't all that cheap , ( 30 per 1 . 40 . per megabyte , 60 
per is 1 . 36 . per  . 


i do n't know how many times i 've posted this the net. no one ever 
 . 

once and for all media is only 1 . 40 . a megabyte if you do n't 
know where to buy it. i am my at 30 per 2  . i 
see that as  . 75 . a , not 1 . 40 .  . no , i'm not buying in , i'm 
not getting a special deal.  . 75 . a is good in my book , 
price .  . 

any questions on my source can be sent to 


chris 
chris here we go again .  .  .  . 


well , at least you know where to find me now .  .  . in a terminal , 
checking my mail .  .  . 

from  ( nestor f michelena ) 
subject help ! ! error at power up a mac plus 
nntp posting host cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 7 

i'm getting a sad mac on a black with the error code  . 
could someone please tell me what 's wrong memory 

thanks a lot. i 'd appreciate it infinitely .  .  .  . 




from  ( ravikuma venkateswar ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 59 

 ( ray fischer ) writes 

 ( dave kitabjian ) writes ... 
i'm sure and motorola are competing and for 
power , but for a given speed , how do we rank the 
following  ( from 1st to 6th ) 






how about some numbers here some kind of 
if you want , let me start it 66 32 , 16 . 

while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list 




, then , with the first versions of the 
somewhere in the  . 

numbers 65 , 57 . 
50 , 80 .  ( note this is the 601 ) 
 ( alpha 74 , just for comparison ) 

and about speed does the speed double the 
overall processor speed and fill in the 's below 
@ @ 

no. computer speed is only partly dependent of processor speed .  . 
memory system speed play a large role as does video system speed and 
i o speed .  . as processor go up , the speed of the memory 
system becomes the greatest factor in the overall system speed .  . if 
you have a processor , it can be reading another word from memory 
every  . sure , you can put all memory in your computer , but 
it will cost 10 times as much as the  . 

not in a system. there is n't a in , but 
it is quite significant .  . maybe about a 70 increase in  . 

besides , for 0 wait state , you 'd need a anyway. i mean , 
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of note that this 
memory speed corresponds to a speed of 12 . 5 .  . 

and roughly , the is twice as fast at a given 
speed as is the  . 

numbers 


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth 
than lies .  . friedrich nietzsche 




a pun is a no  form of whit .  . 

from 
subject re problems 
x id pc 316 . stanford . edu . 
x fri , 16 apr 93 02 11 55 gmt 
organization stanford university 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 24 

in article , writes 
its not a good idea to have a hard in a 
position. if the drive is in a position , 
it can 
not completely for the pull in a 
position. 
i'm not saying that your hard will fail tomorrow or 6 months from 
now , but 
why take that chance if you want more detailed info on the problem , 
please 

i think the other replies sum up the fact that you can place a hard drive 
on its side. the point is this will only be sure to work on the  new  
drives , namely 1 3 drives that have a smaller and are also 
more stable .  . 
why should i take the chance because i 've been running a 1 3 
120 on both its side and flat for about a year and i 've had no 
problems with it. period. 
like i always say , never trust the  . 

just like everything else in life , the right ends in half a  . 

 . 


from  ( jim jagielski ) 
subject re problems 
keywords 
lines 29 
reply to  ( jim jagielski ) 
organization nasa space center 

 ( tim smith ) writes 

attention mac owners many industry have 
concluded that mac suffer from 
from the standard  . this results in silent corruption 
of data when used with some devices , including modern devices .  . 
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault , an 
example would be a 3.5 , without the special mac compatible 
 . one solution , sometimes , is to blind writes 

this does n't sound right to me. do n't use the if so , the 
mac has nothing to do with the  . that 's all by the 
chip .  . about the only the could be wrong is if apple programs the 
wrong on the  . that , however , should only really hurt 
, which is not used by the mac  . 

furthermore , blind writes should be meaningless on a  . 
on that used the , which is a much lower level chip , the 
mac was responsible for the of each transferred .  . blind 
mode affected how the mac that  . on the , the 
is entirely by the chip .  . 

the say that it 's a bug , if this changes things at all .  .  .  . 

jim and he 's gonna me. so i say , 
 hey ! ! how about something , 
nasa , code 4 . you know , for the effort ! ' 
, md 


from  ( albatross ) 
subject re 14 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization university , des , iowa , usa 
lines 12 

on a related note , will the work on a with internal video 
and give the multiple 

this i'm very curious about .  .  .  . 

thanks ! 



kevin technical support 
, 


from  ( gregory g. woodbury ) 
subject errors  ( was differences 
reply to 
organization unix 
lines 16 
x signature 

 ( robert david klapper ) writes 

i also believe that the fixed a bug in the which up 
some floating point calculations .  . 

does anyone have details on this what sort of errors is 
the sensitive to 

 ( my is having some strange problems with an 
program , getting a lot of  ( segment loader ) errors. 0 . 4 . and 
system 7 . 0 . 1 . ) 

g. @ the unix , nc standard disclaimers 
uucp  .  .  . ! !  .  .  . duke . ! ! use the ! 
domain 
this site is not with duke university .  .  ( idiots ! ) 

from  ( allan schwartz ) 
subject re making an internal hard into an external 
organization systems , santa 
lines 29 
nntp posting host com . 

its not a difficult operation the and such are standard , 
except for id .  . id is usually three 
on  . 

i am trying to put a drive from my into a case. it is a conner 
 . i ca n't figure out which are the id  . 
is anyone familiar with this drive 

at the end of the drive  ( oposite the 50 pin connector ) , there 
are which look like this 


o o o o o o 1 
o o o o o 2 



where the o are , and the represent some of the 
near these  . 

elsewhere on the board there are four , , , 
on the screen. 

does anyone know where the id , , are , and where the 
drive activity light led should be into 

allan 

allan m. 1 408 

from  ( torbj rognes ) 
subject adding  . hard drive to 
keywords mac , internal , hard drive , 
reply to  ( torbj rognes ) 
organization  . of cs , institute of technology 
lines 32 

i have n't seen much info about how to add an extra internal to a 
mac .  . we would like to try it , and i wonder if someone had some good 
advice. 

we have a mac with the original internal quantum hard , 
and an drive .  . we also have a new spare connor 
which we would like to use. the idea is to replace the broken 
drive with the new hard , but there seems to be some 
problems 

the internal and power inside the has only 
for one single hard drive .  . 

if i made a and a power with three each 
 ( 1 for , 1 for each of the 2 disks ) , would it work 

is the able to supply the extra power to the extra 

what about i suppose that i should remove the 
from the that is to the , but leave them 
in the other  . 

the id should also be changed so that the new gets 
id 1. the old one should have id 0. 

it is no problem for us to remove the drive , as we have an 
external that we can use if it wo n't of the hard  . 

thank you ! 


email 

from 
subject re 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization washington state university 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( kevin b. hayes ) writes 
you can find that is within the price of a keyboard of 
 . 

i would be very wary of selling as cheap as ! 
i went for a , actually mail order  ( cda computers ) , because its price 
was better the campus computer  . i found out why later on when i 
tried to get a done at an apple center the was a 
 . the serial number had been removed and replaced with a non standard 
number  ( probably from  . consequently , the apple man could 
not do any  . so i ended up with just a from 
over the apple  . boy , was i ed ! moral of the story , 
 . 

however , if you go with a reliable , trustworthy mail order firm  ( if they exist 
maybe someone could enlighten us with their experiences ) , you will probably 
get a better price than your local simply because mail order 
out of state does not require sales tax yet. though for how much longer remains 
to be seen. the addition in sales tax on a will probably wipe out 
an discount .  . again , some mail order do 
include sales tax on even if they are out of state , so check ! 

richard .  . 
richard j 
o o washington state university 
( ) ) voice  ( 509 ) fax  ( 509 ) 
o to err is human , but to really things up takes a computer ! 

from (s .  . jacobs ) 
subject problem. 
nntp posting host co . edu . 
organization boulder school district 
lines 10 

the problem is this 
after starting up my machine it gives a high sound once at the also it only does it when the is up or a is not showing .  . 

as if i click the the goes away for the amount of time the is down. also this problem only happens for about 5 10 minutes. 

please let me know if you know what this is , it sounds like it is coming form the power supply .  . 
please post here and email me 

thanks ! 


from t. 
subject re problems  ( sideways 's ) 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 27 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x fri , 16 apr 93 11 14 26 gmt 

in article , writes 
its not a good idea to have a hard in a 
position. if the drive is in a position , 
it can 
not completely for the pull in a 
position. 
i'm not saying that your hard will fail tomorrow or 6 months from 
now , but 
why take that chance if you want more detailed info on the problem , 
please 
mail me at . 


, 

i asked this question a while ago while my on 
it 's side. i received a response from someone at  ( sorry i 
trashed the message ) stating that most newer drives  ( seagates at the 
least ) can very well for gravity .  . this means that a 
drive can be later placed with no data 
problems. the only way that newer drives cannot work is if you 
have forces  ( shaking , , etc ) so do n't place the drive on 
it 's side on a chair ) .  . what constitutes a  newer  drive i 
do n't know , try calling your drive  . i have a quantum 
internal , and since i got it a month ago , i am it 's  . 

t 

from  ( eric choi ) 
subject re gray market 
organization node 1 5 . association mac bbs , grand mi 
lines 17 


eu apple does not sales through mail order. as a result mail 
eu order have to obtain their machines by the grey market .  . 
eu 
eu this market is with machines from who 
eu have more machines than they can sell .  . they come into this state of 
eu affairs by either accidentally or to get a 
eu better price from apple .  . in either case they often obscure 
eu the serial to protect their identity .  . as a result the 
eu is  . 

i have ordered several from different mail order with absolutely zero problem. you have to dig around to find the true gray market that sell with authentic serial numbers  . there are value added  ( nothing to do with , no flame please ) that are very legitimate .  . 

unfortunately is one of those that replace the serial number with their own to prevent apple from which sold that machine to  . 


eric internet 

from  ( peter silva ) 
subject re and next like story 
organization support , 
lines 15 

in article  ( tor berntzen ) writes 
another thing , why a interface 

because works well with media , and works well with large 
capacity devices .  . the interface you suggest handles the former , but 
it does n't have any hooks for dealing with the latter .  .  .  . you 'd have to 
it. plus , it 's extremely low  . and , has of room for 
compared with a (i can just see it , let 's stick a 5 . 25 . , 
a 3.5 , a drive , and a drive , all on the interface .  . the 
possibilities for are  . 

peter ` ' 
network incorporated  
west airport  . sugar land , tx usa 
1 274 al 

from  ( spaceman ) 
subject for sale or 
nntp posting host college node . net . yale . edu . 
organization yale u. 
lines 11 

i have a chip for sale .  . worked fine in my and will give 256 
on x size screen. asking 50 .  . i 'll cover  . speaking 
of which , does anyone know what the best way to send a chip is. i have a 
plastic sleeve , but what 's the best way to send it in an 
first class all info appreciated. 


bill 
p.o. box , yale station 
new haven , ct 


from  ( garry weil ) 
subject needed 
summary which one larger than 14 
organization software technology group 
lines 16 


i have finally decided to update my  . 
i am planning on buying a 8 230  . 
now , what should i get here are a few 

my wife uses , i use sometimes 
and i do alot of from home to work. we both 
do word  . greater than 14  . 

i have looked at the color  . this can be bought for 
under 1000 .  . i have heard good things about the e machines t 16 , 
the older model not the new t 16 ii. how about the super mac 
these both can be had for a little over 1000 .  . any others 




from  ( jason s. macdonald ) 
subject re will be slow ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization corporation 
lines 35 

 ( andrew geweke ) writes 
i cannot speak for  . but i am quite sure that the 
uses the full 16 bit or 32 bit data path to its full advantage .  . that is , 
it is running as fast with two or four 30 pin as it would with one 
72 pin  . now , it may be that  ( assuming a 32 bit 
data path here ) get the first from the first , the second 
from the second , and so on. this would mean that each of memory 
is actually split among four , one for each  . on the other hand , 
it could be that the are by word or  ( not just 
by byte ) , or they could be in memory , and the memory 
deals with the eight bit data path that each one has .  . i 
suspect , though , that they are to some extent so that 32 bits 
can be read or written at once. this would indicate a level 
 . 
i am not confusing this with the new machines  
with two 72 pin of the same sort , although that seems to 
be the same sort of idea. there , you get an essential 64 bit data path 
 ( excuse me , to) instead of just a 32 bit one. yes , the ca n't 
handle it , but when writing to addresses it something 
up. 
so , , am i right 30 pin are by , 
allowing the full data or , as is common with usenet and me in 
particular , am i as as everyone else 

what conclusion can be drawn from this i'm trying to figure out what kind 
of memory for the iii  ( 32 bit datapath ) would be  . any 
ideas 

thanks , 
jason 

jason scott 
technology sufficiently advanced is 
from magic .  . cats exist so that we 
c. may the lion .  . 

from  ( jon w tte ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host nada . 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 21 

in writes 

there is no reason that apple could n't release software for older 
computers  ( there are lots of mac , and that have been 
to and which should be perfectly able to deal 
with color quickdraw ) but they wont , and 3rd parties are having a difficult 

there is one reason market size. 

the market size for color for and 
 ( which do n't go beyond 4 anyway ) is just too small the 
extra cost would 1 , 000 and with that money , you can buy a 
color classic instead. 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 

i do n't fear death , it 's dying that me. 

from (c .  . m. miller ) 
subject results of speed ! ! 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 

well , here are the results of the test which i posted to 
this newsgroup .  . the test was the following command 

 (  2 9000 )  ( 2 3 .  ( x 5000 ) 2  ( y 8000 ) 2 
81000000 ) 1 .  (  3 9000 )  ( 2 3 .  ( x 10000 ) 2 
 ( y 1000 ) 2 81000000 ) 1 .  ( 4 2000 )  ( 2 3 . 
 ( x 7000 ) 2  ( y 10000 ) 2 4000000 ) 1 . , 
x , , , y , , , 50 


i was just curious how fast the plot command would be executed on 
various machines as well as other personal computers and 
workstations .  . the results are posted below 

machine system math  . of trials time , 

7 . 0 . 0 . with 2 . 1 . 2 2 08 

for 


dec 2a . 2 . 1 . for 1 0 25 
dec risc 

7.1 1 .  . 1 4 30 

for math .  . 
w 

7.1 2 0 32 

1.2 1 01 
for math .  . 

1 . 3 . 0 14 
station 

sgi risc 0 01 
processor 
version 

1 . 2 . 2 . 1 . 0 26 


7.1 3 15 

next 2 . 1 . 1.2 2 38 
cube based 
w 

next 3 . 0 . 1.2  ( 5(ave ) 0 52 
cube 
20 

for 2 . 102 . 3 15 
math .  . 
w 

next 1 0 37 
25 

2 . 1 . 

funny how the running at 25 is than other equivalent 
machines , lots in fact. perhaps the version of 
makes a difference or the fact that not much was  . 
another interesting thing is how fast the sgi did it. wow. 

basically , though , i would n't draw any conclusions from this data .  . it 
seems that 's speed is on a lot of  . i 
was just curious how different machines would measure up. 

well , if you have any questions or if i forgot something , just drop me 
a line at . 



ps if the of the above table does n't come out right on your 
machine , tell me and i 'll mail you a copy of this in a word 
5 . 1 . document .  . 





from 
subject re when is apple going to 's 
organization university of houston 
lines 22 
reply to 
nntp posting host franklin . uh . edu . 

in article 
 ( rodney jacks ) writes 
i would really like to get one of the new 
drives for my , but my local apple does n't know 
when they will be available. he does n't even have a part 
number yet. does anyone know what the part number 
for this drive is and when it will be available 

my apple suggested i buy one of the external 
drives , but i do n't want to pay extra for a case power supply 
i'm not going to use. 

rodney 


the  ( external ) is already and has been for quite 
now. demand for the units are high , so they are pretty rare .  . i 've seen them 
listed for around at local computer stores and the campus mac 
 . i 've also heard that they are with a couple of 's , 
but i ca n't it. 



from  ( kiran wagle ) 
subject replacing internal w 
organization the sea 
lines 13 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

hi all , 

i have a with a drive that might be bad  ( and might just be out 
of , i have n't checked yet.  ) if the drive is not easily 
, i 'd like to replace it with an internal  . can this 
be easily done can it be done at all 

i'm assuming that drives can read and write both and 1 . 
 . if this is not in fact true , please tell me. 

thanks in advance , 



from  ( tom verhoeff ) 
subject drivers 3 . 1 . how to 
organization univ .  . of technology , the 
lines 15 
nntp posting host win . tue . 
keywords , 3 . 1 . , system 7.1 , 

i recently to system 7.1 and now i also my 
drivers from 2.2 to 3 . 1 .  . i got the software from , 
but it is not clear to me where to what. 

can someone tell me which of the files that come with 3 . 1 . go where 
and for what purpose what can be left out , for instance , if 
you do n't want to do background printing 

thanks , 

tom 

internet university of technology 
voice 31 40 47 41 25 dept of mathematics computing science 
fax 31 40 43 66 85 po box , , 

from michael t. 
subject full page 
organization , social decision sciences , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 31 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

hi. i am working on a project for my class and i 'd like to 
ask your help. the is to come up with a product and create a 
plan for it. technical issues are not terribly important at 
this point. well , my group 's plan is to market a full page 
for computers. it would be a third party product to be 
by  ( like newer technology 's 
 . the idea is that the would in such a way that you 
would get twice the of a normal  ( remember , 
technical issues aside ! ) .  . in fact , by the of the 
and the , you could have regular or full  . 
the would probably be  . 
the motivation behind this is that computers seem to be very 
popular among business people. business people also commonly use word 
and applications for which it is very convenient 
to see a large portion of the document .  . because of the target users and 
applications , color are n't really a  . we could 
keep the cost between 2000 and 3000 .  . 

now , please do n't write this off as completely ridiculous .  . i really 
need some constructive  . so , if you would , please reply to me 
via email and let me know 
1. if you would consider buying a full page 
2. how much you would be willing to pay for it 
3. any helpful commentaries on the idea 

also , if you take this idea and make a lot of money off it  ( doubtful , 
but who knows ! ) , please send me some. 

thanks in advance ! ! ! 

mike 

from  ( peter cohen ) 
subject re en wo n't work with 230 
originator 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the electronic foundation 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 23 

bill wrote 

i guess this changes my opinion of them and i thought i would warn 
any for the en  . 

, i work for focus , and a lot of the people we sell our 
t  ( our interface ) are en 
users. 

i also now need to know if anyone has been successful with the 
comparable product from or focus .  . i really do n't want to use up 
that  . 

sigh . i wish i had better news. the focus is currently 
incompatible with the  . this may change in the future. we do have 
apple compatible cards that are 100 compatible with the 
, though. 

send questions to 


peter a. cohen i 'd rather be  . 


distribution world 
from bruce 
organization , inc. 
subject eight  . , o . b . o .  . 
lines 14 

a friend of mine has eight  ( 8 ) for sale for each or best 
offer .  . since these for  . , you may want to 
contact him directly at 

steve 
days 


thanks , 
bruce l. 

from planet , the bbs of  . the message contained in 
this posting does not in any way reflect 's official views. 


from  ( kevin b. hayes ) 
subject re changing size in 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
lines 20 

in writes 

some kind soul told me that i could change the serial size 
of via  . he did not tell me how i could change it using 
, and i have lost his e mail address. 

could he or any one else please tell me what to do 

i assume that the relevant resource is , but i do not know , and 
chop 

could you please post it to the net too please , as i , and i'm sure many others 
would like to know. thanks ! 
 . 


kevin my opinions do necessarily 
university reflect the opinions of 
, , canada myself so me ! 


from  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
subject power for mac 's 
summary i need them 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
organization university 
lines 13 


i i 'll be able to pick up a of mac 's for nothing , but 
their power are dead. anyone know where i can pick up a pair 
of ps 's for cheap  ( preferably mail  . 
yes , i do have uses them. one will be sold to a friend who 
just needs a terminal to connect via to his e mail account. 
the other will be used by me as a net to run my and or 
printing .  . 

also , what is the latest system software with these 




from  ( steven m labovitz ) 
subject re for 
keywords , 
organization university of 
lines 13 
nntp posting host seas . edu . 


i too am interested in peoples  experience with for the 
 . is an the best route to improve in my , or should 
i consider to an 30 obviously , buying a new mac 
would be ideal , but , i only have enough money for an or 
 . 
e mail reply preferred .  . thanks. 



steve 
dept. of materials science engineering 
u. penn 

from  ( eric choi ) 
subject re 
organization node 1 5 . association mac bbs , grand mi 
lines 25 

ku from  ( kin au ) date 13 apr 93 
ku 07 22 05 gmt organization california state university , 
ku message id newsgroups 
ku sys . mac . hardware . 
ku 
ku in , you can buy a cheap pc or based computer .  . 
ku however , it is very experience to buy a  . last , i was 
ku back to  . i saw the price of mac classic in is same 
ku price to buy a in the u.s. 
ku 
ku i am not recommended to buy mac in since mac is not popular 
ku in  . 
ku 
ku au 

mr. au , 

i have to disagree regarding your of in  . the mac has a share of the market , as in the u.s. a local magazine , next magazine  ( similar to newsweek here ) , uses the mac  . i have seen sir and other in with mac based systems. true , the discount is not as as here because in cannot buy from gray market , nor are mac being sold thru mass like apple does here with the 


e. at this point the sale of mac is by one exclusive  . on the other hand , you can always get a pc or in the earlier days , illegal clones of the apple  . 

your perception of the mac not being too popular in is simply because most and users find it much to go to one of those stores that sell pc clones with probably illegal copies of than to pay for a mac .  . 

similarly you cannot say 1 2 3 surely is not well accepted in because the sale is so low. may be it is because of all those places in where illegal copies of 1 2 3 can be bought for 20 and 10 for a looking but illegal copies of the  . 


eric internet 

from thomas 
subject re thanks apple free on my ! 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x tue , 6 apr 93 12 50 55 gmt 

in article , 
writes 
oh , and the seems in a way on power up. 
i 've seen this mentioned by others , so it must be a .  .  . feature .  .  .  . 
anyway , above all , it 's fast .  . a great machine at a great price ! 

well , i saw a few posts on this and that everyone is talking about 
the new 14 display .  .  .  . mine does it to .  .  .  . kinda like when i would 
my old 13 , and since the new one lacks this , i assume that is 
what it is doing .  .  .  . anyone that knows i 'd appreciate the info , but it 
does n't worry me .  .  .  . 

t 

from  ( ladd morse ) 
subject mac oriented in chicago 
lines 8 

a member of the local bbs i frequent is looking for mac oriented based in 
chicago .  . 

any leads would be most appreciated. 



! 

from  ( mark h. nodine ) 
subject re problems 
keywords 
organization mit for computer science 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( bill johnston ) writes 
in article  ( mark h. nodine ) writes 
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your 
message , but i definitely had problems between my 
and my 10 
drives .  . my solution was to get  . none of 
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives 
in fact the only loop that worked was the 
software loop  ( whatever that  . 

i doubt this is a specific problem. i had to get 
rid of my 20 last year  ( with enough 
purchased at 90 each to make the whole thing 
worth more than my whole computer ) .  . the tech support guys 
at suggested that some third party drivers 
might fix the problem in my case the would n't 
format mount partition for a  . 

all i know is that the worked perfectly on both my 
mac plus and my  . it was for this reason i assumed 
the problem had something to do with the  . even with the 
, they mostly worked ok. the problem occurred when i 
a from a drive it would start up boxes 
saying this must be with 
even though there was no in the drive .  . 

mark 


from  ( david joshua mirsky ) 
subject 
organization 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 

hi. i own an and i recently heard an interesting  . 
i heard that the has a built in for a chip .  . 
is this true i heard that the is not the same as the 
 . is that true 

thanks 
david 



from  ( mats bredell ) 
subject re w out  .  . right. 
reply to 
organization university computing center  ( udac ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 

wrote 
is there a fix for this we have a that will not finish 
unless there is a connected .  . this would be no problem , but since 
we 're running it as a file server , there is no need to have a 
connected all the time. 

i 've seen a control made for this. i do n't remember the name , where i 
saw it , or on what models it will work. but i do know it exists ) 

mats 


mats 
university computing center  ( udac ) 46 18 
department of medical systems fax 46 18 
think straight be gay ! 

from  ( steed bell ) 
subject how to get 10 ma 
reply to 
organization the bbs , lawrence , ks 
lines 10 

peter , i'm sure someone out there has a better easier way to do what you want 
to do , but i 'll tell you how we do it where i work. we have about 15 
networked together using and  . to chat we use a 
program called  . with it we can send brief messages to all or 
machines within the network. 

hope that helps .  .  .  . 




from 
subject updated keyboard question for the plus 
organization illinois state university 
lines 44 

i have an old mac plus .  . a couple of years ago i bought a new  . 
it came with apple 's new keyboard  ( with  . i replaced it with 
a mac pro plus extended keyboard  ( which i thoroughly enjoy , thank you 
very  . 

well , i have this extra keyboard which i would like to use on the plus 
but there 's a little problem. the plus uses an 11 jack for keyboard 
and the new do n't .  . i got an extra from my 
local apple  ( they 're such nice people ) , but they could n't tell 
me the order of the  . 

there are four in the black , white , red , tan .  . i know 
one 's a ground , one gets the serial signal , one 5 , and 
i forgot what the fourth one does. anyway , if you them up wrong 
you 'll a board and i really do n't want to do that . 

if any souls out there have done this before , please e mail your 
experience directly to me. i would greatly appreciate it especially 
since apple 's original keyboard is not . . . correct. 

btw , i did take apart my new keyboard to see if i could find the 
correlation between the for the 11 jack and the since it 
has both , but no such luck  ( the are inside of 
little  . oh , well . . . 

one more thing in case you are thinking that the on the 
newer models are different from the connection used on the plus 
you 're right. however , you can use the telephone from the plus 
and connect the mac pro plus keyboard via its own 11 jack .  . in 
other words , this little engineering feat i wish to do is possible. 
it 's merely a matter of finding out the correct order. 

, when i get this to work , i definitely will post the solution 
so others can , too. thanx for the input. 


the blink of an eye , the of a , 
from the of health , to the of death , 
from the , to the in the , 
o , why should the spirit of be proud 
william 




from  ( jim bailey ) 
subject re differences 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 43 

 ( jim jagielski ) writes 

 ( jim bailey ) writes 

 ( robert david klapper ) writes 

i also believe that the fixed a bug in the which up 
some floating point calculations .  . 

robert d. 
washington university in st. 

's law of there 's always one more bug .  . 

does someone have any definite information on this. this is the 
first i 've heard of it. how does the get fixed by a hardware 
this does n't make much sense to me. 

let 's see now .  .  .  . the differences between the and are 
basically 

1. runs at , not 
2. has i o , not 
3. 
4. 3 results in requiring , not 
5. 
a. errors in floating point calculations 
at 

so patch the with the latest version. i do n't see 
how this is a problem. 

b. problems with more than 16 

so , no doubt , the person was refering to , hardly screwing 
up though ) 


jim and he 's gonna me. so i say , 
 hey ! ! how about something , 
nasa , code 4 . you know , for the effort ! ' 
, md 


from  ( ronald w. pritchett ) 
subject 
organization usc department of computer science 
distribution 
lines 16 

we have a 700 with , but need to a lot of sound 
for research .  . what would be the best type of media for 
these 

ron 



 they say i'm lazy , but 
it takes all my time .  .  .  . 
life 's been good to me so far ! ' joe 

ron internet 
ron @ 1 74 . 0 . 



from  ( duncan m chesley ) 
subject do n't that call apple ! ! ! 
organization university of amherst 
lines 52 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 


x posted to sys . mac . hardware . and misc . 

you 've heard about apple 's great new customer support program .  . well , 
think again. sometimes the only real support out there is what apple 
computer users can give to each other. for another example , read on 

in the march issue of , described a two year effort 
by to document and bring to apple 's attention a problem with 
certain  . at random , the on these stick in 
the down position until a second time , apparently regardless of the 
machine they are used with or the system software involved. most of the 
reported problem were in and have an id of 
 . you 'll recognize this immediately if you 
have such a the problem is , but it 's not subtle .  . 

recently gave up trying to document this problem , and instead 
suggested that people contact apple 's customer assistance center directly 
( 4 5 93 p.  . when i called apple on march and described 
my , i was eventually given a case number  ( f83y ) and told 
apple would replace this even though it is a few months out of 
 . after waiting for three weeks , i called back today wondering 
where my new was. this time , i was told that apple had decided the 
serial number on my  ( mb13831fc25 ) is not within the  ( undisclosed ) 
range apple is willing to replace , and there is nothing i can do about it. 

nothing , that is , unless enough people complain about this problem to make 
it worth apple 's while to fix or replace the entire lot of  . 
please , if you have one of these , i need your help ! do n't assume you 
know what causes the problem  ( there are lots of theories ) and start 
around inside your hundred dollar  . instead , let apple do it. 
please take five to call apple right now at 

united states 1 
canada 
uk and europe 33 1 49 01 49 01 
australia 61 2 
japan and 3 

if the number is n't free , call  . describe the problem and ask 
for a replacement  . even if they refuse , insist that they 
the details of your case , including your 's serial number .  . be firm .  . 

network and user group leaders especially , please your user 
bases .  . everyone ask your friends and colleagues .  . please do n't send mail to 
me or post yet another report , call apple directly ! if 
enough victims take the trouble to report this well known problem , apple 
will eventually be forced to respond .  . if apple continues to find it easy 
to on this issue , do n't expect them to offer support when the 
next , more serious mac defect is  . 

bill 

old dominion university computing communications services 
from 
subject problem question 
lines 16 

i just got a 8 230 and i 've noticed that i ca n't change the 
color from the beautiful gray .  . i thought maybe i should 
the using the me first , ,  .  .  . diskette 
because the system file on this diskette is more recent than the one on the 
hard  . 

the easy system software . does anyone 
know if i should use this or and use system software for any 
or does it matter 

thanks in advance for any suggestions .  .  .  . 


old dominion university 
bitnet 
internet 

from  ( helen rose ) 
subject 230 problems 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the electronic foundation 
lines 33 

i'm a system and network admin .  . one of my users has a 230 
( below) that has been having problems. 
leaving the on for several hours causes it to slow down 
 . it can take 10 15 seconds to change applications .  . during 
this time it is completely  . if he , the problem goes away 
 ( for a  . it seems the system is getting itself into a 
 . 

he 's re system 7.1 and the  . neither of these 
have helped. 

it 's possible that it 's network related , he uses which his 
email every 10  ( over  . he has n't checked to see if this 
problem occurs while  ( he 's most of the time) .  . 

little to no non apple , i do n't want to start the rest 
unless i know that might really be the problem. 

he has n't tried the , i have advised him to do that next .  . 

anyone who has ideas , i 'd love to hear about them. i 'd call apple , but 
i 've found they 're best to call during the week  ( it 's sunday  . 


230 16 120 .  . card from tech works to replace 
non self card .  . is using system 1 . 0 . 1 .  . express 
 ( including latest  . has been to apple for keyboard 
replacement .  . 

helen rose , 
, inc. email for info 
electronic foundation flames to 
systems and women not to be 

from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re file server mac 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 10 

 ( patrick krejcik ) writes 

i saw once an article about a new line of to 
work more as file  . 
anyone know any more details 

check out the may issue of the new are on the 
cover. should be at your favorite  . 



distribution world 
from david a. 
organization , inc. 
subject re for 
lines 21 

jeff , 
i have answers to both of your questions. first , i recommend the 
 . it is a 14 , but it is designed 
specifically for use with the  . it works only with with specific video 
capabilities which means only the 's and anything after the  . all it 
takes is a mac (i recommend one from james engineering which is 
about  . these cost about as compared to the much higher of 
comparable because they are not  . i have used one for half 
a year and i love it. 
second , i have used and found them to be decent .  . i had a on a 
which i cancelled .  . they were helpful in explaining the reasons 
why there were and they had 's number ready for me. the only 
complaint was that they did not always return my calls .  . 
i have been told that the is selling for from j r 's 
 ( 800)221 )  . i think is a little more , but i do n't know. 

david 

from planet , the bbs of  . the message contained in 
this posting does not in any way reflect 's official views. 


from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re new apple ergo 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 19 

 ( schizophrenia means never being alone ) writes 

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo  ( adb ii ) 
mine lives near a cat  ( true , really .  .  . ) . and up her  . from what 
i can tell , it looks like apple it shut .  . 

you must not have tried very hard. i just mine in about 2 
seconds .  . take a look on the bottom , it has a that turns to open 
much like the older used to have. it 's a bit harder to turn 
at first but it is quite simple to open. 

also , does anyone know about in a mac iii i 've heard some 
people saying it has the of the iii .  . 

well , if you do n't match up the correctly you will have some 
problems. a close look at the should give you an idea of the 
proper orientation of the chip .  . 



from  ( gary snow ) 
subject re mike for 
article i.d. clark . 1993apr6 . 
organization clark college , vancouver ,  . usa 
lines 13 

in article  ( summerall thomas g ) writes 

i just bought a and discovered , to my , that apple 
has gotten too cheap to include a mike anymore , internal or external .  . 

you get a with the if you get it with the internal drive .  . 






uunet ! clark ! or 

from  ( ray fischer ) 
subject re can you share one w 2 
organization netcom .  . san jose , california 
lines 13 

 ( david kantrowitz ) writes ... 

i have a want to get an ibm machine as well. 
to save space on my , i would like to use one 
for both , with a switch box .  . does anyone know of a way to do 
this 

sure. buy a switch box and a  . i have just that 
arrangement on my and it works fine. 


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth 
than lies .  . friedrich nietzsche 

from  ( wilisch , wolf c. a . ) . 
subject ii at 50 
organization california institute of technology 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host juliet . caltech . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

hi ! 
a while back , there was a thread in this group about the use of the 
in europe  ( in countries with 50 ac  . the consensus at the time 
was that the would not work there. as i will be moving there this summer , 
i called apple to make sure and they told me  ( today ) that the  ( as bought 
in the u . s . ) . will definitely run on 50 ac current  ( as long as a step down 
is employed if 240 v current is  . the same info , turns out , can 
be found in the manual  . in the 1989 version ) , but i did n't really 
trust that. does anyone have any direct experience to the contrary just 
wondering .  . 

chris w. 

from  ( joel siegel ) 
subject re 2 questions about the 's 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 18 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

according to the  ( seen several times ) postings from adams of apple 
computer , both the and the require not 60  . only 
the requires 60  . 



i think you meant .....  ( but a probably 
would be a real nice machine .  .  .  . ) ) 

but yeah , it needs not  . 

joel 


joel 
i myself have never been able to find out what feminism is i 
only know that i am called a whenever i express 
sentiments that me from a  . west , 

from  ( gene wright ) 
subject re mac vs. 100 answers ( ) 
organization the of ,  . 
lines 37 

regarding the post for information about the mac and the 
100 , here are a couple of the answers 
(1) does the mac support yes 
(2) what is in the mac a low power version of the 
running at 15 . 87 .  . 
 ( 3 ) does the mac run system 7 yes , although it does use up a 
lot of memory. 
 ( 4 ) is memory still for the there are several 
that still make for the  . there are two options some 
sell memory that into the inside the  . others sell 
memory that into the processor direct  . either way , the most 
memory you can address is either 8 or 9 , depending on whether 
the is or not. king memory and in 
california is the place i know of for memory. 
, 4 , 250 , and 7  . i still see several in that 
are selling 4 for  . wide variety in here. 
 ( 5 ) what is the internal its a conner 40 with an 
average access time of about 25  . 
 ( 6 ) is the better that the 100 heavens yes ! the 100 is a 
passive which means it out on you if you move 
your head a few degrees left or right. the has a or 
non active which i think is a joy to read. 

other things to consider where to get the and how much to pay 
for it a good has been in mass .  . they were willing to 
sell a non with an internal for about 
 . or a 4 with an internal for 
about  . 

the answer is call around for a good while or you 'll pay too much. 

i'm still looking for an internal fax for the anybody got 
one they want to sell good luck , gene 


 ( gene wright ) 
net . the of 

from d. 
subject re again ... 
x thu , 15 apr 93 01 21 14 gmt 
nntp posting host 4 . 42 . 
organization college 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 30 

in article bill , 
writes 
i'm going to buy a with 25 for the 30 .  . since there 
were so many about problems with this board , my questions 
does the board work with 7.1 and a 3 . 0 . does anybody know problems 
with any kind of software 

well , i have n't seen any reports of problems with the  , 
but to my knowledge , has not released a version of the 
board that works with anything but the and , and they 
have not finished for use with a  . this may 
not happen until the a 3 . 0 . 2 . is released  ( my guess) so 
i 'd recommend waiting or buying the 50  board and 
later when a is assured .  .  interface 
cards for the ii , , 30 , , etc will probably be available 
sooner , but if a is a requirement , it is probably 
best to be patient and let someone else be the  . ) 

an added of waiting for the for the 30 is that , 
just as with the  power , the  will plug into 
the , leaving the free for a video card or 
card .  . with 's path , it 's a no lose situation. 



d. department of mathematics 
college 
 ( 616)957 ) grand , mi 



from  ( david joshua mirsky ) 
subject re and keyboard 
organization 
lines 30 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 

in article  ( terry thiel ) writes 
got a new keyboard to go with my new and have a 
problem doing  . i hold down the command and option and 
but nothing happens. the are set the right way and the 
command and option seem to work on anything else. i'm running 7.1 btw. 
anyone know what the problem is 



, hi. i recently bought an and a  . i ca n't 
remember trying to the with it , however it did give me 
a strange problem. when i held down shift during to 
all , nothing happened. i tried it with another keyboard , using 
the same and it worked with the other keyboard .  . 
the shift key on the keyboard worked well otherwise. i checked 
the and they are fine. try your and tell 
me if it works. 

i am with  . i sent them the keyboard in the mail for 
inspection replacement .  . the on the phone said they 
have a 10 14 day turn around time meaning you should receive the 
keyboard in that time. well , they have had the 
keyboard for over 3 weeks and i still have gotten very little info 
from them about it. it 's because it cost me 12 to send them 
the keyboard  ( they do not the money) and their service 
lines are calls .  . tell me if you have a similar experience. 

david 



from  ( mark rogowsky ) 
subject re 
organization stanford university 
lines 27 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

in article , 
 ( douglas mcpherson ) writes 
could someone please tell me what a 

is. 

its a small box , which has a it , seemingly 
containing 6  ( look like roms ) and a manual .  . 
the instructions are most and say , in full , 
this product must be by an apple  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

so what does this do at first i thought it might be a nt to 
, but i thought that required an entirely new board. 

any info appreciated. 

doug .  . 

the is for an already existing  . it is a 
that the code with the more 
efficient , code that first became available in type 
1 . 0 .  . 

that software came out after the original and the so called 
is now standard on  . 

mark 

from  ( kenneth simon ) 
subject re help need info for 
summary very hard to get a 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 34 

 ( joel siegel ) writes 

state . edu .  ( jt ) writes 

hi .  .  .  . what alternatives to the express do owners have  ( if 
they want to go at least baud ) 

every place in town says they are back ordered , and part of the reason 
i want a mac is so i can use it as a remote terminal from 
wherever i am , but i really would hate to have to wait 2 months to get 
a in or have to with  . 

if apple did n't put out such a good product i 'd take my 
business to to the 8 bit  . i think the 
situation with the express is for any business. 
i 've had mine on order since  . apple finally called me last 
week to tell me that i should have it by the second week of may .  . 
in the meantime , i 've been stuck with my without the 
i needed it for. i'm sure there are plenty of people 
who can back at me , all sorts of reasons why apple is 
right or at least justified , but i'm just a consumer and 
when i order a with that 's the product i expect. 

oh , well. it 's not like it 's limited to the computer  . remember 
when the came out what about those patch well , 
i want my ! ) 





simon dept of , university 
internet bitnet 


from  ( starman ) 
subject what 's the difference between a mac and 100 
distribution usa 
organization new jersey institute of technology , , n . j .  . 
lines 24 
nntp posting host edu . 

i 've been looking into getting a mac to do some work and i 've 
had my eye on the 100 .  . lately , i 've been seeing people with the old 
, and they 're selling for less that the  . what i 
want to know is what are the differences between them all i know is 
that the is , but the does n't have an internal 
drive .  . here 's what i need to know 

does the support network 
what 's the inside a  ( 68000 ) 
does the support system 7 
what 's the memory capacity of the can you still get 
 ( meaning does it use special ) 
what kind of internal does it use 
does the have a better 

thanx in advance. 

mike 
what is your name jean 
what is your quest i seek the holy 
what is the top of a of prey or 
i .  .  .  . i . do n't know .  .  . ! ! ! ! 



from  ( bret oeltjen ) 
subject cheap video card for w 
nntp posting host slip 1 33 . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 7 

just wondering if anyone had info experience with a video for a mac , 
just thinking of adding a second , most likely  . 


 ( exp(pi i ) 1 0 
university of minnesota 
electrical engineering 

from  ( chung yang ) 
subject re 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host engin . umich . edu . 
originator 


in article , de .  ( christian bauer ) writes 
in article , c. stephens 
wrote 

what is the difference 
i want a double spin drive by may 

looking into and apple , only 
what is the best 

and  ( apple ) nearly deliver the same speed .  . 
as apples are very low  ( compared to there simms ) 
you should buy what is  . but think of revisions .  . 
it is easier to get from apple than from every other 


christian 

de . 


i thought and mechanism have an average 
access time of less than 200  . while the apple 
drive has an access time of for the models .  . 




from  ( are we having fun yet ) 
subject and the mac series of computers 
organization university of 
lines 9 

i recall reading that the mac  ( and presumably the ii iii ) can use stand 
, with appropriate  . i am of this 
e i have asked other people who say this is not so. so can all be 
used on the mac what are the needed for a pc to work with a 
mac  ( horizontal frequencies ) 





from  ( matt madsen ) 
subject 30 card 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to  ( matt madsen ) 
organization univ .  . of  . , , info .  . computer sci .  . dept. 
lines 9 

are there any cards for the 30 that also have , say , an 
there seem to be plenty of cards for 
the , but none  ( that i 've seen ) for the 30 .  . 

thanks 

matt 



from  ( ronald w. pritchett ) 
subject for a  .  .  . 
organization usc department of computer science 
distribution 
lines 17 

would there be any problems with up a external 
drive to a 700 


ron 




 hey jack the , 
wo n't you come on over and 
me up to the power lines of your love . ' . 

ron internet 
ron @ 1 74 . 0 . 



from  ( david claytor ) 
subject re what can i do 
organization , ann arbor , mi 
lines 27 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host umich . edu . 

in article  ( vincent fox ) writes 
there 's this old here. it 's got the older style that 
me of a house  . a instead of the 
i usually see. anyway , the makes this loud due 
to  . if i remove the and the front 
from the back , it down. i can only assume that the fan housing 
from this thing is the back of the case and 
against it. 

anyway , any suggestions for where to get replacement and how to 
stealth this guy your experiences welcome .  .  .  .  .  . 


if everything had gone as , everything would have been perfect. 
on 3 2 93 , regarding failed attempt in tx .  . 


when i owned an , i replaced the fan with , available , i 
believe , from or  . it comes with for 
and requires no  . worked like a charm .  . i think the 
is  . 

dave 





from  ( w stuart jones ) 
subject adding to 
summary how many do i need to add to the 
keywords 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 12 

i want to go from to on my  . how many do i 
need to buy is the current on the board or do i need to take 
out the current before i add more 

thanks , 

stuart jones 


stuart jones 



from  ( lowell b. reiter ) 
subject re 230  ( looks like apple bug ! ) 
lines 23 
organization university , ma 

 . i use 1 . 0 . 1 .  . i use and 
 . i have and  . 




i need a  .  .  . now ! ! ! 
university 
internet account 















from  ( captain nerd ) 
subject re use board .  .  .  . anyone seen one 
organization express access communications , , maryland usa 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 
summary does anyone make this does anyone know what i'm talking about 
keywords board 



, 

i remember running across an ad in the back of mac user world 
a few years ago , for a board that had , to be 
used to your old , when you memory. i do n't 
remember who made this board , and i have n't seen it in 
any of the latest mac  . it mentioned that it included software 
to make the on the board act like a  . as someone who has 
he ca n't get rid of use , but hates the waste , this sounds to me like a 
good idea. does anyone out there know what board company i'm talking about 
are they still in business , or does anyone know where i can get a used one 
if they are no longer made any help would be greatly appreciated. please 
e mail me , to save net . bandwidth .  . 


thanks , 

cap .  . 





internet compuserve , 

cum 


from 
subject and info .  . needed 
organization western university , green , 
lines 8 

if anyone has any information about the new computers 
 ( cyclone and tempest ) , i am in need of some info .  . anything would be 
greatly appreciated. 

thanks , 




from  ( gary snow ) 
subject re the fan is ! any solutions 
article i.d. clark . 1993apr6 . 
organization clark college , vancouver ,  . usa 
lines 18 

in article  ( summerall thomas g ) writes 
is it me , my , or all it does n't seem to broken. it is n't making 
or anything , it 's just loud ! much that the fan in 
the i just sold .  . 

anybody else have this problem how about a solution is there a good 
replacement fan that 's a lot but the same air any easy 
way to the sound but not the air  ( hah ! ) 

i ca n't even hear the fan on my  .  .  .  . gee . i wonder if its working .  .  .  .  . yup . , 
just checked , its air out the back just fine. 






uunet ! clark ! or 

from charles p. , jr. 
subject calling all mac 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x mon , 19 apr 93 04 56 52 gmt 

question for those familiar with 

i put 2 in my 700  ( in the 2 to the 
slots ) and i got no results whatsoever. i have been told that 
the built in video should support at least and maybe color on 
a color display .  . however , the control still 
lists  ( 256 colors ) as the highest possible. 

does it make any difference which you put the in 
do you have to do something to them 
do you have to do something to the control 

btw , i am running system 7.1 with 8 of  . 



charles p. , jr. 
computer engineering 
case western reserve university 



distribution world 
from robert n .  . 
organization , inc. 
subject great deal ! 
lines 10 

for those of you who have laser , if you want an 
, they are now on sale , direct from for the price of 
45 ! call 1  . same for extra paper  . they have too many 
gray ones and want to move them out. strange but true. 

the 

from planet , the bbs of  . the message contained in 
this posting does not in any way reflect 's official views. 


from  ( petri aukia ) 
subject , adapt 
nntp posting host lk 18 . fi . 
organization university of technology , finland 
distribution 
lines 7 

i remember seeing complete instructions for making , 
and a  . after a short search through 
mac . archive . and info mac i failed to see any of the above. any 

supreme court ruling is an illegal drug ! 
computer programmer minds of through new game ! 
pa telephone standards because of new computer game ! 

from thomas 
subject need help a in 700 , quick ! 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 5 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x sat , 17 apr 93 19 44 11 gmt 

could someone please send instructions for and to 
he 's just gotten his 700 and wants to drop in some 
extra and that he has for it. 

thanks .  .  .  . and do n't reply to me , reply to  ( joe ) 

from  ( doug ashley ) 
subject re problems 
organization com . 
lines 25 

writes 

about hard drive the original drive that was bad  ( bad 
or something ) was an ibm .  . the new one is a quantum .  . is the 
supposed to be with is there a quality difference 

, no. from experience  ( yours now included ! ) , yes. seem to 
be the most problem free brand on the mac .  . 

second , about hard drive position. i 've put the on its side and 
the new has had no problems at all. i 've even switched back and 
forth between and and there are no problems. as far 
as i'm concerned i do n't believe position is important for drives up 
to , in any computer .  . do n't know about , though. 

it should not matter for the hard drive or the mac .  . well , as long as it 
does n't fall over. ) 


doug 

this signature under construction 

's information system 
 ( 804 ) 627 , , to 

from daniel 
subject question 
x id 
x fri , 16 apr 93 23 22 27 gmt 
nntp posting host planet 
organization institute , , france 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 28 


hi there , 


i have a question regarding  . i have tried to find info on this 
but i could not get precise answers. 

on one hand , we have a with a 16 , which is capable of 
32 bit color .  . how much does it have 
on the other hand , we have a with a 16 , which is capable 
of 8 bit color only , so it must have of  . 

i would like to take for the and put them in the so that 
both machines have 16 bit color capability .  . 
is it possible , and if yes , how many should i take from the 
from the documentation i have , the must get 1 to have 
16 bit color , is that correct 

question where do hide from the documentation , they 
seem to be behind the power supply .  . do i really have to take off the power 
supply to access the 


thanks for your help ! 


daniel , user interface research team , , , france .  . 


from v  ( kenneth charlton ) 
subject re jump starting a mac ii 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 5 

apple once had to replace the in with a 
 . 

real easy to , but it does require some  . 


from  ( cm51 ) 
subject half page hand 
organization college 
lines 6 
originator 
nntp posting host 

is anyone out there using a  . i'm thinking about 
buying one. is the pretty good. i do n't need 
super high quality but want it to be worth the . 

thanks in advance 
mike charles 

from de .  ( christian bauer ) 
subject re at 34 . , it 's fine .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host christian . uni . de . 
organization university of 
lines 23 

in article , 
 ( patrick lee ) wrote 

de .  ( rainer menes ) writes 


i wonder why nobody has ever tried to replace the only , like on a mac  . as i understand the newer speed is only hardware , and alittle which is use to the speed .  . my is to replace the wit 
h a and than i can change the very easy .  . this will be alot the the newer speed  . i would only 20 to 50 are need to do the  . 

does someone on the net ever tried this variant of speeding up the 700 
in the may issue of c t magazine was an article about models 
of apple .  . they simply change and add a fan .  . 
was able to work with 25  ( cooler prefered ) 
and for 1000 you get an  ( 33mhz ) which works with the 
appropriate at full speed .  .  ( extra required ) 
like 700 with extra works on 
most machines and for real power they used a 
at 40 wow ! but for better description you should 
get this issue of c t (a german pc magazine ! ) 

christian 

de . 

from  ( scott farrar ) 
subject re caps lock vs. control ( was re apple keyboard ) 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

please excuse and me if this has already been answered , but is 
there a small utility that the of the caps lock 
key and the ctrl key on the keyboard i use the ctrl key far 
more than caps lock , so it would be more convenient and comfortable. 
thank you for any help , 
scott 




from  ( jon wtte ) 
subject re how to get 10 ma 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 24 
nntp posting host nada . 

in  ( steed bell ) writes 

networked together using and  . to chat we use a 
program called  . with it we can send brief messages to all or 
machines within the network. 

if you use system 7 , you can use my application which has 
a 30  ( meaning you can have it running all the time 
without memory ) 

it is also compatible with the chat program which allows 
sounds and pictures as well. 

both are , as far as i know , (i with source ) 
and should be available on the normal services archive . umich . edu . 
for instance ) 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 
this signature is kept than 4 lines in the interests of usenet 
s n ratio .  . 

from  ( jeff scott ) 
subject re and the mac 
lines 24 
x mailer , i mean , test version 


stuff deleted 

also , i am not interested in  . i would merely like to 
use my mac as a television from time to time. i have a nice 
, and i would like to use it as a second tv 
when my wife is watching on our regular tv. 

other stuff deleted 

would n't it be to just buy a little tv just 
curious .  .  .  . 


george 






jeff scott 
montreal , que , canada 


from  ( jon wtte ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 34 
nntp posting host nada . 

in  ( ravikuma venkateswar ) writes 

not quite .  . 65 , 57 . 
50 , 80 . 

but the interesting is how fast cycle 
you can get an is way slow at 66 , but at 
200  . 




as far as the 66 goes 32 , 16 . 

but the is  ( or will soon be ) available in 40 version , 
making it comparable to a 80 

have traditionally been than their motorola 
although the significance of chip speed in real world application 
is something that is highly  . 

i think you have that one turned around they have 
but less power behind each cycle .  . not to mention that the 
is oriented  ( longest 
is 15 what an odd number ) which makes it hard to do any 
intelligent memory  . 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 

this article printed on 100 electrons .  . 

from  ( chenlin ) 
subject re can i get more than x on 13 
organization college of medicine 
lines 5 
distribution na 
reply to 
nntp posting host nuclear . edu . 
keywords 13 , 8 24 resolution 


try ( a ) if your is not driven by internal 
video .  . 



from  ( steven langlois ) 
subject increasing the number of serial 
reply to  ( steven langlois ) 
organization bell northern research ltd .  . 
lines 15 

does anyone know if there are any devices available for the mac which 
will increase the number of serial available for use 
simultaneously i would like to connect up to 8 serial devices to my 
mac for an application i am working on. i must be able to access each 
one of the independently .  . 

if such a device exists , are there are any limits to the number of 
serial devices i can use 

any information is appreciated. 






from  ( cho wong ) 
subject plus 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 3 

i would like to know if a plus is compatible with apple 
color display , or it is just a  . any help will be appreciate .  . 


from  ( josh carroll ) 
subject 
organization computer science department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 13 
originator 


i 've got a 5 . 25 . drive with a mechanism with the 
new  .  .  . the thing is , i have a new per 
for the thing that refuses to mount or be  .  .  . all the 
that i have for the drive that work are media 
 .  .  . all i can think of is that this uses some 
kind of incompatible low level format .  .  .  . anyone know what software will 
allow this to be on this drive or a new setting for the 
mechanism i 've tried just about every combination of drivers and 
programs i can find with no luck .  .  .  . any ideas 

 ( if you have a good idea , please e mail it to this 
address if possible , i ca n't check this newsgroup constantly , thanks ) 

from 
subject shut down on 13 hi 
organization university 
lines 11 
summary on 13 er 's 
reply to m 
distribution world 

there is a defect in the 13 hi , bring it to a and 
they will replace the for free , i think. 


i just heard of this problem at work today and we are fixing 
them for free. 



o r r 


from  ( brian v. hughes ) 
subject re math option 
reply to 
organization college , , nh 
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for. 
distribution usa 
rec . arts . info . 
lines 40 

david anthony writes 

sorry if this is a faq .  . i do n't normally read sys . mac . hardware .  . 
i am a couple of 's .  . i the systems 
as follows 

eight  ( 8 ) 

1 
math option 

my told me about the math option and sent 
me the apple summary documentation to prove it. i ordered the 
option , but i'm really not sure that we needed it. i thought the  chip 
had a math built into it. has apple had a math chip 
to keep up with the speed of the  chip in the 
i am concerned that i may have set up a hardware  . 

apple has really confused people with this whole thing. i think 
we 'll be answering this question for about the next year or so. there is 
no option to get an on a  . what you have is a choice of 
there is the that does not have an integrated like the full 
 and is only present in the base 4 80 model of the  . 
and there is the full  which you get when you order anything other 
than the base 4 80  . therefore , since you have ordered one 
of the versions with on board models you will not be 
getting the  . but even if you wanted to have the you would n't 
be able to order a with , on board and an  . 
it 's not an option. 
also , a note to people out there that have 4 80 and 
thinking that there is an optional , the  class chip cannot 
recognize an external , so there is no on the for 
a chip and you cannot go out and an on a card or 
something like that. the only way to get an in these machines is to 
replace the with a full  . and if you have a , you will not 
need to worry about a if you do replace the with the 
full  , but if you have a 4 80 you do need to have a  . 




from  ( tim keanini ) 
subject , , and owners ! ! ! 
lines 11 
nntp posting host com . 
summary 
keywords 

be very careful when you plug in a external and a external speaker .  . 
make sure that all the power are in the same strip .  . if you do n't you 
take a chance of having a very bad  . this is caused be a ground loop and the only way of getting rid of this loud is to make sure that you 
have a common ground. 
make sure that all the power are going in to the same strip or off the 
same  . this will you of a common ground. 

tim sound designer 
software 



from  ( charles winstead ) 
subject ftp site for software 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 

hey all , 

does anyone know if i can ftp to get the version of 
and soft from i bought a , but it has an 
old version of this software and wo n't work on my , and said 
it would be 4 5 weeks until  . 

thanks ! 





from  ( erik adams ) 
subject help ! ! my has lines on its ! 
organization college , los , ca usa .  . 
distribution 
lines 20 

okay , i do n't use it very much , but i would like for it to keep working 
correctly , at least as long as apple continues to make system software 
that will run on it , if ) 

here is the problem when the is too far back , 
lines appear on the screen. they are every 10 or so , and seem 
to be affected somewhat by and down  . 
it looks to a semi technical person like there is a loose connection 
between the and the rest of the computer .  . 

i am open to suggestions that do not involve buying a new computer , 
or taking this one to the  . i would also like to not have 
to buy one of larry 's books. i like larry , but i'm not sure 
i feel strongly enough about the computer to buy a service manual 
for it. 

on a related note what does the connect to 




from  ( doug p. book ) 
subject re stereo sound problem ( ) on mac games 
organization san diego chemistry 
lines 13 
nntp posting host edu . 


thanks , steve , for your helpful and comments on mac stereo 
sound. 

too bad some are n't addressing the problem. 

this did make my old mac ii superior to the i replaced 
it with in one way though ! ) 


thanks , 

doug 

from  ( tony quan ) 
subject re new apple ergo 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 22 

in article writes 
 ( schizophrenia means never being alone ) writes 

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo  ( adb ii ) 
mine lives near a cat  ( true , really .  .  . ) . and up her  . from what 
i can tell , it looks like apple it shut .  . 

you must not have tried very hard. i just mine in about 2 
seconds .  . take a look on the bottom , it has a that turns to open 
much like the older used to have. it 's a bit harder to turn 
at first but it is quite simple to open. 


nope .  . i'm pretty sure that this person knows how to take the ball out. 
i think that what they want to do is take the apart. the old 
had four on the bottom that you could to do this , 
while there 's no obvious way to take the new one apart. 


tony 



from  ( bill scheding ) 
subject re full page 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


in article , 
michael t. writes 
hi. i am working on a project for my class and i 'd like to 
ask your help. the is to come up with a product and create a 
plan for it. technical issues are not terribly important at 
this point .  .  .  . 

i'm not surprised to learn that issues are not terribly important  to 
anyone working on a  plan  

) 



from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject works 
organization university of washington 
lines 11 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 
summary chip success 
keywords , , 

after reading reports from germany of success in a 
or simply by changing the , i decided to test the 
claim .  . i out my speed and the 's 
50 chip .  . i put a in the 's place and inserted a 
64 i had left over from working on some 's .  . 
i ca n't believe it. it actually works. i'm not getting errors 
either. this is only after a short run time but i 'll keep posting results. 
did i spend all that money on the for nothing if this keeps working , 
the lack of a double in itself will be worth the effort .  . 

guy 

from  ( thomas e willis ) 
subject questions .  .  .  . 
organization university engineering computer network 
distribution usa 
lines 36 

well folks , my mac plus finally gave up the ghost this after 
starting life as a way back in 1985 .  . sooo , i'm in the market for a 
new machine a bit sooner than i intended to be .  .  .  . 

i'm looking into picking up a or maybe and have a bunch 
of questions that  ( hopefully ) somebody can answer 

does anybody know any on when the next round of 
are expected i 'd heard the was supposed to make an 
this summer but have n't heard anymore on it and since i 
do n't have access to , i was wondering if anybody out there had 
more info .  .  .  . 

has anybody heard about price drops to the line like the 
ones the 's just went through recently 

what 's the impression of the display on the i could probably swing 
a if i got the rather than the 120 , but i do n't really have 
a feel for how much better the display is  ( yea , it looks great in the 
, but is that all wow or is it really that good ) .  . could i 
some opinions of people who use the and day to day on if its worth 
taking the size and money hit to get the active display (i realize 
this is a real subjective question , but i 've only played around with the 
machines in a computer and the opinions of somebody 
who actually uses the machine daily might prove  . 

how well does perform ) 

thanks a bunch in advance for any info if you could email , i 'll post a 
summary  ( news reading time is at a with finals just around the 
corner .  .  .  . ( ) 

tom electrical engineering 

convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth than lies .  . f. w. 
nietzsche 

from b  ( brian clark ) 
subject re high resolution for mac ii 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 24 

in article , rob douglas 
wrote 

in article gov . charles e. , 
writes 
i would like to buy a 16 bit card for the mac ii with 
rate of at least 100 , 200  . i would prefer one with 
good and integral , and would be a plus .  . other 
than national , do you know of any other who such 
a card 

corp has a nice looking 16 bit a d and d a board that can run 
at the you want. the itc 16 ( ) does n't have , but it does have 
a good that can your samples .  . can be reached 
at  ( 516 ) , or  . 


i do n't know about the  ( though i plan to check them out ) , 
but you need to be very careful checking the and s n ratio of 
many of the 16 bit out there. the ni are very clearly 
in terms of , s n ratio , accuracy , etc and the 
and have all the range and freedom from 
that you 'd expect from a good , true 16 bit  . this is 
not true for the , for example. 

from  ( andrew e page ) 
subject re works on a 230 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 12 


i have tested this on a 230 and it does work there. so it would 
seem that the and are out though. one way to tell is to 
go and open the control  . there is a setting 
there that allows you to set the time to wake up the mac .  . if it 
is present when you open the control , then you can assume that 
will work. 


andrew e. page  ( warrior poet ) decision and effort the and arrow 
mac the difference between what we are 
and technology and what we want to be. 

from  ( jason w. frye ) 
subject re pc on a mac 
organization university 
lines 19 

in article  ( robert c. sprecher ) writes 

is it possible , ie via creative splicing or whatever , to 
a drive to a mac 

is there any difference with the of the drive or is it 
just differences 

thanks. 

rob 

rob 


many drives for the mac already .  .  .  .  . so unless you 
are using one for the ibm world , id buy a mac ready  . 

j. 

from  ( chun wan ) 
subject re your opinion of the select 310 
article i.d. usenet . 
reply to  ( chun wan ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 25 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( johnc ) says 

this model is one of the two low cost laser that apple just 
introduced .  . i'm thinking of getting one to use at home. have any of you 
had any experience with this does it have level 2 
if you 've bought one , are you happy with it 


john email 
university of chicago hospitals john 
office of facilities s. maryland , 
f w c g k s e h p chicago , il 


frankly , i think this model is a  . it does not have 
2 , only has 13 , and does not even have fine print or , or 
 . even the model has this ! i am shocked by the kind of 
features you get for this  . i myself was for some decent 
to replace the personal laser writers .  . 

a motion picture major at the institute of , ca 
santa and a foreign student from ,  . 

the mind is the forerunner of all states. 

from  ( charles g. williams ) 
subject has anyone had problems with ibm drives in their machines 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 24 
reply to  ( charles g. williams ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


hi , 

the subject line says it all. my system acts at times. all of a 
sudden the system will be corrupt , blocks will get , etc. 

this was a really big problem for a while. i could n't even format my 
drive properly. i 's and things got better. now 
all i have to do is the system. could an 
exist between it and a quantum external drive .  . 

i'm looking for a pure hardware solution .  . it 's not a virus , bad 
software , etc. could i have a bad or is the ibm  ( wds 80 ) 
just a drive 

thanks , 




cs laboratories 




from  ( tim keanini ) 
subject mac 
lines 20 
nntp posting host com . 

i have a and i know that it is wired about its  . 

i just bought a drive and i need to find out a few question 

does the want to see active or passive 

does the want me to the of the message 

what does the want as far as checking 

these are some very good questions for the faq .  . 
if someone does not have time to answer these questions but does know 
where i can look them up please let me know and i will repost the answers 
for everyone to see. 

thanks , 

tim or 
sound engineer software 


from 
subject what you say 
lines 19 



! ! 

i'm planning to my mac 

(1) from the present to 
and (2) add a math  . 

technology works , of austin  ( texas ) comes quite highly recommended by 
some mac  . i was just if anyone could share with me 
anything about tech works  ( both good and bad experiences ) or give any advice 
about other mail order that i may consider .  . 

your reply would be very much appreciated. thanks in advance. 

sincerely 
peter 


from d. 
subject re 30 card 
x mon , 19 apr 93 05 13 14 gmt 
nntp posting host 4 . 43 . 
organization college 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 25 

in article matt , 
writes 
are there any cards for the 30 that also have , say , an 
there seem to be plenty of cards for 
the , but none  ( that i 've seen ) for the 30 .  . 


the for the 30 the with an 
plus the  . this the open for a video card .  . 
, does not have the  in this , but it is 
due out early next year .  . with their policy , you can get the  
now , and when the  version becomes available , you get 
credit 
for the one you have. 

i am running their 50 version with along with a precision 
color and i'm very satisfied .  . 



d. department of mathematics 
college 
 ( 616)957 ) grand , mi 



from 
subject re 
organization defence science and technology organisation 
lines 45 
nntp posting host gov . au . 

gosh , i wish people would read the postings that they are  following up  to. 

in article ,  ( doug ashley ) writes 
writes 

in article ,  ( william g. wright ) writes 

anyway , i was someone knowledgeable 
about mac could set me straight is it simply 
impossible for a mac to print , or could 

to use the features , i believe you need a mac 
with  . i was told this somewhere or other , but it 's 

i think you will find that the mac can print images , loaded 
with the proper software .  . however , the mac cannot display on 

the original poster  ( w g wright ) posted an item saying that he had bought a new 
bang laser from apple (a select i think) which can print 
 . he then said that he cannot print from his computer 
 ( and also that all the   he has dealt with agree that it is not 
 . 

this is the one major about doing a 3rd party  ( compared to 
apple 's to 30 upgrade ) you will never be able to run color  . it 
is color that color and  . 

can print some this is because the original , non 
version , has the right hooks for eight  . some of you will remember the 
  solution to getting a for your (i think that it 
gave you by or  . 

there is no reason that apple could n't release software for older 
computers  ( there are lots of mac , and that have been 
to and which should be perfectly able to deal 
with color quickdraw ) but they wont , and 3rd parties are having a difficult 
time in the mac 's (i . e .  . et al . ) .  . 

just one i would have thought that if you were printing a 
image onto a , that you would be able to 
do so , whatever mac you were using .  .  ( and i am pretty sure that the select 
is not a correct me if i'm wrong ) .  . 

ryan 
, australia 

from  ( maarten carels ) 
subject re vs 
nntp posting host mail . 
organization , university of 
lines 16 

 ( arthur greene ) writes 
can anyone tell me what the difference is between a chip and a 
i need the former (i think) to add memory to my 
ls .  . someone is offering to sell me he removed from an , but 
i have a feeling this may not be the correct form of memory. the 
in the look like they want the  ( there 
are 4 , each with , as i recall , 20 , in two of  . 
believe it or not , i 've never actually seen a  . help appreciated. 
a is a small pcb with on. 



in real life 
computer science department 
university of 
email 

from  ( jartsu ) 
subject best for in 
nntp posting host lk 7 . fi . 
reply to 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 11 


could someone tell me how to make find get the best for 
with internal drive 

is there one available or do i have to make one from the original or 
one or 

every suggestion welcome. 




from  ( john m. graham ) 
subject re new apple ergo 
article i.d. usenet . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 15 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i believe that in order to get at the of the new , 
you must remove the label on the bottom that says apple 
ii there you should find two on either side. 
i have n't tried it myself yet , but when i my 
the label , these two appeared , and i can only assume 
that these are the in question. 

cheers , 
john 

john m. graham 
the cleveland institute of music 

brought to you by the letters j , m , and g , and the number 14 .  . 

from  ( beth corbo ) 
subject re non apple available 
article i.d. 
organization lewis clark college , or 
lines 22 

in article writes 
a a wrote 
my boss is considering the of a or  . he is 
towards a , because of the math  ( for mathematica ) , but would 
get a if he could find a with a  . have any 
third parties such a 

i believe that e machines might produce something of this nature. 


yes , e machines makes two the and the 
 . the a variety of video out options , 
including , and  . it also has sound out , drive 
and a power  . unfortunately no and it blocks the serial  . 
the has the standard plus built in  . , none of 
these have an  . 
in the future , is putting out a , but the name escapes 
me now. it is supposed to support 16 bit color and comparable 
video speed .  . no idea if it has an  . 
hope this helps .  .  .  . 



from  ( csp1dwd ) 
subject heads when 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 8 

the seem to park the heads after a few seconds of 
 .  .  . is that into the drive logic or is it being 
programmed via software , any way to tune the that 
makes the heads park themselves .  .  .  . i think the heads are being 
since after a few seconds of you can hear the 
of heads  . 



from  ( jeff sullivan ) 
subject ii  ( ergo ) when 
organization usc 
lines 11 
distribution 
nntp posting host edu . 


when is apple supposed to start the new 
ii with all sold 





jeffrey a. research scientist et al. 
 ( internet ) information sciences institute 
, 402  ( compuserve ) university of southern california 

from  ( bruce gimble ) 
subject built in video 
article i.d. geraldo . 
reply to  ( bruce gimble ) 
distribution usa 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 14 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
originator 

i have many questions for all you out there to apple 's 
built in video .  . 

1 , do all that have built in video have the ability to use 
2 , if so if not , which have this capability 
3 , can they drive as well 
4 , how big of a can they drive 
5 , how can you tell if an is by the 
if so , what should it look like 

particularly , i'm interested in knowing if the or drive , as well 
as the 's capabilities in driving 

thanks ! ! ! 

from  ( mike feldman ) 
subject re ok to set 54 on top of 
keywords 
nntp posting host charm . urbana . mot . com . 
organization motorola computer group , urbana design center 
lines 32 

in article 
 ( david l. berk ) writes 
i recently purchased a and a 19 
 . i'm wondering if it is ok to set the on top 
of the  . the 54  . 

i 've called apple .  . the person i spoke with was not sure but was 
going to find out and call me back in a couple of days. that was 
over a week ago .  .  .  .  . 

if anybody knows , please respond via email as i do n't always have time 
to read this group. thanks. 

david 
d 

yea , thanks to lots of good information in this newsgroup , i was prepared 
for lots of details  ( even time ... got my 8 230 in 5  . 
i guess my biggest is the lack of detail in the written 
and documentation .  . the case load is an example the setup 
section says apple 14 and 16 can go on top , but 21 and other 
big ones ca n't .  . why could n't they publish a load 

now if i can figure out if there 's any hope using the partition 
on the hard setup utility  ( do i dare just try it and see what happens ) , 
then maybe i can divide up the wealth among the family members a bit more 
 . the getting more information section of the manual suggested 
trying other before calling apple , but did n't mention the net. 

mike , motorola computer group ,  ( 217 ) , fax  ( 217 ) 
east university avenue pager in il  ( 800 ) ,  ( 217 ) 
urbana , il  ( mcdphx uiucuxc ) ! ! 

from  ( jon w tte ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
nntp posting host nada . 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 18 

in  ( ray fischer ) writes 

but the interesting is how fast cycle 
you can get an is way slow at 66 , but at 
200  . 

the only problem is going to be finding someone who can make a 
computer system. could be tough. 

you can order one from digital today. 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 

i do n't fear death , it 's dying that me. 

from  ( michel dozois ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( michel dozois ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 20 


in a previous article ,  ( gil neiger ) says 

i have a few questions about , specifically , 
the i have for my  . 

2. can the run without any if the is 
in 

no problems. 

, ontario , canada 
club de de l 
national capital club 
jungle bbs un 

from  ( the jester ) 
subject re info on apple 8 requested .  . 
organization company 
lines 25 

in article ac . at . , ac . at . writes 
newsgroups sys . mac . hardware . 
in article , 
writes 
any info on the video processor that sit on it , any way to 
program that 
chip what makes that chip 

apple was never able to provide any or tools to program that chip .  . i 
value it as 
the least value per piece of computer hardware i ever bought due to the 
complete 
lack support tools .  . there was a for us of this card but we 

were left out in the rain once again .  .  .  . 

i agree completely , but there was only a for people who bought the 
with a  . i have seen an version of an extension from apple called 
8 . 24 . video which 
from the to the on the card .  . so it seems it can be done even though 
in a article it states that the ca n't be programmed but they 
asked that any suggestions be sent in anyway .  .  .  . 

steve 
university 

from  ( joseph finete ) 
subject re what do y all think of the 
organization university of california santa 
lines 28 
nntp posting host am . edu . 


in article bell  ( peter bell ) writes 
my has decided to get a mac for the lab now that we are funded again. 

the consensus in the lab was that all we really needed was an , but 
he decided he wanted a  . the lack of an on that machine , 
and the price , me as making it worth less than an , so i have 
suggested we get a instead. it seems , and for 

what do people with 's think of them they seem like good machines to 
me , and i like the in case we ultimately decide we want to do 
work with video on it .  .  .  .  . 

the  .  . at a price .  . the only reason 
to get an is if you really need the full size  . keep 
in mind that the supports all apple and has optional  . 
this  ( but does n't eliminate ) the need for cards. and unless 
you 're running software , the will blow the doors off the 
and the  . the , on the other hand , is sufficient for most 
people and has a great price .  . 

if you have n't guessed , i find the  ( the up vs. 
bus ) a throughly bad thing and i hope apple never does it again. 


joe 



from  ( brian bechtel ) 
subject re drivers for 
organization apple computer , inc. , , california 
lines 44 
nntp posting host apple . com . 

 ( scott kelley ) writes 

does anybody know where i could find a for a future 
sic 600 drive a friend is running this drive 
off of a pc and would like to use it on the mac .  . 

here are some contacts for generic drivers 
access international 
west park , 
ma 
 ( 617 ) 
 ( 617 ) fax 

, inc. 
street , 215 
san francisco , ca 
 ( 415 ) 
 ( 415 ) fax 

media international 
knowles drive 
los , ca 
 ( 408 ) 
 ( 408 ) fax 

systems  ( for machines ) 
place 
, ca 
 ( 415 ) 1400 

software  ( not verified ) 
north n .  . 

, 

 ( works(not verified ) 



to send a message to someone on , use the form 

where address is replaced by the appropriate address. 

brian my opinion , not apple 's 

from  ( michael a. mcguire ) 
subject re 2 questions about the 's 
organization university of computing center 
x newsreader link v1 . 1 . 
distribution usa 
lines 27 

in article , 
 ( dave hollinsworth ) wrote 
with a little luck , i could own a sometime in the near future , and 
so i was just wondering if someone could clear these two questions up for me 

1. what speed does the need want (i know that it needs 
 .  . not . sure for the main ) . 


72 pin  . 

2. i 've heard two stories about the total of the 
's  .  . and  . which is true  ( perhaps another phrasing 
would be better does the 8 version come with all 8 on the logic 
board , or 4 a 4 ) 

2  . in each case the memory is on the board 
leaving the 4 open. is the total memory for a 
 . 

just wondering .  .  .  .  . 



michael a. , ) 

user services 

distribution world 
from  ( jason hyerstay ) 
organization ,  ( 802 ) , a bbs 
subject re mac oriented in chicago 
lines 28 

a member of the local bbs i frequent is looking for mac oriented 
based in chicago .  . 

any leads would be most appreciated. 

here is a list of the systems in illinois 

chicago machine chicago , il  ( 312 ) 
insane domain chicago , il  ( 312 ) 274 
mac universe bbs chicago , il  ( 312 ) 
the net , il  ( 815 ) 
, il  ( 708 ) 
, il  ( 708 ) 

if anyone wants the numbers to more systems , i would be glad to 
post the complete list. 
jason 
admin 


 ( firstclass ) 
 ( 802 ) , vt 
free access ! ! 16 . dual 

usenet 120 of files 
dedicated to mac users , , civil and 



subject re mac plus is constantly ! 
from  ( jerry stubbs ) 
organization university of kansas computer science dept 
lines 14 

on a side note , has anyone ever had a mac plus out on them we 
have had four machines that all of a sudden start a thick 
white  . in each case it was a that had gone bad. has 
anyone else encountered this 

keith 
ee lab administrator 
louisiana tech university 



we 've had it happen a time or two .  . beginning students think it is pretty 
entertaining when it happens during a lab lecture or  . 


from  ( erme maula ) 
subject re ! buy a pc ! 
organization university of 
lines 7 
nntp posting host edu . 

this is a test 







from  ( forrest e. iii ) 
subject help on mac 
keywords , 
organization nasa ames research center 
lines 46 

i am having trouble with on a mac  . the machine is 3 years old 
and i have been using the same hard drive  ( internal 200s ) for 
two and a half years. the recently  . i  ( silverlining 
5 . , but during the i received random write errors during  . 
the error message reported was like 

0 write error detected after good not out. 

this occurred randomly all over the hard  ( which makes me suspect the 
's reference to 0 ) .  . on the third and after 
the read write loops i was able to get through passes 
2 , 3 , and 4 with no errors.  ( pass 1 for some reason reported a lot of errors , 
but still out no ) . i decided to go ahead and try to 
system 7 and my data from a  . this normally however , 
i now have sub  . symptoms include 

o frequent 
o instances of extremely access requiring a to 
correct. 
o instances of not finding the on the on  . 
if i from  . after this occurs , it cannot find the 
either. 
the only thing that this is the power. it sometimes 
requires several attempts .  . 

questions 

1 ) has anyone had this type of problem before 
2 ) is the problem with the  ( and its non standard 
implementation ) or with my is there some 
software that would help me make this determination 
3) is it a problem i currently have external 
and an external on the  . the is at the 
end , and has internal so i am not using the 
 . i do have the filter on the internal 
drive .  . i have run with this exact for 2 1 2 years with 
one previous crash requiring a  ( about a year  . 
i also have symptoms if i the external devices 
so i do n't see how would now be an issue. of 
course who knows 

help would be much appreciated. 

e. iii 
nasa ames research center 


from  ( jeff ) 
subject re shut down on 13 hi 
organization university of network services 
lines 23 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 

in article 
writes 
there is a defect in the 13 hi , bring it to a and 
they will replace the for free , i think. 


i just heard of this problem at work today and we are fixing 
them for free. 



o r r 

the service notice on the 13 hi 3 23 93 after this 
date apple will not service for the fix  ( replacement 
of the hi  . all you folks that have been putting up with 
without getting it to your service missed 
out on the  . it was in force for a year .  . if you got it free after 
3 23 , you got a deal .  .  .  . 
jeff 
computing center 
u of 


from  ( thumper ) 
subject re new apple ergo 
reply to 
organization school 
lines 16 
disclaimer i do n't represent and does n't represent me. 

in  ( schizophrenia means never being alone ) writes 

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo  ( adb ii ) mine 
lives near a cat  ( true , really .  .  . ) . and up her  . from what i can tell , 
it looks like apple it shut .  . 


by the around the ball counter you can open 
the and clean it. it is n't as obvious as the i but 
it quite easily once you see what has to be done. 

geoff 

computing support , school of business 

if you do n't vote .  .  .  . you do n't count. 

from  ( pieman ) 
subject home question 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 16 

ha .  .  .  . all this talk about changing the speed of the makes me ask 
if i replaced the in my plus with a with a 
of its  ( own not shared by the rest of the mac .  .  .  . just the new 
16mhz68000 ) would my mac work .  .  .  .  .  . and if it would work .  .  . would you think there 
where be any problems with sound , ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

it seems like a simple solution to dead slow a 
live a little longer .  .  . 
oh if this would not work any on how to make it work 
thanks 







from  ( ray fischer ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
organization netcom .  . san jose , california 
distribution usa 
lines 36 

 ( dave kitabjian ) writes ... 
i'm sure and motorola are competing and for 
power , but for a given speed , how do we rank the 
following  ( from 1st to 6th ) 






while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list 




, then , with the first versions of the 
somewhere in the  . 

and about speed does the speed double the 
overall processor speed and fill in the 's below 
@ @ 

no. computer speed is only partly dependent of processor speed .  . 
memory system speed play a large role as does video system speed and 
i o speed .  . as processor go up , the speed of the memory 
system becomes the greatest factor in the overall system speed .  . if 
you have a processor , it can be reading another word from memory 
every  . sure , you can put all memory in your computer , but 
it will cost 10 times as much as the  . 

and roughly , the is twice as fast at a given 
speed as is the  . 


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth 
than lies .  . friedrich nietzsche 

from  ( chris reid ) 
subject 700 memory 
organization univ .  . of , , uk 
lines 18 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 06 . cs . ac . uk . 


hi folks , 

what exactly is the memory i can put in 
a 700 .  . my manual says  ( with 4 x simms ) , 
but and the like to 
give it a total of  . who 's wrong has anybody got 



thanks , 


chris 


chris 


from  ( thomas r. ridley ) 
subject cards for 
nntp posting host rc . edu . 
organization research corp 
distribution usa 
lines 6 

i am looking for experiences of bringing 
onto  . can someone point me in the right direction for 
information. 

thanks in advance. 
tom 

from  ( les ferch ) 
subject re 
organization the university of british 
lines 25 
distribution na 
nntp posting host ca . 

in  ( jan vandenbrande ) writes 

i am looking for one of those color you 
place on an and control the 
with a mac .  . 

can you recommend me a particular brand 
what price are we talking about 

for a good display , you must get an active and a very 
bright designed to be used with an (i . e .  . 
stage must not get too  . i tried out a and liked 
it , but i needed a (i used it with a  . it is 
also too expensive for what you get , imho .  . of active 
are rumoured to drop sometime this year  ( something to do 
with being lifted i think) .  . 

in canadian dollars , the models in price from about 
to and a good about 1000 to  . for 
that kind of money , you can get a image from a three beam 
, but sacrifice  . 

oh yes , proper room is extremely important , especially if you 
want your audience to have enough light to read and not have that 
light out your display at the front of the room. tricky to get right. 

from  ( jon wtte ) 
subject re increasing the number of serial 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 29 
nntp posting host nada . 

in  ( steven langlois ) writes 

if such a device exists , are there are any limits to the number of 
serial devices i can use 

how many do you have 

applied engineering has something called the , which is 
a card with 4 serial that you get at through the 
 ( in addition to the built in ones ) it also comes with 
software for applications to open an when they 
think they open a built in  . 

they also have a more expensive card with  ( better performance ) 
and i think they , or someone else , have a card that handles 
8 simultaneously .  . 

as i said , with , you 're green .  . learn how to use the 
resource to get at the various cards. 

cheers , 

h 


jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 
you never hide the bar .  . you might go about and change the color 
of it to the color of the background , but you never hide the bar .  . 


from  ( gregory cohen ) 
subject re photo 
organization florida state university 
lines 37 

in article  ( operator ) writes 
from  ( operator ) 
subject photo 
date fri , 16 apr 1993 20 49 30 gmt 
i have a and a color  . 
i a picture at 600  . when i try to print 
it on my color , after 10 of 
making , the mac  . i would need to it. 
what does this mean do i need to buy more memory i have 
5 . 0 . now. i also have about 50 of free , and the 
picture is about 12  . 






@ 
 .  .  . 

0 0 







have you tried printing the data file  ( tiff ) from another application such 
as or i have found that has occasional 
problems printing files that i can print through other applications .  . 

greg 

infinite 
beware of the or it will 1 call or write for a 
eat you catalog .  . 

from de .  ( christian bauer ) 
subject re after 1 hour use , fails to 
nntp posting host christian . uni . de . 
organization university of 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( robert 
mclean ) wrote 

my is having problems which seem related .  . after using 
it for a while it  . the when i turn off then on , the does n't 
show the , and then goes dark .  . i larry 's book and 
could not find these symptoms .  . has anybody else seen such symptoms 
suggestions 

it is dependent , but this does not clean all your 
problems. 
based on some  . i must say that the between the power supply 
and the and main board are to this failure , can be 
connected due to some and the can be in the 
last 
 ( lower  . 

so you can do following if you are used to such technical terms. 
1 ) clean all mentioned contacts with contact 
2 ) the 5 level of your 
3) use a calm fan and think of preventing through the ! 
(a fixed piece of paper can prevent this) 
if you do n't know how to do it beg a friendly ! 

christian 

de . 

from  ( benjamin w. allums ) 
subject re mac ii question 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

in article writes 

1. the mac ii is supposed to have a for the chip .  . could 
anyone let me know where that is on the  . i have obtained 
a chip  ( 16 mhz ) from a , and would like to it onto 
my mac ii  ( circa  . but i cannot see the myself when i tried to 
it. 

the original mac ii had an apple chip which performs a subset 
of the 's functions .  . if you look your front left 
bay you will find three , all approximately the same size. one will 
be the , the next the , and the third , approximately the same 
size , will be the apple chip .  . it is easy to because it has a   
in the middle of it. 


example 








that and the apple logo should make it easy to find .  . 

ben 


from  ( joel siegel ) 
subject re help need info for 
article i.d. 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 27 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

state . edu .  ( jt ) writes 

hi .  .  .  . what alternatives to the express do owners have  ( if 
they want to go at least baud ) 

every place in town says they are back ordered , and part of the reason 
i want a mac is so i can use it as a remote terminal from 
wherever i am , but i really would hate to have to wait 2 months to get 
a in or have to with  . 

you 're not going to like this , but if memory serves me , postings 
i 've read in this newsgroup and elsewhere indicate that there are 
no , repeat no , internal modems for the besides the express 
 .  .  . at any speed .  . something having to do with the 
using the main for some of its , and apple not 
details on the , or something. i'm vague on the 
details , but the was that there are going to be no 
third party internal modems .  . if i'm wrong , somebody please 
correct me on this. sorry to be the bearer of bad news. 

joel 


joel 
i myself have never been able to find out what feminism is i 
only know that i am called a whenever i express 
sentiments that me from a  . west , 

from  ( alain waha ) 
subject re new info .  . 
organization cambridge consultants ltd .  . , cambridge , uk 
lines 7 

in article 42 node . net . yale . edu . ,  ( edgardo nazario ) writes 
the info i am about to give is not a , it 's the truth. the new 
coming in the second , will have a of their own. 

excuse me but .  .  .  . have not all got a ! ! ! 



organization the american university university computing center 
from 
subject to fix 
lines 11 

the on my no longer in the direction .  . when i 
called the apple service person i was told that it probably 
needed replacing and that would cost me over 150 ! ! 
can anyone recommend a less expensive way to fix this problem one strange 
of the problem is that when i take the ball out of the and 
a light into the hole i can make the move by moving the 
wheel with my finger , it works fine that way but wo n't work if i turn off the 
light. any suggestions or comments 

ben roy  .  .  .  .  .  .  . just . a poor college student .  .  .  .  .  .  . internet . 


from mac  ( greg ) 
subject re memory 
nntp posting host 1 . 85 . 
reply to mac . sps . mot . com . 
organization at motorola 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 33 

 ( nga shaygiy ) writes 

excuse me if this is a frequent question , i checked in 
several faqs but could n't really find anything. 

you are  .  .  . the answer varies from mac to mac so it would be 
a complex answer in the faq .  . 

i have a with the standard 5 memory and i want 
 ( need ) to add additional memory. but i'm on a  . 
i really do n't need more than 10 , so what is 
the best  ( performance wise ) and most economical way 
to do this someone told me that i should only use 
of the same amount of memory , that is 4 1 , 
4 2 , etc. what if i just wanted to buy just 1 4 
and use the rest of what i already have the manual 
has n't been very helpful with this. 

the uses a 32 bit wide data and therefore you must use 4 8 bit 
wide  . sorry , but no short cuts here. 

thanks. 

you 're quite welcome. 

greg .  . 


my words , not motorola 's .  . equal rights not special rights 
mac . sps . mot . com . i will not ride in the back of the bus. 
greg  ( 512)928 ) silence death 
motorola austin , texas , usa first , be true to yourself. 
mailing list mac . sps . mot . com .  ( motorola only ) 

from  ( bruce tulloch ) 
subject re help ! 230 problems 
nntp posting host su . au . 
organization university computing service , , , australia 
lines 76 

 ( brian cherkas ) writes 
 ( brian chess ) writes 
i just got a 230 , and i'm having some difficulties .  . 
if the machine is in to the , put to sleep , 
from the , and up , it 75 of the time. 
 ( there 's nothing but the original system software on the machine . ) . 
the has plenty of life i think this must be a power 
problem , but i do n't know what to do about it. 
also , the speaker makes a high  . the 
is , but seems to favor sleep and commands .  . 

i 've had my 230 for a few weeks now and suffer from both 
of the above problems. i my system software twice 
in an effort to combat the problems thinking they were 
system software problems. initially the system 
seemed to help but not anymore. when i try to 
wake up the i get a solid of lines on 
the it  . 

i also get the high but only at 
 . 

i 've called the apple  ( 800 appl ) three times 
already and finally they agreed something is astray after my 
's would go dim and the hard drive down by 
and put itself to sleep .  . this problem only occured 
twice .  . apple sent me a box to my to be looked at in 
new york but the problem now is and i ca n't 
afford to be without my at this time. 

anyone out there with these same problems 


brian 
i 
compuserve , 
netcom services san jose , ca 

yes , quite a number of people it seems from discussions i 've had  ( me 
 . i bought my machine a couple of weeks ago as well and 
started to experience these problems. 

apple australia via my said that this problem has a number of 
potential causes faulty applications , faulty third party hardware 
 ( modems , memory etc ) , system software , corruption and power 
corruption , and the hardware itself. 

none of the above are relevant in my case except the last two maybe 
 ( no applications were running , the system software was re , i 
have no additional  . i have found that clearing appears 
to help for a while at least  ( hold down command option p and r on 
 . unfortunately the problem returns suggesting that is 
being corrupted by something  ( system software bug i do n't have any 
non issue in my  . apparently the power can be 
by holding the and interrupt while up 
apple 's advice but since the does not have an interrupt 
i'm not sure what they mean in this case. this may also help if 
someone can apple 's advice for me. 

beyond this apple suggest that you should follow the technical 
to check the hardware of this . since so many others 
appear to be having the same problem it would seem to me that there 
has been a system software bug introduced somewhere along the line 
and quite recently too since it only seems to be recent 230 
who have this problem. 

any more comments from others in the same are welcome , 
particularly apple ) 

cheers 




bruce australia 
complex problems have straight forward , easy to understand wrong answers 

from f 
subject us please 
organization natural environment research council 
lines 15 


please could someone in the us give me the current street 
on the following , with and without any relevant taxes 

8 72 pin 
16 72 pin  ( both for mac iii ) 

are any tax possible if they are to be 
to the uk can you recommend a reliable 

as i am posting this from a friend 's account , please 
reply direct to me at 

thanks in advance for any help ) 
simon 

from 
subject general questions on software and hardware .  .  .  . 
distribution usa 
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa 
lines 18 

i have just been introduced to systems. 
i have a few questions. e mail  . 

1 ) just what is system 7 i want hard details not 
like their in  .  .  . 

2 ) has anyone used the office 3 . 0 . i would like 
suggestions on , and descriptions on 
each has a before the actual name. 

a ) word 5 . 1 . 
b ) 4 . 0 . 
c ) power point 
d ) mail 3 . 1 . 

3) what is the major differences between mac and word 

thanks a lot ! 

from () 
subject re problems 
organization apple computer inc. 
lines 28 

attention mac owners many industry have 
concluded that mac suffer from 
from the standard  . this results in silent corruption 
of data when used with some devices , including modern devices .  . 
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault , an 
example would be a 3.5 , without the special mac compatible 
 . one solution , sometimes , is to blind writes 

to the best of my knowledge there are n't any problems with and 
blind  . trouble with blind usually means the programmer 
up the or did n't test their with the device in question. 
well designed or loop at every point where of 16 occur .  . 
this usually occurs at the first of each block of a but some 
devices can in the middle of blocks .  . if this happens in the middle 
of a blind there is the possibility of or a 
depending on which direction the was going .  . in the 
will eventually return a error at the end of the because 
it is out of  . actual data loss would only occur if the did n't 
pay attention to the errors coming back .  . 

note that this effect is not caused by anything actually on the but 
rather by the loops inside the  . the problem occurs when 
the processor errors trying to access the chip when the next 
has n't been yet. also note that the error is dealt with by a 
error and does n't crash the machine .  .  .  . 

clinton 
apple computer 

from  ( brian cherkas ) 
subject re help ! 230 problems 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 41 

 ( brian chess ) writes 


i just got a 230 , and i'm having some difficulties .  . 
if the machine is in to the , put to sleep , 
from the , and up , it 75 of the time. 
 ( there 's nothing but the original system software on the machine . ) . 

the has plenty of life i think this must be a power 
problem , but i do n't know what to do about it. 

also , the speaker makes a high  . the 
is , but seems to favor sleep and commands .  . 

i 've had my 230 for a few weeks now and suffer from both 
of the above problems. i my system software twice 
in an effort to combat the problems thinking they were 
system software problems. initially the system 
seemed to help but not anymore. when i try to 
wake up the i get a solid of lines on 
the it  . 

i also get the high but only at 
 . 

i 've called the apple  ( 800 appl ) three times 
already and finally they agreed something is astray after my 
's would go dim and the hard drive down by 
and put itself to sleep .  . this problem only occured 
twice .  . apple sent me a box to my to be looked at in 
new york but the problem now is and i ca n't 
afford to be without my at this time. 

anyone out there with these same problems 


brian 
i 
compuserve , 
netcom services san jose , ca 


from  ( anders jenski ) 
subject case source wanted 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 12 

all , 

if anyone knows of a place to get the case to hold the power supply and 
of a please let me know. i have tried some mail 
order places and some local stores .  . both groups would prefer that i part 
with over 1000 to get just the case. in my eyes this seems about 600 700 
to much. any comments i currently own the of a  . 

please email me or post to this group w info , 

thanks in advance , 
andy 

from de .  ( michael ) 
subject hard error 
organization university of 
lines 16 

hi there , 

when i run first aid on my external hard drive  ( quantum 240 ) i get the 
message error missing thread record  ( tarid 416 ) 
first aid is not able to fix this problem , does n't find it at all. 
when i use editor to look at i can read something like 

my question how can i get rid of this error  ( without of course) 


michael 
university of , germany 
email de . 

although they gave me that email address , 
this is not the opinion of , uni or de ! 

from  ( kelly chang ) 
subject mac ii question 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host corp . sun . com . 


this is a posting for my friend who does not have usenet access 
please contact him  ( not me ) directly , thank you 

1. the mac ii is supposed to have a for the chip .  . could 
anyone let me know where that is on the  . i have obtained 
a chip  ( 16 mhz ) from a , and would like to it onto 
my mac ii  ( circa  . but i cannot see the myself when i tried to 
it. 

2. could anyone send me the for the mac ii 25 interface 


thank you. 

contact david , 


from  ( marc matteo ) 
subject why the drive differ 
keywords quantum , , speed 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization california state university , 
lines 13 

hi all , 

i just got a la 240 external hard drive .  . speed show that it 's 
that my internal quantum  . supposedly the 
and the 240  ( both drives ) are roughly rated the same speed .  . why such a 
large difference 

 . 


, 
california state university , internet 
m 

from thomas 
subject re interesting behaviour on 
organization case school of engineering 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x thu , 15 apr 93 17 46 47 gmt 

in article daniel cohen , 
writes 
i 've noticed an interesting phenomenon on my  . if i 
the 
keyboard and and plug them in again without turning the power 
off , 
the suddenly to about half its normal movement speed .  . i 
check the control , and there 's no change in its setting 
there it 's still on full speed , the way i like it. the 
machine 
the normal speed .  . 

by the way , it happens with both the newer style that came with 
the 
, and the older style from my at work. thus i do n't 
think 
it has anything to do with the resolution setting in the it 's 
definitely a of the interface  ( either hardware or software ) 
in 
the itself. 

i have noticed this exact same phenomenon occurs with my  . perhaps 
it 
is a of the new machines 


sorry , but mine works fine  ( c650 ) 

my 2 worth .  .  .  . 

from gov .  ( clark dean f ) 
subject re box 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization national laboratories 
lines 27 

in article writes 
i just tried running my box off a and the 
software only seems to work when the is off. if it is 
on i get the message this is not a do you wish 
to it. 

i have 3 . 4 . 2 .  . is there a newer version that works 
with the 's is there something i am doing wrong 

clark 


i have version 3 . 5 . 1 . which i believe was needed for a machine .  . 
you should be able to get the version by calling their tech 
support at 1 or if you have a you can get the 
from their bbs at  . 



dean 





dean clark 
internet 

from  ( william daul ) 
subject e and p 
summary need info on what difference is and where to find or e 
keywords , , , 
organization software , inc. 
lines 10 

i notice the has 3 versions , b internal , e external and p 
 . can anyone tell me the difference between the and the 
external version where in the sf bay area can i find a model p 

thanks , bill 


william advanced support software inc. 
dr.  ( 415 ) 
park , ca .  . uunet ! ! or 

from  ( steven medley ) 
subject 72 pin , where 
distribution usa 
organization california state university , 
lines 13 
nntp posting host edu . 

i am looking for a 8 72 pin for my  . where is the 
best place to one  ( stock , , warrenty ) , and if 
possible , phone numbers so that i can order one as soon as possible. 

thanks , 




and hope that there 's intelligent life somewhere out in space monty python 
 cause there 's all down here on earth the meaning of life 

email to 

from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject re 
organization university of washington 
lines 16 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

i 've just a successful of a an to 27.5  . i'm waiting 
on of a 62 for a final speed trial .  . definitely needed the 
 . the was quite hot to the touch at higher until i 
on a 90 radio shack  . 

i made a call for reports of failures last week. no reports have arrived 
here. , in seattle there is a reported damage due to the user 
with the iron and putting a into the board not exactly 
a problem due to the running too fast .  . 

i think it would be nice to have a to report top and system 
including and cards which were used. i 'd be happy 
to coordinate and report results 

guy 


from  ( wayne lyle ) 
subject for b 
organization st. joseph 's university 
lines 14 

i am in need of the for the on a 
b. the hard on the system got and i have n't been able to 
the original  . if anyone has it or know where i can get this 
please let me know via e mail .  . 

thanks in advance. 

wayne 



wayne j. 
, , 
philadelphia , pa 

from  ( doug p. book ) 
subject stereo sound problem ( ) on mac games 
organization san diego chemistry 
lines 62 
distribution world 
reply to  ( doug p. book ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
keywords sound stereo , , , , 


hi. i think i have a problem with the stereo sound output on my 
, but i am not totally sure because my roomate has the same problem 
on his  . any info or experience has would be 
greatly appreciated. 

when i my up to my home stereo system , the following types 
of sounds  ( mono , as far as i can tell ) all play fine through both 
speakers 

system  ( already provided ones such as and ones i record ) 



ho ! 


but , the following games only play out of the left channel 


out of this world  ( awesome game , btw) 
4 . 0 . 



but still , stereo system do play in stereo , through both speakers .  . 
 ( the one i'm specifically to is beginning , which 
my from some ftp site  ( sumex  ) 


all of the symptoms are the same on my  ( he ca n't run 
because he does n't have  . 

we 're both running system 7.1 



does anyone with or the other three games i mentioned above get 
sound out of both speakers on a mac ii class , , , or 
greater , , 30 , etc .  .  .  .  ( stereo ) machine 

i used to have a mac ii , and i sort of playing in 
stereo on that machine , not just on the left channel .  . (i could be 
mistaken , though. if there were a problem with the quad 's and 
's , i am wondering why the system still play in stereo if there 
is n't a problem with our machines , i wonder why the 4 games above are 
written to support only one channel of stereo when they 
could just use sounds so the sound would at least come out of 
both speakers  ( like , etc. do ) 

's and 's have the same  ( to my knowledge ) , 
so maybe this is a problem  ( if so , though , why would n't system 7.1 
patch over this problem ) 




thanks for any help you can provide ! 


doug book 


from  ( shalabh chandra ) 
subject trying to find a reliable power center for 
article i.d. 
organization engineering and applied , 
lines 18 

hi there , 
i am trying to find out a reliable power center , it is basically 
a that below the and has individual control 
for each  . some people have an opinion that none of them work well. 
the ones that i could in were 

's command ( 79 ) 

power director 

masterpiece plus 

has anyone used one of these could you please send me your 
on these 

thanks 



from  ( charlie kuehmann ) 
subject trouble w 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 17 

i'm currently having trouble connecting my to a true blue  ( ibm model 
1513 )  . the display is but all the details are 
into and red  . ie .  . a will have two images one 
in and a ghost image in red. the background is also a little 
 . i read some time ago , before i ever thought i would my mac 
up to a , about an with some due to 
the on green signal .  . does this sound like it could be the same demon 
i also read that there are both hardware  ( putting a on the green 
signal ) solution and a software solution to this problem. i do n't the 
details does somebody have them the can e mail to me or post them i 
checked all the faq 's for this and did n't find anything about it. did i 
miss it somewhere this sure seems that it would be a good thing to have 
in one. thanks for any  . 

charles 
university 
research group 

from 
subject serial line connection between and pc 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting may contain no views at all 
news software usenet 3 . 1 . 
lines 45 

i have tried almost everything under the sun to get a null connection 
between a mac and a pc .  . i have used and on 
the mac side. i have used , , and  ( on 2 ) on 
the pc  ( or ps ) side. i have used non hardware and hardware 
 . and know my hands are from the effort .  . nothing 
has allowed file from the mac to the ps .  . 

in general , i can type back and forth with no trouble , but only if both sides 
are set to over  . i cannot send files from the mac to the 
ps at all , and file from the to the ps are not possible. 
when i do a straight ascii send , i can send from the ps to the  . 
i can send files this way quite fast , and i know that the 
is error free. 
but straight ascii sent from the mac to the ps is full of errors. 
unless , of course , i do text so slow that it is like human 
typing .  .  ( well , like 2 3 times than human  . 

i would like to hear from anyone who has been able to files 
from a to a ps via or null  . if you can do it , please 
tell me your exact combination of hardware and software .  . obviously , i am 
talking of a true serial , not the express  . maybe some 
kind soul with access to a and a can check this out for me. 

right now , i am of the opinion that it wo n't work at high because 
of the power on the , and it wo n't work at low 
because of some crazy reason i do n't understand. 

could i hear from someone that they can really information 
out the serial of a fast like via a or via a 
sys ex dump 

could anyone with a help me out i am going absolutely insane .  . 
i know if the problem is my , or all , or all , 
or just me. 

yes , i have checked the 1 , 000 , 000 times. and not only can i type 
back and forth , but the users if s he uses hardware 
and is down. so i know that hardware is working .  . and also , 
according to , the never  . 

please help me figure out what 's going on .  .  .  . 

scott 



from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject vs.  ( was re iii capable ) 
nntp posting host gov . 
organization national 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( brian v. hughes ) writes 
 ( marvin miller ) writes 
my friend recently purchased a iii and he wants to know if there is 
such a demon called for his 

the family of can only 
use cards. they are not able to use  . 

ah , but why can some technically hip tell us what the 
difference is between and 

is it impossible to make a that into and ends in a 
card cage at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to 
one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for 
this 


o ) ' ' , , ' , 
) ( ) ( ) ! 
( ) ( ) 
bill national 
bitnet 
internet 


from  ( terry thiel ) 
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 16 

 ( les ferch ) writes 

in  ( monthian 
1 ) writes 

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for regarding 
in all mac price lists i 've seen , every as the message 
optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this newsgroup that all 
have the built in except the 4 80  . why would they 
be so about this issue in their price list 

perhaps the reason is simple maybe the people who put together 
the and price lists were n't clear on the issue. 

perhaps the people do n't know what an is ! 


from james jim 
subject 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 10 

it 's my understanding that , when you format a , (1) the 
software a on the , (2) if you insert the 
in a different drive , then this is loaded into the computer 's 
memory and then the drive , and  ( 3 ) if this is incompatible 
with the drive , then the can not be mounted and or properly read written 
is that correct 

thanks , 
jim 


from  ( robert r. novitskey ) 
subject and 
article i.d. usenet . 
reply to  ( robert r. novitskey ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 10 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


could someone please post any info on these systems. 

thanks. 
bob 


robert women is similar to one 's head 
against a  .  . with . less opportunity for reward 


from  ( stan kerr ) 
subject re designs double up 
article i.d. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 29 

 ( joseph a. pellettiere ) writes 


i am looking for any information about the designs 
double up board. all i can figure out is that it is a 
hardware board that works with , but 
i am not sure about this. also how much would one cost 

i 've had the board for over a year , and it does work with , 
but not with , due to a problem with , 
the owners of the board 's technology.  ( i'm writing this 
from memory i 've lost the reference. please correct me if i'm wrong . ) . 

using the board , i 've had problems with file being lost , but it 's 
hard to say whether it 's the board 's fault or something else however , 
if i the file and it without the board , 
the usually  . because of the above mentioned 
problem , the utility expand will not 
a board file unless you have the board  . 

since has its own product now , it seems unlikely that the holes 
in related to the board will be fixed. 
which is sad , and makes me very reluctant to buy 's product since 
they 're being so  .  ( but hey , that 's competition . ) . 


stan 
computing communications services office , u of illinois urbana 
phone 217 email 

from  ( noah price ) 
subject re how long do 's last 
distribution usa 
organization  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 
lines 12 

in article , 
(j . e .  . king ) wrote 

does n't a 1 have about 8 moving flip 

they do n't move , to anybody much bigger than an ) 




hardware design 
... ! sun , ! apple !  ( not the opinions of ) apple computer , inc. 

from  ( christopher dingman ) 
subject re buying a high speed v . everything . 
nntp posting host cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 38 

in article  ( eric behr ) writes 

the at t nearly praises for reliability .  . they are 
at the moment , probably because of the special price in 
effect until may .  . its fax capabilities are worse than that of the other two 
modems .  . warning at t say that the comes with a mac  ( cables 
all ) , and has lifetime  . this applies only when you order 
directly from ! i called  ( one of the distributors ) , and 
they wanted to charge me 16 for , and gave only 1 year  .  .  . 


hmm , i do n't know where this information concerning the and the 
came from but i ordered mine from communications , near 
cleveland , and inside was a mac  ( with the correct pin  ) 
and a lifetime  . the whole was assembled at at t , 
and every piece  ( the serial , the telephone , etc . ) . had at t 
part numbers on them , except the software and the 
compuserve intro  . 


eric , illinois state university , mathematics department 
or  ( please avoid ! ) 

if anyone 's interested , number is  ( 800 ) 837  . i ordered mine 
last and got my on friday , though it 's not to far from 
cleveland to pittsburgh .  .  . ) on the down side they only  . 


chris 


p. 
electrical and computer eng .  . dept. 
carnegie mellon university  ( 412 ) 7119 

pittsburgh , pa 



from  ( jartsu ) 
subject help wanted ! problems  ( nec 3d iivi ) 
nntp posting host lk 15 . fi . 
reply to 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 


all ! 

for few past days i 've been fighting to get my 3d 
 ( predecessor of 3fg ) to work properly with the internal video of mac 
 . 

with a  ( as described in adams  posting about 
video ) it works , only some minor occur , small enough not 
to prevent any action on to be clear. 

but because the stuff of 3d are well enough for 
apple 13 , i first made an , then got one the local 
of  . 
with both i can get a , which looks excellent most of 
the time or every now and then. 
but with radical changes on  ( opening , large 
etc . ) . there are major in  . the picture either 
or up totally .  . even when it is clear , there are some 
on line when 
pull etc. 
with the self made , almost identical to the one , only 
sense differ , it is sometimes impossible to even up with a 
picture clear enough to shut down from  .  .  . 
with the from , everything is well most of the time , but 
sometimes the picture or the is completely 
lost. but not nearly as often as with the self made one. 

i know , with self made there can always be interference , but 
with the one provided by  .  .  . where 's the source of this interference 

i 'll give you the of the whole mess , and i hope that you can , 
at least someone  ( please try ) figure out what could be the best pin 
for 3d .  . 
i am going to make a completely new with and 
, as soon as someone out how the should be 
, especially and  . 

yes , i have checked that the is not , it works 
perfectly well with all pc up to and 
also , which i am using now with it. 

here are the stuff 

15 pin d sub  ( nec 3d ) 15 pin d sub  ( mac , at least quadra ) 

1 red video 1 red 
2 green video 2 red video 
3 blue video 3 
4 4 sense 0 
5 5 green video 
6 red 6 green 
7 green 7 sense 1 
8 blue 8 nc 
9 nc 9 blue video 
10 10 sense 2 
11 11 c . v . 
12 nc 12 v . 
13 h . 13 blue 
14 v . 14 h . 
15 nc 15 h . 
shell shell 



connection suggested by apple for , sense changed to 
emulate apple 13 with  ( my self made adapter ) 

 ( 15pin d sub ) mac  ( 15pin d sub ) 

1 2 
2 5 
3 9 
6 1 
7 6 
8 13 
10 14 
13 15 
14 12 
4  ( sense0 ) grounded to 11  ( sync gnd ) 


connection measured from an to make 
emulate apple 13  ( adapter provided by representative ) 

 ( 15 mini ) mac  ( 15 ) 

1 2 
2 5 
3 9 
4 shell , 1 , 4 , 6 , 13 
5 same as above 
6 same .  .  .  . 
7 same .  .  .  . 
8 same .  .  .  . 
10 same .  .  .  . 
11 same .  .  .  . 
13 3 
14 not connected ! 


well , i am waiting for your solutions .  .  .  . 

and thanks ! 




from  ( chung yang ) 
subject re  ( how do they compare ) 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 55 
distribution world 
nntp posting host engin . umich . edu . 

in article  ( michael ameres ) writes 
i believe it goes or will go 












i think this kind of comparison is pretty useless in general. the 
processor is only good when a good computer is designed around it the 
computer is used in its designed purpose. comparing processor speed is 
pretty because all you have to do is just increase the speed 
to increase speed among other things. 

i mean how can you say a is than a without 
giving is conditions can you say the same when 
you are running a program that uses a lot of functions .  . 
knowing that does not have functions building in to 
its and does , can you say that is still 

anyway , i hope people do not decided upon wether a computers 
is good or not solely on its processor .  . or how fast a processor is 
based on its name , because one can do a certain things to a 
processor to speed it up. 

but if we restrict our arguements to , for example , pure 
processor issues. or how one processor will work 
well and another will not based on its design , then we can get 
somewhere with our discussions .  . 



in a article in one of the i think a was 
slightly than a  . but , this is using a system designed 
for the  . so , it stands to reason that a system designed for an ie 
quadra ) would do better. so overall i 'd figure 2.5 or so. 
along the same lines the new stuff is supposed to run the system 
at the level of a fast , but system 8 or whatever will allow 3 times the 
speed of a in the based systems. and wait for the  . i think 
it the  . 

pro life pro women 




michael internet 



from michael robert 
subject video on a 
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 6 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 

what do i need to do to be able to run an in 600 mode 
on my can it be done with the right video card if so , which 
video card 


michael 

from  ( richard crispin ) 
subject quantum hard 
organization university of 
lines 24 

i recently a quantum  . it is a 50 5 . 25 . 
mechanism .  . it is  . i have a few questions and a few problems. first 
there seems to be an extra on the back that i ca n't 
figure out what it is for. the address is set by some on the 
bottom so i do n't think it is for that. any ideas 

second , it would be nice to get a hardware manual for the drive .  . there are 
a lot of on it that we do n't know what they are for. 

third , i have got the drive to format .  . it took a while to get things to 
work and most of it is fine for now. the was 
but seems to be ok. the main problem is if you do a on 
the the drive  . if i shut the mac off and then back on 
then the drive comes up fine. any ideas. 

please reply to one of the email addresses below. 

thanks 

richard crispin 
department of psychology email 
university of 
, ontario phone  ( 519)888 ) or  . 
canada fax  ( 519)746 ) 

from  ( dick grant ) 
subject memory in plus 
organization temple university 
lines 8 
nntp posting host temple . edu . 
x newsreader s 1 . 3 . 2 . 


i have to increase the memory in a plus or  ( i'm not sure which since 
i have n't seen it  . i did this a few years ago but i no longer have the 
instructions .  . i forget which needs to be cut to go from 1 to 4  . 

can anyone direct me to this information is there an ftp able doc some 
where with 
thanks , dick grant 

from  ( jon wtte ) 
subject re stereo sound problem ( ) on mac games 
keywords sound stereo , , , , 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 26 
nntp posting host nada . 

in  ( doug p. book ) writes 

but , the following games only play out of the left channel 

... 

but still , stereo system do play in stereo , through both speakers .  . 

mac sound hardware is some play in stereo and 
mix the output  ( the 30 for instance ) while others play in 
stereo but only has the left channel for the speaker , while 
some are truly  ( like the lc ) 

know that stuff played in the left channel is 
guaranteed to be heard , while the right channel is n't .  . some 
send data to both , some only send data to the left channel 
 ( the first is , of course) 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 
engineering how will this work science why will this work 
when will this work liberal arts do you want with that 
n .  . 

from  ( john m. graham ) 
subject re 14 
article i.d. usenet . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 23 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


joseph m. writes 

just thought i would mention that no longer the 
because of several manufacturing flaws .  . the new model is now the 
, which just like apple 's new claims to be 14  . 
i'm not sure of the details on the , but i work at our schools 
bookstore 
and can tell you that nearly half of them were returned with some kind of 
defect or another. 

i'm assuming that you are referring to the , correct what kind of flaws 
have been reported i 've been using mine for about 6 7 months now , and i 
have n't noticed any problems. might they develop later , or did i get lucky 
and a good 

just curious , 
john 

john m. graham 
the cleveland institute of music 

brought to you by the letters j , m , and g , and the number 14 .  . 

from  ( steve folta ) 
subject re using  ( setwutime( ) with a 
nntp posting host zen . net . 
organization national internet access system 704 
lines 13 

 ( andrew e page ) writes 
i can get the mac to go to sleep , but i ca n't make seem to 
make it wake up with  . 

the hardware does n't have a  . nor does the  . 
the mac had one , and i think the 100 had one. i do n't 
know about the newer , but i kind of doubt it. i got bit by 
this too , and it took my a while around on the 
before i found this out. 

steve 



from  ( andrew bravo ) 
subject to on the mac 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization california state university , 
lines 8 

does anyone have any good code to drive the serial in 
mode 
i really need it bad 






from state . edu .  ( jt ) 
subject re a ii question 
nntp posting host top . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 10 

in article  ( eric gailloux ) writes 
i just read an article on the  . one thing me the article says the 
is a serial only device. does that mean i 'll have to my each 
time i want to print something 

no. plug the in the , and the in the 
 . ) 




from  ( neil somerset ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university of , , , canada 
lines 28 

in article  ( mark belangee ) writes 

, oh , wise netters .  .  .  .  . that 's the oracle .  . sorry .  . ) . 

anyhow , i have a basic question that i cannot answer .  .  . just where in the 
heck can i buy a mine on my is shot .  .  . and i have n't 
been able to find a replacement anywhere .  .  . unless i'm looking in the 
wrong mail order  .  .  .  . 

anyone have any ideas  ( places just make it myself ) 


mark 



you should be able to pick up an at any computer  .  .  . 
i 'd give you the address of computer in , but a i'm 
in c .  . , canada ) and b i do n't think an address in would 
help you too much .  .  .  . basically . however i just them up , and they 
charged me  . 15 for a made extension for my  . 

hope this helps .  .  .  . 

dave 

software inc. 


from  ( maynard j. handley ) 
subject  ( was re when are the rest of the inside mac 's due ) 
organization materials science center 
lines 21 


we 'll be a whole new of related  . if 
you 're going to be at the next month you 'll get a preliminary 
version 
of most of this documentation on the  . we 're talking multiple 
thousands 
of pages , i'm afraid  ( comprising , and printing ) 
has 
lots of new calls and other , all of which need 
 .  .  . 

dave 
line 

does take the place of 32 bit or add to it right now 32 bit is 
kinda a pain in a few places because of upon 
to maintain with original i think of things like 
where you have to cast to and such. it would be a 
lot to this entire mess and start over do we get that 



from  ( aris gerakis ) 
subject disappear on 
organization michigan state university 
lines 10 
nntp posting host edu . 
keywords , , , 

some on my display disappear  . they are not in 
a particular place but random .  . if anybody has suggestions i would appreciate 
e  . thanks. 



 ( beware of the 3 s) 

o o 
u 

from  ( charlie kuehmann ) 
subject to 
article i.d. 
organization university 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 

i'm having a real tough time finding out the proper to use a 
 ( an ibm sold w many ps 2 's to be exact ) on the mac iii .  . 
all of the i have called say that the internal video will not work 
on a true but will work on a ibm compatible like the 
's or the  . i thought the capability of was very 
attractive because it allowed you to use  . am i 
confused or are these just not up to speed has anyone used an 
with a non and if so where did you get your 
 ( please be specific w and cat ) i would prefer to get a 
apple for these 's  ( it 's to see the inside an 
ibm bezel ) but the more money we save on the more 's we can 
afford and the more ps 2 's we can get rid of ! 

charles 
university 
research group 


from  ( peter a. bidian ) 
subject re card for 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 5 

hi , i bought a while ago a card w from  . it was . 
i think that was the i ever saw. 

peter 


from  ( chung yang ) 
subject re computer engr vs. computer science 
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor 
lines 54 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host engin . umich . edu . 

in article  ( edward m. tecot ) writes 
a professor of mine once said the difference between a computer engineer and 
a computer scientist is about meaning the engineer makes more than 
p.s. the is not just a joke 
scott 

for the most part , this is a bunch of bunk .  . i 've got a computer engineering 
degree , yet i 've spent the last 7 years writing software that people actually 
use. moreover , the distinctions are incorrect i received 3 job 
upon the two jobs that actually used my hardware experience were 
year lower ! my advice is to decide which classes and most 
interest you , and pick the major that allows you to take them. 



well here is my 0 . 02 . worth .  . advice from a student .  . 

i agree with the who wrote the comment before me. 
the important thing is pick what ever interest you the most and 
learn as much as possible about it. 

in my five years of education in this field , though brief 
compare to alot of people , i had to think about this kind of 
question a lot. did i make the right decision in going into 
electrical engineering as opposed to computer engineering or 
cs the more i go thru school , the more i believe that this 
kind of question is irrelevant .  . 

i have come to believe that choosing cs because one 
does not like hardware or choosing hardware because one does 
not like to program is really doing an of building 
and computer and making it useful for something. everything 
is and  . cs , ce , and ee are all a 
part of a really great discipline and do depend on each other. 

my advice is do n't limit yourself , but make a decision 
based on which major will give you the best opportunities to 
learn .  . that of course depends on the at your 
school. i would choose a major that allows me to 
as much as possible. beside , i do n't know why the 
school would make a student choose a major before her his 
year .  . 

hey you may be so interested in this field that you 
decided to learn all about the making of computers in which 
case , you suffer a little more and go to school. 

about the money. do n't look at the , if you 
are good , you are going to more money than anyone else. 
if you are a programmer , you will millions .  . 
like wise if you are a computer  . 




from wo . navy .  ( paul montanaro ) 
subject re  . 
organization 
lines 32 

in article , 
 ( ben chuang ) wrote 

here is the story 
i have a network with 4 on  . one of them has an 
card , and is currently connected to a next  ( do n't laugh 
i got it for the price of a mac  . the next is connected 
to the internet over slip running on a  . 

currently , we can from the mac w to the next , 
and then out again to the rest of the world. 

what we want to know is if there is some sort of hardware that 
will route from the to the next 
via the mac .  . from what we have heard , air does n't do 
the trick. 

software solutions would be good too , but my impression is that 
there are n't going to be any. 

our immediate interest is to be able to get to the next and 
out again. the slip connection does n't allow us to assign numbers 
to machines , so everyone shares that 1 number .  .  . oh . well .  .  .  . 


what you need is a hardware such as made by 
systems (  . this will allow you to connect your 
network  ( 4 macs ) to your network  ( next and  . it will 
route between the two  . software are also 
available for less money , but i'm not sure if they work with  . 

paul 

from  ( christopher wand ) 
subject re 150 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in article  ( anthony s. kim ) writes 
i remember someone mention about a  . has anyone else 
heard anything about this i 'd be interested in the cost per megabyte and the 
approximate cost of the drive itself and how they compare to the 150 .  . 

i think you must be talking about the  ( code named i  . 
it is a 3.5 technology drive pretty much like the other 
drives in terms of how it works. according to the latest , the 
drive has a 14 . 5 . access time , 1 . 9 . s  ( these 
are from memory so they could be slightly off , but they give you an idea of 
 . the drive was originally released for the pc 
and just recently was released for the mac world  ( do n't ask me what the 
differences are ) and through they are currently in limited supply , according 
to a  . they are in the process of up for mass production. 
i have already seen them by a number of in 
including , , , and 's  . the 
and units are at just around 1000 the lesser name brands 
are going for around 750 for an external drive .  . which hold 
sell for about 80 each .  . at these , the drives and 
are and better than the drives .  . 
cost per megabyte compares with other drives and 
drives , but for large of data is still , and more 
reliable .  . personally , i'm by the new drive and look forward to 
getting my hands on one. 
chris wand 



is the that the pain of stupidity .  . 
frank 

from  ( bret chase ) 
subject re vs.  ( was re iii capable ) 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 44 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  . w . i .  . sellers ) writes 
bill beam wrote 
in article ,  ( brian v. hughes ) writes 
 ( marvin miller ) writes 
my friend recently purchased a iii and he wants to know if there is 
such a demon called for his 

the family of can only 
use cards. they are not able to use  . 

ah , but why can some technically hip tell us what the 
difference is between and 

is it impossible to make a that into and ends in a 
card cage at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to 
one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for 
this 

i think that there do exist  ( i'm sure i 've seen 
them occassionally ) , but i think that the main problem is that 
they cost much more than the difference in price between say a and 
so unless you need lots of its not worth the bother .  . 

 ( of course , it may be that these extra boxes are so expensive because 
no one buys them because they are so expensive .  .  . ) . 

technology is n't a special apple thing (i have this 
feeling that it is from texas ) so there 
is no problem building an box .  . 

apple uses the 90 standard for their 32 bit bus. 
(i got this from a that i couple of weeks ago ) 

other stuff deleted 

hope this helps , 




internet ! 
 ( 508 ) ! it wo n't kill you ! 
box ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) 
100 institute  . , ma 

from state . edu .  ( yih wu ) 
subject help ! how to test 
nntp posting host top . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 10 


, 
i just got some , at least one of which does not work. i do n't know if 
there is a software that can test thoroughly or i could just rely on the 
test performed by my computer during the start up. when i a dead 
into an or an ii , there would be a strange music and no display on 
the screen. why i need your help ! thanks in advance 


state . edu . 

from  ( guy kuo ) 
subject 700 memory faq 
organization university of washington 
lines 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 
summary instructions for 700 memory 
keywords memory , , 700 , 

this is turning into a faq 


here is how to violate your 700 and your own 
memory. 

1 ) insert usual disclaimer here 

2 ) remove the top of the machine .  . you will see the and 
hard drive mounted in a plastic  . follow the usual anti 
and of course make sure the machine is off when you do 
this. the and power supply from the back 
of the mac .  . 

3) remove the power supply by the plastic tab on the 
forward and simultaneously the power supply straight up. 
the tab is a piece of plastic from the left posterior aspect of the 
which to on to the power supply .  . you may 
also feel a piece at the right portion of the power 
supply .  . leave that alone. the plastic tab from the is all you 
need release .  . 

4 ) look at the of the assembly .  . you will see the flat 
to the hard drive , a power and a flat 
to the drive .  . all these from the  . 
the hard drive power has a tab which must be 
to release it. 

5 ) the drive activity led from its clear plastic mount 

6 ) look down the posterior , section of the plastic  . a 
head is at the base .  . remove it , taking care not to drop 
it into the case. a bit of glue on your is helpful 
here. 

7 ) remove the assembly by the plastic tab on the 
right side of the  . this tab prevents the from 
 . slide the entire assembly 1 then 
lift the assembly straight up and out of the case. 

8 ) , you have now gained access to your machine 's 
 . 

9 ) the big are for  . one usually must all to 
gain useful video modes .  . all  ( ram or vram ) with their 
facing the front of the  . 

the four smaller in front are for  . in 
sets of four into these  . be sure you the 
and firmly into a fully position. 

10 ) the assembly by first the right of the 
against the right of the case with the assembly about 
1 posterior of its intended position. lower the assembly into 
place while maintaining contact with the right of the case. 
once fully down , slide the assembly until it 
into place. 

11 ) the ends of the  . dont t forget the 
drive  . 

12 ) replace the head 

13 ) drop the power supply straight down into place until it in. 

14 ) plug the hard drive activity light back into its clear plastic mount 

guy 


from  ( david sachs ) 
subject re apple under system 7 . x . 
organization national , il 
lines 15 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host gov . 
keywords , , 

in article ,  ( curtis generous ) writes 

i need to get an apple working under 
sys 7 . 0 . x . , but do not have any drivers software to access 
the device. does anyone know where i can the tools 
to access this device 

appreciate any info comments .  . 



c. generous (703) 
nasa , code , washington , 

retrospect  ( dantz ) works nicely with this combination. you can buy it from the mail order  . 

from () 
subject fax for the mac 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 26 

hi all 
thanks to you all who have responded 
to my request for info on various kinds of fax  . 
i 'd like to ask a few more questions. 
1. what are the of buying a 
gold over other brands like , etc 
2. i heard that both and use the same software .  . 
why are there so many about the problems 
of what kind of is it 
3. if i decided to buy the gold , is there any 
possibility to add a voice option in the near future 
4. has anyone heard of a possible voice option that will offer 
this coming summer 
5. a person did mention a new at t  . is it 
getting good from various mac 
6. if i want the best , , most economically sound and 
possible voice option , what fax should i buy 

sorry for posting so many questions , but i think they 're necessary. 
i promise to repost any answers if they 're not already posted by a  . 

thanks so much in advance. 

regards , 

 . 

from  ( dave steele ) 
subject  ( across product line ) 
organization corp .  . 
lines 21 

my company has developed an application for the mac that a 
virtual pen traces scroll across the screen. as we 
tested the application on a number of computers we discovered some 
surprising differences across products. the scroll 
of the and was better than the  . this led us to investigate 
color across the apple line. 

the results 

the color computer apple makes is the 
 ( drumroll please )  . and the color classic ranks right up there with 
the line. the line in comparison .  . 

does anybody know the differences in these computers that explains the 
in processor 


dave  ( 513)881 ) 
corp .  . 
40 w. road 
, ohio 

from  ( jacob rose ) 
subject re position of  b  on  . keyboard 
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va 
lines 17 
nntp posting host csugrad . cs . vt . edu . 

 ( thomas martin widmann ) writes 

so far i have only seen pictures of the new keyboard , 
but it seems that the  b  is placed on the left part after the split .  . 
however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught 
to write  b  with my right hand. is this a difference between 
and american typing , or what 

it must be .  .  .  .  .  .  . i . type it with my left hand. personally , i would have 
a real problem with my keyboard opened up like that , because i tend to 
share some with both hands , particularly if i'm doing something else 
with one hand  ( like using the , , or glass of  . 


 ( jacob rose ) amazing but true there is so much sand in northern 
africa that if spread out it would cover the sahara .  . 


organization and company 
from 
subject wanted hard drive 
lines 5 

i am in the market for a hard drive ! i have a with 5 80 and i am 
almost all filled up ! is anyone selling any 's for the mac for cheap where 
can i get one through mail order and where is the best place to buy from for 
the best is there anyone on the net or on this newsgroup that 
them for wholesale or any info would be ! thanks ! 

from  ( jon w tte ) 
subject re interesting behaviour on 
nntp posting host nada . 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 23 

in  ( lawrence d , university ) writes 

i have heard of no such warnings from anybody at apple .  . just to be sure , i 
asked a couple of our , one of whom has been for 
years. there is no danger of damaging logic by and 
devices with the power on. 

the problem is that the in the 
are close to each other , and if you happen to the 
a little while inserting it , you short the 
 . if you take it to an apple centre , that 
means a new  ( though a component replace is 
physically possible ) 

same goes for serial  ( localtalk as well ) 

cheers , 

h 

jon w , h , mac hacker deluxe 

this article printed on 100 electrons .  . 

from  ( jartsu ) 
subject good display card for 14 
nntp posting host lk 20 . fi . 
reply to 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 20 


hi there ! 

i wonder if anyone knows and can recommend me a good display 
card for driving a 14  ( nec 3d ) 
the 3d can do from 15 . 5 . to 38 and 
from 50 to 90 and can do , 
though i am looking for something more like or 
 . 
it would be very nice to find a card which can be programmed quite 
freely within these limits and is capable to display at least 
, more. 

is there anything on the market that comes even close 


thanks 




from  ( casgrain philippe ) 
subject re what do y all think of the 
organization de montreal 
lines 23 

 ( joseph finete ) writes 
the  .  . at a price .  . 
and unless 
you 're running software , the will blow the doors off the 
and the  . 

from the i 've seen  ( was that in or ) the less 
is at floating point  ( the kind of calculations 
that get to an fpu ) than a mac ! 

and a mac  ( 68030 @ fpu ) is the based mac .  . 

take note , of course , that never tell the whole story .  .  .  . get your 
favorite  ( program(s ) and run them on both machines at the  . they should 
let you do that before you down a amount .  .  .  . 

virtually , 




des sciences de montreal 
define  ( disclaimer(caught )  ( caught i was n't even there ! i did n't do it ! ) 

from state . edu .  ( jt ) 
subject 2 questions 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 13 
nntp posting host bottom . ohio . state . edu . 


1. why , or how actually , can a have a x 400 
display , regardless if it is a 9 or 10 , and still keep the 
72 resolution (i assume that it does n't , and i do n't 
mean to imply they all have these dimensions ) 


2. any info on price drops or new models  ( non duo ) coming up 



thanks , 


from  ( curtis generous ) 
subject apple under system 7 . x . 
keywords , , 
organization nasa 
lines 12 


i need to get an apple working under 
sys 7 . 0 . x . , but do not have any drivers software to access 
the device. does anyone know where i can the tools 
to access this device 

appreciate any info comments .  . 



c. generous (703) 
nasa , code , washington , 

from  ( ray fischer ) 
subject re  . 
organization netcom .  . san jose , california 
lines 43 

 ( lazer ) writes ... 
i 'd appreciate it greatly if someone could e mail me the following 
 ( if you only know one , that 's fine ) 
1 ) for the (esp .  . how it compares to the pentium ) 

for the can fill a page book. some are .  .  .  . 
32 bit address space w 32 bit data  . 18 32 bit integer 
8 80 bit floating point  . capable , 
4 way set  . typical 1.2 integer  . 5 
fo